CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER. TERM, 1929.
GONZALEZ v. ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHBISHOP
OF MANILA.
CERTIORARI TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 6.

Argued April 8, 9, 1929.-Decide(l Oct9ber 14, 1929.

1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Ph ,ippine Islands in a
case in which the amount in controversy exccedA $25,000, is reviewable by this Court on certiorari. P. 11.
2. The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Manila is a,juristic person
amenable to the jurisdiction" of the Philippine courts for the enforcement of any legal right; and a right claimed under a will to be
appointed to, and receive the income from, a chaplaincy founded
by the will is a subject-matter within the jurisdiction of those
courts. P. 15.
3. The facts that the chaplaincy is a,collative one and that its property was transferred to the spiritual properties of the Archbishopric,
subject to ecclesiastical jurisdiction and control, affect the terms of
the trust but do not deprive civil courts of jurisdiction to adjudicate
legal rights arising therefrom. P. 16.
4. In the absence of fraud, collusion, or arbitrariness, the decisions
of the proper church tribunals on matters purely ecclesiastical,'
although affecting, civil rights, are accepted in litigation before the
secular courts as conclusive, because the parties in interest made
them so by contract or otherwise. P. 16.
81325-30-

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

280 U. S.

5. Pursuant to the will of its foundress, a perpetual collative. chaplaincy was established in 1820. Such a chaplaincy is subject to
ecclesiastical control, and intervention by the proper spiritual authority to appoint and ordain the chaplain is essential. The ecclesiastical law also prescribes the qualifications of the chaplain. Held,
in accordance with the implied intention of the parties, that the
Canon Law in force at the time of the presentation of an applicant
for appointment, rather than that in force in 1820, governs his fitness, and he cannot complain of an amendment adopted at a time
when he was ineligible under either law and was enjoying no right
of which the amendment deprived him. P. 17.
6. The intention of the foundress of a collative chaplaincy, so far as
expressed, was that the income should be applied to the celebration
of masses and to the living of the chaplain, who should preferably,
be the nearest male relative in the line of descent from herself, or
her grandson, the first incumbent. Four others of her descendants
successively held the chaplaincy, the last of whom renounced it
and was still living. During the resulting vacancy, the masses
were duly celebrated and the Archbishop applied the surplus income
currently to pious educational uses, supporting this by a custom
of the archdiocese and provisions of Canon Law. Held, without
deciding whether such disposition of the surplus was proper or
what should be its disposition in th6 future, that a son of the last
incumbent, who was properly refused appointment as chaplain
because he had not the qualifications prescribed by the Canon
Law, was not entitled, as the nearest relative, to the accrued,
surplus. P. 18.
7. Suit was brought by an individual to enforce his claimed right as
sole beneficiary under a will to the appointment to, -and accrued
surplus income from, a collative chaplaincy. Held, that, on appeal, the action cannot be treated as a suit by him as representative
of the heirs of the testatrix as a class to recover:the surplus.income
during a vacancy. P. 19.
Affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 588, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, which reversed
a judgment recovered by Gonzalez directing the Archbishop of Manila to appoint him to a chaplaincy and to
pay to him the income thereof accrued during its vacancy.

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, with whom'Messrs.
Frederic R. Coudert and Allison D. Gibbs were on the
brief, for petitioner.
The decision below defeats fhe testamentary intentions
of the foundress.
The registration should have been in the name of the
"Capellania" itself as a juristic person. See Capellania
de Tombobong v. Antonio, 8 Phil. Rep. 683; Capellania
de Tombobong v. Cruz, 9 id. 145.
At no stage of the cause has the lawful character of
the Foundation, under the applicable local law, been
questioned. It was assumed, as obviously not subject to
controversy, in Gonzalez V. Harty, 32 Phil. Rep. 328. See
Manila v. Archbishop, 36 id. 145.
The same practice was there followed on this subject
in the Philippines as prevails under English Ecclesiastical Law, namely, that the income of a benefice during a
vacancy goes to the next incumbent. See Burn, Ecclesiastical Law, Vol. 4, p. 1, et seq.
The Canon (§ 1481) providing for a different disposition of the income of a vacant benefice appears to be an
innovation of 1918, and it woild, moreover, be inappropriate to apply it to a "Capellania colativa familiar,"
limited to a particular family, such as this.
The inviolability of lawful testamentary intentions has
been repeatedly declared and s'istained by this Court.
Gray v. Noholoa, 214 U. S. 108; Kenaday v. Sinnott, 179
U. S. 606. Spanish law recognized the same rule as
applicable to the testamentary foundation of a Chaplaincy.
The decision below permits the Canon of 1918 to be
applied retroactively to defeat and divest property rights
and allows the ecclesiastical authorities to be both legislators and judges in their own cause.

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

280 U. S.

The Chaplaincy here involved is a Capellania.colativa
familiar, being "instituted with the intervention of the
ecclesiastical authority" and calling "for relatives of the
founder or of the persons whom he designed as trunk, to
enjoy the Chaplaincy."
Such chaplaincies appear to have been a frequent form
of pious foundation, both in the Islands and in Spain,
where, however, they were disamortized by a series of
legislative acts, beginning in or about 1820 and continuing until 1867. See Alcubilla, Diccionario, Vol. 2, p. 118,
et seq. In the Philippines they have been undisturbed by
legislation, and are recognized as having juristic entity.
Their purpose appears to have been to provide a source
of support for a succession of members of the founder's
family and at the same time to secure the saying of masses
for the benefit of, the family. The ecclesiastical character
of the incumbent from time to time appears to have been
a minor consideration.
The plenary power of ecclesiastical authority is limited
to matters ecclesiastical and spiritual. When property
rights are affected, the law of the land must prevail.
Free Church v. Overtoun, [1904] A. C., 515.
When the similar chaplaincies in Spain were disamortized by legislation, the property rights pertaining thereto
were preserved for the "nearest relative of the preferred
line," and conflicting claims were determined by the civil
courts. See 8 Jurisprudencia Civil, 372, May 30, 1863;
Alcubilla, Diccionario, Vol. 2, pp. 259, 261. This )disamortization, however, was not extended to the Philippines. Catholic Church v. Municipality, 10 Phil. Rep.
659.
Under the Will and Deed of Foundation it was sufficient
that the candidate should be qualified ultimately to become a priest. He was not required to be already a
"clerical."

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
Aigunent for l'ctiflonr.

It is contrary to the underlying conceptions of American
jurisprudence, which now protect the sanctity of property
and contract rights in the Philippines (Cariio y. Insular
Government, 212 U. S. 449: Vilas v. Manila, 220 U. S.
345), that any ecclesiastical power, however exalted,
should first, as legislator, change its own laws or canons
to the prejudice of outstanding property rights, and then,
as judge or administrative functionary exercising discretionary power, interpret and enforce them to the impoverishment of the individual or individuals in whom the
property rights subsist and to the enrichment of its own
coffers for use in other directions.
This suit is in name against the Archbishop of Manila,
but he stands as the representative of the Church (Harty
v. Sandin, 11 Phil. Rep. 451), which, in the territories
acquired by the Treaty of 1898 with Spain, is a solidary
juristic entity capable of holding and owning property,
and therefore of incurring and performing obligations attached to such ownership. Ponce v. Church, 210 U. S.
296; Santos v. Church, 212 'U. S. 463; Barlin v. Ramirez,
7 Phil. Rep. 41; Evangelista v. Ver, 8 Phil. Rep. 653.
The Spanish Law fully. recognized the obligations growing out of a fiduciary relation and was rigid in forbidding
a fiduciary " to create in himself an interest in opposition " to that of the beneficiary. Severino v. Severino,
44 Phil. Rep. 343; Orden de Predicadoresv. Water District, 44 Phil. Rep. 292.
The Canon Law itself, both before and in the revision
of 1918, recognizes the lack of power in the ecclesiastical
authorities to vary the terms of a testamentary foundation. Pitonius, De Controversiis Patronorum, 1719,
Allegatio XXXIII, n. 37 (Tom. 1, p. 275).
The revision of 1918 in like manner recognizes the
sanctity of conditions and limitations attached to benefices, once they have been duly approved and accepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for lepoildent.

280 U. S.

by the competent ecclesiastical aufhorities. See Canon
1417, §§ 1, 2.
Appeal to the Pope was not a necessary condition
precedent to recourse to the civil courts.
If a class suit be deemed necessary, this suit can and
should be so treated. See Williams' Administrator v.
Newman, 93 Va. 719; Neeley v. Jones, 16 W. Va. 625;
Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How.'28S; Stewart v. Dunham,
115 U. S. 61; Supreme Tribe v. Cauble, 255 U. S. 356;
Bismorte v. Aldecoa & Co., 17 Phil. Rep. 480; Harty v.
Macabuhay, 39 Phil. Rep. 495.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. George J.
Gillespie was on the brief, for respondent.
The petitioner's theory of a.civil right enforcible in
the secular courts is entirely contradictory to the clear
and expressed intention of the testatrix herself; for it is
indisputable that she was a devout member of the Roman
Catholic Church, and intended to establish a "collative
chaplaincy" with all that the term implied and to have
it subject to the laws and jurisdiction of that Church.
It is likewise indisputable that the deed of foundation
executed by her executor expressly segregated a=d transferred the property of the chaplaincy " to the spiritual
properties of this Archbishopric" in the broadest possible
terms and "renounces with all solemnity the laws that
may favor the said decedent," and equally indisputable
that the decree of approval executed by the Metropolitan
Archbishop accepted and approved the foundation of the
chaplancy in the will'and deed of foundation 4nd thereby.
expressly converted the agreed value of the property " into
spiritual property of a perpetual character subject to the
ecclesiastical forum and jurisdiction." It would be difficult, if not impossible, to devise, language more clearly
evidencing the intention to remove the property entirely
beyond the jurisdiction of the secular courts.

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
Argument for Respondent.

"The corporate existence of the Roman Catholic
Church, as well as the position occupied by the Papacy,
has always been recognized by the Government of the
United States." Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church, 210
U. S. 296.
And the Treaty of Paris (30 Stat. 1754) expressly covenanted (Article VIII) that the rights of the Roman Catholic Church would be duly maintained. See Gonzalez v.
Harty, 32 Phil. Rep. 328. Evangelista v. Ver, 8 Phil. Rep.
653; Chase v. Cheney, 58 Ill. 509; Gibbs v. Gilead EcclesiasticalSociety, 38 Conn. 153; United States v. Caiete,
38 Phil. Rep. 253; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679; Shepard v. Barkley, 247 U. S. 1.
Watson v. Jones, supra, relies upon the "implied consent" of "all who unite themselves to such a body" to
submit to the ecclesiastical government. In the case at
bar, however, the consent to the ecclesiastical government, which was merely implicit in Watson v. Jones, is
explicit, and there is neither room nor necessity for presumption.
An illustrative example of the propriety of aplplying
the principles of Canon Law in a controversy growing
out of ecclesiastical relations,, is found in the case of
Jones v. The Registrar, 18 Porto Rico 124.
See alsd for interesting and striking decisions as to the
doctrine of noninterference with Church authorities, the
following additional cases: Baxter v. McDonnell, 155
N. Y. 83; Connitt v. Reformed Church, 54 N. Y. 551;
Walker v. Wainwright, 16 Barb. (N. Y.) 486, First Presbyterian Church v. First Cumberland Presbyterian
Church, 245 Ill. 74; Fussell v. Hail, 233 Ill. 73; Wehnier
v. Fokenga, 57 Neb. 510; Holwerda v. Hoeksema, 232
Mich. 648; Chase v. Cheney, 58 Ill. 509; O'Donovan v.
Chatard,97 Ind.. 421; White Lick Meeting v. White Lick
.Meeting, 89 Ind. 136; Hackney v. Vawter, 39 Kan. 615.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argumenl for lRe.poflnt

.

280 U.S.

The courts have likewise held, and the policy of our
government of noninterference in religious matters requires, that in any event an appeal to the ecclesiastical
authorities for redress must first be taken, if available,
before a civil court will intervene. State ex rel. McNeill
v. Church, 84 Ala. 23; German Church v. Seibert, 3 Pa.
St. 282. Such a right of appeal is expressly given.
The will of the foundress in the plainest terms requires
a collative chaplaincy, not the mere laical chaplaincy
which is, in effect, the result sought for by petitioner;
and her will, moreover, urged as " the supreme law to
be observed," fails utterly to make any provision as to
successors.
The Roman Catholic Archbishops of Manila, in their
discretion, as vacancies arose naturally gave preference
to the nearest qualified or acceptable relative of the testatrix; but this practice, considered by petitioner a binding
practical construction, did not estop the duly constituted
representatives and tribunals of the Church from exercising their discretion or applying the provisions. of the
Canon Law. An unauthorized construction of the will
could not, no matter how long continued, materially
change or supplant the provisions of the trust as established by the testatrix herself and accepted by the Church.
Attorney General v. Rochester, 5 DeG. M. & G. 797; Attorney General v. Beverly, 6 DeG. M. & G. 256; Drummond v. Attorney General, 2 H. L. Cas. 837.
The petitioner was not qualified under the Codex Juris
Canonici of 1917 [promulgated in 19181. He was not
shown to be qualified under the prior Canon Law.
Omnia praesumunter rite et solemniter esse acta, may
with particular propriety be applied to the present case.
Petitioner's right to receive any part of the income is
contingent upon his right to be appointed as chaplain.
The right of a minister to the temporal fruits of his office
is dependent upon his continued "rightful -incumbency."

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP
1

Argument for Respondent.

State ex rel. Hynes v. Catholic Church, 183 Mo. App. 190;
Satterlee v. Williams, 20 D. C. App. 393; Chase v. Cheney,
58 Ill. 509.
Prior to the codification in 1917, a collative chaplain
would not have been entitled to appropriate the whole
surplus income for his own purposes; it must be devoted
to pious uses and good works.
But aside from the Canon Law and even if the plaintiff
had established an heritable interest in the property of
the testatrix, the fact that the increase of the income has
produced a large surplus over the usual cost of the masses,
would not establish any legal heritable right in the petitioner or in any of his family or class, to such surplus.
The rule obtaining in the secular courts is in this respect precisely the same as the Canon Law oh the subject,
viz., the surplus belongs to the Church, for its general
pious purposes. Mormon Church v. United States, 136
U. S. 1; Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church, 210 U. S. 296;
Attorney General v. The Minister, 36 N. Y. 452.
See also, Attorney General v. Rector et al., 91 Mass.
422; American Academy v. Harvard College, 78 Mass.
582; In re Campden Charities, 18 L. R. Ch. Div. 310;
Bishop v. Adams, 7 Ves. Jr. 324; Attorney General v.
Wansay, 15 Ves. Jr. 230; Attorney General v. Dixie, 2
Myl. & K. 342.
See also Sicles v. New Orleans, 80 Fed. 868; Associate
Alumni v. Seminary, 163 N. Y. 417; Brigham v. Hospital,
134 Fed. 513; Goode v. McPherson, 51 Mo. 126; Bridgeport Library v. Burroughs Home, 85 Conn..309; Strong
v. Doty, 32 Wis. 381; Trustees v. Wilson, 78 N. J. Eq. 1;
Sanderson v. White, 18 Pick. (Mass.) 328.
If this proceeding be regarded as a suit in which the
plaintiff is asking the court to change the present proceeding for a mandamus and accounting into a suit in equity
for relief to a class of heirs as alleged beneficiaries of a
trust, the class concerned must necessarily be, not the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

heirs generally, but only such heirs as are qualified for
appointment to the chaplaincy in question. A class suit
cannot be successfully maintained by one who is not himself qualified to be a member of the class. Watson v.
Nat'l Life & Trust Co., 189 Fed. 872.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on certiorari to the Supreme Court of
the Philippine Islands. 278 U. S. 588. The subject matter is a collative chaplaincy in the Roman Catholic Arch-

diocese of Manila, which has been vacant since December
1910.'

The rnair questions for decision are whether the

petitioner is legally entitled to be appointed the chaplain
and whether he shall recover the surplus income accrued
during the vacancy.

Raul Rogerio Gonzalez, by his guardian ad litem,
brought the suit against the Archbishop in the Court of
'A chaplaincy" in the Roman Catholic Church is an institution
founded by an individual for the purpose of celebrating or causing
to be celebrated annually a certain number of masses conforming to
the will of the founder. Chaplaincies are commonly divided into
two classes-lay and ecclesiastical. A laical or mercenary chaplaincy is one instituted without the intervention of ecclesiastical authority; does not require a title in order to be ordained; and is not
subject to ecclesiastical authority. The ecclesiastical or collative
chaplaincy, although also founded by an individual, is one erected
into a benefice by the proper spiritual authority; requires a title of
.ordination; and is thus subject to ecclesiastical control. When the
foundation of .an ecclesiastical or collative chaplaincy calls for relatives of the founder to enjoy the chaplaincy, it is called colativa
familiar. When individuals of a certain family are not called to the
possession but the patron is authorized to nominate, then the chaplaincy is called colativa simple or gentilicia. But whether the chaplaincy is colativa familiar or colativa simple, intervention of the
proper spiritual authority to appoint and ordain is essential. Alcubilla, Diccionario de la Administracion Espafiola, (5 Ed.) Vol. II,
p. 259; The Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. III, p. 580.

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
1

Opinion of the Court.

First Instance of Manila, on August 5, 1924. He prayed
for judgment declaring the petitioner the lawful heir to
the chaplaincy and its income; establishing the right of
the petitioner and his successors to be appointed to and
receive the income of the chaplaincy during their infancy
whenever it may be vacant and, pending such appointment, to receive the income for their maintenance and
support; declaring the trust character of the property
and ordering it to be so recorded; directing the Archbishop to appoint the petitioner chaplain and to account
to him for the income of the property from 1910 on; and
directing the defendant to pay the petitioner 1,000 pesos a
month pending the final determination of the case. The
trial court directed the Archbishop to appoint the petitioner chaplain; and ordered payment to him of 173,725
pesos ($86,862.50), that sum being the aggregate net
income of the. chaplaincy during the vacancy, less the
expense of. having the prescribed masses celebrated in
each year. It reserved to the petitioner any legal right
he may have to proceed in the proper court for cancellation of the certificate of registration of the property in
the name of the Archbishop. The Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands reversed the judgment on February 4,
1928, and absolved the Archbishop from the complaint,
"without prejudice to the right of proper persons in interest to proceed for independent relief," in respect to the
income accrued during the vacancy, or in respect to the
reformation of the certificate of registration so as to show
the fiduciary character of the title. As the atnount in
controversy exceeds $25,000, this Court has jurisdiction
on certiorari, Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, § 7, 43 Stat.
936, 940.
The chaplaincy was founded in 1820, under the will of
Dofia Petronila de Guzman. By it, she requested "the
Father chaplain to celebrate sixty masses annually" in
behalf of the souls of her parents' brothers, sisters and

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Oliiion of the Court.

herself.

280 U. S.

The deed of foundation, which was executed by
the testamentary executor of Dofia Petronila, provided
that "said property is segregated from temporal properties and transferred to the spiritual properties of this
Archbishopric, without its being possible to alienate or
convert the property as such into any other estate -for any
cause, even though it be of a more pious character, . . .
so that by virtue of this Deed of Foundation canonical
collation may be conferred on the said appointed chaplain." By appropriate proceedings an ecclesiastical
decree approved "the foundation of the chaplaincy with
all the circumstances and conditions provided for in said
clause (of the will) and in the deed of foundation, as
well as the imposition (charge) of seventeen hundred
pesos against said building, converting said sum into
spiritual property of a perpetual character subject to the
ecclesiastical forum and jurisdiction."
The will provided that the foundation should effect the
immediate appointment as chaplain of D. Esteban de
Guzman, the great-grandson of the testatrix; and "in
his default, the nearest relative, and in default of the latter,
a collegian (colegial) of San Juan de Letran, who should
be an orphan mestizo, native of this said town." It
named the president of that college as the patron of the
chaplaincy. Esteban was appointed, chaplain in 1820.
From time to time thereafter four other descendants of
the testatrix were successively appointed. The latest of
these renounced the chaplaincy in December, 1910; married soon thereafter; and in 1912 became the father of the
petitioner, Raul Rogerio Gonzalez, who is a legitimate
son of the fifth chaplain and claims to be the nearest relative in descent from the first chaplain and the foundress.
Raul was presented to the Archbishop for appointment
in 1922. The Archbishop refused to appoint him, on the
ground that he did not then have "the qualifications required for chaplain of the said chaplaincy." He added:

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
Opinion of the Court.

"The grounds of my conclusion are the very canons of
the new Code of Canon Law.

Among others, I can men-

tion canon 1442 which says: 'Simple chaplaincies or benefices are conferred upon clergymen of the secular clergy,'
in connection with canon 108, paragraph 1, 'Clergymen
are those already initiated in the first tonsure' and canon
976, paragraph 1, 'No one can be promoted to first ton-,
sure before he has begun the course in theology.' In view
of the Canon as above mentioned, and other reasons which
may be adduced, I believe that the boy, Raul Gonzalez, is
not, legally (ecclesiastically speaking) capacitated to the
enjoyment.of a chaplaincy."
Ever since the Council of Trent (1545-1563), it has
been the law of the church that no one can be appointed
to a collative chaplaincy before his fourteenth year.
When Raul was presented for appointment, he was in his
tenth year. He was less than twelve when this suit was
begun. He was fourteen when the trial court entered its
judgment. It is also urged on behalf of the Archbishop
that at no time since that Council could one be lawfully
appointed who lacked elementary knowledge of Christian
Doctrine.
The new Codex Juris Canonici, which was adopted in
Rome in 1917 and was promulgated by the Church to
become effective in 1918, provides that no one shall be
appointed to a collative chaplaincy who is not a cleric,
Can. 1442. It requires students for the priesthood to attend a seminary; and prescribes their studies, Can. 1354,
13Q4. It provides that in order to be a cleric one must
have had "prima tonsura," Can. 108, par. 1; that in order
to have "prima tonsura" one must have begun the study
of theology, Can. 976, par. 1; and that in order to study
theology one must be a "bachiller," that is, must have
obtained the first degree in the sciences and liberal arts,
Can. 1365. It also provides that no one may validly receive ordination unless in the opinion of the ordinary he

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

has the necessary qualifications, Can. 968, par. 1, 1464.
Petitioner concedes that the. chaplaincy here involved is
a collative one; and that Raul lacked, at the time of his
presentment and of the commencement of the suit, the
age qualification required by the Canon Law in force when
the chaplaincy was .founded." It is also conceded that he
lacked, then, and at the time of the entry of the judgment,
other qualifications of a candidate for a collative chaplaincy essential, if the new Codex was applicable.
Raul's contention, in effect, is that the nearest. male
relative in descent from the foundress and the first chaplain, willing to be appointed chaplain, is entitled to enjoy
the revenues of the foundation, subject only to the duty
of saying himself the sixty masses in each year, if he is
qualified so to do, or of causing them to be said by a qualified priest and paying the customary charge therefor out
of the income. He claims that the provisions of the new
Codex are not applicable and that his rights are to be determined by the Canon Law in force at the tine the chaplaincy was founded; and that the judgment of the trial
court should be reinstated, because he possessed at the
time of the entry of the judgment all the qualifications
required by the Canon Law in force in 1820. Raul argues
that contemporaneous construction and long usage have
removed any doubt as to what these 'qualifications were;
that when the foundation was established, and for a. long
time thereafter, the ecclesiastical character of the incumbent was a minor consideration; that this is shown by the
administration of this chaplaincy; and that his own ecclesiastical qualifications, at the time of the entry of the
2 In order to overcome this obstacle, petitioner filed an amended
complaint in the trial court, without objection, when he was in his
fourteenth year. The Supreme Court assumed " for the purposes of
this decision that the immaturity of the plaintiff in point of age is not
a fatal obstacle to the maintenance of the action."

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment in the trial court, were not inferior to those of
the prior incumbents. He asserts that, although chaplaincies were disamortized in Spain prior to 1867, Alcubilla, Diccionario, Vol. II, p. 118, they had in the Philippines remained undisturbed by any legislation of Spain;
and that the rights of the church were preserved by .Article VIII of the Treaty of Paris. 30 Stat. 1754, 1758.
Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church, 210 U. S. 296, 315-322.
He contends that to deprive him of his alleged right to
the chaplaincy because of a change made in 1918 in the
Canon Law would violate the Constitution of the United
States, the Treaty with Spain of 1898, and the Organic
Act of the Philippine Islands.
The trial court rested its judgment for Raul largely on
the ground that he possessed, at the time of its entry, the
qualifications required by the Canon Law in force when
the chaplaincy was founded; and that, hence, he was entitled both to be appointed chaplain and to recover the
income accrued during the vacancy, even though he did
not possess the qualifications prescribed by the new Codex
then otherwise in force. The Supreme Court held- that
to give effect to the provisions of the new Codex would
not impair the obligation of the contract made in 1820,
as it was an implied term of the deed of foundation that
the qualifications of a chaplain should be such as the
church authorities might prescribe from time to time;
and that, since Raul confessedly did not possess the qualifications prescribed by the new Codex which had been
promulgated before he was presented, he could not be
appointed.
First. The Archbishop interposes here, as he did below,
an objection to the jurisdiction of the Philippine courts.
He insists that, since the chaplaincy is confessedly a collative one, its property became spiritual property of a
perpetual character subject to the jurisdiction of the ec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

clesiastical forum; and that thereby every controversy
concerning either the right to appointment or the right
to the income was removed from the jurisdiction of secular courts. The objection is not sound. The courts have
jurisdiction of the parties. For the Archbishop is a jur-•
istic,,.person amenable to thePhilippine courts for the enforcement of any legal right; and the petitioner asserts
such a right. There is jurisdiction of the subject matter.
For the petitioner's claim is, in substance, that he is entitled to the relief sought as the beneficiary of a trust.
The fact that the property of the chaplaincy was transferred to the spiritual properties of the Archbishopric
affects not the jurisdiction of the court, but the terms of
the trust. Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679,.714, 729. The
Archbishop's claim in this respect is'that by an implied
term of the gift, the property, which was to be held by
the church, should be administered in such manner and
by such persons as may be prescribed by the church from
time to time. Among the church's laws which are thus
claimed to be applicable are those creating tribunals for
the determination of ecclesiastical controversies. Because
the appointment is a canonical act, it is the function of
the church authorities to determine what the essential
qualifications of a chaplain are and whether, the candidate possesses them. In the absence of fraud, collusion,
or arbitrariness, the decisions of the proper church tribunals on matters purely ecclesiastical, although affecting
civil rights, are accepted in litigation before the. secular
courts as conclusive, because the parties in interest made
them so by contract or otherwise2 Under like circumstances, effect is given in the courts to the determindtions
"Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679, 727, 733; Shepard v. Barkley,
24 U. S.AI; s. c. Barklty v. Hayes, 208 Fed. 319, 327, aff'd sub. nor.
Ijuvall v. Synod of Kansas, 222 Fed. 669; Brundage v. Deardorf, 92
Fed. 214, 228; Connitt v. Reformed Protestant Dutch Church, 54
N. Y. 551, 562.

GONZALEZ v. ARCHBISHOP.
Opinion of the Court.

of the judicatory bodies established by clubs and civil
associations.4
Second. The Archbishop contended that Raul lacked
even the minimum of training and knowledge of Christia.n Doctrine made indispensable by the Canon Law in
force in 1820; that his confessed lack of the essential age
at the time of the presentment and also at the time of
the institution of the suit were unsurmountable obstacles
to the granting of the prayer for appointment to the
chaplaincy; and, moreover, that the failure to take an
appeal to the Pope from the decision of the Archbishop,
as provided by the Canon Law, precluded resort to legal
proceedings. We have no occasion to consider the soundness of these contentions. For we are of opinion that the
Canon Law in force at the time of the presentation governs, and the lack of the qualification prescribed by it is
admitted. Neither the foundress, nor the church authorities, can have intended that the perpetual chaplaincy
created in 1820 should, in respect to the qualifications of
an incumbent, be forever administered according to the
canons of the church which happened to be in force at
that date. The parties to the foundation clearly contemplated that the Archbishop would, before ordination,
exercise his judgment as to the fitness of the applicant;
and they must have contemplated that, in the course of
the centuries, the standard of fitness would be modified.
When the new Codex was promulgated in 1918 Raul
was only six years old and had not yet been presented.
If he had been presented, he obviously could not have
been appointed. No right was then being enjoyed by him
4 Commonwealth v. Union League, 135 Pa. 301,
327; Engel v.
Walsh, 258 Il. 98, 103; Richards v. Morison, 229 Mass. 458, 461;
People ex rel. Johnson v. New York Produce Exchange, 149 N. Y.
401, 409-10, 413-14; Van Poucke v. Netherland St. Vincent De Paul
Society, 63 Mich. 378.

8135o-----2

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

of which the promulgation of the new Codex deprived
him. When he was presented later, he was ineligible
uAder the then existing Canon Law. In concluding that
Raul lacked the qualifications essential for a chaplain the
Archbishop appears, to have followed the controlling
Canon Law. There is not even a suggestion that he exercised his authority arbitrarily.
Third. Raul urges that, even though he is not entitled
to be appointed chaplain, he is entitled to recover the surplus net income earned during the vacancy. Indeed, it
is the property rights involved that appear to be his
main consideration. The value of the property in 1820
was about 1,700 pesos. The annual net income was then
180 pesos, a sum sufficient only to defray the annual expense of sixty masses. The annual net income has grown
to about 12,000 pesos; and the annual expense of the
sixty masses does not now exceed 300 pesos. In each year
during the vacancy the masses have been duly celebrated.
The, surplus income accruing during the vacancy has been
used by the Archbishop currently for pious purposes,
namely, education. By canon 1481 of the new Codex thesurplus income of a chaplaincy, after deducting expenses
of the acting chaplain, must one-half be added to the
endowment or capital and one-half to the repair of thl
church, unless there is a custom of using the whole for
some common good to the diocese. The use made of the
Surplus of this chaplaincy was in accordance with what
was claimed to be the long established custom of the
Archdiocese. Both the custom and the specific application. made of this surplus have been approved by the
Holy See. The Supreme Court held that since Raul had
sought the income only as an incident of the chaplaincy,
he could not recover anything.
Raul's claim, Which is made even in respect to income
accrued prior to his birth, is rested upon some alleged
right by inheritance, although his father is still living.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.

19

Syllabus.

The intention of the foundress, so far as expressed, was
that the incd'me should be applied to the celebration of
masses and to the living tf the chaplain, who should
preferably be the nearest male relative in the line of
descent from herself or the first chaplain. The claim that
Ra.ul individually is entitled as nearest relative to the
surplus by inheritance is unsupported by anything in the
deed of gift or the applicable law. Since Raul is not entitled to be appointed chaplain, he is not entitled to a
living from the income of the chaplaincy.
Raul urges also an alleged right as representative of
the heirs of the testatrix as a class. This suggestion was,
we think, properly met by the ruling of the Supreme
Court that the suit was not brought as a class suit.
Whether the surplus income earned during the vacancy
has been properly disposdd of by the Archbishop and
what disposition shall be made of it in the future we have
no occasion to enquire. The entry-of the judgment without prejudice "to the right of proper persons in interest
to proceed for independent relief" leaves any existing
right of that nature unaffected.
Affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COIMISSION v. KLESNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 8. Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided October 14, 1929.
1. Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, unlike the Interstate Commerce Act., does not provide private persons with an
administrative remedy for private wrongs. P. 25.
2. A complaint may be filed under § 5 only "if it shall appear to the
Commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to
the interest of the public," and this requirement is. not satisfied
merely by proof that there has been misapprehension and confusion
on the part. of purchasers, or even that they have been deceived..

