FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.

19

Syllabus.

The intention of the foundress, so far as expressed, was
that the incd'me should be applied to the celebration of
masses and to the living tf the chaplain, who should
preferably be the nearest male relative in the line of
descent from herself or the first chaplain. The claim that
Ra.ul individually is entitled as nearest relative to the
surplus by inheritance is unsupported by anything in the
deed of gift or the applicable law. Since Raul is not entitled to be appointed chaplain, he is not entitled to a
living from the income of the chaplaincy.
Raul urges also an alleged right as representative of
the heirs of the testatrix as a class. This suggestion was,
we think, properly met by the ruling of the Supreme
Court that the suit was not brought as a class suit.
Whether the surplus income earned during the vacancy
has been properly disposdd of by the Archbishop and
what disposition shall be made of it in the future we have
no occasion to enquire. The entry-of the judgment without prejudice "to the right of proper persons in interest
to proceed for independent relief" leaves any existing
right of that nature unaffected.
Affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COIMISSION v. KLESNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 8. Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided October 14, 1929.
1. Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, unlike the Interstate Commerce Act., does not provide private persons with an
administrative remedy for private wrongs. P. 25.
2. A complaint may be filed under § 5 only "if it shall appear to the
Commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to
the interest of the public," and this requirement is. not satisfied
merely by proof that there has been misapprehension and confusion
on the part. of purchasers, or even that they have been deceived..

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

280 U. S.

To justify filing a complaint the public interest must be specific and
substantial. P. 27.
3. The Commission has jurisdiction of a complaint authorized by its
resolution declaring in appropriate form that the Commission has
reason to believe that the party complained of is violating § 5 of
the Act and that it. appears to the Commission that a proceeding in
respect thereof would be in the interest of the public; but its action
in authorizing the filing of a complaint, like its action in making an
order thereon, is subject to judicial review. P. 29.
4. Whenever in the course of the proceeding before the Commission
the specific facts established show, as a matter of law, that the
proceeding is not in the public interest, the Commission should
.dismiss~the complaint; and if, instead, it enters an order and
brings suit to enforce it, the court, without inquiry into the merits,
should dismiss the suit. .P. 30.
5. S had long engaged in the business of making and selling window
shades in the District of Columbia under the name "The Shade
'Shop," and 'in 1914 'occupied part of K's store. In" 1915, S removed from K's shop in violation of his agreement. As a result
of the ensuing controversy, K, who had previously sold window
shades only incidentally to his principal business of painting and
paper .hanging, opened that line in the space vacated by S and
idvertised it as "Shade Shop," generally with the qualification
* ' Hooper &
iesner." Five Years later, and 'after S's suit for an
injunction had been dismissed by the Supreme Court of the Dis'trict, the complaint before the Commission was filed. A desist
order was entered nearly two years later. This suit to enforce the
Commission's order was begun nearly nine years after K had instituted the course of conduct complained of'. No claim was made
that K's goods ,were inferior to S's or that the public otherwise
suffered financially. ' Held, that the filing of the complaint
was not
in the public interest and that this suit should, therefore, be dismissed. P. 30.
25 F. (2d) 524, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

278 U. S. 591, to review a judgment of the

Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia dismissing
a suit to enforce an order of the Federal Trade Commission. The judgment is affirmed on a ground different
fron that adopted by the court below. For earlier decisions in the same case, see 6 F. (2d) 701; 274 U. S. 145.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
19

21

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. Adrien F. Busick, Assistant Chief Counsel, Federal
Trade Commission, with whom Attorney Oeneral Mitchell and Messrs. Robert E. Healy, Chief Counsel, and
James W. Nichol were on the brief, for petitioner.
The words "if it shall appear to the Commission that a
proceeding . . . would be to the interest of the public" confer absolute discretion upon the Commission to
determine whether a proceeding shall be instituted, and
this is the only purpose of the provision. If the Commission so determines, it proceeds in the manner prescribed.
by the statute. If it determines not to proceed, it can not
be compelled to do so by mandamus or by other process
of the courts, even though it be admitted that the method
of competition complained of is unfair. If it proceed, then
the only question to be determined by the Commission or
by the courts at the conclusion 6f the case is whether the
method of competition "is prohibited by this act."
No question of public interest is involved in the issuance of an order to cease and desist from the use of the
method, but only the question whether it, is unfair within
the meaning of the statute. If the method is unfair, then
the order, it is submitted, can not be set aside because
of the absence, in the opinion of the court, of a public
interest in instituting. the proceeding. People v. Ballard,
134 N. Y. 269; Hill Broi. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 9
F. (2d) 481; Toledo Pipe Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n,
11 F. (2d) 337; Moir v. Federal Trade Comn'n, 12 F,
(2d) 22.
But if it be necessary affirmatively to show a public.
interest, in this case it sufficiently appears. That interest
lies in the protection of the public of the District of olumbia from fraud and deception in commerce. In expressly applying the law to the District of Columbia,
Congress acted in its constitutional capacity as a local
legislature for the District. The business of each of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

companies. involved, viewed as local business in window
shades, is very substantial.
Moreover, the mere number of the purchasing public
affected by the use of an unfair method of competition is
nQt controlling as to its illegality. The principle is the
same whether many persons or few are deceived and defrauded. To make numbers the test of the validity of the
order would require the endless taking of testimony to
determine the number deceived in each case. See Federal Trade Comn'n v. BalmJ, 23 F. (2d) 615; Juvenile
Shoe Corp'n v. Federal Trade Conm'n, 289 Fed. 57.
Mr. Clarence R..Ahalt submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on certiorari, for the second time. It
was brought in the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia by the Federal Trade Commission under § 5
of the Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717,
719, to enforce an order entered by it. The order directs
Klesner, an interior decorator, who does business in Washington under the name of Hooper & Klesner, to "cease
and desist from using the words 'Shade Shop' standing
alone or in conjunction with other words as an identificatign of the business conducted by him, in any manner of
advertisement, signs, stationery, telephone, or business
directories, trade lists or otherwise.' That court disissed the suit on the ground that, unlike United States
circuit courts of appeals, it lacked jurisdiction to enforce
orders of the Federal Trade Commission. 6 F. (2d) 701.
On the first certiorari, we reversed the decree and directed
that the cause be remanded for further proceedings. Federal Trade Commission v. Klesner, 274 U. S. 145. Then
the case was reargued before the Court of Appeals, on
the pleadings and a transcript of the record before the

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
19

23

Opinion of the Court.

Comnmission; and was dismissed on the merits, with costs.
25 F. (2d) 524. This second writ of certiorari was thereupon granted. 278 U. S. 591. We are of. opinion that
the decree of the Court.of Appeals should be affirmednot on the merits, but upon the ground that the filing of
the complaint before the Commission was not in the
public interest.
The conduct which the Commission held to be an unfair method of competition practiced within the District
had been persisted in by Klesner ever since December,
1915. The complaint before the Commission was filed
on December 18, 1920. The order sought to be enforced
was entered June 23, 1922. This suit was begun on May
13, 1924. The evidence before the Commission, which
occupies 394 pages of the printed record in this Court, is
conflicting only to a- small extent. The findings of the
Commissiim are in substance as follows:
Sammons has for many years done business in Washington as maker and seller of window shades under the
name of "The Shade Shop." Prior.to 1914, that name
had, by long use, come to signify to the buying public of
the District the busirress of Sammons. The concern
known as Hooper & Klesner has also been in business in
Washington for many years. Prior to 1915, its trade had
consisted mainly of painting and of selling and hanging
wallpaper. It had dealt also, to some extent, in window
shades, taking orders which it had executed either by
Sammons or some other maker of window shades. In
1914, Hooper & Klesner leased a new store pursuant to
an arrangement with Sammons, and sub-let to him a part*
of it. There Sammons continued his business of making
and selling window shades as an independent concern
under the name of "The Shade Shop." His gross sales
there were at the rate of $60,000 a year. On a Sunday
in November, 1915, he removed all his effects from those

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

premises and established his business in another building
four doors away.
Sammons' removal was in confessed violation of his
agreement with Hooper & Klesner. An acrimonious controversy ensued. Threats of personal violence led to
Sxnmmons' having Klesner arrested; and this to bitter
animosity. Out of spite to Sammons, and with the purpose and intent of injuring him and getting his trade,
Hooper & Klesner decided to conduct on its own account,
in the premises which Sammons had vacated, the business
of making and selling window shades. It placed upon
its show ..indows, and also upon its letterheads and billheads, the words "Shade Shop"; and listed its business
in the local telephone directory as "Shade Shop, Hooper
& Klesner" and as " Shade Shop." A like sign was placed
on its delivtry trucks. This use by Hooper & Klesner
of the term "Shade Shop" has caused, and is causing,
"confusion to the window-shade purchasing public
throughout the District"; and, on certain occasions, customers who entered Hooper & Klesner's shop were deceived by employees, being led to believe that it was
Sammons'. Meanwhile, Klesner had become the sole
owner of the business.
Such were the findings of the Commission. The Court
of Appeals concluded that there was no showing either
that Klesner was attempting to (Iisrose of his goods under
the pretense that they were the goods of Sammons, or
that he was attempting to deceive or entice any of Sammons' customers; that the evidence intrbduced to show
deception went no further than that some of the public
may have purchased from Klesner under a mistaken belief that they were dealinlg with Sammons; that the words
"Shade Shop " were being used by Klesner always in connection with the words Hooper & Klesner; and that the
term "Shade Shop " as used by Klesner merely indicated

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
19

25

Opinion of the Co'urt.

that his store was a place where window shades were made
and sold. The Court of Appeals ruled that these words,
-being descriptive of a trade or business, were incapable of
exclusive appropriation as a legal trademark or trade
name; and that there was nothing in the facts to justify
the charge of unfair competition. It, therefore, dismissed
the suit on the merits, the ground of decision being that
there was a lack of those facts which, in a court of law or
of equity, are essential to the granting of relief for alleged
acts of unfair competition.
We need not decide whether the Court of Appeals was
justified in all of its assumptions of fact or in its conclusions on matters of law..' For we are of opinion that the
decree should be affirmed on a preliminary ground which
made it. unnecessary for that court to enquire into the
merits. Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act
does not provide private persons with an administrative
remedy for private wrongs. -The formal complaint is
brought in the Commission's name; the prosecution is
wholly that of the Government; and it bears the entire
expense of the prosecution. A person who deems himself
aggrieved by the use of an unfair method of competition
is not given the right to institute before the Commission
a complaint against the alleged wrongdoer. Nor may the
Commission authorize him to do so. He may of course
bring the matter to the Commission's attention and request it to file a complaint.' But a denial of his request
is final. And if the request is granted and a proceeding is
The rules of practice adopted by the Commission require that the
application be in writing and " contain a short and simple statement
of the facts. constituting.the alleged violation of law and the name and
address of the applicant and of the party complained of." Rules of
Practice, No. II. See Annual Report of the Federal Trade Commission for 1928, pp. 17, 18, 41, 42; and Exhibit 5, p. 132. As to changes
made in the procedure and policy March 17, 1925 and September 17,
1928, see id., Exhibit 1, pp. 117-119.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

instituted, he does not become a party to it or have any
control over it.'
The provisions in the Federal Trade Commission Act
concerning unfair competition are often compared with
those of the Interstate Commerce Act dealing with unjust
discrimination. But in their bearing.upon private rights
they are wholly dissimilar. The latter Act imposes upon
the carrier many duties; and it creates in the individual
corresponding rights. For the violation of the private
right it affords a private administrative remedy. It empowers any interested person deeming himself aggrieved
to file, as of right, a complaint before the Interstate Commerce Conmission; and it requires the carrier to make
answer. Moreover, the complainant there, as in civil
judicial proceedings, bears the expense of prosecuting his
claim. ' The Federal Trade Colnmission Act contains no
such features.
The sole privilege conferred upon private persons is contained in
the following provision of § 5: "Any person, partnership, or corporationi may make application, and upon good cause shown may be allowed by the Commission, to intervene and appear in said proceeding
)y counsel or in person." 38 Stat. 719.
:1Prior to the Act of J'une 18, 1910, c. 309, § 11, 36 Stat. 539, 550,
which in terms conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission
power to issue orders in proceedings initiated by it, orders were, with
a few exceptions, entered only on complaints filed by shippers or
others. Even after the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, it
was asserted that the Commission was without power to enter orders
in proceedings initiated by it. Report of the House Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce, April 1, 1910, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.,
No. 923, pp. 3, 10; 45 Cong. Rec., Appendix, p. 88. Compare Ii the
Matter of Allowances for Transfer of Sugar, 14 I. C. C. 619, 627. It
had beeni stated earlier (Interstate Commerce Com. v. Detroit, etc.,
Ry., 57 Fed. 1005, 1008) that the power existed; and its existence was
assumed in Interstate C. C. v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 216 U. S.
538, 542.
Both the United States Shipping Board Act of September 7, 1916,
c. 451; §'22, 39 Stat. 728, 736, and the Packefs and Stockyards Act of

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
19

27

Opinion of the Court.

While the Federal Trade Commission exercises under
§ 5 the functions of both prosecutor and judge, the scope
of its authority is strictly limited. A complaint may be
filed only "if it shall appear to the Commission that a
proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to the interest of the public.'
This requirement is not satisfied by
proof that there has been misapprehension and confusion
on the part of purchasers, or even that they have been
deceived,-the evidence commonly adduced by the plaintiff in "passing off" cases in order to establish the alleged
private wrong. It is true that in suits by private traders
to enjoin unfair competition by "passing off," proof that
the public is deceived is an essential element of the cause
of action. This proof is necessary only because otherwise
the .plaintiff has not suffered an injury. There, protection of the public is an incident of the enforcement of a
private right.4 But to justify the Commission in filing a
complaint under § 5, the purpose must be protection of
the public.5 The protection thereby afforded to private
persons is the incident. Public interest may exist although the practice deemed unfair does not violate any
private right. In Federal Trade Commission v. BeechNut Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441, a practice was suppressed
as being against public policy, although no private right
either of a trader or of a purchaser appears to have been
invaded. In Federal Trade Commission v. JVinsted
August 15, 1921, c. 64, §§ 308, 309, 42 Stat. 159, 165, confer upon private individuals the right to institute proceedings and upon the administrative tribunal the power to award reparations.
4 See American Washboard Co. v. Saginaw Mfg. Co., 103 Fed.
281,
284-285; Borden Ice Cream Co..v. Borden's Condensed Milk Co.,
201 Fed. 510, 513; Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Elliott, 7 F. (2d) 962,
965; Nims, Unfair Competition (Third edition) pp. 27-36.
'See Royal Baking Powder Co. v. Fede,'al Trade Commission, 2S1
Fed. 744, 752; Federal Trade Commission v. BaliN, 23 F. i,2d) 615
620; Indiana Quartered Oak Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 26 F.
(2d) 340, 342.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Couft.

280 U. S.

Hosiery Co., 258 U. S. 483, an unfair practice was suppressed because it affected injuriously a substantial part
of the purchasing public, although the method employed
did not involve invasion of the private right, of any trader
competed against.
In determining whether a proposed proceeding will be
in the public inter-est the Commission exercises a broad
discretion. But the mererfact that it is to the interest of
the community that private rights shall be respected is
not enough to support a finding of public interest. To
justify filing a complaint the public interest must be specific and substantial. Often it is so, because the unfair
method employed threatens the existence of present or
potential competition. Sometimes, because the unfair
method is being employed under circumstances which involve flagrant oppression of the weak by the strong.
Sometimes, because, although the aggregate of the loss
entailed may be so serious and widespread as to make the
matter one of public conisequence, no private suit would
be brought to stop the unfair conduct, since the loss to
each of the individuals affected is too small to warrant it.'
The alleged unfair' competition here complained of
arose out of a controversy essentially private in its nature.
The practice was persisted in largely out of hatred and
malice engendered by Sammons' act. It is not claimed
that the article supplied by Klesner was inferior to that
0

Compare Federal Trade Commission v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S.

441; Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific Paper Assn., 273-U. S. 52;
Wholesale Grocers' Ass'n v. F deral Trade Commission, 277 Fed. 657;
Southern HardwareJobbers' Ass'n v. Federal Trade Commission, 290
Fed. 773; Oppenheim, Oberndorf & Co., Inc., v. Federal Trade Commission, 5 F. (2d) 574; Toledo Pipe-Threading Mach. Co. v. Federal
T'rade Commission, 11 F. (2d) 337; Cream of Wheat' Co. v. Federal
Trade Coinmission, 14 F. (2d) 40; Arkansas Wholesale Grocers'
Ass'n v. Federal Trade Commission, IS F; (2d) 866; Kobi Co. v.
Federal Trade Commission, 23 F. (2d) 41.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. KLESNER.
19

29

Opinion of the Court.

of Sammons, or that the public suffered otherwise financially by Klesner's use of the words "Shade Shop." It is
significant that the complaint before the Commission was
not filed until after the dismissal, in 1920, of a suit which
had been brought by Sammons in 1915, in the Supreme
Court of the District, to enjoin Klesner's use of the words
"Shade Shop." ' When the Commission directed the filing of the complaint Hooper & Klesner had been using
those words in its business for five years. They had been
used for nearly seven years before the order here in question was made; and for nearly nine years before this suit
to enforce it was begun. Whatever confusion had originally resulted from Klesner's use of the words must have
been largely dissipated before the Commission first took
action. If members of the public w.re in 1920, or later,
seriously interested in the matter, it must have been because they had become partisans in the private controversy between Sammons and Klesner.
The order here sought to be enforced was entered upon
a complaint which had in'terms been adthorized by a
resolution of the Commission. The resolution declared,
in an appropriate form, both that the Commission had
reason to believe that Iclesner was violating § 5, and that
it appeared to the Commission that a proceeding by it in
respect thereof would be to the interest of the public.
Thus, the resolution was sufficient to confer upon the
Commissibn jurisdictio'n of the complaint. Section 5
makes the Commission's finding of facts conclusive, if
supported by evidence. Its preliminary determination that
The original rule to show. cause issued in the action was dismissed

by the Supreme Court of the District on the 23rd day of December,
1915, " upon consideration of the' Bill of Complaint, the exhibits
thereto, and the rule to show cause issued thereon, and the answer

and exhibits to said rule, as well as the arguments of counsel thereon."
No further proccedings were had in the action until its final dismissal on.May 24, 1920.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

2S0 U. S

institution of a proceeding will be in the public interest,
while not strictly within the scope of that provision, will
ordinarily be accepted by the courts. But the Commission's action in authorizing the filing of a complaint, like
its action in making an order thereon, is subject to judicial
review. The specific facts established may show, as a
matter of law, that the proceeding which it authorized is
not in the public interest, within the meaning of the Act.
If this appears at any time during the course of the proceeding before it, the Commission should dismiss the complaint. If, instead, the Commission enters an order, and
later brings suit to enforce it, the court should, without
enquiry into the merits, dismiss the suit.
The undisputed facts, established before the Cotnmission, at the hearings on the complaint showed affirmatively the private character of the controversy. It then
became clear (if it was not so earlier) that the proceeding
was not one in the interest of the public; and that the
resolution authorizing the complaint had been improvidently entered. Compare Gerard C. Henderson, The
Federal Trade Commission, pp. 52-54, 174, 228-229, 337.
It is on this ground that the judgment dismissing the
suit is
Affirmed.
SANITARY REFRIGERATOR COMPANY v. WIN-

TERS
WINTERS

ET AL.

ET AL.

v. DENT HARDWARE COMPANY.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH AND THIRD CIRCUITS, RESPECTIVELY.

Nos. 4 and 14.

Argued .pril

19, 22, 1929.-Decided October 14, 1929.

1. On writs of certiorari to review contrary decisions of two Circuit
Courts of Appeals on whether a patent, was infringed by a particular device, the plaintiff bcing the samc in both cases and the

