396

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

is that you intentionally may go as close to it as you can
if you do not pass it. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625,
630, 631. But on the other hand the desire to make its
act an act in commerce among the States was equally
unimportant when it was apparent that the buyer's journey to Louisiana, was accidental so far as the appellant
was concerned. It is a matter of proximity and degree
as to which minds will differ, but it seems to us that the
connection of the seller with the steps taken by the buyer
after the sale was too remote to save the seller from the
tax. Dramatic circumstances, such as a great universal
stream of grain from the State of purchase to a market
elsewhere, may affect the legal conclusion by showing the
manifest certainty of the destination and exhibiting
grounds of policy that are absent here.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.
UNITED STATES v. WURZBACH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 66. Argued January 20, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. A representative in Congress who receives or is concerned in
receiving money from officers and employees of the United States
for the political purpose of promoting his nomination at a party
primary, as a candidate for re~lection, is guilty of the offense
defined by ยง 312 of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act. U. S. C.,
Title 18, ยง 208. P. 398.
2. Congress may provide that officers and employees of the United
States neither shall exercise nor be subjected to pressure for
money for political purposes, upon or by others of their kind,
while they retain their offic, or employment. Id.
3. Neither the Constitution nor the nature of the abuse .to be
checked requires that the words of the Act be confined to political
purposes within the control of the United States. P. 399.

UNITED STATES v. WURZBACH.
396

Opinion of the Court.

4. A representative in Congress, being of a class specifically named
in the statute, has no standing to object to it as being too uncertain
in defining other classes to which it applies. P. 399.
5. The term "political purpose" is not so vague as to render the
statute invalid. Id.
6. The objection that the statute leaves uncertain which of several
sections imposes the penalty and therefore uncertain what the
punishment is, can be raised when a punishment is to be applied
and need not be answered upon an appeal from a judgment
quashing the indictment. Id.
31 F. (2d) 774, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court quashing an indictment.

Mr. Seth TV. Richardson, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom Attorney General Mitchell, Solicitor General
Hughes and Messrs. Oscar R. Luhring, Assistant Attorney
General, Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, and Harry S. Ridgely were on the
briefs, for the United States.
Mr. Hugh R. Robertson for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent was indicted under the Federal Corrupt Practices Act, 1925; Act of February 28, 1925, c. 368,
ยง 312, 43 Stat. 1053, 1073; U. S. Code, Title 18, ยง 208;
on charges that being a representative in Congress he
received and was concerned in receiving specified sums of
money from named officers and employees of the United
States for the political purpose of promoting his nomination as Republican candidate for' representative at certain Republican primaries. Upon motion of the defendant the District Court quashed the indictment on the
ground that the statute should not be construed to include the political purpose alleged, and, construed to in-

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

clude it, probably would be unconstitutional. The United
States appealed.
The section of the statute is as follows:
"It is unlawful for any. Senator or Representative in,
or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, Congress, or any
candidate for, or individual elected as, Senator, Representative, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner, or any
officer or employee of the United States, or any person
receiving any salary or compensation for services from
money derived from the Treasury of the United Stiates, to
directly or indirectly solicit, receive, or be in any manner
concerned in soliciting or receiving, any assessment, subscription, or contribution for any political purpose whatever, from any other such officer, employee, or person."
This language is perfectly intelligible and clearly embraces the acts charged. Therefore there is no warrant
for seeking refined arguments to show that the statute
does not mean what it says, unless there is some reasonable doubt whether, so construed, it would be constitutional-the doubt that was felt by the Court below.
The doubt of the District Court seems to have come
from the assumption that the source of power is to be
found in Article I, Section 4, of the Constitution concerning the time, place and manner of holding elections, etc.;
and from the decision that the control of party prirQaries
is purely a State affair. Newberry v. United States, 256
U. S. 232. But the power of Congress over the conduct
of officers and employees of the Government no more
depends upon authority over the ultimate purposes of
that conduct than its power to punish a use of the mails
for a fraudulent purpose is limited by its inability to
punish the intended" fraud. Badders v. United States,
240 U. S. 391. It hardly needs argument to show that
Congress may provide that its officers and employees
neither shall exercise nor be subjected to pressure for
moneyfor political purposes, upon or by others of their

UNITED STATES v. WURZBACH.
396

Opinion of the Court.

kind, while they retain their office or employment. If
argument and illustration are needed they will be found
in Ex parte Curtis, 106 U. S. 371, s. c. 12 Fed. 824. See
United States v. Thayer, 209 U. S.39, 42. Neither the
Constitution nor the nature of the abuse to be checked
requires us to confine the all embracing words of the Act
to political purposes within the control of the United
States.
It is argued at some length that the statute, if extended
beyond the political purposes under the control of Congress, is too vague to be valid. The objection to uncertainty concerning the persons embraced need not trouble
us now. There is no doubt that the words include representatives, and if there is any difficulty, which we are far
from intimating, it will be time enough to consider it
when raised by someone whom it concerns. The other
objection is to the meaning of "political purposes." This
would be open even if we accepted the limitations that
would make the law satisfactory to the respondent's counsel. But we imagine that no one not in search of trouble
would feel any. Whenever the law draws a line there will
be cases very near each other on opposite sides. The
precise course of the line may be uncertain, but no one
can come near it without knowing that he does so, if he
thinks, and if he does so it is familiar to the criminal law
to make him take the risk. Nash v. United States, 229
U. S.373.
It is said to be uncertain which of several sections imposes the penalty and therefore uncertain what the punishment is. That question can be raised when a punishment is to be applied. The elaborate argument against
the constitutionality of the Act if interpreted as we read
ii,
in accordance with its obvious meaning, does not need
an elaborate answer. The validity of the Act seems to
us free from doubt.
Judgment reversed.

