98

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

has a situs with the creditor is merely to clothe a foregone
conclusion with a fiction. The place of the property is
not material except where inability to protect carries
with it inability to tax. But that is an exceptional consequence. One State may tax the owner of bonds of
another State, although it certainly contributes nothing
to their validity. Bonapartev. Tax Court, 104 U. S. 592.
It is admitted that Maryland could tax the trustee in
this case although most at least of the securities handed
over were beyond the power of Maryland to affect in
any substantial way. The equitable owners'of the fund
were in Virginia and I think they could be taxed for it
there. I do not understand that any merely technicl
question is raised on the naming of the trustee instead of
the cestuis que trustent as the party taxed. Nor is there
any question of the amount. Throughout the record,
by the Court and by the trustee, the single issue is stated
to be whether the fund can be reached. In the words
of the trustee it is: "Has such corpus, so created and
held, a taxable situs in Virginia within the sanction of
section one of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States?" I think the judgment should
be affirmed.

UNITED STATES

v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM' THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 30.

Argued November 1, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. The Inter.tate Commerce Commission has power to establish
rates on intrastate shipments which are part of foreign commerce.
P. 100.
2. Whether a shipment is foreign or local is determined by the essential character of the commerce; it is not dependent upon the

question when or to whom title passes; and the shipment may be

UNITED STATES v. ERIE R. CO.
98

Opinion of the Court.

foreign in its entirety even though completed under a local bill of
lading with a temporary detention before or after the local movement. P. 101.
3. The Commission found that the consignee of shipments from
abroad acted only as agent of the consignors under a duty to
reconsign the goods on a local bill of lading to their ultimate
destination, in accordance with what it found to be the continuing
intent from the time the goods were placed on board the steamers.
There being ample evidence to support these findings, they should
have been accepted by the District Court as conclusive; and the
hofding that the local movement was in fact a part of foreign
commerce should not have been disturbed, P. 102.
32 F. (2d) 613, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court setting aside
and annulling an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission which required the establishment of a specific
rate on shipments of imported wood pulp, from Hoboken,
the place of importation, to another place in New Jersey.
Solicitor General Hughes, Assistant to the Attorney
General Q'Brian, and Messrs. George C. Butte and Elmer
B. Collins, Special Assistants to the Attorney General,
filed a brief on behalf of the United States.
Mr. Edward M. Reidy, with whom Mr. Daniel W.
Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. Marion B. Pierce, with whom Mr. Herbert A. Taylor was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Upon complaint of Hamersley Manufacturing Company, the Interstate Commerce Commission issued an
order that the Erie Railroad Company and a connecting
carrier establish an all-rail rate of 10 cents per 100 pounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

on wood pulp imported through the port of Hoboken,
New Jersey, and shipped from there to Garfield, New
Jersey, in carloads. Hamersley Mfg. Co. v. Erie R. Co.,
126 I. C. C. 491; 148 I. C. C. 47. The carriers brought this
suit in the federal court for that State to enjoin enforcement of the order and to set it aside. The District Court
granted the relief. Erie R. Co. v. United States, 32 F.
(2d). 613. The case is here on direct appeal under Act of
October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, Act of February
13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938, amending ยง 238 of, the
Judicial Code. The sole ground for the carriers' attack
on the order, and also the sole ground for the decree below,
is that the shipments are wholly intrastate and, therefore,
the Commission lacked jurisdiction over the rates.
The Commission found the following facts concerning
the course of the business involved. The Hamersley Company makes to a New York broker, who is a commission
agent for specified foreign mills, its offer to buy a certain
quantity and grade of pulp manufactured abroad. The
broker cables the offer to one of the foreign mills which he
represents, naming the prospective purchaser. If the
offer is accepted, the broker so informs the Company and
then makes a contract with it in hisown name, sending a
copy to the mill. The contract provides for shipment
from abroad during a specified period and delivery, at the
agreed price, on dock New York Harbor. The mill is not
named in the contract. It ships to the broker the ordered
quantities marked with a brand, but not so as to show the
individual customer, and cables the broker when the ship-.
ment is made, naming the steamer, the quantity, the customers, and the date of expected arrival. This information is communicated by the broker to the Company. It
appears from the record that the broker pays the mill as
soon as he is thus advised of the shipment; and that the
ship's bill of lading is sent to him.

UNITED STATES v. ERIE R. CO.
98

Opinion of the Court.

The pulp destined for the Company may be part of a
larger shipment. But the number of bales allotted to it
are always delivered at Garfield; none may be diverted to
any other customer; and no pulp is shipped to the broker
for sale to purchasers to be obtained while the pulp is in
transit or after its arrival. Upon arrival of the pulp in
Hoboken, the broker gives to a terminal company the
dock orders, specifying delivery of the required number
of bales, and makes out, the bills of lading for shipment
from there to Garfield. These papers name the ship by
which the pulp arrived at the Hoboken dock. There may
be some delay in forwarding the wood pulp by rail after
delivery on the dock because, under an arrangement between the broker and the Company, the pulp is shipped
from the dock in lots of two or 'three cars in order to
prevent congestion at Garfield. The freight from the dock
to Garfield is paid by the Company to the rail carrier.
The Commission found "that from the time the pulp is
placed on board steamers at foreign ports there is a continuing intent on the part of the shipper that it shall be
transported to Garfield."
The carriers contend that title to the pulp does not pass
to the Company until the broker arranges, at the Hoboken
dock, for shipment of the specific lot to Garfield; that the
shipment by the mill to its agent, as consignee, of pulp in
quantity exceeding that ultimately destined to Garfield,
terminates when the pulp is delivered on dock at
Hoboken; that this foreign shipment is distinct from the
subsequent shipment by the' broker to Garfield of the
smaller quantity, under a new and local bill of lading; and
that therefore, the rail movement from Hoboken to Garfield is an independent intrastate transaction. But the
nature of the shipment is not dependent upon the question when or to whom the title passes, Pennsylvani.R.
Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456, 465-6. It is deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

mined by the essential character of the commerce. Baltimore & Ohio S. W. R. Co. v. Settle, 260 U. S. 166, 170. It
is not affected by the fact that the transaction is initiated
or completed under a local bill of lading which is wholly
intrastate, Ohio R. R. Commission v. Worthington, 225
U. S. 101, 108-110; Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Sabine
Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111; Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota,
272 U. S. 469; or by the fact that there may be a detention before or after the shipment on the local bill of
lading, Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S. 95. The
findings of the Commission, that the broker acts only as
agent and that from the time that the pulp is put aboard
the steamer there is a continuing intent that it should be
transported to Garfield, ought to have been accepted by
the District Court as conclusive, since there was ample
evidence to sustain them. Western PaperMakers' Chemical Co. v. United States, 271 U. S. 268; Virginian R. Co.
v. United States, 272 U. S. 658. The rail transportation
is in fact a part of foreign commerce.
Reversed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MIHAS.
CERTIORARI
DISTRICT

TO THE APPELLATE COURT FOR THE FIRST
OF ILLINOIS AND THE SUPREME COURT OF

ILLINOIS.

No. 21.

Argued October 24, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. A judgment of the Appellate Court of Illinois, which, under
Cahill's Rev. Stats. Ill., 1927, c. 110, ยง 121, is final unless the
judges of that court grant a certificate of importance and an appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State, or the latter court grants an
application for review, is affirmed when the Supreme Court refuses
such an application and is then final for purposes ' of review in
this Court, although no application for certificate of importance
and appeal to that court has been made to the Appellate Court.
P. 103.

