HERBRING v. LEE.
Syllabus.

108

statute is authoritative. No discussion is required to.show
that the time so allowed is reasonable. There is no
ground on which it may be contended that the statute as
construed is repugnant to the due process clause. Huling
v. Kaw Valley R. & I. Co., 130 U. S. 559, 563. Bellingham
Bay & B. C. R. Co. v. New Whatcom, 172 U. S. 314, 319.
Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, 254, 262. Goodrich v.
Ferris, 214 U. S. 71, dismissing an appeal from the Circuit
Court of Appeals (145 Fed. 844) for lack of jurisdiction.
And appellant asserts that as construed in this case the
provision of § 922 requiring that the petition shall contain a description of the property proposed to be taken is
also repugnant to the due process clause. But mere inspection of the petition shows that the point is utterly
devoid of merit.
No attempt was made below to draw in question the
validity of any other provision of the state statutes. And,
as appellant's contentions above referred to are- unsubstantial, this court is without jurisdiction. Goodrich v.
Ferris, supra, 79. Trenton v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 182,
192. Newark v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 192, 196. Campbell v. Olney, 262 U. S. 352, 354.
Appeal dismissed.
HERBRING v. LEE, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER
OF OREGON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 17.

Argued October 23, 24, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. The Oregon law (2 Ore. L. Tit. 36, § 6388), requiring each foreign
fire insurance company to do its local business through licensed
local agents; restricting the number of agents that may be appointed by a company in any city, and providing that, as a condition precedent to appointment of an additional agent in a city
the company shall apply to the Insurance Commiss'oner and pay
an annual license fee of $500P is a regulation of. the corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

and not an attempted regulation of or an interference with the
rights of individuals to carry on the business of insurance
agent. P. 116.
2. Whether this regulation is arbitrary and unconstitutional as
applied to the corporation is not open for decision in the absence
of any assignment of error raising that question, in a suit maintained solely by an individual for the assertion of his personal
interest in being appointed the company's agent. P. 117.
126 Ore. 588, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oregon which reversed a judgment ordering the State
Commissioner of Insurance to issue to the present appellant a license to act as agent of a fire insurance company
without payment of the license fee required of the company by statute.
Mr. Thomas MacMahon presented the oral argument,
and Messrs. Karl Herbring, pro se, and Guy E. Kelly
filed a brief for appellant.
. Messrs. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney General of Oregon,
and Willis S. Moore, Assistant Attorney General, were on
the brief for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the, opinion of the
Court.
This case arose under the Insurance Law of Oregon.
2 Oregon Laws, Tit. 36, §§ 6322 to 6604. Section 6388 of
this Law provides, inter alia, as follows:
(1) " It shall be unlawful for any fire insurance company doing business in the state of Oregon to write, place
or cause to be written or placed, any policy or contract
for indemnity or insurance on property situated or located in the state of Oregon, except through or by the
duly authorized agent or agents of such insurance company residing and doing business in this state, to whom
the premium on such insurance shall be paid . .

HERBRING v. LEE.
111

Opinion of the Court.

(4) "Every insurance company licensed to transact
a fire insurance business in this state and lawfully doing
such business therein, may, in respect thereof, establish
agencies in this state, to consist of but one agent for
each city, town or village in the state . . . and'additional agencies as hereinafter provided, and the name of
every agent appointed, in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall be filed with the insurance commissioner immediately upon the making of such appointment by any such company. The insurance commissioner shall thereupon issue to each such agent...
qualified as provided in this act a certificate setting forth
that such agent is entitled to act for the company appointing him for the balance of the current year . . .
The fee fixed for issuing such certificate shall be $2 and
shall be paid to the insurance commissioner . . .";
(7) "Any such insurance company . . . may appoint
one additional agent . . . in any city of this state having
a population of fifty thousand or more inhabitants
according to the last federal census . . .",
(8) " Any such insurance company may appoint an
additional agent or agents . . . in any city of this state
on application to the insurance commissioner and the
payment of an annual license fee of five hundred dollars
for each such agent."
Herbring, a resident and practising attorney in the city
of Portland, Oregon, in good standing, applied to Lee,
the Insurance Commissioner of Oregon, for an agent's
license to represent the Northwestern National Insurance
Company of Milwaukee-a foreign corporation duly
qualified to write policies of fire insurance in Oregon, and
already having two agents in Portland. The application-upon which the Company had indorsed its approval-was accompanied by Herbring's check for $2 as
payment for a license fee. The Commissioner returned
$1325G-30-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

this application to the 'Company, stating that he could
not accept an application direct from Herbring and requesting that the Company make the application. The
Company itself thereupon executed an application for a
license to Herbring to represent it as agent in Portland,
and sent this to the Commissioner, but without the payment of any fee or any offer of such payment. The Commissioner returned this application to the Company, stating that as it already had two agents in Portland, its request for, an additional lieense to Herbring could not be
granted unless, it wished to pay the additional fee of $500
prescribed by the Oregon law. On the same day the
Commissioner returned Herbring's check and advised him
that his application had been returned to the Company
as he would make a third agency for the Company in
Portland, "and this is not permissible under the Oregon
Insurance Laws, unless the additional fee of $500 is paid
for such license."
The Company, so far as appears, neither replied to the
Commissioner, nor paid or tendered the $500 fee, nor
questioned the validity of this requirement. Herbring,
however, appealed to the Circuit Court of the county
from the decision of the Commissioner refusing to issue
to him a license as an agent for the Company. See
§ 6335. The Company was not ,a party to this appeal.
The court-which heard the matter without pleadingsfinding that the Company's application for the appointment of Herbring to act as an additional agent was denied
by the Commissioner for the reason that it refused to pay
the license fee of $500 required by subd. 8 of § 6388
to be paid by any insurance company appointing an additional agent, and that this provision is "void and unconstitutional and an unlawful interference with the right
of said agent to engage in the business of selling fire in:
surance in the State of Oregon and with the right of said

HERBRING v. LEE.
111

Opinion of the Court.

insurance company to appoint such agent, except upon
the payment of said additional license fee," ordered the
Commissioner to issue a license to Herbring to act as
agent for the Company in Portland, without requiring
the Company to pay $500 as a license fee for such
appointment.
On an appeal by the Commissioner from this order, the
Supreme Court of Oregon held that the payment of the
$500 fee is required by § 6388 "as a condition precedent
to the right of any fire insurance company to appoint
such additional agent "; that, "a foreign corporation being required to comply with the statute, in order to be
entitled to appoint agents and consummate its business
in the state of Oregon, it follows . .
that in order
for an agent to obtain a license to represent such a foreign
corporation there must first be a compliance by the foreign corporation with the requirements of our state law,"
and that "the rights of one applying for a license to act
as agent for such insurance company are contingent upon
the compliance of the company with conditions precedent
to its right to appoint such an agent "; and further, that
subd. 8 of § 6388 is not repugnant to either the privileges
and immunities clause or the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, but is a valid legislative
requirement of a foreign insurance company in the conduct of its business in Oregon. The judgment of the
Circuit Court was accordingly reversed, and the proceeding dismissed. 126 Ore. 588.
From- this judgment Herbring was allowed an appeal
to this Court. The only Federal question presented by
his assignments of error is that the Supreme Court of
Oregon " erred in holding that Sub-div. 8 of § 6388 of
the Oregon Laws does not abridge the rights of the appellant Karl Herbripig, guaranteed by § I of the 14th
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

1. In support of this assignment the appellant takes
the position that the obtaining of an agent's license, while
a condition precedent to the right of the agent to do business, has no beaiing whatever upon the rights and
privileges of the corporation, and that the statute "is
.an unreasonable and unwarrantable interference with the
right of the individual td carry on a legitimate business,
and class legislation in that it is an attempt to monopolize
the insurance agency business," and "in reality not a
corporate regulation, but an unconstitutional attempt to
deprive the individual of his common law right to follow
an inherently lawful occupation."
This position is not well taken. Subd. 8 of § 6388, as
appears upon its face and from the entire context, is not
directed against individual insurance agents and imposes
no restrictions upon them, but is, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, a provision requiring the
insurance company itself to pay a $500 fee as a condition precedent to its right to appoint an additional agent
to represent it in any city. To exercise this right, as
indicated by the statute, it must apply to the Insurance
Commissioner and pay the additional license fee for such
agent. -It. is plainly no interference whatever with the
right of the individual to carry on the business of an insurance agent, or class legislation in this respect. It is
*obvious that, as pointed out by the Supreme Court of
Oregon, in order that an agent may be licensed to represent a company there must first be a compliance by the
company with the requirement of the statute; the right
of one applying for a license to act as an agent for the
company being contingent upon -such compliance. No
one has the right to receive a license. to represent a
company as its agent, when the company itself has no
right to appoint him. And the contention that the statute is an unconstitutional interference with the individual

SILVER v. SILVER.
Syllabus.

111

rights of Herbring himself in conducting the business of
an insurance agent, is without merit.
2. The appellant also urges in argument, that "if the
statute be regarded as a corporate regulation, rather than
as an individual prohibition, it is unconstitutional, in
that it is unreasonable, arbitrary and capricious" and
cannot be sustained under the police power of the State.
In other words, he seeks in argument to challenge the
validity of the statute on the ground that it is an infringement of the Company's constitutional right to appoint an additional agent. The Company ifself is not
here insisting that the statute constitutes an impairment
of its own right; it raised no such question before the
Commissioner, and for aught that appears acquiesced in
that officer's view of the validity of the statute.
It may well be that under the facts in this case Herbring's individual interest in this question is not direct
but merely collateral and remote and not such as would
have entitled him to challenge the constitutional validity
of the statute on the ground that it is an impairment of
the Company's own rights. But, however that may be,
there is no assignment of error here which challenges
the validity of the statute on that ground; and the question which Herbring seeks to raise in argument, is not
before us for decision.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
SILVER v. SILVER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF
CONNECTICUT.

No. 24.

Argued October 25, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. Where the record does not disclose the federal grounds on which
a state 9tatute was challenged in the state c,)ur,, review will be

