496

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Burtch's d&ath was in no way involved; and there is no
warrant for assuming that this court had in mind any
future proceedings in regpect thereof.
We do not stop to discuss the complaint, rather faintly
urged, that the trial court gave conflicting and improper
instructions to the jury on the subject of assumption of
risk. That question received the consideration of this
court in Texas & Pacific Railway v. Archibald, 170 U. S.
665, 671, and Choctaw, Oklahoma &c., R. R. Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 68, and the rule to be followed in any
subsequent trial of this case will there be found fully and
carefully stated. Under the rule established by these
cases, some of the instructions of the court were over
favorable to the railroad company rather than the reverse.
On the other hand, the charge in respect of the duty of
the employer to furnish safe appliances was without qualification, and the jury might well have understood that the
.duty was an absolute one. That is not the. law. The
employer is not held to an absolute responsibility for the
reasonably safe condition of the place, tools and appliances, but only to the duty of exercising reasonable care
to that end. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492,
502; Yazoo & M. V. R. R. Co. v. Mullins, 249 U. S. 531;
533.
Judgment reversed.
EARLY, RECEIVER, v. RICHARDSON.
CERTIFIC4TE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 133. Argued January 21, 22, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. When the purchaser of stock of a national bank receives from the
seller the certificates properly endorsed, title passes and the transfer i's complete as between' the parties; and, as between them, the
purchaser alone becomes liable for assessments thereafter imposed
P. 498.
on the shares.

EARLY v. RICHARDSON.
496

Opinion of the Court.

2. The. actual owner of stock of a national bank may be held for an
assessment thereon although his name does not appear upon the
transfer books of the bank. P. 499.
3. One who in good faith purchases stock of a national bank with
the intention of making a gift thereof to his minor children, and
causes the transfer to be made to them upon the books of the bank
and certificates to be issued in their names, is, nevertheless, liable
for assessments on the stock made subsequently for the benefit of
creditors, when the bank becomes insolvent, since the transferees,
being minors, are without legal capacity to assume the obligation,
and the transfer, having resulted to their disadvantage, will be
avoided for them by the law. P. 499.
4. One who purchases stock of a national bank with his own money
as a gift for his minor children, and causes the certificates to
be issued and registered in their names, does not become a trustee
for the minors. P. 500.

ANSWER to a question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on an appeal from a judgment for the respondent,
who resisted payment of an assessment on shares of national bank stock.
Mr. R. E. Whiting, with whom Mr. D. E. Ellerbe was

on the brief, for Early.
Mr. A. C. Hinds, with whom Mr. H. E. Davis was on
the brief, for Richardson.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
. The court below has certified to this court the following question of law upon which instruction is desired:
"Is one, who purchases shares of stock of a national
bank, liable for an assessment subsequently imposed by
the Comptroller of the Currency upon the stock for the
benefit of the creditors of the bank after the insolvency
thereof, when it appears that the purchaser bought the
stock from the registered holder thereof and received, a
certificate therefor endorsed in blank by the holder, with
81325°--30----32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

intent at the time of such purchase and delivery of giving the stock to his minor child,. but without knowledge
at that time of the failing condition of the bank, or intent
to avoid the stockholder's liability, and when, after the
acceptance of the endorsed certificate from the seller, and
before the insolvency, the purchaser with like knowledge
and intent, promptly presents the certificate to the bank,
causes the shares to be registered and a new certificate
to be issued in the child's name?"
The suit was brought to recover the amount of an
assessment upon nineteen shares of the capital stock of
the bank ordered by the Comptroller of the Currency
because the assets of the bank were insufficient to pay
creditors. Richardson had purchased the stock and received three certificates therefor endorsed in blank by
the seller. He delivered these certificates to the bank with
verbal instructions to register the stock and issue two new
certificates for sixteen shares in the name of his minor
son, and another one for three shares in the name of his
minor daughter. This was done, the new certificates
being retained in the custody of the bank.
When Richardson bought the stock and received the
certificates therefor, endorsed by the seller, title passed
and the transfer was complete as between the parties.
Johlnston v. Laflin, 103 U. S. 800, 804. Thereupon, as
between seller and purchaser, the purchaser alone became
liable for any assessment thereafter imposed; for, as between them, it would be in disregard of all equitable principles to continue against the seller the burdens of ownership after the purchaser had become entitled to all the
benefits including the receipt of dividends. Whether
under the facts the liability of the seller continued, as
between him and the creditors, is a different matter not
necessary to be considered; for, in any event, the purchaser, who alone is sued, is not concerned with that
question.

EARLY v. RICHARDSON.
496

Opinion of the Court.

That the actual owner of the stock may be held for
the assessment although his name does not appear upon
the transfer books of the bank, is well settled. Ohio Valley National Bank v. Hulitt, 204 U. S. 162, 167, 168;
Davis v. Stevens, 17 Blatchf. 259, s. c. 7 Fed. Cas. 177,
178; Case v. Small, 10 Fed. 722, 724; Houghton v. Hubbell, 91 Fed. 453.
The real question is whether the intent of Richardson
to buy the stock for his minor children, and the fact that
by his direction the transfer was made to them upon the
books of the bank and certificates issued in their names,
had the effect of relieving Richardson from liability. We
think not, since the transferees, being minors, were without legal capacity to assume the obligation. Upon coming of age they would have an election either to affirm
or avoid the entire transaction. In the meantime, the
transfer of the stock having resulted to their disadvantage,
the law will avoid it for them, thus leaving the liability of
Richardson for assessments unaffected. See Aldrich v.
Bingham, 131 Fed. 363; Foster v. Chase, Foster v. Wilson, 75 Fed. 797.
In Foster v. Chase, supra, the father bought.stock
in the names of his minor children, and suit was brought
against him for the amount of an assessment. Disposing
of the point here presented the court well said:
"The plaintiff claims that the defendant made himself
liable for the assessment because of the incapacity of his
children to take the stock and make themselves liable for
it. He insists that they only are the shareholders, -and
liable, if any one is. Assent is necessary to becoming
a shareholder, subject to this liability, in a national
bank. Keyser v., Hitz, 133 U. S. 138, 10 Sup. Ct.
290. Minors do not seem to have anywhere the necessary legal capacity for that. The principles upon which
this disability rests are elementary and universal. 1 Bl.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Comm. 492; 2 Kent, Comm. 233. In buying and
paying for this stock, and having it placed on the
books of the bank, the defendant acted'for himself;
in having it 'placed, there in the names of his children, as
with their assent, he assumed toact for them. As they
could not themselves so assent as to be bound to the liabilities of a shareholder, they could not so authorize him
to assent for them as to bind them. To the extent that
'they could not be bound he acted without legal authority,
and bound only himself. Story, Ag. § 280."
There is nomerit in the point, made in argument, that
Richardson 'was a trustee for the minors, even if that
would enable him to avoid personal liability, Johnson v.
Laflin; 5 Dillo0 :65, 82; and there is nothing certified by
the court below. which furnishes a basis for the suggestion.
Richardson, having bought with his own money, became
the owner of the stock. And although the purchase was
made with the intent of giving the stock to his children,
non constat that he would not change his mind, as he was
perfectly free to do. The new certificates simply were
issued and registered in the names of the children, and
this,5 if effective, would have, resulted only in consummating an ordinary gift. It no more created a trust
than if the donees had been persons sui ju-is. The question'must be answered in the affirmative.
It is so ordered.

WHITE

1T AL.

v: SPARKILL REALTY CORPORATION ET AL.'

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 336; Argued January 7, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. A suit in equity for an injunction to eject state officials from.land,
of which they have taken exclusive possession under claim of
right pursuant to a state expropriation statute, will not lie in 4

