PIEDMONT & NOR. RY. v. UNITED STATES.

469

Statement of the Case.

PIEDMONT & NORTHERN RY. CO. ET AL.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 164. Argued January 22, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
1. An interstate railway, using only electric power, being about to
extend its line, and having been notified by the Interstate Commerce Commission that, before doing so, it would be expected
to apply for a certificate of public necessity and convenience, under
§ 1, pars. 18-22, of the Interstate Commerce Act, made formal
application accordingly but therein moved that its application be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that the railway
was an interurban electric railway, exempted by. par. 22 from
the requirement' of such a certificate. The Commission assumed
jurisdiction and denied the application on its merits. In a suit
to set aside the order, held that, if the Commission had jurisdiction, its order denying the application, being negative in substance

as well as in form and infringing no right of the railway,Jis not
subject to judicial review; while, if the Commission lacked jurisdiction, its order is entirely nugatory and presents no new obstacle
to the railway from which it may be relieved by judicial action.
P. 476.
2. A remedy which is in substance a declaratory judgment that the
railway is witlin the exemption contained in paragraph 22 of
the Act, is not within the statutory or the equity jurisdiction
of the federal courts. P. 477.
3. Where a bill in the District Court was dismissed on the merits
when it should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the
decree must be reversed with directions to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction. P. 478.
30.F. (2d) 421, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing on the merits a suit to set aside, and
to enjoin action under, an order of the Interstate Cornmerce Commission.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellants.

280 U. S.

Messrs. Charles E. Hughes, Cameron Morrison, H. J.
Haynsworth, and W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., on behalf of
the Piedmont & Northern Railway Co., and Mr. John E.
Benton, on behalf of the National Association of Railroad
and Utilities Commissioners, submitted a jurisdictional
statement for the appellants.
I. No complaint is here made with respect to that part
of the order merely refusing a certificate of public convenience and necessity. A review of that portion of the
order would involve but an exercise by the court of the
administrative function of granting a request which the
Commission denied. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S.
258, 264.
But the challenge is directed to that part of the order
affirmatively declaring the status of appellant as a carrier
within the operation of paragraph 18 of § 1 of the Act.
This part was not the result of an administrative function
of the Commission, nor was it requested by the appellant.
On the contrary, it was a judicial determination of the
scope of the statutory authority of the Commission, the
occasion for which was brought about solely at the instance of the Commission itself, and over the objection of
thd appellant. The question whether, upon the facts established, the Commission exceeded its authority under
paragraph 18, and thereby deprived appellant of the immunities expressly conferred by paragraph 22 upon interurban electric railways, is purely a question of law and
clearly subject to judicial review. Intermountain Rate
Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 490.; Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1, 10,
22; United States v. American Ry. Express Co., 265 U. S.
425. Contrast, United States v. Los-Angeles & S. L. R.
Co., 273 U. S. 299, 309, 310.
II. That the issue whether appellant is the type ,of
carrier requiring a certificate under paragraph 18 for the
'.
extension" of its lines is justiciable and not declaratory
or advisory in character appears from the statement of

PIEDMONT & NOR. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
460

471

Argument for Appellants.

this Court in Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F.
R. Co., 270 U. S.266, 272-273.
The mere form of the order entered, incorporating findings contained in the Commission's repoit and dismissing the petition without more, does not cha:nge its inherent character. The effect of the order in the present
case was to grant to various steam railways (which intervened and opposed the petition) the affirmative relief
which they sought, namely, that appellant be prevented
from constructing the proposed lines, and, as a means
of bringing about this end, that the Commission should
assume authority over appellant under paragraph 18, and
that the certificate required by said paragraph be-denied.
Had the 'Commission refused the relief sought by the
interveners, and had it permitted appellant to construct
its lines, the interyener's would have had the right, on
the authority of the Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S.
258, 264, to sue to: annul any order of the Commission
allowing appellant to complete its lines.
It follows that appellant can sue to annul an order
-granting the relief sought by the interveners. United
Stjites v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533, 537, 539, 541.
That appellant has suffered legal injury by reason of
the order is obvious (see Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S.
258). It in effect commands appellant not to build the
lines, for unless the status established by the order is removed, appellant cannot construct the proposed lines
without subjecting itself to fines and penalties, § 1 (20)
of the Act, or issue new securities, § 20-a of the Act, or
be free to exercise the power of eminent domain. Alabama & Vicksburg R. Co. v. Jackson & Eastern R. Co.,
271 U. S. 244.
The following decisions are also believed to sustain
the jurisdiction of this Court on appeal: St. Louis &
O'Fallon R. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S.461; United
States v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 278 U. S.269; Baltimore

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

280 U. S.

& Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 291; Brimstone
Railroad & C. Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 104; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R. Co. v. United States, 275 U. S.
404.
Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., with whom Messrs. Cameron Morrison and H. J. Haynsworth were on the brief,
argued the case for the Piedmont & Northern Railway
Co.
Great Northern R. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 172,
when read in connection with Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
,Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co., 270 U. S. 266, would seem to put
at rest all doubt about the jurisdiction of the court below
to entertain this suit under the Urgent Deficiencies Act.
The order affirmatively determining the character and
status of the mileage in question would, we assume, in
view of the decision in the Texas & Pacific case, be given
binding effect in any future suit or proceeding involving
the right of the Railway Company to construct the mileage, unless set aside or annulled. See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452,
469, 470; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pac.
R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louiiville & N. R. Co., 277 U. S. 88; ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 489.
Mr. John E. Benton, with whom Mr. Clyde S. Bailey
was on the brief, argued the case for the National Associgtion of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners.
A.ttorney General Mitchell, Assistant to the Attorney
General O'Brian, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch and
Charles H. Weston, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, for the United States, submitted on the brief of
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton for the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

PIEDMONT & NOR. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
4W9

473

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, with whom Messrs. L. E.
Jeffries, S. R. Prince, James F. Wright, Carl H. Davis,
F. B. Grier, Edward S. Jouett, Wim. C. Burger and James
L. McLaughlin were on the brief, for the Southern Railway Company and other interveners, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Paragraph 18 of § 1,of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by Transportation Act 5 1920, February 28, c. 91,
§ 40"2, 41 Stat. 456, 477-8, prohibits any carrier by railroad subject to that Act from undertaking any extension
of its lines or construction of 'new lines, without first obtaining from the Interstate Commerce Commission a certificate of public necessity ahd convenience. Paragraphs'
19 and 20 provide for applications for certificates and prescribe the procedure and mode of disposal. Paragraph
22 exempts from the scope of those provisions the construction of industrial and certain other tracks "located
wholly within one State, or of street, suburban, or interurban electric railways, which are not operated as a
part or part of a general steam railroad system of
transportation."
The Piedmont & Northern Railway, a carrier by railroad subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, operates
in interstate commerce about 128 miles of line in North
and South Carolina, using exclusively electric locomotives.
It determined to extend its lines 53 miles on one route and
75 miles on another, in order to connect with several steam
railroads; and, believing that the above pmvisions of
the Act were inapplicable, it intended to make the proposed extensions without securing from the Commission
a certificate of public necessity and convenience. The
Commission, learning informally of the project, advised
the Railway by letter that before it "constructs any extensions to its line or issues any. securities it will be expected

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

to file appropriate applications for authority therefor
under sections 1 and 20a. The filing of such applications
will, of course, be without prejudice to your right to assert
that the Commission has no jurisdiction over your property in those respects and to adduce whatever evidence
you may desire to support such contention." The letter
called attention to the following passage in Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S.
266, 272:
"Whenever such an application is made, the Commission may pass incidentally upon the question whether
what is called an extension is in fact such; for, if it proves
to be only an industrial track, the Commission must decline, on that ground, to issue a certificate. A carrier
desiring to construct new tracks does not, by making
application to the Commission, necessarily admit that
they constitute an extension. It may secure a determination of the question, without waiving any right, by asserting in the application that in its opinion a certificate is
not required because the construction involves only an
industrial track."
Upon receipt of this letter, the Railway filed an application for a certificate of public necessity and convenience; and it asserted therein that the proposed extensions
were parts of a single project undertaken prior to the
effective date of paragraph 18' and that it 'was an interurban electric railway within the exemption of paragraph
22. It accordingly moved that its application be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The Commission overruled the motion; took jurisdiction; and entered an order
denying the application on its merits. Proposed Construction of Lines by Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co., 138
I Compare Application of Uvalde & Northern Ry. Co., 67 I. C. C.
554; Application of Texas, Oklahoma & Eastern R. R. Co., 67 I. C. C.
484; Application of Gulf Ports Terminal Ry. Co., 71 I. C. C. 759.

PIEDMONT & NOR; RY. v. UNITED STATES.
469

475

Opinion of the Court.

I. C. C. 363. This suit was then brought by the Railway
against the United States in the federal court for western
South Carolina, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, 220, U. S. C., Tit.
28, § 47, and, as the bill states, also under " the general
equity jurisdiction " of the court. The bill charges that
if the order is not set aside, the Railway "will be prevented from constructing the new mileage "; and prays
for "a permanent injunction decreeing that the Commission was without jurisdiction of the application," that the
order " taking jurisdiction of said application and denying
the same, be set aside and annulled, and that the Commission be forever enjoined from taking any action or proceeding against your petitioner under said order." The
National Association of Railroad and Utility Commis:sioners intervened as plaintiff. The Interstate Commerce
.Commission, the Southern Railway and other steam railroads intervened as defendants. The Commission moved
to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction. The court,
three judges sitting, denied the motion; and, the case being submitted on final hearing upon the pleadings and
the record before the Corhmission, entered a decree dismissing the bill on the merits. 30 F. (2d) 421. A direct
appeal to this Court. was taken by both plaintiffs under
§ 238 (4) of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of
February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938; U. S. C.,
Tit. 28, § 345.
Plaintiffs do not coinplain of the order's denial-of a certificate of public necessity and convenience. They concede that no court has. the power to compel the Commission to issue such a certificate, since no railroad subject to the provisions of the Act has a right to ext end its
lines. Therefore, the order denying a certificate, being
negative in substance as well as in form, infringed no
right of the Railway. Compare Proctor & Gamble Co. v.
United States, 225 U. S.282; Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1029.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

United Stdtes, 243 U. S 412; Unitcd States v. New River
Co., 265 U. S. 533, 540. The plaintiffs have also abandoned, in this Court, their contention that the proposed
extensions are part of a project undertaken prior to the
effective date of paragraph 18. Their sole contention
is that the court below and the Commission erre(l in not
holding that the Railway is an interurban electric railway within the exemption of paragraph 22. The defendants renew their objections to the jurisdiction of the
court.
We think that the defendants' objection is well taken.
There is no allegation of fact in the bill, and no provision
in the statute, which supports the charge that the order
will prevent the Railway iron procee(ling with the construction of the new mileage. The order is wholly unlike a decree which dismisses a bill in equity on the merits
when it should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction, Such a decree must be set aside because, otherwise,
it might be held to operate as rcs juldicata.. Compare
Swift & Co. v United States, 276 U. S. 311, 325-6; New
Orleans v. Fisher, 1S0 U. S. 15, 196; Dowcll v. Applegate,
152 U. S. 327, 337-41. But neither the assumption of
jurisdiction by the Commission nor its denial of the application can operate as res judicala of the Railway's
claim of immunity. If, as is contended, the Commission
was without jurisdiction, the Railway is as free to proceed with the construction as if the applicatioi had not
been made and the Commission had not acted. Nothing
done by the Commission can prejudclice the Railway's claim
to immunity in any other proceeding.
It is true that, if the Railway builds without having
secured a certificate, it may suffer serious loss. For, a
court may hold, in an appropriate proceeding, that the
Railway is within the purview of paragraph 18. And the
Railway may be thus subjected to the penalties prescribed
by paragraph 20. These risks arise, however, not fom

PIEDMONT & NOR. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
469

477

Opinion of the Court.

the order, but from the statute. Compare Lehigh Valley
R. R. Co. v. United Slates, 243 U. S. 412, 414. The order
is entirely negative. It is not susceptible of Violation
and cannot call for enforcement. It does not finally
adjudicate the Railway's standing; nor (toes it enjoin it
to do or refrain from doing anything. The penalties provided in paragraph 20 are prescribed not for violation of
an order of the Commission, but for violation of the provisions of the statute. And the apprehended loss will
be no greater by virtue of the Columission's order than if
the Railway had commenced building without trying to
secure a certificate, as was done in Texas & Parcif.c Ry. Co.
v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266.
There is no suggestion in the bill how the Commission
or the Government could conceivably take any action
under the order.
The action taken by the Commission may lend greater
justification to the Railway's fear of the uncertainty instinct in the prophecy as to whether it will be held to be
an interurban electric within the meaning of paragraph
22. But it (toes not alter the substance of the remedy
sought. That is the same as if the suit had been brought
by the Railway prior to any action by the Commission,
except that the Railway may be bound by the record made
before the Commission. The relief which plaintiffs seek
is not from the order but from the uncertainty as to the
applicability of the statute. If the statute gives the
Commission jurisdiction over the Railway's application,
then concededly the order is not subject to attack. If,
on the other hand, the statute does not confer the jurisdiction, then obviously the order is no obstacle to the
Railway's plans. What plaintiff's are seeking is, therefore, in substance, a declaratory judgment that the Railway is within the exemption contained in paragraph 22
of the Act. Such a remedy is not within either the statutory or the equity jurisdiction of federal courts. Com-

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

pare Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Association, 277 U. S.
274; Grcat Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S.
172, 182; Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273 U. S. 70,
74; United States v. Los Angeles & Salt Lake R. R. Co.,
273 U. S. 299.
There is nothing in the passage from Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 266, 272, quoted by
the Commission, which is inconsistent with the conclusion
stated above. The case is entirely different from those
cases where an application for a certificate is alleged to
have been erroneously granted, as in The Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258 and Colorado v. United States,
271 U. S. 153. There, a judicial review is provided in
order to protect a legal right of the plaintiff alleged to
have been infringed by an order which authorizes affirmative action.
Since plaintiffs' bill was dismissed on the merits when
it should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
the decree must be reversed with directions to dismiss
the bill for want of jurisdiction. S'mallwood v. Gallardo,
275 U. S. 56, 62; Shawnee Sewerage & Drainage Co. v.
Stearns, 220 U. S. 462, 471; Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S.
96, 105. Compare United States v. Anchor Coal Co., 279
U. S. 812; Gnerich v. Rutter, 265 U. S. 388, 393; Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S.216, 218.
Reversed with direction to dismiss the
bill for want of jurisdiction.
UNITED STATES v. GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY

OF NEW YORK

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 402.

Argued January 6,7, 19;30.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. In providing by. Title II of the Transportation Act (1) for the
funding of indebtedness of railroad carriers to the United States,

