OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JEWEL INCANDESCENT LAMP CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 46.

Argued October 18, 19, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.

1. Pipkin Patent No. 1,687,510 for a frosted glass electric lamp bulb,
characterized by the presence on the interior of rounded instead of
sharp, angular crevices so as to strengthen resistance against breakage by impact, held invalid for want of invention. Pp. 243, 248.
2. It did not appear that, prior to the patent in question, electric
bulbs had been frosted on the interior with rounded rather than
sharp, angular crevices. But an earlier patent, as well as the art
which preceded it, showed how to produce such a surface on the
exterior of electric bulbs; and another earlier patent showed how
to frost the inside of an electric bulb. Held that, in view of these
disclosures, there could be no invention in frosting either the outside
or inside of an electric bulb so as to produce rounded rather than
sharp, angular crevices. Principle of Ansonia Brass & Copper Co.
v. Electric Supply Co., 144 U. S. 11, applied. Pp. 247-249.
3. Where the method of the manufacture of an article is known, more
than a new advantage of the product must be discovered in order
to claim invention. P. 249.
146 F. 2d 414, affirmed.

324 U. S. 838, to review affirmance of an
order, 47 F. Supp. 818, dismissing a suit for infringement
of a patent.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Alexander C. Neave, with whom Mr. John H. Anderson was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby,Jr., with whom Mr. Paul Kolisch
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit for infringement of Pipkin Patent No.
1,687,510 issued to petitioner, assignee of Marvin Pipkin,

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JEWEL CO. 243
242

Opinion of the Court.

on October 16, 1928. The District Court found the patent
to be invalid and also that the accused structure did not
infringe. It accordingly dismissed the bill. 47 F. Supp.
818. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, holding the
patent invalid. 146 F. 2d 414. The case is here on a
petition for writ of certiorari which we granted because
of a conflict of decision among the Circuit Courts of
Appeals.'
The patent relates to a frosted glass bulb for electric
lamps. It is defended here as a product not a process
patent. The product is described in the first claim as
follows:
"A glass electric lamp bulb having its interior surface
frosted by etching so that the maximum brightness of an
ordinary incandescent lamp comprising such a bulb will
be less than twenty-five per cent of that of said lamp with
a clear bulb, said interior bulb surface being characterized
by the presence of rounded as distinguished from sharp
angular crevices to such an extent that the strength to
resist breakage by impact is greater than twenty per cent
of that of the clear bulb."
Many years prior to the Pipkin patent, efforts had been
made to reduce the glare produced by the brilliant filament
of an incandescent lamp having a clear bulb. The most
common method of reducing the glare was to frost the
outside surface with an acid frosting solution. While bulbs
so treated reduced the glare, the rough outside surface
I The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in General
Electric Co. v. Save Sales Co., 82 F. 2d 100, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit in General Electric Co. v. Wabash
Appliance Corp., 93 F. 2d 671, held the patent valid. The corresponding Canadian Pipkin Patent No. 289,379 was held invalid by the
Supreme Court of Canada. Fuso Electric Works v. Canadian Gen-

eral Electric Co., 1940 Can. L. Rep. 371. The British Pipkin patent,
No. 228,907, was held invalid by the High Court of Justice. British
Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd. v. Turgstalite, Ltd., 57 Pat. Journ. 271
(1940).

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

collected dirt and was difficult to clean, with the result that
the light output was further reduced. Twenty-five years
before Pipkin, Kennedy (patent No. 733,972 issued July
21, 1903) had showed an inside frosted bulb. But a difficulty appeared. When the outside surface of a bulb was
frosted the strength of the bulb was not materially affected.
When the inside surface, however, was frosted, the strength
of the bulb was substantially reduced, making it unfit for
practical use. Pipkin recited these facts in his specifications and stated, "The object of my invention is to produce
an inside frosted glass bulb which will be much stronger
than those heretofore produced." He went on to state
that the preferred method of frosting was by use of a chemical medium which, when applied so as to produce the
proper light diffusion, made the bulb extremely fragile.
And he added: "I have found, however, that if the bulb
is given a further treatment, which I term a strengthening
treatment, in which it is subjected to an etching or frosting treatment of lower degree than that to which it was
first subjected, it becomes quite strong. Indeed, it may
be made practically as strong as the original clear glass
bulb." He gave as the probable explanation the fact that
the first treatment produced sharp, angular crevices or pits
in the glass, while the second or strengthening treatment
ate away additional glass and rounded out the angular
crevices into saucer-shaped pits.' The fact that the bulb
was strengthened when additional glass was dissolved was
2 One of the experts, when asked for the explanation of this phenomenon, testified: "Because in the instance where we have sharp
angular crevices on the inside surface and the bulb is subjected to
impact on its outer surface, the inner surface tends to be extended
and therefore it is put into tension and the sharp angular crevices are
the starting point for cracks, whereas in the case . . .where the

crevice has been rounded out the impact against a bulb having on its
inner surface this type of frosting, is such that the testing effort is
spread over a very much larger area and the bulb is almost as strong
as it was before frosting."

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JEWEL CO. 245
242

Opinion of the Court.

referred to by the court below as "Pipkin's paradox." The
patent contains charts showing the relative extent to
which the strength of the bulb is weakened by the first
frosting treatment and its strength restored by the second
treatment. The patent also shows that while the bulb
of the patent materially reduced the glare obtained in a
clear bulb, the lighting efficiency of the two is substantially
the same for any given wattage.
As the first claim of the patent indicates, the characteristic feature of the patented bulb is the fact that the
interior surface is "characterized by the presence of
rounded as distinguished from sharp angular crevices." It
is that feature which is responsible for the bulb's strength.
Now, an electric bulb frosted on the inside was old in the
art. Kennedy had disclosed such a product twenty-five
years earlier. Moreover, it had long been known in the
art that successive acid treatments of glass rounded out
the shaxp angular crevices produced by the first etching.
That was shown in particularity by Reinitzer ' in 1887
and by Tillotson " in 1917. And it was shown in Sprechsaal of 1907 (a German trade paper) that if hollow glass
was subjected to a second etching, the surface would have
a silk-like appearance, the finish being called satin etching
or silk mat.' It is true that these prior publications were
concerned with frosting for the purpose of obtaining a
decorative finish in glass ware or desired optical effects in
focusing screens for cameras and the like. But Sprechsaal
in 1912 specifically described the application of successive
etchings to electric bulbs. And that publication recommended, as Pipkin did years later, that a weaker or diluted
aDie Glashutte of 1887, Contributions to the Knowledge of Glass
Etching.
' Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, October 1917.
5
It was largely on the basis of this prior disclosure that the British
patent was held invalid. See British Thomson-Houston Co., Ltd. v.
Tungstalite, Ltd., 8upra note 1, pp. 288-289.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

etching solution be used for the second etching. Moreover, Wood (patent No. 1,240,398 issued September 18,
1917) observed that successive acid treatments of glass
rounded out the sharp angular crevices produced by the
first etching, and he applied that idea to electric bulbs as
well as to other glass articles. His patent covered the
making of light-diffusing screens. He noted that if glass
was etched once, the surface was cut into irregular crevices,
pits and grooves, with the result that only a portion of the
light was transmitted. But if after the first etching
(which he accomplished by a blast of air charged with a
fine dust of flour emery or carborundum) the surface was
flowed with acid, the crevices and pits were enlarged and
smoothed out into minute concave lenses. These microscopical lenses diffused the light perfectly and transmitted
practically all of it. He noted that his process was
especially valuable in the case of certain types of cameras.
But he added, "Such a screen is also useful for rendering
the bulbs of incandescent lamps diffusing without at the
same time causing the very marked loss in the efficiency of
the lamp, which results from frosting the bulbs in the usual
manner." Wood, to be sure, did not describe frosting the
inside of the bulb. Kennedy, however, had shown that.
Moreover, prior to Wood it was well known in the art, as
we have noted, that successive acid treatments of glass
produced a surface characterized by the presence of
rounded as distinguished from sharp angular crevices or
pits. If there was novelty in applying that process to
electric bulbs, Wood achieved it. At least since Kennedy,
it was known that inside-frosted electric bulbs were preferable to outside-frosted bulbs.
Wood, of course, was concerned only with light diffusion
and transmission primarily of screens, secondarily of electric bulbs. Neither he nor any other before Pipkin appears to have given any indication that the second treatment resulted in any strengthening of the glass. But

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JEWEL CO. 247
242

Opinion of the Court.

strengthening was inherent in the method he proposed.
And it appears that an electric bulb, which had been
frosted inside pursuant to his method, would have inevitably obtained the rounded pits and hence the attendant
strength characteristic of the Pipkin bulb.
If A without mentioning the element of strength patented a bulb which was extra strong, B could not obtain
a patent on the bulb because of its strength, though he was
the first to recognize that feature of it. That is the import
of Ansonia Brass & Copper Co. v. Electrical Supply Co.,
144 U. S. 11. That case involved the question of the validity of a patent for an insulated electric conductor. The
prior art disclosed a similar method of insulation which
was used in connection with the wiring of burglar alarms.
Such use involved no problem of combustibility of the insulating material which emerged on the introduction of
electric lighting. The insulator disclosed by the prior art
was not intended to be, and perhaps was not known to be
incombustible. But in fact the earlier insulator had approximately the same degree of incombustibility as that
described.in the patent. The Court ruled that "the application of an old process to a new and analogous purpose
does not involve invention, even if the new result had not
before been contemplated." 144 U. S. p. 18. Since the
two insulators were practically the same in their method
of construction, the patentee was not allowed to claim the
feature of incombustibility as his invention. The benefits
of the "potencies and values more important than the uses
that were immediately apparent" belong to him who establishes priority of discovery. Radio Corporationof America v. RadioEngineeringLaboratories,293 U. S. 1, 14.
Petitioner, however, insists that this is not a case where
the patentee merely observed the advantageous properties
of an old article of manufacture. It says that Pipkin
created a new article of manufacture, an inside-frosted
bulb having an etched inner surface characterized by

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

rounded rather than sharp angular crevices-an article
that never existed before. It points out that prior to
Pipkin no one knew why inside frosted bulbs were weak
nor knew how to remedy the weakness. Pipkin indeed
seems to be the first to have recognized that the form of
the pitting had an effect on the strength of the glass. The
prior art appears to have made no such disclosure. And
it is true that the Pipkin bulb met with commercial success. The question remains, however, whether the Pipkin
patent was invalid because of anticipation.
It is true that there is a difference between the Ansonia
case and the present one. There a prior product had been
created having qualities which were unrecognized at the
time and which later were sought to be patented. On the
other hand, it does not appear in the present case that
prior to Pipkin electric bulbs had been frosted on the interior with rounded rather than sharp angular crevices or
pits. But Wood, as well as the art which preceded him,
showed how to produce such a surface on electric bulbs as
well as on other articles of glass. Kennedy showed how
to frost the inside of an electric bulb. In view of these
disclosures it is difficult to see how there could be invention in frosting either the outside or inside of an electric
bulb so as to produce saucer-shaped rather than sharp,
angular crevices or pits. A product claim describes an
article, new and useful. The principle of the Ansonia case
plainly would deny validity to the Pipkin patent if the
prior art disclosed an electric bulb so frosted on the inside
as to round out the angular crevices produced by the first
etching, whether the full utility of the bulb had been previously recognized or not. The same result is indicated
where, as in the present case, the prior art discloses the
method of making an article having the characteristics of
the patented product, thdugh all the advantageous properties of the product had not been fully appreciated.
Lovell Mfg. Co. v. Cary, 147 U. S. 623. Pipkin found

SCOTT PAPER CO. v. MARCALUS CO.
242

249

Syllabus.

latent qualities in an old discovery and adapted it to a
useful end. But that did not advance the frontiers of
science in this narrow field so as to satisfy the exacting
standards of our patent system. Where there has been
use of an article or where the method of its manufacture is
known, more than a new advantage of the product must

be discovered in order to claim invention. See DeForest
Radio Co. v. General Electric Co., 283 U. S. 664, 682. It

is not invention to perceive that the product which others
had discovered had qualities they failed to detect. See
Corona Cord Tire Co. v. Dovan Chemical Corp., 276 U. S.
358, 369.
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

SCOTT PAPER CO. v. MARCALUS MANUFACTURING CO., INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 54.

Argued October 17, 1945.-Decided November 13, 1945.

1. The nature and extent of the legal consequences of the expiration
of a patent are federal questions, the answers to which are to be
derived from the patent laws and the policies which they adopt.
P. 255.
2. An assignor of a patent is not estopped by virtue of his assignment
to defend a suit for infringement of the assigned patent on the
ground that the alleged infringing device is that of a prior-art expired patent. Westinghouse Co. v. FormicaCo., 266 U. S. 342, distinguished. Pp. 250, 257.
3. The application of the doctrine of estoppel so as to foreclose the
assignor of a patent from asserting the right to make use of the
prior-art invention of an expired patent, which anticipates that of
the assigned patent, is inconsistent with the patent laws which
dedicate to public use the invention of an expired patent. P. 257.

