LEVERS v. ANDERSON.
217

Syllabus.

judgment here should be in such form as not to compel
unnecessary adjudication of such objections on appeal,
or unnecessarily to foreclose consideration of such objections to the use of these items as offsets in some future
litigation.
The petition for writ of certiorari is granted, limited to
the question whether the particular gratuity items-necessarily used as offsets should be designated by the judgment. The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded
to the Court of Claims for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JusTwic

JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
LEVERS, ADMINISTRATOR, v. ANDERSON, DISTRICT SUPERVISOR, ALCOHOL TAX UNIT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51. Argued October 16, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.
1. An application for a rehearing before a District Supervisor of the
Alcohol Tax Unit of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, who had
entered orders annulling a permit to operate a wholesale liquor business and denying applications for importer's and wholesaler's permits, is not a prerequisite to the judicial review specifically provided
by ยง 4 (h) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act. Pp. 220,

224.
2. Hearings were held and evidence was taken before a hearing commissioner, petitioner being represented by counsel. The hearing
commissioner made findings of fact which were approved by the
District Supervisor without affording petitioner an opportunity
to except to them. On the basis of these findings, the District
Supervisor entered orders annulling an existing permit and denying applications for others, without affording petitioner an op-

portunity to argue orally before him. The Treasury regulations
authorize, but do not require, the District Supervisor to grant a
rehearing. Nor do they require him to afford petitioner an op-

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

portunity, on rehearing, to argue orally before him. Nor was there
satisfactory proof of a publicly established practice assuring that
such opportunities would be afforded. Held that petitioner need
not apply for such an administrative rehearing before seeking the
judicial review specifically provided by the statute. P. 223.
147 F. 2d 547, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 844, to review a judgment dismissing an appeal from an order of the District Supervisor of
the Alcohol Tax Unit of the Bureau of Internal Revenue
annulling an existing permit and denying other permits
under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.

Messrs.Huston Thompson and Hugh H. Obear for petitioner.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Berge and Mr. Matthias N. Orfield were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusricE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner's permit to operate a wholesale liquor
business under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act,
49 Stat. 977, was annulled by an order of the District
Supervisor of the Alcohol Tax Unit of the Bureau of Internal Revenue of the United States. At the same time,
the Supervisor denied petitioner's applications for an importer's and a new wholesaler's permit. The Supervisor
was duly authorized to act in these matters.1 Section
4 (h) of the Act authorizes an applicant or permittee to
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals within sixty days
after the entry of orders denying or annulling the permits.
A petition for appeal was filed within sixty days. The Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal, 147 F. 2d 547,
on the ground that petitioner had failed to exhaust his
153 Stat. 561; 54 Stat. 1231; 54 Stat. 230, 231; Treasury Order
No. 30,26 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. 171.4a, 5 Fed. Reg. 2212; Treas. Decision 4982, 26 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. 171.4c, 5 Fed. Reg. 2549.

LEVERS v. ANDERSON.
219

Opinion of the Court.

administrative remedies, since he had not first filed a motion for reconsideration of the Supervisor's order as permitted by Treasury Regulations, 26 C. F. R. Cum. Supp.
182.255, reading in part as follows:'
"(a) ...

Within 20 days after an order is made by

the Commissioner or district supervisor revoking a basic
permit, the permittee may file an application with such
Commissioner or district supervisor, for a reconsideration
of such order, on one or more of the following grounds:
"(1) The order is contrary to law, or
"(2) Is not supported by the evidence, or
"(3) Because of newly discovered evidence which the
permittee, with due diligence, was unable to produce at
the hearing."
We thought the question involved important and
granted certiorari.
Whatever might be the case in other circumstances,
it is clear that where, as here, judicial review is provided
in the Act itself, the petitioner's right of appeal to the
courts is to be determined by looking to the statute, the
valid regulations promulgated pursuant to it and proven
2The Circuit Court of Appeals also referred to the petitioner's failure to take an appeal to the Deputy Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, as allowed by Amended Treasury Regulation 182.257. That
regulation provides that: "Appeal to the Commissioner is not required. However, the Commissioner may, in his discretion, in order
to insure uniformity of administrative action, entertain an appeal,
after review and reconsideration as provided in ยง 182.255, from an
order of revocation of a basic permit by a district supervisor, if filed
with the Commissioner within 10 days of the date of the final order."
The Government concedes that the first sentence of this regulation,
"Appeal to the Commissioner is not required" was added to the regulation as it originally stood for "the deliberate object of making it
unnecessary for a party to appeal to the Commissioner before going
to court." Under these circumstances we do not discuss it further.
Cf. Peoria Braumeister Co. v. Yellowley, 123 F. 2d 637; Leebern v.
United State8, 124 F. 2d 505, both decided before the first sentence
was added.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

administrative practice throwing light upon their meaning. In construing the Act, however, we must be mindful
of the "long-settled rule of judicial administration that
no one is entitled to judicial relief for a supposed or
threatened injury until the prescribed administrative
remedy has been exhausted." Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41, 50-51. But this rule does
not automatically require that judicial review must always be denied where rehearing is authorized but not
sought. This is shown by our past decisions,' from which
we see no reason to depart. Government counsel, appearing for respondent, do not defend the dismissal of petitioner's appeal on such a sweeping assumption. On the
contrary, they assert that motions for rehearing before
the same tribunal that enters an order are under normal
circumstances mere formalities which waste the time of
litigants and tribunals, tend unnecessarily to prolong the
administrative process, and delay or embarrass enforcement of orders which have all the characteristics of
finality essential to appealable orders.
But Government counsel insist that the rehearing here
involved is far more than a formality, and that we should
therefore read the Act and regulations as if these barred
judicial review prior to an application for a rehearing.'
Of course we recognize that in a particular administrative
pattern new opportunities to challenge afforded by the
motion for rehearing may subject an order to such critical
administrative review as to reduce it to the level of a
"mere preliminary or procedural" status, thereby divesting it of those qualities of administrative finality essential
* United States v. Abilene & Southern R. Co., 265 U. S. 274,
280-282; Prendergast v. New York Tel. Co., 262 U. S. 43, 48-49.
' This has been expressly done in several statutes. See for example 49 Stat. 860; 52 Stat. 831. Of course the mere fact that the
regulations might bar judicial review is not conclusive, for the court
will consider whether these are consistent with the legislative intent.

LEVERS v. ANDERSON.
219

223

Opinion of the Court.

to 'invocation of judicial review. Federal Power Commission v. Metropolitan Edison Co., 304 U. S. 375,
384-385. But we do not think that is the case here.
The orders here challenged were entered after a hearing
and they were "of a definitive character dealing with
the merits of a proceeding." Federal Power Commission
v. MetropolitanEdisonCo., supra, 384. The evidence was
taken before, and the findings of fact were made by, a
hearing commissioner before whom petitioner was represented by counsel. These findings were then approved
by the district supervisor who entered the orders. True
the findings were approved and the orders were made by
the district supervisor without an opportunity to petitioner to except to his adverse findings of fact or to present
oral argument to him. And a rehearing if granted would
have afforded petitioner for the first time an opportunity
to see and except to adverse findings of fact and might also
have given him a chance to present oral argument to the
officer who made the orders. But the regulations only
provide that the Supervisor "may hear the application"
for a rehearing.8 No other language of the regulations,
and no satisfactory proof of publicly established practice
under them, persuades us that the "may" means must, or
that the Supervisors were required to hear oral argument.
Thus, despite the fact that the regulations permit a stay
pending the motion, there is no assurance that a rehearing
will be granted, so as to afford an opportunity to except to
fact findings or argue orally before the Supervisor. Con6The only relevant provision, 26 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. 182.255,

reads:
"(b)... The Commissioner or district supervisor, with whom
such application is filed, may hear the application on a date and at a

place to be fixed by him. The Commissioner or district supervisor, as
the case may be, after hearing such application, may either affirm the
order of revocation previously made, or may vacate and set aside such
order and dismiss the proceedings or order a new hearing of the evi-

dence before a designated hearing officer."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

224

Counsel for Parties.

326 U. S.

sequently, whatever weight such factors might be accorded
in determining administrative finality of the orders is
absent here.
Our conclusion is that the motion is in its effect so much
like the normal, formal type of motion for rehearing that
we cannot read into the Act an intention to make it a prerequisite to the judicial review specifically provided by
Congress. Whether the Circuit Court of Appeals was possessed of power to exercise a discretion to stay its review
until an application was made to the Supervisor to grant
a rehearing is a question which was not decided and upon
which we express no opinion. See United States v. Abilene
& Southern R. Co., supra, 282.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
IN THE MATTER OF MICHAEL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued October 11, 12, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.
1. A witness may not be punished for contempt under ยง 268 of the
Judicial Code for perjury alone. Clark v. United States, 289 U. S.
1, distinguished.

P. 228.

2. Nor may a trustee in bankruptcy be adjudged guilty of contempt
under ยง 268 of the Judicial Code for misbehavior as an officer of
the court in an official transaction, solely on the ground that he
testified falsely before a Grand Jury in the course of a general investigation of frauds against the United States; since such testimony
is not an "official transaction" as trustee. P. 229.

146 F. 2d 627, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

324 U. S. 837, to review the affirmance of an

order upon an adjudication of contempt.
Mr. Robert T. McCracken, with whom Messrs. Stanley
F. Coarand D. H. Jenkins were on the brief, for petitioner.

