120

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

RADIO STATION WOW, INC.

ET AL.

326 U. S.

V. JOHNSON.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 593. Argued March 1, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.
1. A state court decree otherwise "final" for purposes of review by this
Court is none the less so because it orders also an accounting of
profits, where such accounting can not give rise to a federal
question. Judicial Code, § 237. P. 127.
2. This Court will not review a state court decision resting on an
adequate and independent non-federal ground, even though the
state court may also have summoned to its support an erroneous
view of federal law. P. 129.
3. In a decree directing a transfer of the facilities of a federally
licensed radio station, the state court exceeded its power in ordering
the parties "to do all things necessary" to secure a transfer of
the license, since this involved restrictions upon the licensing system
which Congress has established. Communications Act, § 307 (a).
P. 130.
4. Although the State has not been deprived by federal legislation of
the practical power to terminate a broadcasting service by a proper
adjudication separating the physical property from the license, that
power will be amply respected, in the instant case, if it is qualified
merely to the extent of requiring the state court to withhold execution of that portion of the decree requiring retransfer of the physical
properties until steps are ordered to be taken, with all deliberate
speed, to enable the Communications Commission to deal with new
applications in connection with the station. P. 132.
5. The question of fraud adjudicated by the state court will no longer
be open insofar as it bears upon the reliability as licensee of any
of the parties. P. 132.
144 Neb. 406, 14 N. W. 2d 666, remanded.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 705, to review the reversal of a

decree dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside a lease
and an assignment of a license of a radio station.
Mr. James Lawrence Fly, with whom Messrs. Francis
P. Matthews, Rainey T. Wells, Monroe Oppenheimer,
Peter Shuebruk, Earl Cline and Paul P. Massey were on
the brief, for petitioners.

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
120

Opinion' of the Court.

Mr. Don W. Stewart for respondent.
Solicitor GeneralFahy, Messrs. Ralph F. Fuchs, Charles
R. Denny and HarryM. Plotkin filed a brief for the United
States.
MR. JusMcE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case concerns the relation of the Federal Communications Act, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., to the
power of a State to adjudicate conflicting claims to the
property used by a licensed radio station. At the outset,
however, our right to review the decision below is seriously
challenged.
The facts relevant to the jurisdictional problem as well
as to the main issues are these, summarized as briefly as
accuracy permits. Petitioner, Woodmen of the World
Life Insurance Society, a fraternal benefit association of
Nebraska, owns radio station WOW. The Society leased
this station for fifteen years to petitioner, Radio Station
WOW, Inc., a Nebraska corporation formed to operate
the station as lessee. After the Society and the lessee
had jointly applied to the Federal Communications Commission for consent to transfer the station license, Johnson, the respondent, a member of the Society, filed this
suit to have the lease and the assignment of the license set
aside for fraud. While this suit was pending, the Federal
Communications Commission consented to assignment of
the license, and the Society transferred both the station
properties and the license to the lessee. Thereafter the
Society answered that "the Federal Communications Commission . . . has and concedes that it has no jurisdiction
over the subject matter of plaintiff's action, except jurisdiction to determine the 'transfer of the license to operate
said radio station, which jurisdiction after full and complete showing and notwithstanding objections filed

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

thereto, was exercised in the approval of the transfer of
said license to the defendant Radio Station WOW, Inc. and
further order to the Society to execute and perform the
provisions of said lease by virtue of which the possession
of said lease property has now been delivered to the lessee,
all as more particularly herein found." Respondent's
reply admitted "that the Federal Communications Commission has and concedes that it has no jurisdiction over
the subject matter of plaintiff's action except jurisdiction
to determine the transfer of the license to operate said
radio station." The trial court found no fraud and
dismissed the suit.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska, three Judges dissenting, reversed and entered judgment for respondent, directing that the lease and license be set aside and that the
original position of the parties be restored as nearly as
possible. 144 Neb. 406, 13 N. W. 2d 556. The judgment
further ordered that an accounting be had of the operation of the station by the lessee since it came into its
possession and that the income less operating expenses be
returned to the Society., On motions for rehearing, the
1

The judgment directed "that said judgment of the district court
be, and hereby is, reversed and cause is remanded, with directions
that the lease to the station, the lease to the space occupied by the.
station and the transfer of the license to operate the station be
vacated and set aside; that the $25,000 of accounts turned over by
the society to lessee be returned; that an accounting be had of the
operation of the station by lessee since it took possession thereof on
January 14, 1943, and that the income thereof less operating expenses
be returned to the society; that the license to operate the station be
returned and that lessee be directed to do all things necessary for that
purpose; that generally everything be done to restore the parties
to their original position prior to the entering into the lease; that
all expenses had by the society in connection with the transfer of the
station and license to the lessee and the expense had in connection
with returning the same to the society pursuant hereto are to be paid
by the lessee. It is further ordered and adjudged that all costs, both in
this court and in the district court shall be paid by the defendants,

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
120

Opinion of the Court.

petitioners asserted that only the Federal Communications Commission and the federal courts had jurisdiction
over the subject matter; not the Nebraska courts. These
motions were denied in an opinion in which the Nebraska
Supreme Court stated, "We conclude at the outset that
the power to license a radio station, or to transfer, assign
or annul such a license; is within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the Federal Communications Commission. .

. The

effect of our former opinion was to vacate the lease of the
radio station and to order a return of the property to its
former status, the question of the federal license being a
question solely for the Federal Communications Commission. Our former opinion should be so construed." The
claim that the Nebraska courts had no jurisdiction over
the subject matter of the action was thus dealt with: "The
fact that the property involved was used in a licensed
business was an incident to the suit only. The answer
of the defendants, heretofore quoted, squarely contradicts
the position they now endeavor to assume. Their position
is unsound on its merits and, in addition thereto, it was
eliminated from the case by the pleadings they filed in
their own behalf." 144 Neb. 432, 14 N. W. 2d 666. Because of the importance of the contention that the State
court's decision had invaded the domain of the Federal
Communications Commission, we granted certiorari. In
the order allowing certiorari we directed attention to the
questions whether the judgment is a final one and whether
the federal questions raised by the petition for certiorari
are properly presented by the record. 323 U. S.705.
Since its establishment, it has been a marked characteristic of the federal judicial system not to permit an
appeal until a litigation has been concluded in the court
of first instance. See Heike v. United States, 217 U. S.
except the Woodmen of the World Life Insurance Society, costs in
this court being taxed at S.... ; for all of which execution is hereby
awarded, and that a mandate issue accordingly."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

423; Cobbledick v. United States, 309 U. S. 323; Catlin.v.
United States, 324 U. S. 229. This requirement has the
support of considerations generally applicable to good
judicial administration. It avoids the mischief of economic waste and of delayed justice. Only in very few situations, where intermediate rulings may carry serious
public consequences, has there been a departure from this
requirement of finality for federal appellate jurisdiction.
This prerequisite to review derives added force when the
jurisdiction of this Court is invoked to upset the decision
of a State court. Here we are in the realm of potential
conflict between the courts of two different governments.
And so, ever since 1789, Congress has granted this Court
the power to intervene in State litigation only after "the
highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit
could be had" has rendered a "final judgment or decree."
§ 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a). This
requirement is not one of those technicalities to be easily
scorned. It is an important factor in the smooth working
of our federal system.
But even so circumscribed a legal concept as appealable
finality has a penumbral area. The problem of determining when a litigation is concluded so as to be "final" to
permit review here arises in this case because, as has been
indicated, the Nebraska Supreme Court not only directed
a transfer of property, but also ordered an accounting of
profits from such property. Considerations of English
usage as well as those of judicial policy would readily
justify an interpretation of "final judgment" so as to
preclude reviewability here where anything further remains to be determined by a State court, no matter how
dissociated from the only federal issue that has finally
been adjudicated by the highest court of the State. Specifically, it might well be held that, even though definitive
rulings on questions otherwise reviewable here have been
made below, such rulings cannot be brought here for

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
120

Opinion of the Court.

review if the State court calls for the ascertainment by a
master or a lower State court of an account upon which a
further decree is to be entered. See CaliforniaNational
Bank v. Stateler, 171 U. S. 447, 449; Boskey, Finality of
State Court Judgments under the Federal Judicial Code
(1943) 43 Col. L. Rev. 1002, 1009; Robertson and Kirkham, Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court (1936) p. 58.
Unfortunately, however, the course of our jurisdictional
history has not run as smoothly as such a mechanical rule
would make it. To enforce it now, or to pronounce it for
the future, would involve disregard of at least two controlling precedents, both of them expressing the views of
unanimous courts and one of which has stood on our books
for nearly a hundred years in an opinion carrying the
authority, especially weighty in such matters, of Chief
Justice Taney. Leaving to a footnote the details of a
somewhat sinuous story,' it suffices to say that Forgay v.
2 Most of the cases cited which involve an accounting have come
from federal courts. In this category are Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How.
201; Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342; Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker,
109 U. S. 180; Keystone Iron Co. v. Martin, 132 U. S. 91; McGourkey
v. Toledo & Ohio R. Co., 146 U. S. 536; Gulf Refining Co. v. United
States, 269 U. S. 125.
In the Forgay case the court below set aside a conveyance of land
and slaves and ordered a master to take an accounting of the rents
and profits. This Court held the decree to be appealable since immediate delivery of the property was ordered although the decree was
"not final, in the strict, technical sense of that term." The Court said
of the lower court judgment that "the bill is retained merely for the
purpose of adjusting the accounts referred to the master. In all other
respects, the whole of the matters brought into controversy by the
bill are finally disposed of as to all of the defendants." 6 How. 201,
204. It was suggested that if appellants had to wait, they would be
subjected to irremediable injury, for execution had been awarded.
Also held final was the decree in Thomson v. Dean, supra, where the
court ordered immediate transfer of stock and an accounting to determine the amounts paid and to be paid and the dividends accrued.
In Gulf Refining Co. v. United States, supra, a judgment was held to
be final where the original decrees enjoined defendants from taking

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Conrad,6 How. 201, and CarondeletCanal Co. v. Louisiana,
233 U. S. 362, found the requirement of finality to be
satisfied by judgments the characteristics of which cannot
be distinguished from those presented by the Nebraska
decree. In short, the rationale of those cases is that a
judgment directing immediate delivery of physical property is reviewable and is to be deemed dissociated from a
provision for an accounting even though that is decreed
in the same order. In effect, such a controversy is a multiple litigation allowing review of the adjudication which
is concluded because it is independent of, and unaffected
by, another litigation with which it happens to be entangled. Compare Clark v. Williard, 292 U. S. 112, 117119; and see Note (1934) 48 Harv. L. Rev. 302.
oil from Government property and confirmed an accounting to January 1, 1918, although the decree appealed from ordered a further
accounting for oil extracted pendente lite. The Court observed that
the decrees were final for the purpose of the original appeals. All
of these cases rely on the fact that there had been a conclusive adjudication of the rights and liabilities of the parties with immediate
delivery of possession of the subject matter of the suit. This consideration was emphasized in Grant v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 106 U. S. 429,
431-432, and in Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 371.
Another line of cases starts with Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker,
supra, where a decree was held final, although an accounting was
ordered, because no accounting had been prayed for in the bill.
This unsubstantial distinction was seized upon in Keystone Iron Co.
v. Martin, supra, and in McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio R. Co., supra,
to hold not final decrees in cases where an accounting had been
sought.
The cases from State courts are less numerous. CaliforniaNational
Bank v. Stateler, supra, stated broadly that a judgment remanding
for an accounting is not final. In that case, an intervening party, appointed pursuant to State law as agent for bank stockholders, secured
an order directing that money be turned over to him less the holder's
costs, disbursements and attorney's fees. In addition, if it should be
found that the holder had received certain stock as alleged then the
stock also should be turned over. But there was no immediate delivery of anything since the amount of money to be turned over re-

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
120

Opinion of the Court.

The presupposition in allowing such review is that the
federal questions that could come here have been adjudicated by the State court, and that the accounting which
remains to be taken could not remotely give rise to a federal question. Of course, where the remaining litigation
may raise other federal questions that may later come
here, such as is true of eminent domain cases, see Grays
Harbor Co. v. Coats-FordneyCo., 243 U. S. 251, to allow
review of an intermediate adjudication would offend the
decisive objection to fragmentary reviews. Since, by
awarding an execution, the Nebraska Supreme Court directed immediate possession of the property to be transferred, the case comes squarely within Forgay v. Conrad,
supra, and Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana,supra, and
the challenge to our jurisdiction cannot be sustained.
This brings us to consider what federal questions are
here. The court below decreed the transfer of property
used as a radio station. It conceded that it had no jurisdiction over the transfer of the license under which WOW
mained to be ascertained as did the existence of the stock. And in
Sand Springs Home v. Naharkey, 299 U. S. 588, the Court denied
certiorari "for the want of a final judgment" in a case where the
plaintiff's right to an undivided one-sixth interest in land was decreed
plus an accounting for profits from the gas taken out of the land. In
the absence of a partition, there could of course be no delivery of the
property itself.
Opposed to the general observations in the Stateler case is the square
ruling in Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S. 362. The State
Supreme Court ordered that judgment be entered requiring delivery
of a canal to Louisiana. Certain claims with respect to a small additional plot of ground were reserved and an accounting of receipts
and disbursements in the management of the property was ordered.
This Court denied a motion to dismiss for want of a final judgment.
It noted that the decree required immediate delivery of the property
to the State so that the decree possessed definiteness as to the matter
decided. "In the case at bar there is distinct and explicit finality and
the further proceedings are directed to apply only to the 'questions
reserved.'" 233 U. S. 362, 372.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

was operating. That is a matter which Congress has put
in the keeping of the Federal Communications Commission. Petitioners claim that the court's decree in effect
involves an exercise of the very authority which the court
disavowed. This presents a federal question which was
duly made below, and we must consider it.
But it is not open to us to consider independently the
claim that the Federal Communications Act has withdrawn from the State court jurisdiction over the physical
properties of the station and given it to the Federal Communications Commission. The Society's answer admitted
that this controversy was outside the jurisdiction of the
Commission except as it related to the transfer of the
license, and respondent joined in this view. Only after
the Nebraska Supreme Court's original opinion did petitioners, by motions to dismiss the suit and for rehearing,
claim that the Nebraska courts were wholly without jurisdiction over the controversy. In its opinion on rehearing
the Nebraska Supreme Court rejected this claim as "contrary to the pleadings filed" in the trial court, and also
denied it on its merits. "The answer of the defendants,
heretofore quoted," that court wrote, "squarely contradicts the position they now endeavor to assume. Their
position is unsound on its merits and, in addition thereto,
it was eliminated from the case by the pleadings they
filed in their own behalf."
Questions first presented to
the highest State court on a petition for rehearing come
too late for consideration here, unless the State court exerted its jurisdiction in such a way that the case could
have been brought here had the questions been raised
prior to the original disposition. Simmerman v. Nebraska,
116 U. S.54; Godchaux Co. v. Estopinal, 251 U. S. 179;
American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156. Here the
Nebraska Supreme Court held that the federal question
had dropped out as a matter of pleading and also denied
its merits.

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
120

Opinion of the Court.

This brings the situation clearly within the settled
rule whereby this Court will not review a State court decision resting on an adequate and independent non-federal
ground even though the State court may have also summoned to its support an erroneous view of federal law.
"Where the judgment of the state court rests on two
grounds, one involving a federal question and the other
not . . . and the ground independent of a federal question
is sufficient in itself to sustain it, this Court will not take
jurisdiction." Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52, 54-55.
One of the petitioners, Radio Station WOW, Inc., seeks
to avoid the force of this rule by suggesting that its answer
did not make the concession as to the limited jurisdiction
of the Federal Communications Commission upon which
the Nebraska court relied. But it is not for us to consider
the correctness of the non-federal ground unless it is an
obvious subterfuge to evade consideration of a federal issue. See Neilson v. Lagow, 12 How. 98, 109-111. It may
be Nebraska practice that the answer of one defendant
binds the others, or that failure to raise a question in the
pleadings precludes its consideration on rehearing. These
are matters of State law and not our concern. Cf. Fair
Haven R. Co. v. New Haven, 203 U. S. 379, 386.
The federal question that remains is whether, although
the Nebraska court clearly recognized that the power to
vacate a license and to authorize its transfer lies exclusively
with the Federal Communications Commission, its decree
in effect is inconsistent with such recognition. This
is urged on two grounds. It is asserted that the Nebraska
Supreme Court, by ordering the transfer of the licensed
facilities from Radio Station WOW, Inc. to the Society
although not having power to direct the transfer of the
license, severed the licensed facilities from the license and
therefore nullified the license. Secondly, it is urged that
by ordering the parties "to do all things necessary" to

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

secure a return of the license to the defrauded Society, the
State court invaded the Commission's function.
The judgment, following the original opinion, ordered
that "the transfer of the license to operate the station be
vacated and set aside." On rehearing, the court made it
quite plain that it was within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the Communications Commission to vacate radio licenses and declared that its former opinion should be so
construed. While it did not formally modify its judgment, it is reasonable to assume that the view which it
unambiguously rejected in its opinion it did not mean to
assert through its judgment. Hotel Employees' Local v.
Board, 315 U. S. 437, 440-441; Burke v. Unique Printing
Co., 63 Neb. 264, 88 N. W. 488. But in matters of potential conflict between State and federal authorities,
avoidance of needless friction no less than good draftsmanship counsels explicit and not merely argumentative restriction of a State court's judgment within its powers.
In any event, we think the court went outside its bounds
when it ordered the parties "to do all things necessary" to
secure a return of the license. Plainly that requires the
Society to ask the Commission for a retransfer of the
license to it and requires WOW not to oppose such transfer. The United States, in a brief filed at our request,
suggests that this provision of the decree would probably
also disqualify WOW from "applying for a new license
to operate a radio station in Omaha on the same frequency,
should it become equipped to do so." To be sure, the Communications Commission's power of granting, revoking
and transferring licenses involves proper application of
those criteria that determine "public convenience, interest, or necessity." § 307 (a), 48 Stat. 1064,1083,47 U. S. C.
§ 307 (a). But insofar as the Nebraska decree orders the
parties "to do all things necessary" to secure the return of
the license, it hampers the freedom of the Society not to
continue in broadcasting and to restrict itself, as it prop-

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
120

Opinion of the Court.

erly may, to its insurance business. Equally does it prevent WOW from opposing a return to the Society, or,
as the United States suggests, from seeking another license
of its own. These are restrictions not merely upon the
private rights of parties as to whom a State court may
make appropriate findings of fraud. They axe restrictions
upon the licensing system which Congress established.
It disregards practicalities to deny that, by controlling the
conduct of parties before the Communications Commission, the court below reached beyond the immediate controversy and into matters that do not belong to it.
The most troublesome question raised by this case
remains. While the decree of the State court concerning
the transfer of the leasehold is, in view. of the pleadings,
not here as an independent question, due consideration
of the federal question relating to the transfer of the
license makes it proper to consider the bearing of a decree
ordering an immediate transfer of the leasehold upon the
status of the radio license. A proper regard for the implications of the policy that permeates the Communications
Act makes disposition of licensed facilities prior to action
by the Communications Commission a subsidiary issue to
the license question. We have no doubt of the power of
the Nebraska court to adjudicate, and conclusively, the
claim of fraud in the transfer of the station by the Society
to WOW and upon finding fraud to direct a reconveyance
of the lease to the Society. And this, even though the
property consists of licensed facilities and the Society
chooses not to apply for retransfer of the radio license to
it, or the Commission, upon such application, refuses the
retransfer. The result may well be the termination of a
broadcasting station. The Communications Act does not
explicitly deal with this problem, and we find nothing in
its interstices that dislodges the power of the States to deal
with fraud merely because licensed facilities are involved.
The "public interest" with which the Commission is

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

charged is that involved in granting licenses. Safeguarding of that interest can hardly imply that the interest of
States in enforcing their laws against fraud have been
nullified insofar as licensed facilities may be the instruments of fraud.
On the other hand, if the State's power over fraud can
be effectively respected while at the same time reasonable
opportunity is afforded for the protection of that public
interest which led to the granting of a license, the principle
of fair accommodation between State and federal authority, where the powers of the two intersect, should be observed. Severance of the licensed facilities from the
license so precipitously that the Federal Communications
Commission is deprived of the opportunity of enabling the
two to be kept together needlessly disables the Commission from protecting the public interest committed to its
charge. This presents a practical and not a hypothetical
situation. To carry out abruptly a State decree separating licensed facilities from the license deprives the public
of those advantages of broadcasting which presumably led
the Commission to grant a license. To be sure, such a license is merely a permit to serve the public and not a duty
to do so. Therefore, as we have concluded, the State has
not been deprived by federal legislation of the practical
power to terminate the broadcasting service by a proper
adjudication separating the physical property from the
license. We think that State power is amply respected
if it is qualified merely to the extent of requiring it to withhold execution of that portion of its decree requiring retransfer of the physical properties until steps are ordered
to be taken, with all deliberate speed, to enable the Commission to deal with new applications in connection with
the station. Of course, the question of fraud adjudicated
by the State court will no longer be open insofar as it bears
upon the reliability as licensee of any of the parties.
New situations call for new adaptation of judicial remedies. We have had occasion to limit the conceded juris-

RADIO STATION WOW v. JOHNSON.
JAcKwzo,

120

J., dissenting.

diction of the federal courts in order to give State courts
opportunity to pass authoritatively on State issues involved in federal litigation. See, e. g., Spector Motor Co.
v. McLaughlin, 323 U. S. 101. It will give full play both
to the powers that belong to the States and to those that
are entrusted to the Federal Communications Commission, where the two are intertwined as they are here, to
enforce the accommodation we have formulated.
Accordingly, the judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS

is of the opinion that the judg-

ment should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I am unable to agree with the Court's disposition of tlis
case and will indicate briefly the reason.
Petitioner is incorporated under the laws of Nebraska
and operates a radio station owned by the Woodmen of the
World, an insurance society also organized under the laws
of Nebraska. It is clear, that the State of Nebraska has
plenary power over the internal affairs of both of these
corporations.
The Woodmen of the World, in addition to its insurance
business, went into the radio business through radio station WOW. It became involved in controversies and
eventually decided that it ought to get out of the radio
operation.
From 1923 to 1928, it had carried the radio station at a
loss but its net average, earnings from 1936 to 1942 were
$194,724.14 per year. The property and facilities of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

corporation were leased to a new corporation in 1942 for
$74,000.00 per year. The new corporation consisted of
organizers whom the Court found sustained such a relation to the President of the insurance company who managed the negotiations on its behalf that the transfer constituted a constructive fraud on policyholders. It ordered
that the transaction be undone and complete restitution
be made. I take it that this judgment was fully within
the competence of the State.
Meanwhile, the transferees had obtained approval of
the Federal Communications Commission of the transfer
of the license to them. Because of this, it is claimed that in
some way the power of the State to undo this transaction
is limited. Certainly no power has been conferred on the
Federal Communications Commission to hear, try or
determine the case of fraud between Nebraska stockholders and the officers of Nebraska corporations. The
Commission has, of course, powers to look after the public
interest in the transfer of stations.
There is possibility of conflict between the judgment
rendered by the state court of Nebraska and the Federal
Communications Commission and this possibility of conflict leads to the decision of the Court today. That conflict can occur only if the Federal Communications Commission shall hold that the federal public interest requires
this radio station to be kept in the hands of those who
are adjudged to be guilty of fraud and that the public
interest cannot be served by those who have been adjudged
to have been victims of that fraud although they had
operated the station for many years with success and without any question as to the public interest. If the Communications Commission should render such a decision
by refusing to retransfer the license in accordance with the
judgment we would then have a question as to the faith
and credit due the state court judgment and its effects in
an administrative tribunal. I would deal with that sort

BRIDGES v. WIXON.
120

Syllabus.

of question not hypothetically, but when it arises and upon
the record which is made before the Communications
Commission.
But even if the Commission should decide that the federal interest requires this station to be operated by those
who have obtained it by constructive fraud, I think the
judgment of the state court of Nebraska would still be
good. It has the power not only to compel restitution of
property obtained from its corporations in violation of its
laws but if by federal proceedings or otherwise the wrongdoers have put some part of the value of this station beyond their power to recapture, the State has the right to
compel them to account for its value. The State, it seems
to me, has the right to strip the wrongdoers of every fruit
of the wrong, including the value of the federal license,
even if the license itself cannot be obtained.
For these reasons, I would affirm the judgment of the
Nebraska courts and leave the problem of conflict to be
dealt with when and if it arises.

BRIDGES v. WIXON, DISTRICT DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE,
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 788. Argued April 2, 3, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.

1. The order for the deportation of the petitioner-issued under the
Act .of June 28, 1940, providing for the deportation of any alien who
was at the time of his entry into the United States, or has been at
any time thereafter, a member of or affiliated with an organization
that believes in, advises, advocates or teaches the overthrow of this
Government by force or violence-rests upon a misconstruction of
the term "affiliation" as used in the Act, and upon an unfair hearing
on the qiiestion of his membership in the Communist Party, where-

