UNITED STATES v. ROMPEL.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. ROMPEL, ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 59. Argued November 5, 6, 1945.-Decided December 10, 1945.
A federal estate tax, pursuant to § 811 (e) (2) of the Internal Revenue
Code as amended by § 402 of the Revenue Act of 1942,
mination of a Texas marital community by the death
band, the tax being measured by the value of the entire
property, held valid under the Federal Constitution.

on the terof the huscommunity
Fernandez

v. Wiener, ante, p. 340. P. 370.
59 F. Supp. 483, reversed.

under § 2 of the Act of August 24, 1937, from
a judgment for the plaintiff in a suit against the United
States to recover an alleged overpayment of federal estate
tax, the decision being against the constitutionality of the
federal estate tax statute as applied.
APPEAL

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Acting
Solicitor General Judson, Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold
Raum, BernardChertcoff and Miss Helen R. Carloss were
on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs.J. PaulJackson and HarryC. Weeks, with whom
Messrs. Rupert N. Gresham and PalmerHutcheson were
on the brief, for appellee.
The Attorneys General of the States of Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, and
Washington filed a brief (Messrs. Max Radin and Joseph
D. Brady of counsel) on behalf of those States as amici
curiae, urging affirmance. By special leave of Court, Mr.
PalmerHutcheson argued the cause for the State of Texas
as amicus curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to Fernandezv. Wiener, ante,
p. 340. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, proceeding under § 811 (e) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code,
26 U. S. C. § 811 (e) (2), as amended by § 402 of the
Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, has levied, and appellee has paid, an estate tax on the termination of a
Texas marital community by the death of the husband,
a domiciled resident of Texas, the tax being measured
by the value of the entire community property. All of
the constitutional questions raised here were presented
and decided in Fernandezv. Wiener.
Appellee, decedent's Administrator, brought this suit
under the Tucker Act, 28 U. S. C. §§ 761-765, to recover as
an alleged overpayment so much of the estate tax paid as
is attributable to the inclusion in decedent's gross estate
of the value of the wife's share of the community property.
The facts found by the district court were stipulated
and are not in dispute. Decedent, a resident of Texas, was
married February 12, 1901, and died on November 17,
1943, leaving him surviving his wife, their child, and
grandchildren. From the date of the marriage until 1934
decedent's principal activity was that of raising livestock
on a ranch in Texas, acquired largely on credit, and paid
for out of savings from the ranching business. Other
savings from the business were invested from time to time.
After 1934 he received rent from the ranch property and
income from loans and investments accumulated out of
savings. During the marriage neither decedent nor his
wife was ever employed by any one at a wage or salary,
and neither received any commissions, fees or similar
compensation for personal services rendered. At the time
of decedent's death the community property consisted of
the original ranch property, investments acquired from

UNITED STATES v. ROMPEL.
367

Opinion of the Court.

savings from the ranch business, rentals and other income
from investments.
In the estate tax return for decedent's estate only onehalf of the value of the community property was reported.
The Commissioner included the full value of the community property in the decedent's gross estate, and assessed a deficiency accordingly, which appellee paid. In
this suit which followed, the district court gave judgment
for appellee, 59 F. Supp. 483, holding that the tax violated
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment and the
command of Article I, § 8 that "all Duties, Imposts and
Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
The Court found it unnecessary to pass on other constitutional contentions presented.
The case comes here on direct appeal under § 2 of the
Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 751, 28 U. S. C. § 349a,
appellant assigning as error the district court's ruling that
the tax violates the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment and the uniformity clause of Article I, § 8 of the
Constitution, and the district court's failure to hold that
the tax is constitutional.
Community property has been recognized and defined
by the laws of Texas throughout its history.* Its laws
governing community property interests are similar in
most respects to those of Louisiana described in our
opinion in the Wiener case, supra. On the death of the
husband, in Texas, as in Louisiana, the wife's share of the
community is freed from the restrictions of his exclusive
management and control, and the wife acquires exclusive
possession and enjoyment of the property constituting
her share, as well as important new powers of control and
disposition over it. On the death of the wife, her share
passes to her heirs, and his share is freed from the limitations which the existence of the community places on his
*Speer, Law of Marital Rights in Texas (1929) p. 409 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

control of community property. While Texas does not
have the statutory restrictions on gifts which are to be
found in the Louisiana Civil Code, Texas does place some
limitations on the husband's power to make gifts of community property. As we said of Texas community property in Hopkins v. Bacon, 282 U. S. 122, 126, the authorities hold "that if the husband, as agent of the community,
acts in fraud of the wife's rights, she is not without remedy
in the courts. (Stramler v. Coe, 15 Tex. 211; Martin v.
Moran, 32 S. W. 904; Watson v. Harris, 130 S. W. 237;
Davis v. Davis, 186 S. W. 775.)" Appellee also concedes
that "excessive and capricious donations are void," and
that malicious or fraudulent intent need not be established in order that the wife shall have the remedies referred to. Appellee does not question that these are the
rules generally applicable to community property in
Texas.
The death of either the husband or the wife of the
Texas community thus effects sufficient alteration in the
spouses' possession and enjoyment and reciprocal powers
of control and disposition of the community property as
to warrant the imposition of an excise tax measured by
the value of the entire community.
For the reasons fully stated in our opinion in the Wiener
case, we conclude that the tax amendment of § 811 of the
Internal Revenue Code authorizing the tax as applied in
this case is not open to any of the constitutional objections
which have been raised against it either here or below.
The judgment is accordingly
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur
in the result for the reasons stated in the concurring opinion of MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS in Fernandez v. Wiener,
ante, p. 363.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

