GLASS CITY BANK v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

GLASS CITY BANK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 50. Argued October 15, 16, 1945

Decided November 13, 1945.

1. Section 3670 of the Internal Revenue Code which provides that
the amount of taxes owed the United States government by a taxpayer "shall be a lien in favor of the United States upon all property and rights to property, whether real or personal, belonging
to such person," and § 3671 create a continuing tax lien covering
all property or rights to property owned by a tax delinquent at any
time during the life of the lien, including property acquired after
the lien arose. P. 267.
2. Section 3678 shows a plain intent to subject to the tax lien "property owned by the delinquent" when suit to enforce the lien is
filed, rather than only that owned when the lien arose. P. 267.
146 F. 2d 831, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 844, to review affirmance of an

order granting priority to the United States over a judgment creditor whose judgment was obtained after the tax
lien arose but before the property in question was acquired.
Mr. FredB. Trescher for petitioner.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Clark, Messrs. Sewall
Key, J.Louis Monarch and Miss Helen Goodner were on
the brief, for the United States.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 1941 the petitioner bank obtained a judgment in a
Pennsylvania State Court against one Frank A. Maddas,
for about $19,000.00. The United States had unpaid,
judicially established, income tax claims against Maddas
for the years 1920, 1921, and 1922,1 which exceed
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

1 There

is also a claim for 1936 taxes which raises different questions
that need not be considered here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

$1,000,000.00. 40 B. T. A. 572; 114 F. 2d 548. Because
of Maddas' past services as a State court receiver of a
brewing company, the trustee of that company, now in
bankruptcy, owes Maddas $3,228.53. The issue here is
whether the bank or the government may recover on the
debt owed to Maddas. The bank claims under a lien
alleged to have been created by an attachment-execution
issued on its State court judgment and served on the
trustee in bankruptcy February 21, 1941. The United
States claimed priority, by virtue of a tax lien under 26
U. S. C., §§ 3670, 3671,1 which both parties admit arose in
1935, five years prior to the taxpayer's services as receiver.
The contention of the bank in the District Court I was
that the statutory tax lien, which became effective in 1935,
did not cover Maddas' claim since it did not exist when the
lien arose but only thereafter, and that the government,
therefore, could reach the debt only by garnishment or
distraint as provided by other sections of the Internal
2

"Sec. 3670. Property Subject to Lien.

"If any person liable to pay any tax neglects or refuses to pay the
same after demand, the amount (including any interest, penalty, additional amount, or addition to such tax, together with any costs that
may accrue in addition thereto) shall be a lien in favor of the United
States upon all property and rights to property, whether real or
personal, belonging to such person.
"See. 3671. Period of Lien.
"Unless another date is specifically fixed by law, the lien shall arise
at the time the assessment list was received by the collector and shall
continue until the liability for such amount is satisfied or becomes
unenforceable by reason of lapse of time."
Section 3672 provides that the lien shall not be valid against any
mortgagee, pledgee, purchaser, or judgment creditor until notice is
filed in an office designated by State law or in the office of the clerk
of the United States District Court. Here such notice was duly filed.
3The District Court acquired jurisdiction because the indebtedness
to Maddas was due from the trustee. The procedure by which that
jurisdiction was acquired is sufficiently set forth in the opinions below
and need not be repeated here. 54 F. Supp. 11; 146 F. 2d 831.

GLASS CITY BANK v. U. S.
265

Opinion of the Court.

Revenue Code. The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded
that the statutory tax lien did cover after-acquired property and accordingly affirmed the District Court's judgment for the United States. 146 F. 2d 831. We granted
certiorari because of statements made in the opinions of
other courts which seemed to conflict with the conclusion
below. United States v. Long Island Drug Co., 115 F. 2d
983; United States v. Pacific Railroad, 1 F. 97.
By § 3670, 26 U. S. C., Congress impressed a lien upon
"all property and rights to property, whether real or personal, belonging" to a tax delinquent. Stronger language
could hardly have been selected to reveal a purpose to assure the collection of taxes. Not content with this lan,guage, however, Congress also provided that the lien
should "continue until the liability for such amount is
satisfied or becomes unenforceable by reason of lapse of
time." 26 U. S. C., § 3671. These two sections read together indicate that a continuing lien covers property or
rights to property in the delinquent's hands at any time
prior to expiration. This is confirmed by § 3678, which
provides that "whether distraint proceedings have been
commenced or not," action to enforce the lien may be instituted against "any property and rights to property,
whether real or personal, or to subject any such property
and rights to property owned by the delinquent, or in
which he has any right, title, or interest, to the payment
of such tax." (Italics supplied.) For here is a plain intent to subject to the lien "property owned by the delinquent" when suit is filed, rather than only that owned
when the lien arose. Indeed, the meaning of these sections is so plain as to render superfluous a detailed discussion of the legislative history which is consistent with
our interpretation."
Furthermore the agencies administering the statute
have construed it in the same way. Thus, in 1928 Gen6 14 Stat. 98, 107; 15 Stat. 125, 167; 37 Stat. 1016; 45 Stat. 791, 875.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

eral Counsel Memorandum No. 4715, VII-2 Cum. Bul. 94,
declared that "a delinquent taxpayer may at any time

prior to the expiration of the statutory period of limitation
become possessed of property against which the lien may
attach, thus making the tax liability enforceable through
the lien." Again in Treasury Decision 4275, VIII-2 Cum.
Bul. 167, Collectors were admonished to keep on the alert
where notice of liens had been filed, so as to extend the
period of their effectiveness "whenever it is reasonably
possible that the taxpayer may, in the future, acquire
property or property rights from which the tax liability
may be satisfied." And in Graves v. Commissioner, 12
B. T. A. 124, 133, the Tax Board said that the lien applied,
"of course, to all the property that the tax debtor subsequently acquires."
The bank's arguments on behalf of a statutory construction supporting its claims are without merit. We
are told that to increase unduly the scope of the government's lien is unwise. But most of the objections raised
would apply not merely to liens that cover after-acquired
property, but also with equal force to most other types of
liens. At any rate the wisdom of legislation is a question
for Congress. We are further told that the tax lien cannot
attach to Maddas' claim because the law of Pennsylvania,
where this obligation arose, does not treat "future earning
capacity" as "property or rights to property." But the
question of whether the tax lien covers future earning
capacity is not before us. For the government here seeks
to reach an already existing obligation for services rendered, which clearly falls within the statutory language.
Cf. Matter of Rosenberg, 269 N. Y. 247, 199 N. E. 206.
Moreover, the Congressional meaning is not to be determined by resorting to the local law of Pennsylvania.
United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210; Helvering v.
Stuart,317 U. S. 154, 161-162.
Our conclusion is that the lien applies to property owned
by the delinquent at any time during the life of the lien.

GLASS CITY BANK v. U. S.
265

RuTnnwz, J., dissenting.

This is in accord with all the cases that have directly
passed upon this question.8 As previously noted, there
are two cases which contain language which might lead to
another conclusion. But nothing there said offers any
persuasive reason for restricting the scope of the lien.
Affirmed.
M. JUsTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
Mu. Jus'cE RUTLEDGE, dissenting.

I am unable to find in the applicable statutes the clear
expression of Congressional intent which I think is required to extend the tax lien to after-acquired property.
Under § 3670 the lien is imposed as to taxpayers delinquent
after demand "upon all property and rights to property,
whether real or personal, belonging to such person." By
§3671 the lien arises, unless another date is specifically
fixed by law, "at the time the assessment list was received
by the collector" and continues "until the liability for such
amount is satisfied or becomes unenforceable by reason of
lapse of time." Nothing in these sections gives any indication that Congress intended the lien to reach afteracquired property . The language used, whether in §3670
or in §3671, is fully satisfied if the lien is held to attach
to property belonging to the taxpayer as of the time the
lien arises.1 Had Congress intended to reach not only
Citizens National Bank v. United States, 135 F. 2d 527 (C. C. A.

9); Nelson v. United States, 139 F. 2d 162 (C. C.A. 9); Investment
& Securities Co. v. United States, 140 F. 2d 894 (C. C. A.9); United
States v. Worley, 64 F. Supp. 271 (S. D. Ind.); Minnesota Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 47 F. 2d 942, 944 (N. D. Tex.). See
also United States v. Warren R. Co., 127 F. 2d 134; Matter of Rosen-

berg, supra.
IAlthough by § 3671 the lien "arises" as of the time the assessment list is received by the collector, it relates back to the time of
notice and demand, § 3670, as against the taxpayer, though by virtue

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RuTLEDE, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

every description of property then owned by the taxpayer,
but also every species which might later come into his
hands, clearer words than "all property" and "belonging
to" were readily available to express this purpose. The
harshness of the consequences, not only for the taxpayer
but for others dealing with him, which this case dramatically exemplifies, gives reason beyond the ambiguity of the
language used for thinking there was no such intent.
Nor is such an intent supplied by use of the present
tense of the verb "has" in the final clause of § 3678 (a).'
That section merely provides for the manner in which the
lien defined by §§ 3670 and 3671 shall be enforced. Section 3678 (a), in my opinion, was not intended to add to
the scope of the lien or extend its definition beyond the
limits defined by those sections. If the lien was designed
to reach after-acquired property, the alternative method
specified in § 3678 (a) for reaching the property then
owned by the debtor would seem to be redundant.
I find nothing in the legislative history which discloses
any intention, more clearly than the words of the statute
themselves, to include after-acquired property within the
coverage of the lien. In the absence of clearer statutory
foundation, the comparatively recent administrative conof § 3672 (a). it is not valid as against any mortgagee, pledgee, purchaser, or judgment creditor "until notice thereof has been filed by
the collector" as provided.
"See. 3678. Civil Action to Enforce Lien on Property.
"(a) Filing.-In any case where there has been a refusal or neglect
to pay any tax, and it has become necessary to seize and sell property
and rights to property, whether real or personal, to satisfy the same,
whether distraint proceedings have been commenced or not, the
Attorney General at the request of the Commissioner may direct a
civil action to be filed, in a district court of the United States, to enforce the lien of the United States for tax upon any property and
rights to property, whether real or personal, or to subject any such
property and rights to property owned by the delinquent, or in which
he has any right, title, or interest, to the payment of such tax."
(Emphasis added.)

HAWK v. OLSON.
265

Syllabus.

struction cannot supply the required Congressional intent; and the scanty evidence of established and accepted

practice is neither so wholly consistent nor so convincing
as to furnish this necessary element.
Accordingly I would reverse the judgment and remand

the cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the consideration and disposition of the issues presented to but not
determined by it in view of its disposition upon the matters now determined here.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and M. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

join in this opinion.

HAWK v. OLSON, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 17. Argued October 8, 1945.-Decided November 13, 1945.
1. Upon review of a state court judgment dismissing a petition for

habeas corpus for failure to state a cause of action, this Court determines for itself whether the allegations of the petition entitle the

petitioner to a hearing on his claim that in his conviction of murder
he was denied due process in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 273.
2. The petition to a state court of Nebraska for habeas corpus, by one
under sentence of a court of that State upon a conviction of murder
in the first degree, sufficiently alleged that at his trial the petitioner
was denied opportunity to consult with counsel in the critical period
between his arraignment and the impaneling of the jury-a denial
of due process in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment-and he
was entitled to a hearing upon the petition. Pp. 276-278.
Denial of opportunity to consult with counsel on any material
step after indictment or similar charge and arraignment violates
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 278.
3. Petitioner will have an opportunity on the new hearing to furnish
such further specification as the state practice may require in support of his claim that his conviction was procured by the use of
testimony known by the prosecutor and the trial court to have been
perjured. P. 273.

