OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

572

Counsel for Parties.

NEW YORK

ET AL.

326 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 5. Argued December 7, 8, 1944. Reargued December 4,1945.Decided January 14, 1946.
The State of New York, in the sale of mineral waters taken from
Saratoga Springs, owned and operated by the State, is not immune
under the Federal Constitution from the tax imposed on mineral
waters by § 615 of the Revenue Act of 1932. Pp. 573-574, 584.
140 F. 2d 608, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the United States, 48 F. Supp. 15, in a suit to
recover taxes assessed against the State on the sale of mineral water.
ON THE ORIGINAL ARGUMENT:

Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General of New
York, with whom Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General, Orrin G. Judd, Solicitor General, and Wendell P.
Brown, First Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the State of New York; and Mr. Irving I. Goldsmith was on the brief for the Saratoga Springs Commission and Saratoga Springs Authority, petitioners.
Mr. Paul A. Freund, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Messrs. Sewall Key, Paul R. Russell and Miss Helen R.
Carloss were on the brief, for the United States.
ON THE REARGUMENT:

Orrin G. Judd, Solicitor General of New York, with
whom Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General, Wen,dell P. Brown, First Assistant Attorney General, and
Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the State of New York.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

Mr. Paul A. Freund, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark,
Jr., Messrs. Sewall Key and Bernard Chertcoff were on
the brief, for the United States.

By special leave of Court, Greek L. Rice, Attorney
General of Mississippi, argued the cause for the following
States as amici curiae: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia,
Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina,
North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee,
Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. The Attorneys General
of those States, together with Messrs. Austin J. Tobin and
Leander I. Shelley, joined in the brief.
Separate briefs were also filed on behalf of the States of
Illinois and Pennsylvania; the City of New York and the
National Institute of Municipal Law Officers; and the
American Public Power Association, as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER announced the judgment of
the Court and delivered an opinion in which MR. JUSTICM

RUTLEDGE joined.

Section 615 (a) (5) of the 1932 Revenue Act, 47 Stat.
169, 264, imposed a tax on mineral waters
The United

States brought this suit to recover taxes assessed against
the State of New York on the sale of mineral waters taken
1"SEc. 615. Tax on Soft Drinks.
"(a) There is hereby imposed"(5) Upon all natural or artificial mineral waters or table waters,
whether carbonated or not, and all imitations thereof, sold by the producer, bottler, or importer thereof, in bottles or other closed con-

tainers, at over 121/ cents per gallon, a tax of 2 cents per gallon."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

FRANKFuRTER, J.

326 U. S.

from Saratoga Springs, New York." The State claims
immunity from this tax on the ground that "in the bottling and sale of the said waters the defendant State of
New York was engaged in the exercise of a usual, traditional and essential governmental function." The claim
was rejected by the District Court and judgment went for
the United States. 48 F. Supp. 15. The judgment was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. 140 F. 2d 608. The strong urging of New York
for further clarification of the amenability of States to
the taxing power of the United States led us to grant certiorari. 322 U. S.724. After the case was argued at the
1944 Term, reargument was ordered.
On the basis of authority the case is quickly disposed
of. When States sought to control the liquor traffic by
going into the liquor business, they were denied immunity
from federal taxes upon the liquor business. South Caro2The

history of New York's relations to the springs at Saratoga

may be briefly summarized.

Under previous private operation the

flow of the springs had been substantially diminished by excessive
pumping. In 1911 the State of New York began to acquire title to
all the lands on which the mineral springs were located at Saratoga
Springs. In order to conserve the springs for beneficial operation, the

State took various measures until, in 1930, control over the springs
in the State Reservation was given to the newly created Saratoga
Springs Commission. In 1933, the Commission leased the springs'
facilities and delegated their management to the Saratoga Springs
Authority, a public benefit corporation of New York.
During the years 1932 to 1934, for which the tax is asserted, the
Commission and the Authority operated the Reservation as a health
resort and spa. There are recreation facilities, bath houses, drink
halls, a research laboratory, and other buildings on the grounds. Some
of the mineral waters of the springs that have a medicinal value are
bottled and sold to distributors, retailers, and directly to consumers.
The sales are promoted by advertising and customarily yield a profit
which is applied to meeting in part the expenses of operating the
other facilities. The remainder of those expenses is met by annual

legislative appropriations.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

lina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437; Ohio v. Helvering,
292 U. S. 360. And in rejecting a claim of immunity from
federal taxation when Massachusetts took over the street
railways of Boston, this Court a decade ago said: "We
see no reason for putting the operation of a street railway
[by a State] in a different category from the sale of
liquors." Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S. 214, 227. We
certainly see no reason for putting soft drinks in a different
constitutional category from hard drinks. See also Allen
v. Regents, 304 U. S. 439.
One of the greatest sources of strength of our law is
that it adjudicates concrete cases and does not pronounce
principles in the abstract. But there comes a time when
even the process of empiric adjudication calls for a more
rational disposition than that the immediate case is not
different from preceding cases. The argument pressed
by New York and the forty-five other States who, as
amici curiae, have joined her deserves an answer.
Enactments levying taxes made in pursuance of the
Constitution are, as other laws are, "the supreme Law
of the Land." Art. VI, Constitution of the United States;
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 153. The first of
the powers conferred upon Congress is the power "To lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises..."
Art. I, § 8. By its terms the Constitution has placed only
one limitation upon this power, other than limitations
upon methods of laying taxes not here relevant: Congress
can lay no tax "on Articles exported from any State."
Art. I, § 9. Barring only exports, the power of Congress
to tax "reaches every subject." License Tax Cases, 5
Wall. 462, 471. But the fact that ours is a federal constitutional system, as expressly recognized in the Tenth
Amendment, carries with it implications regarding the
taxing power as in other aspects of government. See,
e. g., Hopkins Savings Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315.
Thus, for Congress to tax State activities while leaving

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

326 U. S.

untaxed the same activities pursued by private persons
would do violence to the presuppositions derived from the
fact that we are a Nation composed of States.
But the fear that one government may cripple or obstruct the operations of the other early led to the assumption that there was a reciprocal immunity of the instrumentalities of each from taxation by the other. It was
assumed that there was an equivalence in the implications
of taxation by a State of the governmental activities of
the National Government and the taxation by the National Government of State instrumentalities. This assumed equivalence was nourished by the phrase of Chief
Justice Marshall that "the power to tax involves the power
to destroy." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431.
To be sure, it was uttered in connection with a tax of Maryland which plainly discriminated against the use by the
United States of the Bank of the United States as one of
its instruments. What he said may not have been irrelevant in its setting. But Chief Justice Marshall spoke at a
time when social complexities did not so clearly reveal as
now the practical limitations of a rhetorical absolute. See
Holmes, J., in Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142, 148, and
in Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218, 223.
The phrase was seized upon as the basis of a broad doctrine
of intergovernmental immunity, while at the same time an
expansive scope was given to what were deemed to be
"instrumentalities of government" for purposes of tax immunity. As a result, immunity was until recently accorded
to all officers of one government from taxation by the other,
and it was further assumed that the economic burden of a
tax on any interest derived from a government imposes a
burden on that government so as to involve an interference
by the taxing government with the functioning of the
other government. See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269
U. S. 514; Helvering v. Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376;
Graves v. N. Y. ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 480-81.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

To press a juristic principle designed for the practical
affairs of government to abstract extremes is neither sound
logic nor good sense.

And this Court is under no duty to

make law less than sound logic and good sense.

When

this Court for the first time relieved State officers from a
non-discriminatory Congressional tax, not because of anything said in the Constitution but because of the supposed

implications of our federal system, Mr. Justice Bradley
pointed out the invalidity of the notion of reciprocal inter-

governmental immunity. The considerations bearing
upon taxation by the States of activities or agencies of
the federal government are not correlative with the considerations bearing upon federal taxation of State agencies
or activities. The federal government is the government
of all the States, and all the States share in the legislative

process by which a tax of general applicability is laid.
"The taxation by the State governments of the instruments employed by the general government in the exer-

cise of its powers," said Mr. Justice Bradley, "is a very
different thing.

Such taxation involves an interference

with the powers of a government in which other States
and their citizens are equally interested with the State
Since then we have moved
which imposes the taxation."
3 The views of Mr. Justice Bradley have been so vindicated by
time and experience that his whole compact opinion deserves to be
recalled:
"I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, because, it
seems to me that the general government has the same power of taxing the income of officers of the State governments as it has of taxing
that of its own officers. It is the common government of all alike;
and every citizen is presumed to trust his own government in the
matter of taxation. No man ceases to be a citizen of the United States
by being an officer under the State government. I cannot accede to
the doctrine that the general government is to be regarded as in any
sense foreign or antagonistic to the State governments, their officers,
or people; nor can I agree that a presumption can be admitted that
the general government will act in a manner hostile to the existence or

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

326 U. S.

away from the theoretical assumption that the National
Government is burdened if its functionaries, like other
citizens, pay for the upkeep of their State governments,
and we have denied the implied constitutional immunity
of federal officials from State taxes. Graves v. N. Y. ex rel.
O'Keefe, supra. See Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S.501,
criticized in Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S.
393,401, and explicitly overruled in Helveringv. Producers
Corp., 303 U. S.376; Long v. Rockwood, 277 U. S. 142, overruled in Fox Film Corp.v. Doyal, 286 U. S. 123; Collectorv.
Day, 11 Wall. 113, and New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves,
299 U. S.401, overruled in Graves v. N. Y. ex rel. O'Keefe,
supra.
In the meantime, cases came here, as we have already
noted, in which States claimed immunity from a federal
functions of the State governments, which are constituent parts of
the system or body politic forming the basis on which the general
government is founded. The taxation by the State governments of
the instruments employed by the general government in the exercise
of its powers, is a very different thing. Such taxation involves an
interference with the powers of a government in which other States
and their citizens are equally interested with the State which imposes
the taxation. In my judgment, the limitation of the power of taxation in the general government, which the present decision establishes,
will be found very difficult of control. Where are we to stop in enumerating the functions of the State governments which will be interfered with by Federal taxation? If a State incorporates a railroad to
carry out its purposes of internal improvement, or a bank to aid its
financial arrangements, reserving, perhaps, a percentage on the stock or
profits, for the supply of its own treasury, will the bonds or stock of
such an institution be free from Federal taxation? How can we now
tell what the effect of this decision will be? I cannot but regard it as
founded on a fallacy, and that it will lead to mischievous consequences.
I am as much opposed as any one can be to any interference by the
general government with the just powers of the State governments.
But no concession of any of the just powers of the general government
can easily be recalled. I, therefore, consider it my duty to at least
record my dissent when such concession appears to be made. An extended discussion of the subject would answer no useful purpose."
Collectorv. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 128-29.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

tax imposed generally on enterprises in which the State
itself was also engaged. This problem did not arise before
the present century, partly because State trading did not
actively emerge until relatively recently, and partly because of the narrow scope of federal taxation. In South
Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S.437, immunity from
a federal tax on a dispensary system, whereby South
Carolina monopolized the sale of intoxicating liquors, was
denied by drawing a line between taxation of the historically recognized governmental functions of a State, and
business engaged in by a State of a kind which theretofore had been pursued by private enterprise. The power
of the federal government thus to tax a liquor business
conducted by the State was derived from an appeal to
the Constitution "in the light of conditions surrounding
at the time of its adoption." South Carolinav. United
States, supra, at 457. That there is a constitutional line
between the State as government and the State as trader,
was still more recently made the basis of a decision sustaining a liquor tax against Ohio. "If a state chooses to
go into the business of buying and selling commodities,
its right to do so may be conceded so far as the Federal
Constitution is concerned; but the exercise of the right
is not the performance of a governmental function . . .
When a state enters the market place seeking customers
it divests itself of its quasi sovereignty pro tanto, and takes
on the character of a trader, so far, at least, as the taxing
power of the federal government is concerned." Ohio v.
Helvering, supra,at 369. When the Ohio case was decided
it was too late in the day not to recognize the vast extension of the sphere of government, both State and National,
compared with that with which the Fathers were familiar.
It could hardly remain a satisfactory constitutional doctrine that only such State activities are immune from federal taxation as were engaged in by the States in 1787.
Such a static concept of government denies its essential
nature. "The science of government is the most abstruse

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

326 U. S.

of all sciences; if, indeed, that can be called a science
which has but few fixed principles, and practically consists in little more than the exercise of a sound discretion,
applied to the exigencies of the state as they arise. It is
the science of experiment." Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat.
204, 226.
When this Court came to sustain the federal taxing
power upon a transportation system operated by a State,
it did so in ways familiar in developing the law from precedent to precedent. It edged away from reliance on a
sharp distinction between the "governmental" and the
"trading" activities of a State, by denying immunity from
federal taxation to a State when it "is undertaking a business enterprise of a sort that is normally within the reach
of the federal taxing power and is distinct from the usual
governmental functions that are immune from federal
taxation in order to safeguard the necessary independence
of the State." Helvering v. Powers, supra, at 227. But
this likewise does not furnish a satisfactory guide for dealing with such a practical problem as the constitutional
power of the United States over State activities. To rest
the federal taxing power on what is "normally" conducted
by private enterprise in contradiction to the "usual" governmental functions is too shifting a basis for determining constitutional power and too entangled in expediency
to serve as a dependable legal criterion. The essential
nature of the problem cannot be hidden by an attempt to
separate manifestations of indivisible governmental powers. See Wambaugh, Present Scope of Government (1897)
20 A. B. A. Rep. 307; Frankfurter, The Public and its Government (1930).
The present case illustrates the sterility of such an
attempt.' New York urges that in the use it is making of
method of solving a problem inherent in a federal constitutional system has been found equally inconclusive in Latin America.
See Amadeo, Argentine Constitutional Law (1943) 97-103.
4This

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

Opinion of

FRAwNFURTER,

J.

Saratoga Springs it is engaged in the disposition of its
natural resources. And so it is. But in doing so it is
engaged in an enterprise in which the State sells mineral
waters in competition with private waters, the sale of
which Congress has found necessary to tap as a source of
revenue for carrying on the National Government. To
say that the States cannot be taxed for enterprises generally pursued, like the sale of mineral water, because it
is somewhat connected with a State's conservation policy,
is to invoke an irrelevance to the federal taxing power.
Liquor control by a State certainly concerns the most
important of a State's natural resources-the health and
well-being of its people. See Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623, 662; Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307. If in its
wisdom a State engages in the liquor business and may
be taxed by Congress as others engaged in the liquor business are taxed, so also Congress may tax the States when
they go into the business of bottling water as others in
the mineral water business are taxed even though a State's
sale of its mineral waters has relation to its conservation
policy.
In the older cases, the emphasis was on immunity from
taxation. The whole tendency of recent cases reveals a
shift in emphasis to that of limitation upon immunity.
They also indicate an awareness of the limited r6le of
courts in assessing the relative weight of the factors upon
which immunity is based. Any implied limitation upon
the supremacy of the federal power to levy a tax like that
now before us, in the absence of discrimination against
State activities, brings fiscal and political factors into
play. The problem cannot escape issues that do not lend
themselves to judgment by criteria and methods of reasoning that are within the professional training and special
competence of judges. Indeed the claim of implied immunity by States from federal taxation raises questions
not wholly unlike provisions of the Constitution, such as

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of FRmNKFURTF=, J.

326 U. S.

that of Art. IV, § 4, guaranteeing States a republican
form of government, see Pacific States Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Oregon, 223 U. S. 118, which this Court has deemed not
within its duty to adjudicate.
We have already held that by engaging in the railroad
business a State cannot withdraw the railroad from the
power of the federal government to regulate commerce.
United States v. California,297 U. S. 175. See also University of Illinois v. United States, 289 U. S. 48. Surely
the power of Congress to lay taxes has impliedly no less
a reach than the power of Congress to regulate commerce.
There are, of course, State activities and State-owned
property that partake of uniqueness from the point of
view of intergovernmental relations. These inherently
constitute a class by themselves. Only a State can own a
Statehouse; only a State can get income by taxing. These
could not be included for purposes of federal taxation in
any abstract category of taxpayers without taxing the
State as a State. But so long as Congress generally taps
a source of revenue by whomsoever earned and not
uniquely capable of being earned only by a State, the
Constitution of the United States does not forbid it merely
because its incidence falls also on a State. If Congress
desires, it may of course leave untaxed enterprises pursued by States for the public good while it taxes like
enterprises organized for private ends. Cf. Springfield
Gas Co. v. Springfield, 257 U. S. 66; University of Illinois
v. United States, supra,at 57; Puget Sound Co. v. Seattle,
291 U. S. 619. If Congress makes no such differentiation
and, as in this case, taxes all vendors of mineral water
alike, whether State vendors or private vendors, it simply
says, in effect, to a State: "You may carry out your own
notions of social policy in engaging in what is called business, but you must pay your share in having a nation
which enables you to pursue your policy." After all, the
representatives of all the States, having, as the appearance

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

Opinion of

FRANKFURTM,

J.

of the Attorneys General of forty-six States at the bar of
this Court shows, common interests, alone can pass such

a taxing measure and they alone in their wisdom can
grant or withhold immunity from federal taxation of
such State activities.
The process of Constitutional adjudication does not
thrive on conjuring up horrible possibilities that never

happen in the real world and devising doctrines sufficiently
comprehensive in detail to cover the remotest contingency.
Nor need we go beyond what is required for a reasoned dis-

position of the kind of controversy now before the Court.
The restriction upon States not to make laws that discriminate against interstate commerce is a vital constitutional

principle, even though "discrimination" is not a code of
specifics but a continuous process of application. So we
decide enough when we reject limitations upon the taxing
power of Congress derived from such untenable criteria

as "proprietary" against "governmental" activities of the
States, or historically sanctioned activities of government, or activities conducted merely for profit,' and find
5 Attempts along similar lines to solve kindred problems arising
under the Canadian and Australian Constitutions have also proved
a barren process. See Australia Constitution Act, 1900, § 114, in
Egerton, Federations and Unions in the British Empire (2d ed.,
1924) 225; Pond, Intergovernmental Immunity: A Comparative
Study of the Federal System (1941) 26 Iowa L. Rev. 272; Kennedy
& Wells, The Law of the Taxing Power in Canada (1931) 35-37.
Even where the Constitution of a federal system explicitly deals
with the problem of intergovernmental taxation, as in Brazil, litigation is not escaped and nice distinctions have to be made. See cases
arising under Article 10 of the Constitution of 1891 and under Article
32 of the Constitution of 1937: Appellavio Civel, No. 2.884, 13 Revista
do Supremo Tribunal 203 (1917); Appellaqdo Civel, No. 2.900, 14
Revista do Supremo Tribunal 44 (1918); Appellagdo Civel, No. 2.536,
19 Revista do Supremo Tribunal 76 (1919); Recurso de mandado de
seguran~a No. 617, 56 Archivo Judiciario 1 (1940) ; Agravo de petigio,
No. 8.024, 59 Archivo Judiciario 85 (1941). Article 32 of the Constitution of 1937, the present Brazilian Constitution, provides: "The
Union, the States and the Municipalities are forbidden: ... c) to

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTL DGE, J.,

concurring.

326 U. S.

no restriction upon Congress to include the States in
levying a tax exacted equally from private persons upon
the same subject matter.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I join in the opinion of MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and

in the result. I have no doubt upon the question of power.
The shift from immunity to taxability has gone too far,
and with too much reason to sustain it, as respects both
state functionaries and state functions, for backtracking
to doctrines founded in philosophies of sovereignty more
current and perhaps more realistic in an earlier day. Too
much is, or may be, at stake for the nation to permit relieving the states of their duty to support it, financially
as otherwise, when they take over increasingly the things
men have been accustomed to carry on as private, and
therefore taxable, enterprise. Competitive considerations
unite with the necessity for securing the federal revenue,
in a time when the federal burden grows heavier proportionately than that of the states, to forbid that they be
free to undermine rather than obligated to sustain the
nation's financial requirements.
All agree that not all of the former immunity is gone.
For the present I assent to the limitation against discrimination, which I take to mean that state functions
tax goods, income or services of each other." Speaking of the earlier
Constitution, a commentator notes: "These limitations on the federal
taxing power are all taken from our own jurisprudence, either by
direct transcription from the Constitution of the United States or by
the incorporation of principles laid down in decisions of our [the
United States] supreme court, as is the case with the last-named prohibition"-"the prohibition against taxing the property, revenues, or
services of the states." James, Federal Basis of the Brazilian System
(1923) 45.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

may not be singled out for taxation when others performing them are not taxed or for special burdens when they
are. What would happen if the state should take over a
monopoly of traditionally private, income-producing business may be left for the future, in so far as this has not
been settled by South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S.
437. Perhaps there are other limitations also, apart from
the practical one imposed by the state's representation in
Congress. If the way were open, I would add a further
restricting factor, not of constitutional import, but of
construction.
With the passing of the former broad immunity, I
should think two considerations well might be taken to
require that, before a federal tax can be applied to activities carried on directly by the states, the intention of
Congress to tax them should be stated expressly and not
drawn merely from general wording of the statute applicable ordinarily to private sources of revenue. One of
these is simply a reflection of the old immunity, in the
presence of which, of course, it would be inconceivable
that general wording, such as the statute now in question
contains, could be taken as intended to apply to the states.'
The other is that, quite apart from reflections of that
immunity, I should expect that Congress would say so
explicitly, were its purpose actually to include state functions, where the legal incidence of the tax falls upon the
state. And the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley
in United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, 333, indicates that he may have been of this general view.
ITo give removal of the immunity the effect of inverting the intention of Congress, in its later use of the same formula, is a leap in
construction longer than seems reasonable to make.
2 Cf. 26 U. S. C. § 22 (a) where Congress has specifically provided
that compensation for personal service, includible in gross income,
includes compensation for personal service as an officer or employee
of a state, or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing.

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE, C. J., concurring.

326 U. S.

Nevertheless, since South Carolina v. United States,
supra, such a rule of construction seems not to have been
thought required.8 Accordingly, although I gravely doubt
that when Congress taxed every "person" it intended also
to tax every state, the ruling has been made ' and I therefore acquiesce in this case.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

concurring.

MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, MR. JUSTICE

BURTON and I concur in the result. We are of the opinion
that the tax here involved should be sustained and the
judgment below affirmed.
In view of our decisions in South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S. 437; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360;
Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S.214; and Allen v. Regents,
304 U. S.439, we would find it difficult not to sustain the
tax in this case, even though we regard as untenable the
distinction between "governmental" and "proprietary"
interests on which those cases rest to some extent. But
we are not prepared to say that the national government
may constitutionally lay a non-discriminatory tax on
every class of property and activities of States and individuals alike.
Concededly a federal tax discriminating against a State
would be an unconstitutional exertion of power over a coexisting sovereignty within the same framework of government. But our difficulty with the formula, now first
suggested as offering a new solution for an old problem,
I University of Illinois v. United States, 289 U. S. 48; Ohio v.
Helvering, 292 U. S.360. See Manhattan Co. v. Blake, 148 U. S.
412. In Graves v. N. Y. ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 479, 480, the
Court said, in another connection: "It is true that the silence of
Congress, when it has authority to speak, may sometimes give rise
to an implication as to the Congressional purpose.... But there is
little scope for the application of that doctrine to the tax immunity
of governmental instrumentalities."

I See Ohio v. Helvering, supra.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.

572

STONE,

587

C.J., concurring.

is that a federal tax which is not discriminatory as to the
subject matter may nevertheless so affect the State,
merely because it is a State that is being taxed, as to interfere unduly with the State's performance of its sovereign
functions of government. The counterpart of such undue
interference has been recognized since Marshall's day as
the implied immunity of each of the dual sovereignties of
our constitutional system from taxation by the other.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316. We add nothing
to this formula by saying, in a new form of words, that a
tax which Congress applies generally to the property and
activities of private citizens may not be in some instances
constitutionally extended to the States, merely because
the States are included among those who pay taxes on a
like subject of taxation.
If the phrase "non-discriminatory tax" is to be taken
in its long accepted meaning as referring to a tax laid on
a like subject matter, without regard to the personality
of the taxpayer, whether a State, a corporation or a private
individual, it is plain that there may be non-discriminatory
taxes which, when laid on a State, would nevertheless
impair the sovereign status of the State quite as much
as a like tax imposed by a State on property or activities
of the national government. Mayo v. United State8,
319 U. S.441, 447-448. This is not because the tax can
be regarded as discriminatory but because a sovereign
government is the taxpayer, and the tax, even though
non-discriminatory, may be regarded as infringing its
sovereignty.
A State may, like a private individual, own real property and receive income. But in view of our former decisions we could hardly say that a general non-discriminatory real estate tax (apportioned), or an income tax
laid upon citizens and States alike could be constitutionally
applied to the State's capitol, its State-house, its public
school houses, public parks, or its revenues from taxes or

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
SIoN., C. J., concurring.

326 U. S.

school lands, even though all real property and all income
of the citizen is taxed. If it be said that private citizens
do not own State-houses or public school buildings or
receive tax revenues, it may equally be said that private
citizens do not conduct a State-owned liquor business or
derive revenue from a State-owned athletic field. Obviously Congress, in taxing property or income generally,
is not taxing a State "as a State" because the State happens
to own real estate or receive income. Whether a State or
an individual is taxed, in each instance the taxable occasion is the same. The tax reaches the State because
of the Congressional purpose to lay the tax on the subject matter chosen, regardless of who pays it. To say
that the tax fails because the State happens to be the
taxpayer is only to say that the State, to some extent
undefined, is constitutionally immune from federal taxation. Only when and because the subject of taxation is
State property or a State activity must we consider
whether such a non-discriminatory tax unduly interferes
with the performance of the State's functions of government. If it does, then the fact that the tax is non-discriminatory does not save it. If we are to treat as invalid,
because discriminatory, a tax on "State activities and
State-owned property that partake of uniqueness from
the point of view of intergovernmental relations," it is
plain that the invalidity is due wholly to the fact that it is
a State which is being taxed so as unduly to infringe, in
some manner, the performance of its functions as a government which the Constitution recognizes as sovereign.
It is enough for present purposes that the immunity of
the State from federal taxation would, in this case, accomplish a withdrawal from the taxing power of the nation a
subject of taxation of a nature which has been traditionally within that power from the beginning. Its exercise
now, by a non-discriminatory tax, does not curtail the
business of the state government more than it does the

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

like business of the citizen. It gives merely an accustomed and reasonable scope to the federal taxing power.
Such a withdrawal from a non-discriminatory federal tax,
and one which does not bear on the State any differently
than on the citizen, is itself an impairment of the taxing
power of the national government, and the activity taxed
is such that its taxation does not unduly impair the State's
functions of government. The nature of the tax immunity requires that it be so construed as to allow to each
government reasonable scope for its taxing power, Metcalf
& Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 524. The national
taxing power would be unduly curtailed if the State, by
extending its activities, could withdraw from it subjects
of taxation traditionally within it. Helvering v. Powers,
supra, 225; Ohio v. Helvering, supra; South Carolina v.
United States, supra, and see Murray v. Wilson Distilling
Co., 213 U. S. 151,173, explaining South Carolinav. United
States, supra.
The problem is not one to be solved by a formula, but
we may look to the structure of the Constitution as our
guide to decision. "In a broad sense, the taxing power
of either government, even when exercised in a manner
admittedly necessary and proper, unavoidably has some
effect upon the other. The burden of federal taxation
necessarily sets an economic limit to the practical operation of the taxing power of the states, and vice versa.
Taxation by either the state or the federal government
affects in some measure the cost of operation of the
other.
"But neither government may destroy the other nor
curtail in any substantial manner the exercise of its powers.
Hence the limitation upon the taxing power of each, so
far as it affects the other, must receive a practical construction which permits both to function with the minimum of interference each with the other; and that limitation cannot be so varied or extended as seriously to impair

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

either the taxing power of the government imposing the
tax ... or the appropriate exercise of the functions of
the government affected by it." Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, supra, 523-524.
Since all taxes must be laid by general, that is, workable, rules, the effect of the immunity on the national
taxing power is to be determined not quantitatively but
by its operation and tendency in withdrawing taxable
property or activities from the reach of federal taxation.
Not the extent to which a particular State engages in the
activity, but the nature and extent of the activity by
whomsoever performed is the relevant consideration.
Regarded in this light we cannot say that the Constitution either requires immunity of the State's mineral
water business from federal taxation, or denies to the
federal government power to lay the tax.
MR. JusTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
I
If South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S.437, is to
stand, the present judgment would have to be affirmed.
For I agree that there is no essential difference between a
federal tax on South Carolina's liquor business and a federal tax on New York's mineral water business. Whether
South Carolina v. United States reaches the right result
is another matter.
Mr. Justice Brandeis stated that "Staredecisis is usually
the wise policy, because in most matters it is more important that the applicable rule of law be settled than that it
be settled right." Burnet v. CoronadoOil & Gas Co., 285
U. S. 393, 406. But throughout the history of the Court
stare decisis has had only a limited application in the
field of constitutional law. And it is a wise policy which
largely restricts it to those areas of the law where correction can be had by legislation. Otherwise the Con-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

stitution loses the flexibility necessary if it is to serve
the needs of successive generations.
I do not believe South Carolinav. United States states
the correct rule. A State's project is as much a legitimate
governmental activity whether it is traditional, or akin
to private enterprise, or conducted for profit. Cf. Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 426-427. A State may
deem it as essential to its economy that it own and operate
a railroad, a mill, or an irrigation system as it does to own
and operate bridges, street lights, or a sewage disposal
plant. What might have been viewed in an earlier day
as an improvident or even dangerous extension of state
activities may today be deemed indispensable. But as
Mr. Justice White said in his dissent in South Carolinav.
United States, any activity in which a State engages
within the limits of its police power is a legitimate governmental activity. Here a State is disposing of some of its
natural resources. Tomorrow it may issue securities, sell
power from its public power project, or manufacture fertilizer. Each is an exercise of its power of sovereignty.
Must it pay the federal government for the privilege of
exercising that inherent power? If the Constitution
grants it immunity from a tax on the issuance of securities,
on what grounds can it be forced to pay a tax when it sells
power or disposes of other natural resources?
II
One view, just announced, purports to reject the distinction which South Carolinav. United States drew between those activities of a State which are and those which
are not strictly governmental, usual, or traditional. But
it is said that a federal tax on a State will be sustained so
long as Congress "does not attempt to tax a State because
it is a State." Yet if that means that a federal real estate
tax of general application (apportioned) would be valid
if applied to a power dam owned by a State but invalid if
applied to a State-house, the old doctrine has merely been

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DouoL"S, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

poured into a new container. If, on the other hand, any
federal tax on any state activity were sustained unless it
discriminated against the State, then a constitutional rule
would be fashioned which would undermine the sovereignty of the States as it has been understood throughout
our history. Any such change should be accomplished
only by constitutional amendment. The doctrine of state
immunity is too intricately involved in projects which
have been launched to be whittled down by judicial fiat.
III
Woodrow Wilson stated the starting point for me when
he said 'that
"the States of course possess every power that government
has ever anywhere exercised, except only those powers
which their own constitutions or the Constitution of the
United States explicitly or by plain inference withhold.
They are the ordinary governments of the country; the
federal government is its instrument only for particular
purposes."
The Supremacy Clause, Article VI, clause 2, applies to
federal laws within the powers delegated to Congress by
the States. But it is antagonistic to the very implications
of our federal system to say that the power of Congress
to lay and collect taxes, Article I, § 8, includes the power
to tax any state activity or function so long as the tax
does not discriminate against the States. As stated in
United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, 327-328,
2 Constitutional Government in the United States (1908),

pp.

183-184.
2As stated in United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175, 184, 185,
the immunity of state instrumentalities from federal taxation "is
implied from the nature of our federal system and the relationship
within it of state and national governments, and is equally a restriction on taxation by either of the instrumentalities of the other." It
went on to say in justification of making state activities subject to
the exercise by Congress of the commerce power, "But there is no
such limitation upon the plenary power to regulate commerce. The
state can no more deny the power if its exercise has been authorized

by Congress than can an individual."

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

DOUoLAS, J., dissenting.

"The right of the States to administer their own affairs
through their legislative, executive, and judicial departments, in their own manner through their own agencies,
is conceded by the uniform decisions of this court and by
the practice of the Federal government from its organization. This carries with it an exemption of those agencies
and instruments, from the taxing power of the Federal
government. If they may be taxed lightly, they may be
taxed heavily; if justly, oppressively. Their operation
may be impeded and may be destroyed, if any interference is permitted."
Can it be that a general federal tax on the issuance of
securities would be constitutional if applied to the issuance of municipal securities or of state bonds or of the
securities of public utility districts organized by the
States? Could the States be classified with farmers, business men, industrial workers, judges, and other ordinary
citizens and required to pay an income tax to the federal
government? It is said that a federal income tax on the
tax revenues of a State would not be sustained because
such a tax would interfere with a sovereign function of
the State. But can it be that a federal income tax on state
revenues derived not from taxes but from the sale of
mineral water, liquor, lumber and the like, would be
sustained?
A tax is a powerful, regulatory instrument. Local government in this free land does not exist for itself. The
fact that local government may enter the domain of private enterprise and operate a project for profit does not
put it in the class of private business enterprise for tax
purposes. Local government exists to provide for the
welfare of its people, not for a limited group of stockholders. If the federal government can place the local
governments on its tax collector's list, their capacity to
serve the needs of their citizens is at once hampered or
curtailed. The field of federal excise taxation alone is
practically without limits. Many state activities are in

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUoLAS, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

marginal enterprises where private capital refuses to
Venture. Add to the cost of these projects a federal tax
and the social program may be destroyed before it can be
launched. In any case, the repercussions of such a fundamental change on the credit of the States and on their
programs to take care of the needy and to build for the
future would be considerable. To say the present tax will
be sustained because it does not impair the State's functions of government is to conclude either that the sale by
the State of its mineral water is not a function of government or that the present tax is so slight as to be no burden.
The former obviously is not true. The latter overlooks
the fact that the power to tax lightly is the power to tax
severely. The power to tax is indeed one of the most
effective forms of regulation. And no more powerful instrument for centralization of government could be
devised. For with the federal government immune and
the States subject to tax, the economic ability of the federal government to expand its activities at the expense of
the States is at once apparent. That is the result whether
the rule of South Carolinav. United States be perpetuated
or a new rule of discrimination be adopted.
The notion that the sovereign position of the States
must find its protection in the will of a transient majority
of Congress is foreign to and a negation of our constitutional system. There will often be vital regional interests
represented by no majority in Congress. The Constitution was designed to keep the balance between the States
and the Nation outside the field of legislative controversy.
The immunity of the States from federal taxation is no
less clear because it is implied. The States on entering
the Union surrendered some of their sovereignty. It was
further curtailed as various Amendments were adopted.
But the Tenth Amendment provides that "The powers
not delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

DOUGLAS, J.,

dissenting.

States respectively, or to the people." The Constitution
is a compact between sovereigns. The power of one
sovereign to tax another is an innovation so startling as
to require explicit authority if it is to be allowed. If the
power of the federal government to tax the States is conceded, the reserved power of the States guaranteed by the
Tenth Amendment does not give them the independence
which they have always been assumed to have. They are
relegated to a more servile status. They become subject
to interference and control both in the functions which
they exercise and the methods which they employ. They
must pay the federal government for the privilege of
exercising the powers of sovereignty guaranteed them by
the Constitution,' whether, as here, they are disposing of
their natural resources, or tomorrow they issue securities
or perform any other acts within the scope of their police
power.
Of course, the levying of the present tax does not curtail
the business of the state government more than it does the
like business of the citizen. But the same might be true
in the case of many state activities which have long been
assumed to be immune from federal taxation. When a
municipality acquires a water system or an electric power
plant and transmission facilities, it withdraws projects
S That fact distinguishes those cases where a citizen seeks tax im-

munity because his income was derived from a State or the federal
government. Recognition of such a claim would create a "privileged
class of taxpayers" (Helvering v. Gerhardt, supra, p. 416) and extend the tax immunity of the States or the federal government to
private citizens. It was in protest to the recognition of such a derivative immunity that Mr. Justice Bradley dissented in Collector v. Day,
11 Wall. 113, 128, where the Court held unconstitutional a federal tax
on the salary of a judicial officer of a State. As Mr. Justice Bradley
stated, "No man ceases to be a citizen of the United States by being
an officer under the State government." 11 Wall. p. 128. And see
Graves v. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, holding that salaries of federal
employees may be constitutionally included in a non-discriminatory
state income tax.

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

from the field of private enterprise. Is the tax immunity
to be denied because a tax on the municipality would not
curtail the municipality more than it would the prior
private owner? Is the municipality to be taxed whenever it engages in an activity which once was in the field
of private enterprise and therefore was once taxable?
Every expansion of state activity since the adoption of
the Constitution limits the reach of federal taxation if
state immunity is recognized. Yet none would concede
that the sovereign powers of the States were limited to
those which they exercised in 1787. Nor can it be said that
if the present tax is not sustained there will be withdrawn
from the taxing power of the federal government a subject
of taxation which has been traditionally within that power
from the beginning. Not until South Carolinav. United
States was it held that so-called business activities of a
State were subject to federal taxation. That was after
the turn of the present century. Thus the major objection
to the suggested test is that it disregards the Tenth
Amendment, places the sovereign States on the same
plane as private citizens, and makes the sovereign States
pay the federal government for the privilege of exercising the powers of sovereignty guaranteed them by the
Constitution.
That this idea is hostile to the view of the Framers of
the Constitution is evident from Hamilton's discussion of
the taxing power of the federal government in The Federalist, Nos. 30-36 (Sesquicentennial Ed. 1937) pp. 183224. He repeatedly stated that the taxing powers of the
States and of the federal government were to be "concurrent"-"the only admissible substitute for an entire
subordination, in respect to this branch of power, of the
State authority to that of the Union." pp. 202-203. He
also stated, "The convention thought the concurrent jurisdiction preferable to that subordination; and it is evident
that it has at least the merit of reconciling an indefi-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
572

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

nite constitutional power of taxation in the Federal government with an adequate and independent power in the
States to provide for their own necessities." p. 209. On
such assurances could it possibly be thought that the
States were so subordinate that their activities could be
taxed by the federal government?
In M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, the Court
held unconstitutional a state tax on notes of the Bank
of the United States. The statement of Chief Justice
Marshall (pp. 429-430) is adequate to sustain the case
for the reciprocal immunity of the state and federal
governments:
"If we measure the power of taxation residing in a
State, by the extent of sovereignty which the people of a
single State possess, and can confer on its government, we
have an intelligible standard, applicable to every case to
which the power may be applied. We have a principle
which leaves the power of taxing the people and property
of a State unimpaired; which leaves to a State the command of all its resources, and which places beyond its
reach, all those powers which are conferred by the people
of the United States on the government of the Union,
and all those means which are given for the purpose of
carrying those powers into execution. We have a principle which is safe for the States, and safe for the Union.
We are relieved, as we ought to be, from clashing sovereignty; from interfering powers; from a repugnancy between a right in one government to pull down what there
is an -acknowledged right in another to build up; from
the incompatibility of a right in one government to destroy what there is a right in another to preserve. We are
not driven to the perplexing inquiry, so unfit for the
judicial department, what degree of taxation is the legitimate use, and what degree may amount to the abuse of
the power."

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

IV
Those who agreed with South Carolinav. United States
had the fear that an expanding program of state activity
would dry up sources of federal revenues and thus cripple
the national government. 199 U. S. pp. 454-455. That
was in 1905.' That fear is expressed again today when
we have the federal income tax, from which employees
of the States may not claim exemption on constitutional
grounds. Helvering v. Gerhardt, supra, The fear of depriving the national government of revenue if the tax
immunity of the States is sustained has no more place
in the present decision than the spectre of socialism, the
fear of which, said Holmes, "was translated into doctrines
that had no proper place in the Constitution or the common law." 5
There is no showing whatsoever that an expanding field
of state activity even faintly promises to cripple the federal government in its search for needed revenues. If the
truth were known, I suspect it would show that the activity
of the States in the fields of housing, public power and the
like have increased the level of income of the people and
have raised the standards of marginal or sub-marginal
groups. Such conditions affect favorably, not adversely,
the tax potential of the federal government.

'As the Solicitor General of New York points out, in the year when
South Carolina v. United States was decided over one-fourth of the

entire annual income of the federal government was derived from
taxes on spirits and fermented liquors. See Annual Report, Secretary
of the Treasury (1905), pp. 7, 26.
4Holmes, Collected Legal Papers (1921) p. 295.

