HERCULES GASOLINE CO. v. COMM'R. 425
Counsel for Parties.

HERCULES GASOLINE CO., INC. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIF'ITH CIRCUIT.

No. 93. Argued December 6, 1945.-Decided December 17, 1945.
1. The Revenue Act of 1936 imposed a tax on undistributed profits,
but § 26 (c) (1) allowed credit, in the computation of the tax, for
such undistributed earnings as the corporation could not distribute
"without violating a provision of a written contract executed by
the corporation . . . which provision expressly deals with the pay-

ment of dividends." Held that the credit was not allowable where
restrictions on the payment of dividends were contained in provisions of preferred stock certificates incorporating by reference
terms of the corporation's charter. P. 428.
2. Section 26 (c) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1936 is limited to contracts involving ordinary obligations to creditors (Helvering v.
Northwest Steel Mills, 311 U. S. 46), and does not apply to obligations to preferred stockholders, since they are not creditors.
P. 428.
147 F. 2d 972, affirmed.

post, p. 701, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the Tax Court sustaining the Commissioner's
action in rejecting claims for certain credits under § 26 (c)
(1) of the Revenue Act of 1936 against the tax on undistributed profits imposed by that Act.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Melvin F. Johnson,with whom Mr. Joseph H. Jackson was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph S. Platt, with whom Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Clark, Messrs. Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, Walter J. Cummings, Jr.and Mrs.
Maryhelen Wigle were on the brief, for respondent.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

MR. JusTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case requires us to construe § 26 (c)" of the undistributed profits tax law, 49 Stat. 1648, enacted by Congress in 1936. The undistributed profits tax, which was
not continued by Congress after 1938, was a surtax at
graduated rates upon corporate profits not distributed
during the tax year by way of dividends. Section 26 (c)
1

"See. 26. Credits of Corporations.
In the case of a corporation the following credits shall be allowed to
the extent provided in the various sections imposing tax(c) Contracts Restricting Payment of Dividends.(1) Prohibition on payment of dividends.-An amount equal to
the excess of the adjusted net income over the aggregate of the
amounts which can be distributed within the taxable year as dividends
without violating a provision of a written contract executed by the
corporation prior to May 1, 1936, which provision expressly deals
with the payment of dividends. If a corporation would be entitled
to a credit under this paragraph because of a contract provision and
also to one or more credits because of other contract provisions, only
the largest of such credits shall be allowed, and for such purpose if
two or more credits are equal in amount only one shall be taken into
account.
(2) Disposition of profits of taxable year.-An amount equal to
the portion of the earnings and profits of the taxable year which is
required (by a provision of a written contract executed by the corporation prior to May 1, 1936, which provision expressly deals with
the disposition of earnings and profits of the taxable year) to be paid
within the taxable year in discharge of a debt, or to be irrevocably
set aside within the taxable year for the discharge of a debt; to the
extent that such amount has been so paid or set aside. For the purposes of this paragraph, a requirement to pay or set aside an amount
equal to a percentage of earnings and profits shall be considered a
requirement to pay or set aside such percentage of earnings and
profits. As used in this paragraph, the word 'debt' does not include
a debt incurred after April 30, 1936.
(3) Double credit not allowed.-If both paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) apply, the one of such paragraphs which allows the greater
credit shall be applied; and, if the credit allowable under each paragraph is the same, only one of such paragraphs shall be applied."

HERCULES GASOLINE CO. v. COMM'R.
425

427

Opinion of the Court.

allowed credits designed to afford relief where the payment of dividends is prevented by certain contract provisions. Subdivision (c) (1) of the section allowed such
a credit where a distribution of earnings would violate
a "pro,4sion of a written contract executed by the corporation . . . which provision expressly deals with the
payment of dividends." (Italics supplied.) Subdivision
(c) (2) allowed a credit where "earnings and profits of the
taxable year . . . [are] required (by a provision of a
written contract executed by the corporation...,which
provision expressly deals with the disposition of earnings
and profits of the taxable year) to be paid within the
taxable year in discharge of a debt, or to be irrevocably
set aside within the taxable year for the discharge of a
debt." (Italics supplied.) Petitioner claimed a credit
under § 26 (c) (1), but in assessing the deficiency for
1937 the Commissioner rejected this claim. The Tax
Court sustained the Commissioner and its judgment was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 147 F. 2d 972.
We granted certiorari because of conflicting determinations by the Circuit Courts as to the scope of these credit
provisions 2
Petitioner, a Delaware corporation, admits liability as
transferee of the assets of the Hercules Gasoline Company, Inc., a Louisiana corporation, which was dissolved
in 1939. Article V of the original charter of the transferor
authorized the issuance of non-par common stock and of
preferred stock at $50 par value. The preferred stock was
entitled "to cumulative dividends at the rate of 8% per
annum . . . in preference and priority to any payment
of any dividend on the common stock for such year."
The charter further provided that "there shall be no dividend on the common stock until all of the preferred stock
2Lehigh Strucural Steel Co. v. Commiaoner, 127 F. 2d 67;
PhiladelphiaRecord Co. v. Commiaioner, 145 F. 2d 618.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

has been retired, redeemed and discharged." All certificates of preferred stock contained the following provision:
"For Rights and Voting Powers of Preferred Stock See
Article V of Charter." The petitioner contends that these
preferred stock certificates constituted contracts executed
by the corporation which expressly prohibited the payment of dividends while these shares were outstanding
and that petitioner is therefore entitled to the credit allowed under Subdivision (c) (1).
We think that the preferred stock certificates are not
the kind of contracts which entitle a corporation to allowance of credit under subdivision (c) (1). In our view,
that subdivision must be read in the light of § 26 (c) and
the Act as a whole and, when thus read, is confined to contracts made with creditors and does not extend to restrictions imposed within the body corporate. In Helvering
v. Northwest Steel Mills, 311 U. S. 46, the question before
us was whether § 26 (c) (1) allows a credit where the payment of dividends is prohibited by statute. In construing
§ 26 (c), we stated:
"That the language used in § 26 (c) (1) does not authorize a credit for statutorily prohibited dividends is further
supported by a consideration of § 26 (c) (2). By this
section, a credit is allowed to corporations contractually
obligated to set earnings aside for the payment of debts.
That this section referred to routine contracts dealingwith
ordinary debts and not to statutory obligations is obviou--yet the words used to indicate that the section had
reference only to a 'written contract executed by the corporation' are identical with those used in § 26 (c) (1).
There isno reason to believe that Congress intended that
a broader meaning be attached to these words as used in
§ 26 (c) (1) than attached to them under the necessary
limitations of 26 (c) (2)." 311 U. S. 46, at 49-50.
(Italics supplied.)

HERCULES GASOLINE CO. v. COMM'R. 429
425

Opinion of the Court.

We thus held that § 26 (c) (1) is limited to contracts
involving ordinary obligations to creditors and since preferred stockholders are not creditors, Warren v. King, 108
U. S. 389, 399, § 26 (c) (1) does not apply here.
Petitioner contends, however, that our construction of
§ 26 (c) (1) was erroneous but for reasons given in the
Northwest Steel case we think it was correct and adhere
to it. Our construction finds further support in § 26
(c) (3) which, in order to prevent "Double credit," provides that in the event both subdivisions (c) (1) and
(c) (2) apply, "the one of such paragraphs which allows
the greater credit shall be applied; and, if the credit allowable under each paragraph is the same, only one of
such paragraphs shall be applied." Congress having thus
made the relief obtainable under (c)(1) and (c) (2)
mutually exclusive has indicated that it -considered the
two subdivisions as interdependent. Congress therefore
intended to cover the same type of contract, namely a
contract with creditors, in both subsections and not to
extend subdivision (c) (1) to intra-corporate contracts
while subdivision (c) (2) was to cover contracts with
creditors only. Moreover, statements made in the course
of the Congressional debate I refer to § 26 (c) as a whole,
as providing for the relief of corporations prevented from
paying dividends by contracts involving the payment of
debts. No other view of the Section would be in keeping
with the policy behind the undistributed profits tax. That
tax was designed to reach profits held by the corporation
which as a consequence could not be taxed as dividends
in the hands of stockholders. An intra-corporate agreement is simply one way of keeping profits in the corporation's treasury so that the tax collector cannot reach
8

See for illustration the statement by the Hon. Samuel B. Hill, 80
Cong. Rec. 6004.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RlED, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

them.' To hold that such an agreement entitled the
corporation to tax credit would defeat the very purpose
of the undistributed profits tax.' The rejection of petitioner's claim for tax credit was proper.
Affirmed
MR. JusTICE BURTON dissents.
MR.JusTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
M. JUSTICE REED, dissenting.

Accepting Helvering v. Northwest Steel Mills, 311 U. S.
46, completely, I am unable to agree that this contract
with preferred stockholders was other than a "routine
contract dealing with ordinary debts." Certainly this is
not an instance of a "statutory obligation," which are the
words used in the Northwest case to describe the antithesis
of the contract covered. "Routine" and "ordinary," as

' See Warren Telephone Co. v. Commissioner, 128 F. 2d 503, 506.
Here there was nothing in the agreement that absolutely prohibited
the payment of dividends. During 1937 and 1938 transferor had
outstanding 1,294 shares of preferred stock of a total par value of
$64,700. These shares were all retired in 1939. Had they been redeemed in 1937 there would have been nothing in the agreement preventing the distribution of earnings. Consequently it does not clearly
appear that there was any provision in the agreements absolutely prohibiting the payment of dividends. Cf. Dr. Pepper Bottling Co. v.
Commissioner, 45 B. T. A. 540; Staley Manufacturing Co. v. Com-

missioner, 46 B. T. A. 199, 205.
8The Board of Tax Appeals and later the Tax Court have consistently held that § 26 (c) (1) does not cover the type of agreement

here involved. Thibaut & Walker Co. v. Commissioner, 42 B. T. A.
29; Elier Co. v. Commissioner, decided Dec. 4, 1941, 1941 P-H
B. T. A. Memorandum Decisions, Par. 41,533; Budd International

Corp. v. Commissioner, 45 B. T. A. 737; Bishop & Babcock Manufacturing Co. v. Commissioner, 45 B. T. A. 776; PhiladelphiaRecord
Co. v. Commissioner, decided January 23, 1943, 1943 P-H T. C.

Memorandum Decisions, Par. 43,038.

HERCULES GASOLINE CO. v. COMM'R.

431

REED, J., dissenting.

used in Northwest, do not imply to me anything more
than an express contract, executed in accordance with
§26 (c) (1).
The exemption provisions of § 26 (c) make no exceptions because the debt of the corporation is owned by a
stockholder. If such an exception is to be deduced from
the purpose behind the words of the section, it should not
be applied to such preferred stockholders as these because
their interest is like that of a creditor. As I believe the
statutory requirements are met, I should reverse.'
The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this dissent.

See in accord, Lehigh Structural Steel Co. v. Commissioner, 127
F. 2d 67; Budd InternationalCorp. v. Commissioner, 143 F. 2d 784;
Philadelphia Record Co. v. Commissioner, 145 F. 2d 613; RexHanover Milk Co. v. United States, 53 F. Supp. 235. See Eljer Co. v.
Commissioner, 134 F. 2d 251, 255.

