OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

saved, we cannot say upon this language that the grantor
did not reserve the power of termination to himself as
donor rather than merely as trustee. It is unnecessary
therefore to determine whether, if the reservation were
different, the variation in wording between §§ 811 (d) (1)
and (2) in this respect would be material.1 ' We have considered respondent's remaining contentions and find them
without merit.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the cause is remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.
Reversed andremanded.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAS dissents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MARKHAM, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.

ALLEN ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60. Argued December 5, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A federal district court has jurisdiction of a suit by the Alien
Property Custodian against an executor and resident heirs to determine the Custodian's asserted right to share in the decedent's
estate which is in course of probate administration in a state court.
Pp. 491, 496.
2. While a federal court has no jurisdiction to probate a will or administer an estate, it does have jurisdiction to entertain suits to
establish claims against a decedent's estate, so long as it does not
interfere with the probate proceedings or assume general jurisdiction of the probate or control of the property in the -custody of
the state court. P. 494.
1 See the preceding note.

MARKHAM v. ALLEN.
490

Opinion of the Court.

3. While a federal court may not disturb or affect the possession of
property in the custody of a state court, it may adjudicate rights
in such property when the final judgment does not interfere with
the state court's possession save to the extent that the state court
is bound by the judgment to recognize the right adjudicated by
the federal court. P. 494.
4. Where the effect of a judgment of a federal court is to leave undisturbed the orderly administration of a decedent's estate in a
state probate court but to decree a right in property to be distributed after administration, this is not an exercise of probate
jurisdiction or an interference with property in the possession or
custody of a state court. P. 495.
5. A federal district court properly exercised its discretion in entertaining a suit by the Alien Property Custodian to determine his
right to share in a decedent's estate in course of probate administration in a state court, even though the suit involved issues of
state law; because § 17 of the Trading with the Enemy Act specially
confers on the federal courts jurisdiction to enter all such orders
and decrees as may be necessary and proper to enforce the provisions of the Act and this indicates that Congress has adopted the
policy of permitting the Custodian to proceed in the federal courts
to enforce his rights, whether they depend on state or federal law.
P. 495.
147 F. 2d 136, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 846, to review reversal of a judgment of a district court (52 F. Supp. 850) allowing a claim
of the Alien Property Custodian against a decedent's
estate.

Mr. M. S. Isenbergh, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Messrs. Harry LeRoy Jones and Raoul Berger

were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph Wahrhaftig submitted for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether a district court of the United
States has jurisdiction of a suit brought by the Alien
Property Custodian against an executor and resident heirs

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

826 U.S.

to determine the Custodian's asserted right to share in
decedent's estate which is in course of probate administration in a state court.
On January 23, 1943, petitioner, the Alien Property
Custodian, acting under § 5 (b) (1) (B) of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, 55 Stat. 839, 50 U. S. C. App., Supp.
IV, § 616, and Executive Order No. 9095, as amended by
Executive Order 9193, 3 Code Fed. Reg. (Cum. Supp.)
1174, issued vesting order No. 762, by which he purported
to vest in himself as Custodian all right, title and interest
of German legatees in the estate of Alvina Wagner, who
died testate, a resident of California, whose will was admitted to probate and whose estate is being administered
in the Superior Court of California. Previously, on December 30, 1942, six of the other heirs-at-law of decedent,
residing in the United States, filed a petition in the Superior Court of California for determination of heirship,
asserting that under the provisions of California Statutes,
1941, chap. 895, § 1,* the German legatees were ineligible
as beneficiaries, and that the American heirs were therefore entitled to inherit decedent's estate. This proceeding
is still pending.
On April 6, 1943, the Custodian brought the present suit
in the district court for the northern district of California
against the executor and the six California claimants,
seeking a judgment determining that the resident claimants have no interest in the estate, and that the Custodian,
by virtue of his vesting order, is entitled to the entire net
estate of the decedent after payment of expenses of administration, debts, and taxes, and is the owner of specified
real estate of decedent passing under the will. The complaint prayed that the executor be ordered to pay the
entire net estate to the Custodian upon the allowance by
*This statute purports to limit inheritance by non-resident aliens
to nationals of countries which grant reciprocal rights of inheritance

to American citizens.

MARKHAM v. ALLEN.
490

Opinion of the Court.

the state court of the executor's final account. On motion
of respondents to strike the complaint, and on petitioner's
motion for judgment on the pleadings, the district court
gave judgment for petitioner, 52 F. Supp. 850. The court
held that it had jurisdiction to enforce the vesting order
of petitioner; that its jurisdiction is derived from the
Constitution and laws of the United States and is not subject to restriction or ouster by state legislation; and that
California Statutes, 1941, chap. 895, § 1, is invalid. The
judgment declared that petitioner had acquired the interests of the German nationals in the estate of decedent;
that none of respondents have any right, title or interest
in the estate; and that petitioner is entitled to receive the
net estate in distribution after payment of expenses of
administration, debts and taxes.
Without passing upon the merits, the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit reversed and ordered the cause dismissed, upon the ground that the district court was without jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action. 147
F. 2d 136. The court thought that since "the matter is
within probate jurisdiction and that court is in possession
of the property, its right to proceed to determine heirship
cannot be interfered with by the federal court."
It is not denied that the present suit is a suit "of a civil
nature . . . in equity," brought by an officer of the United
States, authorized to sue, of which district courts are given
jurisdiction by § 24 (1), 28 U. S.C. § 41 (1), of the Judicial
Code. But respondents argue, as the Circuit Court of
Appeals held, that as the district courts of the United
States are without jurisdiction over probate matters, see
Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503, 517; Byer8 V.McAuley, 149
U. S. 608, 615, which the Court of Appeals thought are not
"cases or controversies within the meaning of Art. III of
the Constitution," and since the present suit to determine
heirship of property being administered in a state probate
court is an exercise of probate jurisdiction, the district
court is without jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

It is true that a federal court has no jurisdiction to
probate a will or administer an estate, the reason being
that the equity jurisdiction conferred by the Judiciary
Act of 1789 and § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code, which is
that of the English Court of Chancery in 1789, did not
extend to probate matters. Kerrich v. Branaby, 7 Brown
P. C. 437; Barnesley v. Powel, 1 Yes. Sen. 284; Allen
v. Macpherson, 1 Phillips 133, 1 House of Lords Cases
191; Broderick's Will, supra;Farrellv. O'Brien, 199 U. S.
89;.Sutton v. English, 246 U. S. 199,205. But it has been
established by a long series of decisions of this Court that
federal courts of equity have jurisdiction to entertain
suits "in favor of creditors, legatees and heirs" and other
claimants against a decedent's estate "to establish their
claims" so long as the federal court does not interfere
with the probate proceedings or assume general jurisdiction of the probate or control of the property in the custody of the state court. Waterman v. Canal-Louisiana
Bank Co., 215 U. S. 33, 43, and cases cited. See Sutton v.
English, supra, 205; United States v. Bank of New York
Co., 296 U. S. 463,477; Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Bradford, 297 U. S. 613, 619;. United States v. Klein, 303 U. S.
276; Princess Lida v. Thompson, 305 U. S. 456, 466.
Similarly while a federal court may not exercise its jurisdiction to disturb or affect the possession of property in
the custody of a state court, Penn Co. v. Pennsylvania,294
U. S. 189, 195-196 and cases cited; United States v. Bank
of New York Co., supra, 477-478 and cases cited, it may
exercise its jurisdiction to adjudicate rights in such property where the final judgment does not undertake to interfere with the state court's possession save to the extent that
the state court is bound by the judgment to recognize the
right adjudicated by the federal court. Commonwealth
Trust Co. v. Bradford, supra,619; United States v. Klein,
supra,281 and cases cited.

MARKHAM v. ALLEN.
490

Opinion of the Court.

Although in this case petitioner sought a judgment in
the district court ordering defendant executor to pay over
the entire net estate to the petitioner upon an allowance
of the executor's final account, the judgment declared only
that petitioner "is entitled to receive the net estate of the
late Alvina Wagner in distribution, after the payment of
expenses of administration, debts, and taxes." The effect
of the judgment was to leave undisturbed the orderly administration of decedent's estate in the state probate court
and to decree petitioner's right in the property to be distributed after its administration. This, as our authorities
demonstrate, is not an exercise of probate jurisdiction
or an interference with property in, the possession or custody of a state court.
There remains the question whether the district court
having jurisdiction should, in the exercise of its discretion,
have declined to entertain the suit which involves issues
of state law and have remitted the petitioner to his remedy
in the state probate proceeding. See Thompson v. Magnolia Co., 309 U. S.478,483; RailroadCommissionv. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496; Chicago v. Fieldcrest Dairies,316
U. S. 168; compare Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S.
176, 182-186; Gordon v. Ominsky, 294 U. S.186; Gordon
v. Washington, 295 U. S.30, 39; United States v. Bank
of New York Co., supra, 480. The mere fact that the
district court, in the exercise of the jurisdiction which Congress has conferred upon it, is required to interpret state
law is not in itself a sufficient reason for withholding relief
to petitioner. Meredith v. Winter Haven, 320 U. S.228.
This is the more so in this case because § 17 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, 50 U. S. C. App. § 17, specially confers on the district court, independently of the statutes
governing generally jurisdiction of federal courts, jurisdiction to enter "all such orders and decrees . . . as may
be necessary and proper in the premises to enforce the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

provisions" of the Act. Although the district court has
jurisdiction of the present case under § 24 (1) of the
Judicial Code, irrespective of § 17, the latter section plainly
indicates that Congress has adopted the policy of permitting the Custodian to proceed in the district courts to
enforce his rights under the Act, whether they depend on
state or federal law. The cause was therefore within the
jurisdiction of the district court, which could appropriately
proceed with the case, and the Court of Appeals erroneously ordered its dismissal.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RuTLEGE is of the opinion that the cause
should be remanded to the district court and jurisdiction
should be retained by it pending the state court's decision
as to the persons entitled to receive the net estate.

NEW YORK

EX REL.

RAY v. MARTIN, WARDEN.

CERTIORARI TO THE COUNTY COURT OF WYOMING COUNTY,
NEW YORK.

No. 158.

Argued December 13, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.

1. A state court of New York has jurisdiction to try a non-Indian
for the murder of another non-Indian committed on the Allegany
Reservation of the Seneca Indians within that State. United States

v. McBratrey, 104 U. S. 621, followed. P. 498.
2. Section 2145 of the Revised Statutes does not operate to deprive
States of jurisdiction of crimes committed on Indian reservations
by one non-Indian against another. P. 499.

3. Exercise of jurisdiction by a state court of New York over crimes

