ASBURY HOSPITAL v. CASS COUNTY.
203

207

Syllabus.

125 Va. 295, 314, 99 S. E. 695. On this record we cannot
say that the interest claimed was not included in the
award, or, if it was not, that the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia, by denying writ of error, passed upon any
question of the constitutionality of such denial of interest,
not raised on the record or passed upon below. Unless
this affirmatively appears upon the record brought here
for review on appeal, this Court is without jurisdiction of
the appeal. Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 133, 135-136;
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, 309;
Chicago, I. & L. R. Co. v. McGuire, 196 U. S. 128, 131;
see Flournoy v. Wiener, 321 U. S. 253, 262-263, and cases
cited.
The appeal must be dismissed for want of any properly
presented substantial federal question.
Dismissed.
MR. JUsTIcE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
ASBURY HOSPITAL v. CASS COUNTY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 35. Argued October 10, 11, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.
A statute of North Dakota requires corporations owning farm land,
except such as is reasonably necessary in the conduct of their
business, to dispose of it within 10 years from the effective
date of the Act. Farm land owned by any corporation in violation
of the Act is subject to escheat to the county wherein such land is
located, to be effected by a judicial proceeding to which the corporation must be a party. The county is required to dispose of the
land at public sale within one year after escheat and to pay the proceeds to the corporation. Appellant, a foreign corporation owning
farm land in North Dakota which it had acquired prior to the effective date of the Act, sought in the state courts a declaratory judgment of unconstitutionality of the Act as applied to it. Held:
1. A corporation is not a "citizen" within the protection of the

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

326 U. S.

privileges and immunities clauses of Article IV, § 2 and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. P. 210.
2. Appellant by the mere acquisition of land within the State,
before the enactment of the statute, did not acquire contract rights
which it could assert against the State. P.211..
3. The statute does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 211.
(a) Due process does not prevent a State from excluding a
foreign corporation which has theretofore lawfully entered the State
and acquired immovable property there, though the corporation
will thereby be compelled to sell the property. P. 211.
(b) The power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation
includes the power to compel the corporation to sell its immovable
property within the State, without also requiring it to end all its
activities there. P. 212.
(c) A state statute, otherwise valid, requiring a foreign corporation to sell property within the State, does not deny due
process notwithstanding that, due to economic conditions prevailing
since enactment of the statute, the corporation will not recoup its
original investment in the property. It is enough that here the
corporation, in complying with the lawful command of the State
to part with ownership, is afforded a fair opportunity to realize
the value of the land, and that the sale, when required, is to be
under conditions reasonably calculated to realize its value at the
time of the sale. P. 212.
4. The statute's exemption of lands of corporations whose business is dealing in farm lands, and of lands of cooperative corporations 75% of whose members or stockholders are farmers, did not
deny to appellant the equal protection of the laws. P. 214.
5. The questions of the constitutionality of the statute because
of its (1) alleged failure to require an accounting of rents and profits
for the period between the judgment of escheat and the sale, and
(2) alleged exemption of farm lands acquired by corporations by
deed or grant subsequent to the date of the statute,--involve the
construction and application of provisions of the statute which
have not been authoritatively construed and applied by the state
courts, and therefore may not appropriately be decided by this
Court. Pp. 213, 215.
73 N. D. 469, 16 N. W. 2d 523, affirmed in part.
APPEAL

from the affirmance of a judgment in a declara-

tory judgment proceeding, wherein the constitutionality

ASBURY HOSPITAL v. CASS COUNTY.
207

209

Opinion of the Court.

of a state statute, as applied to the appellant, was sustained.
Mr. Herbert G. Nilles, with whom Mr. Paul J. Thompson was on the brief, for appellant.
Nels G. Johnson, Attorney General of North Dakota,
with whom P. 0. Sathre, Assistant Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUsTcI
STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant, a Minnesota non-profit corporation, sought,
in the state district court of North Dakota, a declaratory
judgment that the so-called Initiative Measure of 1932,
North Dakota Laws, 1933, pp. 494, 495, as amended by
Chap. 89, Laws 1933, and Chap. 111, Laws 1935, is unconstitutional as applied to appellant's North Dakota farming
lands.
The challenged statute declares, §§ 2, 3, that corporations, both domestic and foreign, which "now own or hold
rural real estate, used or usable, for farming or agriculture,
except such as is reasonably necessaxy in. the conduct of
their business, shall dispose of the same within ten years
from the date that this Act takes effect . . .," and that
"the ten year limitation provided by this Section shall
be deemed a covenant, running with the title to the land
against any grantee, successor of (or) assignee of such corporation, which is also a corporation." Farming land in
the state owned by any corporation in violation of the
statute is, by § 5, made subject to escheat to the county in
which it is located, by suit instituted by the county attorney. The county is required to dispose of the land at
public auction to the highest bidder within one year after
escheat, and to pay the proceeds, less the expenses of sale,
to the former corporate owner.
Appellant alleges in its amended complaint that prior
to the enactment of the statute it had acquired a tract of

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

land within Cass County, North Dakota, in satisfaction of
a mortgage indebtedness, and that it has since leased the
property out to farmers who have used it as farm land.
The amended complaint further alleges that since the enactment of the statute appellant has constantly attempted
to sell this tract, and that it has been and will be unable
to sell it for an amount equal to the original mortgage debt
before the expiration of the statutory ten-year period;
that any sale which the county, proceeding under the statute, might be able to make, would be for substantially less
than the amount appellant has invested in the land and
the costs of sale. The amended complaint sets up that
the statute, as applied to appellant's tract, violates the
privileges and immunities clauses of Article IV, § 2 and
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution,
the contract clause, Article I, § 10, and the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and prays for a judgment that the statute is unconstitutional and void as applied to appellant and for an injunction restraining appellee county from enforcing the
statute.
The Supreme Court of North Dakota sustained an order
of the trial court overruling appellees' demurrer to the
amended complaint, 72 N. D. 359, 7 N. W. 2d 438. Upon
remand of the case for further proceedings, the trial court
found the allegations of fact set out in the amended complaint to be true, construed the statute as applicable to appellant's land, which was held not to be necessary to the
conduct of appellant's business, and sustained the constitutionality of the statute in all respects. The Supreme
Court of North Dakota affirmed. 73 N. D. 469,16 N. W. 2d
523. The case comes here on appeal under § 237 (a) of
the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. 344 (a), appellant repeating
in its assignments of error the attack made on the statute
by its complaint.
Appellant does not invoke the commerce clause, and
is neither a citizen of a state nor of the United States

ASBURY HOSPITAL v. CASS COUNTY.
207

211

Opinion of the Court.

within the protection of the privileges and immunities
clauses of Article IV, § 2 of the Constitution and the
Fourteenth Amendment. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168,
177; PembinaMining Co. v. Pennsylvania,125 U. S. 181,
187; Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112, 126.
The State of North Dakota has granted no charter or
certificate of incorporation to appellant, and has issued
to it no permit to do business or own property within the
state which could give rise to contract rights which appellant could assert against the state. None axe to be
implied from appellant's mere acquisition of land in the
state either before or after the enactment of the statute.
Erie R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,21 Wall. 492; Connecticut
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602, 620-622;
Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322,
344-5.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not deny to the state
power to exclude a foreign corporation from doing business or acquiring or holding property within it. Horn
Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305, 312-315;
Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, 652; Munday v. Wisconsin Trust Co., 252 U. S. 499; Crescent Oil Co. v.
Mississippi, 257 U. S. 129, 137. While recognizing the
unqualified power of the state to preclude its entry into
the state for these purposes, appellant points out that the
state has permitted it to enter and to invest its money
in obligations secured by mortgage on land within the
state, in consequence of which it lawfully acquired the
land free of restrictions. Appellant argues that the state
may not, by later legislation, force a sale of the land thus
innocently acquired, under conditions which do not allow
recovery of the original investment. But a state's power
to exclude a foreign corporation, or to limit the nature
of the business it may conduct within the state, does not
end as soon as the corporation has lawfully entered the
state and there acquired immovable property. Subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

quent legislation excluding such a corporation from continuing in the state has been sustained as an exercise of
the general power to exclude foreign corporations which
does not offend due process. Hammond Packing Co. v.
Arkansas, supra, 342-3; see also Baltic Mining Co. v.
Massachusetts,231 U. S. 68,83. Similarly, this Court has
upheld legislation imposing burdens greater than those
to which such corporations were subject at the time of
their entry on the ground that the state might exclude
them altogether at a later date. Philadelphia Fire
Association v. New York, 119 U. S. 110; Horn Silver
Mining Co. v. New York, supra; see also Crescent Oil Co.
v. Mississippi, supra; Lincoln National Life Ins. Co. v.
Read, 325 U. S. 673. Appellant, even if its activities in
North Dakota are now restricted to the ownership of
farm land within the state, stands in no better position
to invoke the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The total exclusion of a corporation owning fixed property
within a state requires it to sell or otherwise dispose of
such property. Appellant must do no more. While
appellant is not compelled by the present statute to cease
all activities in North Dakota, the greater power includes
the less.
Since the state may validly require appellant to sell its
farm land, the contention that the statute is wanting in
due process because conditions have been such since its
enactment that appellant has been and will be unable to
salvage an investment made more than ten years before
raises no substantial constitutional question. The due
process clause does not guarantee that a foreign corporation when lawfully excluded as such from ownership of
land in the state shall recapture its cost. It is enough that
the corporation, in complying with the lawful command
of the state to part with ownership, is afforded a fair opportunity to realize the value of the land, and that the sale,
when required, is to be under conditions reasonably calcu-

ASBURY HOSPITAL v. CASS COUNTY.
207

213

Opinion of the Court.

lated to realize its value at the time of sale. No reason is
advanced for saying, and we cannot say, that the period of
ten years allowed to appellant to dispose of the property,
or its sale after ten years at public auction held under
direction of the court and comparable generally to a mortgage foreclosure sale, fails to satisfy either of these conditions. As the North Dakota Supreme Court pointed out
in its opinion, the statutory escheat of appellant's land is
effected by suit to which the corporation must be a party,
with full opportunity to be heard in advance. The judgment of sale in conformity to the statute is entered by the
court which "has the power to protect the rights of the
corporation as to the notice and conduct of the sale by
appropriate provisions in its judgment."
Appellant makes the further objection that the statute
denies due process because it deprives it of the possession
of the property during the period from the time of escheat
to the date of public sale, and makes no provision for any
accounting for the rents and profits of the land during that
period. The state's Attorney General argues that in the
escheat proceeding the court has power to require and will
require such an accounting. The record does not disclose
that this objection was raised or considered by any court
in the course of the present suit, or that any state court has
construed the statute so as to determine whether a corporation whose land has been escheated will be deprived
of the rents and profits pending the sale.
We are thus asked to pass on the constitutionality of a
possible application of the state statute in advance of its
application to appellant, and of its authoritative construction by the state courts. Lacking such construction,
without which no constitutional question can arise, the
issue is not an appropriate one for adjudication by the
declaratory judgment procedure. This Court is without
power to give advisory opinions. It will not decide constitutional issues which are hypothetical, or in advance

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

of the necessity for deciding them, or without reference
to the manner in which the statute, whose constitutional
validity is drawn in question, is to be applied. Federation
of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S. 450, 459-463, and cases
cited.
Only two of the equal protection contentions which
appellant presses here appear to have been presented to
or considered by the state courts. The North Dakota
Supreme Court held that the statute's exception from its
operation, of lands owned and held by corporations whose
business is dealing in farm lands, (§ 2), and of the lands
belonging to cooperative corporations, seventy-five percent of whose members or stockholders are farmers residing on farms, or depending principally on farming
for their livelihood, (§ 4), did not deny the equal protection claimed. We agree.
The legislature is free to make classifications in the
application of a statute which are relevant to the legislative purpose. The ultimate test of validity is not whether
the classes differ but whether the differences between them
are pertinent to the subject with respect to which the
classification is made. Metropolitan Casualty Co. v.
Broumell, 294 U. S. 580, 583, and cases cited. We cannot
say that there are no differences between corporations
generally and those falling into the excepted classes which
may appropriately receive recognition in the legislative
application of a state policy against the concentration of
farming lands in corporate ownership.
The North Dakota Legislature may have thought that
its policy with reference to corporate-owned agricultural
lands would be advanced by permitting corporations engaged in the business of dealing in farm lands to acquire
and sell without restriction lands forced upon the market
by the statute. It could have thought that its policy would
be in part defeated by withholding authority from farm cooperatives to acquire and use farm lands for agricultural

ASBURY HOSPITAL v. CASS COUNTY.
207

215

Opinion of the Court.

purposes. Cf. United States v. Rock Royal Co-op., 307
U. S. 533, 562-564. Statutory discrimination between
classes which are in fact different must be presumed to be
relevant to a permissible legislative purpose, and will not
be deemed to be a denial of equal protection if any state
of facts could be conceived which would support it. Rast
v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 357; Carmichael
v. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495, 509, and cases cited.
Appellant also asserts that the statute imposes an unconstitutional discrimination because §§ 2, 3 provide that
any corporation which acquired farm land in any manner
prior to 1932, the effective date of the Act, or by judicial
process or operation of law thereafter, is required to dispose of it within the ten-year period, while a corporation
which acquired land by deed or grant after 1932 may hold
it without restriction. But § 4 of Chapter 89 of the North
Dakota Laws of 1933 provides: "That the title and ownership of any real estate acquired, in any manner, by any
domestic or foreign corporation, since the approval and
adoption of the aforesaid initiated law, is hereby declared
to be legal and valid for all purposes, notwithstanding any
provisions in said initiated law contained, but subject however, to all of the provisions now contained in said initiated
law as hereby amended and reenacted."
This section Was not construed by any state court in the
present litigation and we are not advised why farming
lands acquired in conformity to § 4 are not, as the section
declares, made "subject . . . to all of the provisions now
contained" in the Act as amended, including those relating
to the escheat and sale of farming lands. Nor does it appear that any such discrimination is in fact made in the
enforcement of the statute. As we have already pointed
out in this opinion, a constitutional question which turns
on the construction and application of a statute which has
neither been authoritatively construed nor applied by the
state courts may not appropriately be decided by this

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Court. Federationof Labor v. McAdory, supra, and cases
cited.
The North Dakota Supreme Court, in its opinion, and
counsel, in brief and argument here, confined their discussion to the question whether the state's powers over
a foreign corporation as such justify the compulsory disposition of its farm land within the state. We need not,
for present purposes, have recourse to other possible
sources of state power to control the ownership and disposition of property lying within its borders. We have
considered but find it unnecessary to discuss other arguments of lesser moment.
We dismiss the appeal insofar as it draws in question
the constitutionality of the act for its alleged failure to
require an accounting for rents and profits of the land
in the interval between the judgment of escheat and the
sale of the land, and insofar as North Dakota farming
lands acquired by corporations by deed or grant subsequent to 1932 are said to be exempted from the operation
of the statute. In all other respects the judgment is
affirmed.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK is of the opinion that the appeal
should be dismissed for want of a substantial federal
question.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

