MINE SAFETY CO. v. FORRESTAL.
Opinion of the Court.

MINE SAFETY APPLIANCES CO. v. FORRESTAL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 71. Argued November 9, 13, 1945.--Decided December 10, 1945.
1. In a suit brought by a government contractor in the form of a
suit against the Under Secretary of the Navy as an individual and
not as an officer of the Government, but the sole purpose of which
is to prevent him from taking action under the Renegotiation Act
to stop payment of money by the Government to satisfy the Government's and not the Under Secretary's debt, the United States
is an indispensable party. P. 373.
2. Such a suit was properly dismissed, even though it challenged the
constitutionality of the Renegotiation Act; because it was a suit
against the United States to which the sovereign had not consented.
Section 403 (e) of the Renegotiation Act applied. P. 374.
59 F. Supp. 733, affirmed.
APPEAL from an order of a three-judge district court dismissing, as a suit against the United States to which the
sovereign had not consented, a complaint against the
Under Secretary of the Navy seeking an injunction and a
declaratory judgment holding the Renegotiation Act
unconstitutional.

Mr. W. Denning Stewart, with whom Messrs. Mahlon
E. Lewis and CharlesEffinger Smoot were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. David L. Kreeger,pro hac vice, with whom Solicitor
GeneralMcGrath,Messrs. A. Morris Kobrick and Jerome
H. Simonds were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
After an investigation in which appellant appeared,
appellee James V. Forrestal, while Under Secretary of the
Navy, determined that the appellant had received a large

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

amount of excessive profits on government war contracts
within the meaning of the Renegotiation Act.' Pursuant
to the powers given him by that Act the appellee notified
appellant that unless appellant took action to eliminate
these profits the Under Secretary would direct government disbursing officers to withhold payments due appellant on other contracts, sufficient in amount to offset the
government's loss due to the excessive profits.' Section
403 (e) of the Renegotiation Act provides that any contractor aggrieved by the Secretary's determination may
within ninety days apply to the Tax Court for a de novo
trial and adjudication of the issue. The section provides
that the Tax Court "shall have exclusive jurisdiction
. . . to finally determine the amount . . . and such determination shall not be reviewed or redetermined by any
court or agency." 58 Stat. 86. The appellant, without
following the procedure provided for in ยง 403 (e), filed
this complaint in the District Court. The complaint seeks
an injunction and declaratory judgment. It alleges,
among other things, that the Act is unconstitutional on
many grounds; that withholding payment of the sums
found to represent excessive profits would seriously interfere with appellant's operations and with production of
critical materials for the government; that, due to statutes
and executive orders which make many of the appellant's
contracts confidential and secret, it will be impossible for
it to carry on proceedings to enforce its contract rights
until these restrictions are lifted; and that it is without
Stat. 226, 245; 56 Stat. 798, 982; 57 Stat. 347; 57 Stat. 564;
58 Stat. 21, 78.
2 Section 403 (c) (2) of the Renegotiation Act authorizes and directs
the Secretary to eliminate excessive profits by, among other things,
"withholding from amounts otherwise due to the contractor any
amount of such excessive profits."
156

MINE SAFETY CO. v. FORRESTAL.
371

Opinion of the Court.

a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law.' The
District Court composed of three judges dismissed the
complaint as a suit against the United States to which the
sovereign had not consented, 59 F. Supp. 733, and the case
comes before us on direct appeal. 28 U. S. C. ยง 380a.
Here government counsel, appearing for the Secretary,
advance the District Court's grounds and contend further
that the judgment below be affirmed because appellant
failed to exhaust its administrative remedy and to follow
the statutory procedure in not first going before the Tax
Court to which Congress has granted "exclusive" jurisdiction, and because it does not appear that appellant is
without an adequate legal remedy.
We think the government is an indispensable party in
this case, and since it has not consented to be sued in the
District Court in this type of proceeding, the complaint
was properly dismissed against the government officer.
Minnesota v. United States, 305 U. S. 382; Stanley v.
Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255. Appellant contends that the
action seeks to prevent a tort by the Secretary, acting as
an individual and not as an officer of the government, consisting of a trespass against appellant's property, and that
equitable relief is necessary because appellant has no adequate remedy at law and since it would otherwise suffer
irreparable loss. Under our former decisions, had the
factual allegations supported these contentions, the com8 Appellant also alleged below that the Secretary had threatened
to instruct other contractors to withhold any moneys due to appellant.

A stipulation and affidavit by the parties reveal, however, that this
action will in fact not be taken. Any controversy that might have
been before the court by virtue of this allegation has, thus, become
moot. It can therefore not serve as the basis for the court's consideration of the constitutional and other questions here in issue. United
States v. Alaska Steamship Co., 253 U. S. 113; Commercial Cable
Co. v. Burleson, 250 U. S. 360; Montgomery Ward & Co. v. United
States, 326 U. S. 690. Cf. Coffman v. Breeze Corporations, 323
U. S. 316.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

plaint as filed would, in the absence of any further proceedings, have provided a basis for the equitable relief
sought. See e. g., PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605, 619-620. For according to these cases, if we
assume, as we must for the purpose of disposing of the
jurisdictional issue, that appellant's allegations including
the one that the Renegotiation Act is unconstitutional
are true, the fact that the Secretary had acted pursuant
to the command of that statute would have made no
difference. These cases hold that a public officer can not
justify a trespass against a person's property by invoking
the command of an unconstitutional statute. Under such
circumstances, the tort becomes the officer's individual
responsibility, and the government is not held to have
sufficient interest in the controversy to be considered an
indispensable party. But the government does not lack
such interest in all cases where the suit is nominally against
the officer as an individual. The government's interest
must be determined in each case "by the essential nature
and effect of the proceeding, as it appears from the entire
record." Ex parte New York, 256 U. S. 490, 500.
Here, the essential allegations and the relief sought
do not make out a threatened trespass against any property in the possession of or belonging to the appellant.
Nor does the record present any other circumstances that
would make the Secretary suable as an individual in this
proceeding. Certainly the action which the Secretary
proposed to take is not a violation of any express command of Congress. Cf. Rolston v. Missouri Fund
Comm'rs, 120 U. S. 390, 411; Houston v. Ormes, 252 U. S.
469; Smith v. Jackson, 246 U. S. 388. The sole purpose of
this proceeding is to prevent the Secretary from taking
certain action which would stop payment by the government of money lawfully in the United States Treasury to
satisfy the government's and not the Secretary's debt to
the appellant. The assumption underlying this action

MINE SAFETY CO. v. FORRESTAL.
371

REED,

J., concurring.

is that if the relief prayed for is granted, the government
will pay and thus relinquish ownership and possession of
the money. In effect, therefore, this is an indirect effort
to collect a debt allegedly owed by the government in a
proceeding to which the government has not consented.
The underlying basis for the relief asked is the alleged
unconstitutionality of the Renegotiation Act 4 and the
sole purpose of the proceeding is to fix the government's
and not the Secretary's liability. Thus, though appellant
denies it, the conclusion is inescapable that the suit is
essentially one designed to reach money which the government owns. Under these circumstances the government
is an indispensable party, Minnesota v. United States, 305
U. S. 382, 388, even though the Renegotiation Act under
which the Secretary proposed to act might be held unconstitutional. Louisianav. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109 U. S. 446;
Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52, 67, 68; In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 443, 496, 497, 505-507; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy,
140 U. S. 1, 9; Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335, 337; see also
N. Y. Guaranty & Indemnity Co. v. Steel, 134 U. S. 230.
In short the government's liability can not be tried "behind its back." Louisianav. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70, 78.
Affirmed.
M. JUSTIcE REED concurs in the result for the reason
that he thinks no adequate ground is alleged for an injunction. In his view a legal-remedy exists in the Court
of Claims since objection to the amount of excess profits
is waived and the stipulation, referred to in the opinion,
removes multiplicity of actions for relief as a possible
ground.
MR. JUsTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
I This is seen from the prayer for a declaratory judgment, which
asks only that the Renegotiation Act be held unconstitutional.

