376

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

MAY DEPARTMENT STORES CO., DOING BUSINESS
AS FAMOUS-BARR CO., v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 39.

Argued October 12, 1945.-Decided December 10, 1945.

1. The conclusion of the National Labor Relations Board that all
non-supervisory employees in the men's busheling rooms of a
department store, though numbering only 30 to 40 of the store's
5,000 employees, constituted an appropriate unit for collective bargaining under § 9 (bJ of the Act, since these employees had a degree
of self-organization and a special trade which sufficiently differentiated them from other employees, was amply supported by the
evidence. P. 380.
2. In the circumstances of the election of a Joint Council as bargaining representative in this case--the Board having directed the
placing of the name of the Joint Council on the ballot, although
the employees in the unit were members of a local union which the
Joint Council represented-there is no basis for the employer's
objection to the certification on the ground of possible confusion
of the employees. P. 381.
3. Under the National Labor Relations Act, it is the duty of the
employer to bargain collectively only with the duly recognized or
accredited representative of the employees; and disregard of this
duty is a violation of § 8 (1) of the Act. P. 383.
4. The National Labor Relations Board was justified in finding that
the employer, in seeking the War Labor Board's approval of wage
increases for its employees, including employees in the unit here
involved, without bargaining collectively with the certified representative in respect of the wages, was guilty of an unfair labor
practice in violation of § 8 (1) of the Act. P. 384.
5. The admission in evidence and consideration by the Board of
announcements made over the store's public address system and
in the house organ, concerning the application for War Labor Board
approval of wage increases for its employees, did not deny the
employer's freedom of speech under the First Amendment of the
Federal Constitution. P. 386..
6. In the circumstances of this case, the injunction against the em-

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

377

Opinion of the Court.

ployer will be modified so as not to apply generally to all violations
of the rights of the employees in the bargaining unit here involved,
but only to other interferences, in violation of § 8 (1) or otherwise,
with the certified agent's representation of these employees. P. 392.
146 F. 2d 66, modified and affirmed.

CERTIoRmIw, 324 U. S. 838, to review a decree ordering
enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations
Board, 53 N. L. R. B. 1366.
Messrs. Milton H. Tucker and Robert T. Burch, with
whom Messrs. Lyle M. Allen and R. Walston Chubb were
on the brief, for petitioner.

Miss Ruth Weyand, with whom Acting Solicitor General Judson, Messrs. Mozart G. Ratner and Millard Cass
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ of certiorari brings here for review the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals enforcing an order of the
National Labor Relations Board which was entered after
the Board found upon hearings that petitioner had violated Sections 8 (1) and 8 (5) of the National Labor Relations Act.' The petition for the writ presented issues
149 Stat. 452-53. "Sec. 7. Employees shall have the right to selforganization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain
collectively through representatives of their
engage in concerted activities, for the purpose
or other mutual aid or protection.
"Sec. 8. It shall be an unfair labor practice
"(1) To interfere with, restrain, or coerce
cise of the rights guaranteed in section 7.

own choosing, and to
of collective bargaining
for an employeremployees in the exer-

"(5) To refuse to bargain collectively with the representatives of

his employees, subject to the provisions of Section 9 (a)."
Opinion of the C. C. A., Labor Board v. May Department Stores
Co., 146 F. 2d 66; determination of National Labor Relations Board,
53 N. L. R. B. 1366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

(1) as to whether two small related departments with
thirty to forty employees may be an appropriate bargaining unit when the department store of which they are a
part has around three hundred and fifty departments and
approximately five thousand employees; (2) as to whether
the Board could properly place the name of a Joint Labor
Council on the ballot for the employees' bargaining representative when none of the employees were members of
the Council but only of a local union which was associated
with others in the Council; (3) as to whether seeking
authority by the employer from the National War Labor
Board to increase wages without taking up the increase
with a certified bargaining agent may be an unfair labor
practice under § 8 (1) of the Labor Act; and (4) as to the
propriety of a Board order to cease and desist generally
from unfair labor practices instead of an order to cease
and desist only from the type or types of unfair practices
which the Board found the employer committed. As these
issues presented important problems in the administration of the National Labor Relations Act, certiorari was
granted. 324 U. S. 838.
Appropriate Unit. After a hearing in which the employer, the petitioner here, the May Department Stores
Company, doing business as Famous-Barr Company, a
St. Louis department store, took part, the Labor Relations
Board, on June 16, 1943, found that all non-supervisory
employees of the Company, then 28 in number, working
in the main and basement men's busheling rooms, constituted an appropriate unit for collective bargaining
within the meaning of § 9 (b) 2of the Labor Relations Act.
2 49 Stat. 453, § 9. "(b) The Board shall decide in each case whether,
in order to insure to employees the full benefit of their right to selforganization and to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate
the policies of this Act, the unit appropriate for the purposes of
collective bargaining shall be the employer unit, craft unit, plant
unit, or subdivision thereof."

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

379

Opinion of the Court.

An election was ordered. It resulted in the choice and
designation of the St. Louis Joint Council, United Retail,
Wholesale & Department Store Employees of America,
C. I. 0., as the representative for collective bargaining of
the employees of the unit.
The Company contended that a store-wide unit of its
five thousand employees was the most appropriate and at
any rate that employees in the women's alteration and the
fur alteration departments should be added to the employees in the men's busheling rooms to form the unit.
As there is no provision for direct review of the determination and certification of the bargaining representative, the Company, in order to secure judicial review of
the finding as to the unit, awaited this proceeding which
sought a decree directing it to bargain collectively with
the representative. See Inland Empire Council v. Millis,
325 U. S. 697.
A few months before this proceeding a determination
that all employees of the Company subject to stated exceptions were the appropriate unit for collective bargaining had been sought by the C. I. 0. The Company objected because no sufficient showing of representation was
made and because it took exception to the exclusion of
certain employees from the proposed unit. This petition
was dismissed for failure of the C. I. 0. to make a substantial showing of membership in the suggested storewide unit. 46 N. L. R. B. 305. That prior application is
not a bar to this. The Board was careful to note in this
proceeding that a larger unit might be fixed as appropriate
if self-organization developed. Other departments of the
store had members of this and other unions as employees.
This presence of union members throughout the enterprise
was a matter of consideration in deciding upon the appropriate unit but was not decisive. Compare Pittsburgh
Plate Glass Co. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 146, 156. No
labor organization claimed to represent the entire body

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

of employees. Therefore the Board determined to approve this unit as appropriate so that collective bargaining
might start for these employees without waiting until
-more employees might be organized into a larger unit.
Compare Labor Board v. Hearst Publications,322 U. S.
111, 134.
Under § 9 (b) the Board is delegated the authority to
determine the unit. The judicial review afforded is not
for the purpose of weighing the evidence upon which the
Board acted and perhaps to overrule the exercise of its
discretion but to "guarantee against arbitrary action by
the Board." 8 The Board had before it the business of the
Company, the numbers of employees, the treatment of all
employees as a unit by management with reference to sick
leave, hospitalization, employee privileges, vacations, et
cetera. Evidence was presented that a large proportion
of employees in the proposed unit were members of the
same union. It had testimony as to similarity and dissimilarity in tailoring and altering between the men's and
women's alteration rooms. There was evidence that those
who work on men's clothing, speaking generally, belong
to a different union organization than those who work on
women's clothes. The Board considered the interchange
of workers between the two groups. We think that there
was ample testimony to support the Board's conclusion
that the employees of the two busheling rooms were an
appropriate unit, since these employees had a degree of
self-organization and a special trade which sufficiently
differentiated them from other employees.
Form of Ballot. Petitioner objects to the certification
because the ballot contained the name of the St. Louis
Joint Council, United Retail, Wholesale & Department
Store Employees, as a candidate for bargaining representative from the unit. This was the organization which was
8S. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Ses., p. 14.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

381

Opinion of the Court.

certified. It had filed the petition for determination of
the representative. The Council claimed that more than
51% of the employees in the suggested unit had designated it as their collective bargaining representative. The
Board directs what names go on the ballot. Unless there
is a showing of a substantial number of employees in the
proposed unit who have become members of and selected
the petitioner as their bargaining representative, the
Board does not ordinarily order an election.4 This is an
administrative policy of the Board. In this case, on the
Joint Council's petition for certification, the Board found
that the Council had a majority of the employees. As a
matter of fact it was a local union which the employees
had selected and joined. The Board pointed out in its
finding of facts on the petition for an election that the
Joint Council represented this local and similar locals in
other stores.
The Company says that some employees may have been
misled by the ballot into thinking that the Joint Council
had a substantial number of the unit's employees as members, because elections are not ordinarily called unless
that situation exists. The local was represented by the
Joint Council. Cf. Labor Board v. Franks Bros. Co., 137
F. 2d 989, 992, affirmed on other grounds, FranksBros. Co.
v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 702. The Joint Council was
chosen by a majority of the employees of the unit and
certified. In the circumstances of this election, we see no
basis for the Company's objection to the certified representative on the ground of possible confusion of the
employees.
Action on Wages. The Board found that the Company
interfered with, restrained and coerced its employees in
the exercise of the rights guaranteed by § 7 of the Act,
'In re Houston Shipbuilding Corp., 41 N. L. R. B. 638; In re
American Manufacturing Co., 41 N. L. R. B. 995.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

under the circumstances herein detailed, in seeking the
necessary approval (56 Stat. 765; Executive Order 9250,
7 Fed. Reg. 7871) on August 30,1943, of the National War
Labor Board for an upward wage adjustment for a large
proportion of its employees, including the employees of
the unit here involved, without bargaining collectively on
the subject of the wages with the certified union. A letter
accompanied the request to the War Labor Board which
explained that certain craft employees, not here involved,
were excluded from the application for authority to increase wages because they were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The letter went on to say:
"The St. Louis Joint Council, United Retail, Wholesale
and Department Store Employees of America, C. I. 0.,
.... has been certified by the National Labor Relations
Board, but we do not regard this as an appropriate unit
and have consistently taken that position and have so
notified all parties concerned. It is our intention to submit that question to the Courts, if a'nd when the occasion
arises. We have not recognized this Union and have not
bargained with it for the employees in Departments 280
or 281 and no negotiations with that Union are pending.
It is intended, however, that the employees in Departments 280 and 281 shall be included in this application.
"We do not believe that any of the organizations named
in the application, nor the organization named above,
have any interest whatever in the enclosed application.
However, if the organization named above should object
to the inclusion of the employees of Departments 280 and
281 in the application, you are advised that said application may be considered as having been amended so as to
exclude those employees from the application."
The next morning the employees were told over the store
address system of the application for a wage increase for
all employees, except higher paid executives and those
employees "whose salaries have been fixed by closed shop

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

383

Opinion of the Court.

agreements." A short time later another reference to the
application was made over the address system. A similar
announcement appeared in the September 3 issue of the
store paper. The conditional offer to exclude the employees of the unit was not referred to in the announcements. Upon these facts the Board found a violation
of § 8 (1).
The Company urges that its request for authority, without negotiation with the certified union as to the application to the War Labor Board, was not an unfair practice
under § 8 (1) but only a necessary result of its position
on non-recognition of the certified representative because
the Company did not agree with the Board's determination of the appropriate unit for the selection of representatives. The Company says it could not give recognition to the certified agent and maintain this position.
We have in a preceding division of this opinion stated
our conclusion that the Joint Council was a properly certified bargaining representative. Therefore at the time
of the request to the War Labor Board for authority to
increase wages, the Joint Council must be considered as
a properly certified bargaining agent. Company action
in regard to it must be judged in that light even though
its attitude toward the certification made its choice
difficult.
The Joint Council was certified on July 12, 1943. After
the election, the Council had requested a conference with
the Company for negotiating a contract to cover wages,
hours and working conditions. This request was declined
on July 19th with the statement that the Company did
not agree with the decision of the Board and desired to
preserve its full rights to question the result as it "may
see fit." The application to the War Labor Board followed
on August 30th.
It is settled law that the Labor Relations Act makes it
an employer's duty to bargain collectively only with the

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

duly recognized or accredited representative of the employees. Disregard of this duty violates § 8 (1) of the
Act. § 9 (a). Medo Corp. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 678,
683-84. Any other conclusion would infringe an essential
principle of collective bargaining. See J. I. Case Co. v.
Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332,338. Employer action to bring
about changes in wage scales without consultation and
negotiation with the certified representative of its employees cannot, we think, logically or realistically, be distinguished from bargaining with individuals or minorities.
The fact that the application to the War Labor Board
was not the actual increase of wages but a necessary preliminary does not make unilateral action, accompanied by
publication of the step taken to the employees, any the
less objectionable. The application to the War Labor
Board marked a unilateral determination by the Company
that the employees of this unit should have the specific
increase deemed due them by the Company or none at all,
if the bargaining agent should object in accordance with
the letter quoted above. The employer was not getting
into position to negotiate with the agent. He declared the
contrary and proposed that he, as employer, would make
the increase if permission were granted.
Two national labor groups had each separately sought
for months to organize the Company. One effort to secure the designation of a unit had failed. The present
designation was made over the protests of the Company.
It had urged in its motion for reconsideration of the order
of election:
"There are two competing labor organizations seeking
to organize the employees in this store. By this decision
one of them is granted an election in the unit composed
of'two departments. There are some 350 departments in
this store and if this Employer is to be confronted with
elections and separate bargaining for each one or two de-

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

385

Opinion of the Court.

partments it will be an endless and intolerable interference
with store operations, which should not be permitted."
By going ahead with wage adjustments without negotiation with the bargaining agent, it took a step which justified the conclusion of the Board as to the violation of
§ 8 (1). Such unilateral action minimizes the influence
of organized bargaining. It interferes with the right of
self-organization by empliasizing to the employees that
there is no necessity for a collective bargaining agent. If
successful in securing approval for the proposed increase
of wages, it might well, as the Board points out, block
the bargaining representative in securing further wage
adjustments.
It may be that the Company sought only to preserve its
opportunity to contest the certification of the unit. It is
pointed out that the increases for which approval was
sought covered several thousand employees and that it
is hardly conceivable that a general increase for so many
would be sought to injure so few. But the Board's contention is not that the application, as a whole, was for the
purpose of undermining the Council. Its conclusion was
that the manner of presenting and publicizing the application had the effect of coercing the employees. Instead
of taking up the increase of this unit's wages with the
Council, filing a joint application, with reservation of the
Company's legal right to challenge the certification of the
bargaining agent when any complaint might be filed for
refusal to bargain collectively, or, omitting the employees
of the questioned unit, if the Council would not join in
such an application, the Company chose to ignore the
properly certified agent. Nor can we agree that if, under
the procedure suggested, the employees in this unit had
been omitted from the employees who received increases,
there would have been danger that the National Labor
Relations Board would have considered such omission an

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

unfair labor practice. Whatever weight an omission
might have under other circumstances, under these it
would have followed an effort to avoid injury to the employees and could not properly be held an interference
with their rights.
We find no basis for eliminating the announcements or
the publication from consideration on the ground that
they were an exercise of the right of free expression, secured by the First Amendment. They are a part of the
totality of Company activities and were properly received
by the Board as evidence of the unilateral action of the
employer. Labor Board v. Virginia Power Co., 314 U. S.
469, 477.
Breadth of Order. Petitioner complains here of the refusal of the Court to modify paragraph 1 (b) of the Board's
order to the extent which petitioner explicitly asked for
below in its petition for rehearing.' That paragraph, together with another which enjoins refusal to bargain, is
5Section 10 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 454,

precludes the consideration by the Circuit Court of any objection
not raised before the Board, unless such failure is excusable because
of "extraordinary circumstances." This Court therefore is authorized, 8w 8ponte, to appraise the record to determine the power of the
Circuit Court to review paragraph 1 (b) of the Board's order. Labor
Board v. Bradford Dyeing Ans., 310 U. S. 318, 341.
In this proceeding the paragraph first appeared in the intermediate
report of the Board's examiner. The petitioner excepted specifically
to paragraph 1 (b) of the proposed order as "not supported or justified by the record." This was the only objection made to the paragraph in question in the record of the proceedings before the Board.
The examiner's recommendation was adopted by the Board in .its
order. Unless this objection was sufficiently specific to apprise the
Board of the question now presented, the Circuit Court had no power
to consider it. Marshall Field & Co. v. Labor Board, 318 U. S. 253.
In the Marshall Field case we declined to consider an issue as to the
power of the Board to grant a back pay order which was construed
as barring the deduction of unemployment compensation from the
award, although the question was raised by answer and decided by

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

387

Opinion of the Court.

set out below.8 Petitioner argues that the broad, blanket
provisions of 1 (b) are invalid, even though, of course, restricted to the few employees in the affected unit. The
language of the prohibition covers interferences with all
the rights of these employees which are secured by § 7
of the Labor Act, while at the most, petitioner urges, the
the Circuit Court of Appeals, Labor,Board v. Marshall Field & Co.,
129 F. 2d 169. Our reason for refusing review was that the only
objection to the Board's power was error by the examiner "in making
each and every recommendation." The remedy recommended by the
examiner was the usual back pay less earnings without any word in
the report as to the unemployment compensation. This was too general to apprise the Board of an intention to bring up the question of
the deductibility of the compensation and of the necessity for findings.
Although it falls short of desirable specificity, we think the objection was sufficient in the present case. No further findings are
needed. The paragraph in issue is a standard form of order frequently used by the Board; the same question with respect to an
almost identical order was considered by this Court in Labor Board v.
Express Pub. Co., 312 U. S. 426, and has been a frequent subject of
dispute in the Circuit Courts (see n. 10 infra). These circumstances
coupled with an objection that the order was "not supported or
justified by the record" put the Board on notice of the issue now
presented.
6Decreed that May Department Stores Company, etc., shall:
"1. Cease and desist from: (a) Refusing to bargain collectively with
St. Louis Joint Council, United Retail & Department Store Employees of America, affiliated with the Congress of Industrial Organizations, as the exclusive representative of all its employees at its
St. Louis store engaged in the busheling room, second floor, department 280, and in the busheling room, basement, department 281, including regular extra employees in these departments, but excluding
the two foremen and all other employees of the respondent;
"(b) In any other manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing
its employees who are referred to in paragraph 1 (a) in the exercise
of their right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their
own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose
of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, as guaranteed in Section 7 of the National Labor Relations Act."

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Board has found and the Circuit Court sustained only two
unfair labor practices by petitioner, "(1) refusal to bargain and (2) the storewide salary increase." Both of
these, it is asserted, are but incidents in petitioner's effort
to obtain judicial review of the Board's certification. As
the Board's selection of an appropriate unit to choose the
employees' bargaining representative and the Board's subsequent certification of the representative chosen, § 9, are
not judicially reviewable directly, petitioner takes the position that it committed the unfair labor practice of refusing
to bargain with an accredited union merely to open the
way for judicial review of the certification.! Consequently
petitioner urges the cease and desist order should be no
broader than the refusal to bargain which is covered by
paragraph 1 (a), note 6 supra, with the addition of "or
from any other acts in any manner interfering with the
representative's efforts to negotiate." The suggested addition is taken from the Express PublishingCompany case,

312 U. S. at 438. Thus the breadth of paragraph 1 (b) of
the Board's order is sharply challenged as being beyond
the power of the Board in view of the evidence and findings
in this case.
The scope of injunctions which follow National Labor
Relations Board determinations is important to employer
and employee. While contempt proceedings can be instituted only by the Board and in the public interest,8
the possibility of contempt penalties by the court for
future Labor Act violations adds sufficient additional
sanctions to make material the difference between enjoined and non-enjoined employer activities.' The deci7

See American Federation of Labor v. Labor Board, 308 U. S.
401; PittsburghPlate Glass Co. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 146; Inland
Empire Councilv. Millis, 325 U. S. 697.
8 Amalgamated Workers v. Edison Co., 309 U. S. 261, 269.
9 See for business operations under contempt orders 41 Columbia
L. Rev. at 913.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

389

Opinion of the Court.

sion in the Express PublishingCompany case emphasized
this issue."0 The paragraph under attack in that case was
substantially like the paragraph here attacked.
10 The problem of the scope of injunction dealt with in Labor Board
v. Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426, has recently received careful
consideration by judges and writers. 41 Columbia L. Rev. 911; 29
Georgetown L. J. 1026; 53 Harvard L. Rev. 472; 23 Boston University
L. Rev. 447; 54 Yale L. J. 141.
Illustrative of the decisions in the Circuit Courts are the following
cases:
1. National Labor Relations Board
(a) Upholding a general § 8 (1) order on the basis of a single
unfair labor practice (the nature of the unfair practices is given in
brackets).-Labor Board v. Highland Park Mfg. Co., 110 F. 2d 632
(C. C. A. 4) [§8 (5) ]; Art Metals Const. Co. v. Board, 110 F. 2d
148 (C. C. A. 2) [§ 8 (5)]; Wilson & Co. v. Board, 124 F. 2d 845
(C. C. A. 7) [§ 8 (3)]; Labor Board v. Sunbeam Electric Mfg. Co.,
133 F. 2d 856 (C. C. A. 7) [§ 8 (1)]; LaborBoard v. StandardOil Co.,
138F.2d 885 (C.C.A.2) [§8 (2)].
(b) Upholding a general § 8 (1)order where there was more than
one unfair labor practice.-Labor Board v. Boss Mfg. Co., 107 F. 2d
574 (C. C. A. 7) [§§ 8 (1), 8 (3), 8 (5)]; Labor Board v. Reed &
Prince Mfg. Co., 118 F. 2d 874 (C. C. A. 1) [§§8 (1), 8 (3), 8 (5)];
F. W. Woolworth Co. v. Board, 121 F. 2d 658 (C. C. A. 2) [§§ 8 (1), 8
(3)]; Board v. Algoma Net Co., 124 F. 2d 730 (C. C. A. 7) [§§ 8 (1),
8 (3)]; Labor Board v. Baldwin Locomotive Works, 128 F. 2d 39
(C. C. A. 3) [§§ 8 (1), 8 (2), 8 (3), 8 (4)]; Labor Board v. Brezner
Tanning Co., 141 F. 2d 62 (C. C. A. 1) [§§8 (1), 8 (3)]; Idaho
Potato Growers v. Board, 144 F. 2d 295 (C. C. A. 9) [§§ 8 (3), 8 (5)].
(c) Limiting a § 8 (1) order based on a single unfair labor practice
to acts specifically condemned.-Globe Cotton Mills v. Board, 103 F.
2d 91 (C. C. A. 5) [§8 (5)]; Labor Board v. Swift & Co., 108 F.
2d 988 (C. C. A. 7) [§8 (2)]; McQuay-Norris Mfg. Co. v. Board,
119 F. 2d 1009 (C. C. A. 7) [§ 8 (5)] ; Labor Board v. Newark Morning Ledger Co., 120 F. 2d 262 (C. C. A. 3) [§8 (3)]; Labor Board
v. Burry Biscuit Corp., 123 F. 2d 540 (C. C. A. 7) [§ 8 (2)]; Labor
Board v. Stone, 125 F. 2d 752 (C. C. A. 7) [§8 (1)]; Commonwealth Edison Co. v. Board, 135 F. 2d 891 (C. C. A. 7) [§8 (2)];
Consolidated Aircraft Corp. v. Board, 141 F. 2d 785 (C. C. A. 9)
[§ 8 (1)]; Labor Board v. Walt Disney Productions, 146 F. 2d 44

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

The test of the proper scope of a cease and desist order
is whether the Board might have reasonably concluded
from the evidence that such an order was necessary to
prevent the employer before it "from engaging in any
unfair labor practice affecting commerce." § 10 (a)."
Equity has long been accustomed in other fields to reach
conclusions as to the scope of orders which are necessary
(C. C. A. 9) [§ 8 (3)]; Labor Board v. Lipshutz, 149 F. 2d 141

(C. C.A.5) [§ 8 (1)].
(d) Limiting a § 8 (1) order where there was more than one unfair
labor practice.-Press Co. v. Board, 73 App. D. C. 103, 118 F. 2d
937 [§§8 (1), 8 (3)]; Labor Board v. Grower-Shipper Vegetable
Assn., 122 F. 2d 368 (C. C. A. 9) [§§ 8 (1), 8 (3)]; Wilson & Co. v.
Board, 123 F. 2d 411 (C. C. A. 8) [§§8 (1), 8 (2), 8 (3)]; Labor
Board v. Servel, Inc., 149 F. 2d 542 (C. C. A. 7) [§§ 8 (1), 8 (3)].
2. Office of Price Administration
A similar situation prevails with respect to the use of injunctions
to restrain violations of regulations issued under the Emergency Price
Control Act, 56 Stat. 28.
(a) Sustaining general injunctions on the basis of particularviolations of a regulation.-Bowles v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 143 F.
2d 38 (C. C. A. 7) [preliminary injunction against violation of any
price regulation for violation of several provisions of one regulation
sustained].
(b) Sustaining limited injunctions.-Bowles v. Town Hall Grill,
145 F. 2d 680 (C. C. A. 1) [violation of restaurant ceiling prices on
poultry, lobster, gin items; injunction limited to such items sustained]; Bowles v. Sacher, 146 F. 2d 186 (C. C. A. 2) [sustaining
preliminary injunction limited to particular type of violation proved].
3. Federal Trade Commission
(a) Enforcing or affirming order broader than specific acts complained of.-Ostler Candy Co. v. F. T. C., 106 F. 2d 962 (C. C. A.
10); Hershey Chocolate Corp. v. F. T. C., 121 F. 2d 968 (C. C. A.
3); Eugene Dietzgen Co. v. F. T. C., 142 F. 2d 321 (C. C. A. 7).
(b) Limiting orders to specific act.-F.T. C. v. Beechnut Packing
Co., 257 U. S. 441; F. T. C. v. A. McLean & Son, 84 F. 2d 910
(C. CA. 7); Helen Ardelle, Inc. v. F. T. C., 101 F. 2d 718 (C. C. A. 9).
11 Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461; Union
Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 450, 470; United States v.
Bausch & Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707,724.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

391

Opinion of the Court.

to prevent interferences with the rights'of thosEwho seek
the courts' protection. 2 Injunctions in broad terms are
granted even in acts of the widest content, when the court
deems them essential to accomplish the purposes of the
act."8 We think that the Board has the same power to
12 Hecht

Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321, 328; Wyoming v. Colorado,
286 U. S. 494, 508.
Is Sherman Act-Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 77:
"It may be conceded that ordinarily where it was found that acts
had been done in violation of the statute, adequate measure of relief
would result from restraining the doing of such acts in the future.
Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375. But in a case like this, where
the condition which has been brought about in violation of the statute,
in and of itself, is not only a continued attempt to monopolize, .but
also a monopolization, the duty to enforce the statute requires the
application of broader and more controlling remedies."
"So far as the owners of the stock of the subsidiary corporations and
the corporations themselves were concerned after the stock had been
transferred, § 6 of the decree enjoined them from in any way conspiring or combining to violate the act or to monopolize or attempt
to monopolize in virtue of their ownership of the stock transferred to
them, and prohibited all agreements between the subsidiary corporations or other stockholders in the future, tending to produce or bring
about further violations of the act." P. 79.
"We so think, since we cQnstrue the sixth paragraph of the decree,
not as depriving the stockholders or the corporations, after the dissolution of the combination, of the power to make normal and lawful
contracts or agreements, but as restraining them from, by any device
whatever, recreating directly or indirectly the illegal combination
which the decree dissolved." P. 81.
Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 299:
"Appellants seek elimination of the provision of the decree that
enjoins them from using any of the offices or positions in Local 167
or the shochtim union 'for the purpose of coercing marketmen to buy
poultry, poultry feed, or other commodities necessary to the poultry
business from particular sellers thereof.' The United States is entitled to effective relief. To that end the decree should enjoin acts
of the sort that are shown by the evidence to have been done or
threatened in furtherance of the conspiracy. It should be broad
enough to prevent evasion. In framing its provisions doubts should

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

determine the needed scope of cease and desist orders
under the National Labor Relations Act that courts have,
when authorized to issue injunctions, in other litigation.
That power of the Board is subject to review under
§ 10. While the Board has been delegated initially the
exclusive authority to prevent unfair labor practices,1'
courts, which are called upon to enforce such orders by
their own decrees, may examine its scope to see whether,
on the evidence, they go so beyond the authority of the
Board as to require modification as a matter of law before
enforcement. § 10 (a) and (e). The Express Publishing
Company case declared:
"To justify an order restraining other violations it must
appear that they bear some resemblance to that which
the employer has committed or that danger of their commission in the future is to be anticipated from the course
of his conduct in the past." P. 437.
We think that, in the circumstances of this proceeding,
although there is a violation of § 8 (1) as well as 8 (5),
the violation of 8 (1) is.
so intertwined with the refusal
to bargain with a unit asserted to be certified improperly
that, without a clear determination by the Board of an
attitude of opposition to the purposes of the Act to protect the rights of employees generally, the decree-need not
enjoin Company actions which are not determined by the
Board to be so motivated.
This conclusion requires a modification of the decree
so that the injunction will not apply generally to all violabe resolved in favor of the Government and against the conspirators.
Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 532 .... When regard
is had to the evidence disclosing the numerous purposes of the conspiracy and the acts of coercion customarily employed by defendants,
it is plain that the clause referred to cannot be condemned as unnecessary or without warrant."
See American Foundriesv. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S.184, 194.
1 S. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 15; H. Rep. No. 1147,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 23.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

393

RuTLEwE, J., concurring in part.

tions under the Act of the rights of the employees in Departments 280 and 281, but will apply to other interferences, in violation of § 8 (1) or otherwise, with the
Council's representation of these employees.' There
should be added to paragraph 1 (a) of the'decreenote 6
supra, the following clause, "or from any other acts in
any manner interfering with the representative's efforts
to negotiate for or represent the above named employees
as bargaining agent." Paragraph 1 (b) should be stricken.
Textual corrections should be made to conform to these
changes. As thus modified, the decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring in part.

I cannot agree, as the Court seems to say and the Labor
Board found,' that there were two unfair practices in this
case, (1) refusal to bargain, contrary to § 8 (5); and (2)
interference, restraint and coercion of employees in violation of § 8 (1). I think only'one unfair labor practice
was shown, namely, refusal to bargain; and for that
reason I think the Board's order must be modified to
eliminate the restraints based on its finding of violation
The Board adopted the trial examiner's intermediate report with-.
out change, the employer not having applied for oral argument. 53
N. L. R. B. 1366. After reviewing the evidence under the separate
headings of "A. The refusal to bargain" and "B. Interference, restraint and coercion," the report found as to the former that "on
July 19, 1943, and at all times thereafter" the company had refused
to bargain collectively with the union; as to the latter "that, by its
unilateral action in seeking approval of its proposed wage adjustments," and by later publicizing this action, it had "interfered with,
restrained, and coerced its employees" in the exercise of the rights
guaranteed in § 7. There were separate and independent conclusions
of law based on these findings, to which the separate provisions of the
order related.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
R7UmrLFc,

J., concurring in part.

326 U. S.

of § 8 (1), as the Express Publishing Company case, 312
U. S. 426, requires in such a situation.
I am unable to understand the majority's application
of that case to a situation in which the Board has found
there were two different and substantial violations of the
Act. The Court does not hold to the contrary or rule that
either finding was unsupported by the evidence. Rather
it seems to approve and sustain both. Yet it modifies, as
I think ambiguously,' the relief which the Board found
appropriate to prevent a repetition of the interference,
coercion and restraint it determined had been inflicted
upon the employees, in addition to the refusal to bargain.
The Express Publishing case covers no such situation.
It was limited to one where the Board had imposed both
types of restraint upon a finding only of refusal to
bargain."
It is apposite to inquire, therefore, whether that case
has now been expanded to forbid the Board to impose
I The modification directed by the Court, if it is more than a change
in the form of words used in Paragraph 1 (b) of the Board's order,
necessarily cuts down the substance of the order. But since the
injunction will apply "to other interferences, in violation of § 8 (1)
or otherwise, with the Council's representation" of employees in Departments 280 and 281, and since violation of § 8 (1) includes interference, restraint or coercion of employees' rights as guaranteed by
§ 7, it is difficult to understand in just what particulars the order has
been modified. In the absence of more definite specification we must
accept the Court's modification as meaning that some substantial
change from the order's terms is intended.
8 Under the ruling the Board is not free to utilize § 8 (1) as a device
for multiplying an unfair practice under § 8 (5), so that the single act
of refusing to bargain may be made to justify an order forbidding
not only that conduct but also the numerous types of unfair practice
prohibited by the broad language of § 8 (1). The gist of the decision
was that the Board cannot thus pile unfair practice on unfair practice, like presumption on presumption, for purposes of enforceable
relief, notwithstanding the act of merely refusing to bargain may be
held technically to violate both sections in view of the language of
§ 7. Labor Board v. Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426, 433.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

RUTLEDGE,

395

J., concurring in part.

both types of restraint where it has found both kinds of
violation and neither finding is overturned. If so, I think
the result squarely conflicts with repeated decisions, reflected in the language of the opinion in the Express Publishing case itself, that "having found the acts which
constitute the unfair labor practice the Board is free to
restrain the practice and other like or related unlawful
acts." 312 U. S. 426, 436.'
It is important for the administration of the Act to
know whether the Board is to be free to adapt the remedy
to fit the evil it has found to exist, as the statute commands, § 10 (c); or, on the contrary, its remedy thus
adapted may be stricken down or modified although the
finding which justifies it is approved. That, in my judgment, goes beyond correction of abuse of the Board's
discretion and substitutes the Court's judgment for the
Board's in devising the appropriate remedy.
For this reason it becomes important to state the different reasons why I think the order should be modified
to eliminate any restraint based upon the finding of violation of § 8 (1). It is not because this Court has power
or discretion, when there are two substantial and different unfair practices, to modify the Board's order by
restricting the relief to what is appropriate to prevent
' This Court has, in various contexts, declared that the particular
means by which the effects of unfair labor practices are to be expunged
is for the Board and not for the courts to determine. Virginia Electric
& Power Co. v. Labor Board, 319 U. S. 533, 539; Labor Board v.
Link-Belt Co., 311 U. S. 584, 600; International Association of
Machinists v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72, 82. See Labor Board v.
Bradford Dyeing Association, 310 U. S. 318, 342-343. And the Court
has said that "the relation of remedy to policy is peculiarly a matter
for administrative competence" and that "courts must not enter the
allowable area of the Board's discretion. . .

."

Phelps Dodge Corp.

v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 194. See also Regal Knitwear Co. v.
Labor Board, 324 U. S. 9, 13.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RumDG, J., concurring in part.

326 U. S.

repeating only one or by other modification to eliminate
relief appropriately designed by the Board to prevent
repetition of unfair practices it has found to exist. It is
because, in my opinion, there was only one unfair practice and that was the refusal to bargain. Hence I think
the Express Publishing case exactly applies, and does so
without necessity for extending the scope of its ruling as
the Court's application appears to do.
In my judgment, an employer does not commit an unfair labor practice when he does no more than exercise
rights secured by the Federal Constitution and laws, including the Wagner Act.' That Act does not put him to
the choice of giving up his rights or exercising them on
pain of being found guilty of unfair practice. Apart from
the evidence relating to refusal to bargain under § 8 (5),
there was nothing, in my opinion, which went beyond
what was necessary to exercise or preserve the employer's
rights secured by law. The application to the War Labor
Board for approval of the proposed weekly increase of
$2.00 for all the St. Louis employees, except those represented by recognized unions, was made August 31, 1943,
shortly after the company had declined to bargain with
the union in order to preserve its right to contest appropriateness of the unit. Announcements of this action over
the public address system followed on September 1 and
11, with one also in "Store Chat" on September 3.
In the background of the facts, I do not think these acts
amounted to more than the exercise of legal rights secured
to the employer by the Wagner Act, the Stabilization Act
and the First Amendment. They constituted neither a
wage increase nor an offer of one. There was no more than
taking steps to secure official approval, required in advance by the Stabilization Act, to make an increase, or
5The Wagner Act, designed to promote the public interest by
securing employees' rights, does so by appropriate remedies which
also afford protections for the employer. See text at note 13.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

RuT

397

xED,J., concurring in part.

tender one, at some uncertain future date, possibly never
to arrive. The application was merely a necessary preliminary step to later action, which might or might not
materialize, in the nature of dealing with employees or
offering to do so, whether directly or through their bargaining representatives.
The case therefore it not Medo, in spite of the Board's
repeated and insistent argument to the contrary. There
the employer actually dealt with the employees, not only
negotiating but contracting with them. So in J. I. Case
Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332. Here there was neither
negotiation nor contracting. There was nothing the employer could offer at that time or the employees then could
accept. There was only preparatory action looking to
the possibility of later negotiations, and announcement
of this action to the employees.
If the employer had the right to put itself legally in
position to negotiate, either with the employees or with
the union, it also had the right to state what it had done.
The effect of the Board's decision, and now apparently of
the Court's, is to rule that the Wagner Act so circumscribes an employer that he cannot take the necessary
preliminary steps, in this case required by law, to place
himself in position to undertake bargaining with his employees, whether directly or through their selected representatives. It is further to hold that if he takes such
steps, without having first secured the union's permission,
he must keep the fact to himself and dare not disclose to
his employees what is to all others a matter of public
record. This goes beyond protecting the rights of employees. It gives to the union a veto on management, not
only as respects negotiations for terms of employment but
for putting the employer in position to negotiate. No
case here has gone so far and, in my judgment, the Wagner Act does not contemplate that any should do so.
6

Medo Photo Supply Corp. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 678.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Rummas, J., concurring in part.

326 U.S.

Other facts bear out this conclusion. One is that the
Board made no finding that the employer's action was
taken with intent to interfere with, restrain or coerce the
employees in respect to their rights. Naturally enough
there was no such findinig. The application affected some
4,500 employees. The unit involved only about 30. It
is hardly conceivable that the employer would have taken
this step in relation to so many for the purpose of coercing,
interfering with or restraining 30. There is lacking,
therefore, any showing or finding of intent, a factor the
courts have considered important in concluding from
otherwise innocent or equivocal facts that unfair practice
may exist; ' and one which in this case the Court apparently makes crucial to determine whether relief relevant
to a finding of unfair practice may be sustained. The
Board found only that the employer's "unilateral action,"
in making the application to the War Labor Board and in
announcing this fact, "had the effect of depriving the
Union of credit which normally would accrue to it, and
of nullifying its efficacy as a bargaining agent." (Emphasis added.)
Even were this true, it has not heretofore been held
that the Wagner Act forbids an employer to take any
preliminary step whatever looking toward dealing with
his employees in the future which, though not intended
to discredit the union, may have the effect to prevent it
from obtaining some credit for proposing possible future
action which in fact the employer has proposed. Nothing
in the Act requires an employer to maintain a union's
prestige or to give it credit for originating all proposals
TSee Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Labor Board, 107 F. 2d 555,

559; Labor Board v. Whittier Mills Co., 111 F. 2d 474, 478-479;
Labor Board v. Elkland Leather Co., 114 F. 2d 221, 224; Labor Board
v. Chicago Apparatus Co., 116 F. 2d 753, 756-757; Peter J. Schweitzer, Inc. v. Labor Board, 79 U. S. App. D. C. 178, 144 F. 2d 520, 522.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

399

RuTuDrGE, J., concurring in part.

which may have some future effect upon his relations with
his employees. Section 8 (1) forbids interference, coercion
and restraint upon employees in the exercise of their
rights, not the mere failure of the employer to magnify
the union's influence.
Moreover the Board made no finding, presumably because there is no evidence to sustain one, of particular and
concrete facts showing that the employer's so-called "unilateral action" adversely affected the union's status among
its members or other employees.' It only concluded that
the action "reasonably [may] be said to have undermined
the Union . . . and to have discouraged employees gen-

erally in their union affiliation." Presumably, since no
such effects were proved or found specifically, the basis
for this conclusion was the Board's "experience," though
this was not referred to in the order or the report on which
it was founded. That foundation was not sufficient, in
my judgment, in the absence of proof of more unequivocal
acts of unfair practice, of any finding of intent to interfere, restrain or coerce, and of any showing whatever of
specific discouraging or undermining effects. Something
more than supposition should underlie a conclusion which
supports a finding of unfair practice.
Nor did the employer ignore the union's possibly legitimate status or its right to have a voice in the matter of
the increase, if approval by the War Labor Board should
materialize. The application set forth the essential facts
with reference to the existing dispute concerning appropriateness of the unit, the employer's intention to litigate
the question whenever it might, its nonrecognition of the
8 The general "finding" that the company's action in making the
application and publicizing it "interfered with, restrained, and coerced
its employees," 53 N. L. R. B. at 1371, rested on no more than the
Board's assertion that "it logically follows" that these acts "had the
effect" of depriving the union of credit and "may . . . be said to
have undermined" it.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RummoD

, J., concurring in part.

326 U. S.

union pending the obtaining of a decision, and its purpose
for these reasons to include the affected employees in the
application. But the application went on to say that if
the union should object to the increase, for Departments
280 and 281, the Board should consider it as amended to
exclude those employees.'
This hardly furnishes ground for concluding that the
employer was attempting to "short-circuit" the union,
undermine it, or discredit it with the employees. It explicitly recognized that the union, if rightly designated
and certified, was entitled to say whether or not the proposed change in pay should become effective. Actually,
that right was conceded, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the issue on validity of the certification." Clearly,
in view of this concession, there was no effort either to
contract with the employees directly or to deal with them,
over the union's head, about the increase. Whether or
not it should become effective as to them was left, not
to the employees themselves, but to the sole and exclusive
judgment of the union. There was therefore no semblance
of the short-circuiting or direct dealing with employees
which was present in both the Medo and the J. I. Case
decisions.
Possibly for this reason the Board is driven back to its
"undermining" contention. The company, it says, by
including these employees, "put the union on the spot,"
so that it had no real choice. The argument shows concern for the union's "spot," but gives no recognition to
the employer's. The Board does not urge that the company should have excluded these employees from the general application, with good reason. Had this been done,
9The Board's brief states that the union objected and the War
Labor Board accordingly eliminated the bushelmen from the applica-

tion, citing In re May Dept. Stores Co., N. W. L. B. Case No. 7-6585
(unreported).
20 See note 11.

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

RUTLEDGE,

401

J., concurring in part.

obviously the company would have laid itself open to a
charge and a finding of unfair practice under § 8 (1). The
Board is unwilling, apparently, to put the employer in
that dilemma. Cf. Medo Photo Supply Corp. v. Labor
Board, 321 U. S. 678, 699. It does not say, though the
Court does by way of dictum, that excluding these employees from the application would not have been an
unfair practice. The Board says the employer's only
way out was to consult the union before making the
application.
This can only mean that the employer was compelled
to ask the union's permission to include these employees;
in short, that the union had the right under the Wagner
Act to veto any action taken by the employer to obtain
the necessary legal authority to propose any increase for
them, whether directly or through the union. I do not
think the Wagner Act confers such a power on the union.
Nor did the Stabilization Act or the regulations in effect
pursuant to its provisions do so.11 Moreover, the employer asserts that it could not refer the matter to the
union without surrendering the very rights it was seeking
to preserve. This, it says, would have amounted to recog" The regulations required that the application be signed "either
(a) jointly by the employer and a duly recognized collective bargaining agency . . ., or (b) by the employer alone." 4 War Labor
Rep. xxxi, xxxxn-xxxiv, § III, 3. It was further required, in either

case, that the application state whether or .not there was "a duly
recognized collective bargaining agency ...

which has not joined

with the employer in the application." If so, provision was made for
the Wage and Hour Division to notify the organization and request
it to inform the office of objections, if any, to action on the application. Cf. note 9. If none were made, the application would be
acted on. If made, the matter was to be treated as a dispute and
referred to the Conciliation Service of the Department of Labor.
It was apparently in compliance with this regulation that the
application in this case set forth the representations concerning the
nonrecognition of the union, the dispute, etc. The regulations were

amended later to include either a recognized or a certified union.
9 War Labor Rep. xxxiii; 8 Fed. Reg. 16678.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring in part.

326 U. S.

nition and would have foreclosed it later from securing
review under the terms of § 10 upon the question whether
the unit was appropriate.
Whether or not that is true, there was certainly good
reason to believe it so. The right to review is given in
terms only as an incident of an unfair practice proceeding.
§ 10; cf. American Federation of Labor v. Labor Board,
308 U. S. 401; Inland Empire Council v. Millis, 325 U. S.
697. In this state of the law, the company's only certain
remedy was to withhold recognition until the matter
could be determined. Had it recognized the union, by
seeking its permission to include the affected employees,
there would have been no factual or legal basis for the
only proceedings by which review was assured; and, in
order to secure it, the company then would have been
forced to commit some other act of unfair practice or to
take its chance upon some other doubtful remedy. In
either event, it would have been confronted with its prior
action of dealing with the union and the possibilities this
would present either for applying the broad doctrine of
estoppel or for occupying the inconsistent, not to say indefensible, position of having recognized the union and
then having deliberately repudiated the recognition.
I do not think the Wagner Act was intended to put the
employer in such a dilemma. It has been settled that he
takes the risk of his error when he mistakenly judges that
the unit is not appropriate or for other reason that the
duly selected or certified union is not entitled to recognition.' As to that, the employer's choice was hard, made
so by the very state of the law. Had the law been that
2See, e. g., Labor Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S. 111;
Franks Bros. Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 702; Medo Photo Supply
Corp. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 678; J. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board,
321 U. S. 332; PittsburghPlate Glass Co. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S.
146; Labor Board v. Bradford Dyeing Assn., 310 U. S. 318; National
Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350; cf. H. J. Heinz Co. v.
Labor Board, 311 U. S. 514, 523 (employer bargained but refused to

sign written contract).

MAY STORES CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
376

RUTLEDGE, J.,

403

concurring in part.

certification was none of the company's business and that
the company had no right of review, it would have khown
its rights and its liabilities. That was not and is not the
law. The company was told expressly that it had a right
of review, but only in an unfair practice proceeding.'
It was therefore put to the choice, by the statute's terms,
of foregoing review or having it by an act of unfair practice. Hence the finding of unfair practice by refusal to
bargain must be sustained. But, in taking this risk, the
employer did no more than it was compelled by law to
do to save its rights under the Wagner Act and to avoid
being found guilty, by virtue of some alternative course
of conduct relating to the application, of further unfair
practices.
I do not agree, therefore, that this necessitous action
amounted to an additional unfair practice, in the nature
of interference, coercion or restraint of employees' rights,
whether or not the finding that it was is sufficient to sustain an independent provision for relief.
A word remains to be said concerning the announcements. As has been stated, if the company had the right
to make the application as it did, it also had the right to
announce that fact to the public and to the employees, so
long as in doing this it did not do so with intent or in a
manner to violate the Act. I find nothing in the announcements to justify a finding they were made with
this purpose or effect, and there is no finding to the contrary." They were, in my judgment, no more than an
16 The attenuated character of the right makes all the more essential that it not be whittled away or nullified by rulings which make

its exercise more precarious than it is by the very conditions of its
existence.
"4The mere fact that the announcements omitted specific reference
to Departments 280 and 281 does not supply this element. Such a
reference, if made, might have been construed, by its singling out of
this unit for special treatment and thereby-for invidious implication,
as furnishing the very evidence of *rongful specific intent and effect
which the Board has failed to find.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

exercise of the employer's rights of free speech and a free
press, secured by the First Amendment. Cf. Labor Board
v. Virginia Electric & Power Co., 314 U. S. 469; Labor
Board v. Ford Motor Co., 114 F. 2d 905; Labor Board v.
American Tube Bending Co., 134 F. 2d 993; compare
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood,281 U. S. 548,568.
It follows from my view of the case that the Board's
order should be modified by striking from it Paragraph
1 (b) together with the words "and (b)" from Paragraph
2 (b), and as so modified enforced. Accordingly I think
the judgment of the Court of Appeals, enforcing the
Board's order, should be modified in these respects and,
as thus modified, affrmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join
in this opinion.

MARKHAM, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
v. CABELL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 76.

Argued October 19, 1945.-Decided December 10, 1945.

1. Section 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act allows "Any person not an enemy or ally of enemy . . .to whom any debt may be
owing from an enemy or ally of enemy whose property or any part
thereof shall have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered,
or paid to the Alien Property Custodian" to sue the Custodian or the
Treasurer of the United States in the federal courts. Section 9 (e)
provides that no debt shall be allowed under § 9 "unless it was
owing to and owned by the claimant prior to October 6, 1917" nor
"unless notice of the claim has been filed, or application therefor
has been made, prior to the date of the enactment of the Settlement
of War Claims Act of 1928." Held:
(a) The Trading with the Enemy Act became effective again
automatically at the outbreak of World War II. P. 407.
The Act was designed to operate not only in World War I but
also, unless repealed or superseded, in any future war. P. 409.

