438

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

MISSISSIPPI PUBLISHING CORP. v. MURPHREE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 234. Argued December 12, 1945.-Decided January 2, 1946.
Respondent, a resident of the northern district of Mississippi, brought
suit in the federal district court for that district against petitioner,
a Delaware corporation having an office and place of business in
the southern district of Mississippi, to recover damages in an
amount exceeding $3,000 for libel published in the southern district. The suit was begun by service of summons in the southern
district by the United States marshal upon the agent designated
by petitioner to receive service of process within the State. Held:
1. The case being of a civil nature, the amount in controversy
exceeding $3,000, and the parties being of diverse citizenship, the
district court had jurisdiction of the subject matter. P. 440.
2. Since the sole ground of federal jurisdiction was diversity of
citizenship and suit was brought in the district of the plaintiff's
residence, there was no want of venue under § 51 of the Judicial
Code. P. 441.
3. Petitioner was properly brought before the district court for
the northern district and subjected to its judgment in the suit by
service of summons on petitioner's agent in the southern district,
since this was authorized by Rules 4 (d) (3) and 4 (f) of the Rules
of Civil Procedure. P. 443.
4. As thus applied, Rule 4 (f) of the Rules of Civil Procedure
is in harmony with the Enabling Act under which it was promulgated and with the statutes fixing venue and the jurisdiction of the
district courts. P. 445.
5. By consenting to service of process upon its agent residing
in the southern district, petitioner rendered itself "present" there
for purposes of service. P. 442.
6. By appointing an agent to receive service, petitioner consented to suits within the State in courts which apply the law of
the State, whether they be state or federal courts. P. 443.
7. The fact that this Court promulgated the Rules of Civil Procedure as formulated and recommended by the Advisory Committee
does not foreclose consideration of their validity, meaning or
construction; but in ascertaining their meaning the construction
given to them by the Committee is of weight. P. 444.

MISSISSIPPI PUB. CORP. v. MURPHREE. 439
Opinion of the Court.

438

8. Rule 4 (f) was devised to permit service of process anywhere
within a State in which the district court issuing the process is held
and where the State embraces two or more districts. P. 444.
9. It was adopted with particular reference to suits against a
foreign corporation having an agent to receive service of process
resident in a district within the State other than that in which the
suit is brought. P. 444.
10. Rule 4 (f) does not conflict with Rule 82 or the statutes
fixing venue and jurisdiction of the district courts, since it does not
enlarge or diminish the venue or jurisdiction of the district courts
but serves only to implement the jurisdiction over the subject
matter which Congress has conferred, by providing a procedure by
which the defendant may be brought into court at the place where
Congress has declared that suit may be maintained. P. 444.
11. Rule 4 (f) does not "abridge, enlarge, nor modify the substantive rights of any litigant," since it is a rule of procedure and
not of substantive right. P. 445.
12. The prohibition in the Enabling Act of any alteration of
substantive rights of litigants obviously was not addressed to such
incidental effects as necessarily attend the adoption of new rules
of procedure upon the rights of litigants who, agreeably to rules
of practice and procedure, have been brought before a court
authorized to determine their rights. P. 445.
149 F. 2d 138, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post,

p. 702, to review reversal of a judg-

ment dismissing a suit on the ground that the venue was
not properly laid.
Mr. William H. Watkins, with whom Messrs. P. H.
Eager, Jr., E. C. Brewer and Mrs. Elizabeth Hulen were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Rufus Creekmore, with whom Messrs. W. E. Gore
and H. H. Creekmore were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, a resident of the northern district of Mississippi, brought this suit in the district court for that
district against petitioner, a Delaware corporation having

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

an office and place of business in the southern district of
Mississippi, to recover damages for libel published in the
southern district. The suit was begun by service of summons in the southern district by the United States marshal
upon the agent designated by petitioner to receive service
of process within the state. The questions for our decision are whether the venue was properly laid in the
northern district, and whether petitioner could be brought
before the court and subjected to its judgment in the suit
by service of summons on petitioner's agent in the southern
district.
The district court granted petitioner's motion to dismiss the suit on the ground that the venue was not properly laid in the northern district. The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed, 149 F. 2d 138, holding that as there was diversity of citizenship and as the
amount in controversy exceeded $3,000, the district court
for the northern district had jurisdiction, that the venue
was properly laid there under the provisions of § 51 of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 112, and that service of summons in the southern district was authorized by Rule 4
(f) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. We granted
certiorari, 326 U. S. 702.1
The present case being of a civil nature, the amount in
controversy exceeding $3,000, and the parties being of
diverse citizenship, the district court had jurisdiction of
The lower courts have not been consistent in the application of
Rule 4 (f). Compare Contracting Division, A. C. Horn Corp. v.
New York Life Ins. Co., 113 F. 2d 864; Gibbs v. Emerson Electric
Mfg. Co., 29 F. Supp. 810; Melekov v. Collins, 30 F. Supp. 159;
Carby v. Greco, 31 F. Supp. 251; Richard v. Franklin County Distilling Co., 38 F. Supp. 513, with the opinion of the Court of Appeals
in the present case, 149 F. 2d 138; Devier v. George Cole Motor Co.,
27 F. Supp. 978; Zwerling v: New York & Cuba Mail S. S. Co., 33 F.
Supp. 721; Williams v. James, 34 F. Supp. 61; Salvatori v. Miller
Music, Inc., 35 F. Supp. 845; Andrus v. Younger Bros., 49 F. Supp.
499, and O'Leary v. Loftin, 3 F. R. D. 36.

MISSISSIPPI PUB. CORP. v. MURPHREE. 441
438

Opinion of the Court.

the subject matter of the suit, that is, of the class of cases
of which the present is one. 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1). The
court had jurisdiction over the parties if the petitioner
was properly brought before the court by the service of
process within the southern district. And it could rightly
exercise its jurisdiction, notwithstanding petitioner's motion, unless there was want of venue. Venue in the present case is controlled by § 51 of the Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C. 112, which provides, with exceptions not now
material, that "where the jurisdiction is founded only
on the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suits shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant . . ."
Since there was jurisdiction of the present suit on the
sole ground of diversity of citizenship and since the suit
was brought in the district of the plaintiff's residence, as
found by both courts below, there was, by § 51 of the
Judicial Code, no want of venue and the court was not
warranted in dismissing the suit if the service of summons
was effective to make the defendant a party. Neirbo Co.
v. Bethlehem Corp., 308 U. S. 165, on which petitioner
relies, supports no different conclusion. There the sole
ground of jurisdiction was diversity of citizenship of the
parties. The foreign corporation was sued in the district
court for southern New York, in which neither the plaintiff nor the defendant was a citizen or resident,' but where
the defendant was doing business, maintained an office,
and had consented to be sued by appointing a resident
agent to receive service of process. Recognizing that § 51
of the Judicial Code, in cases where the jurisdiction is
founded on diversity of citizenship, establishes venue as
2For purposes of jurisdiction a corporation is a citizen or resident
only of the state of its organization. Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145
U. S. 444, 451; In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221, 229;
Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line, 215 U. S. 501, 509; Seaboard Rice Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 270 U. S. 363, 366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the place where the suit may be maintained for the convenience of the parties, and that the statutory venue for
a suit of which the court has jurisdiction may be waived,
we held that the corporation had waived objections to
venue by its consent to the suit. By designating an agent
to receive service of process and consenting to be sued in
the courts of the state, the corporation had consented to
suit in the district court, being a court sitting for a district
within the state and applying there the laws of the state,
and it had thus waived the venue provisions of § 51 of the
Judicial Code. 308 U. S. at 175. Cf. Railroad Co. v.
Harris,12 Wall. 65; Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How.
404; Ex part6 Schollenberger,96 U. S. 369. In the present
suit there was no occasion to establish waiver of objections
to venue in the northern district of Mississippi, since the
statute had provided in advance that there should be
venue in the district court for the northern district, where
respondent resided.
Unlike the consent to service in the Neirbo case the consent to service of process on petitioner's agent throughout
the state was not significant as a waiver of venue, but it
was an essential step in the procedure by which petitioner
was brought before the court and rendered amenable to
its judgment in the northern district. By consenting to
service of process upon its agent residing in the southern
district, petitioner rendered itself "present" there for purposes of service. See Ex parteSchollenberger, supra,377;
cf. InternationalShoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S. 310.
Had Congress specifically authorized service there for purposes of suit in the northern district, petitioner would have
been properly brought before the district court for the
purposes of the present suit, since Congress could provide
for service of process anywhere in the United States.
Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 328; United States v.
Union Pacific R. Co., 98 U. S. 569, 604; Robertson v. Railroad LaborBoard, 268 U. S. 619, 622.

MISSISSIPPI PUB. CORP. v. MURPHREE. 443
438

Opinion of the Court.

Congress, having omitted so to direct, the omission was
supplied by Rule 4 (f) of the Rules of Civil Procedure,
which provides that "All process other than a subpoena
may be served anywhere within the territorial limits of
the state in which the district court is held." In the
present case the service was made pursuant to Rule 4 (d)
(3) by theUnited States Marshal, who delivered the summons to the agent of petitioner designated to receive the
service. If the service of the summons was valid petitioner
was properly brought before the court in the northern district, which had venue and jurisdiction of the subject
matter of the suit.
It is said that petitioner, by appointing an agent to receive service, has only consented to service of process in
suits brought in the state courts and in conformity to state
statutes regulating the venue, and that in any case Rule
4 (f) was adopted without authority since the Act of June
19, 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 28 U. S. C. § 723b, which authorized
the promulgation of rules of practice for the district courts,
directed that they "shall neither abridge, enlarge, nor
modify the substantive rights of any litigant," and because
the construction given to Rule 4 (f) by the court below is
inconsistent with Rule 82 which provides that the rules
"shall not be construed to extend or limit the jurisdiction
of the district courts of the United States or the venue of
actions therein."
The answer to the suggestion that the consent to suit
in the state is a consent to suit only in the state courts
and subject to state statutes regulating venue in those
courts is plain. Such consent has been uniformly construed to mean suits within the state which apply the
law of the state, whether they be state or federal courts.
See Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Corp., supra,171; cf. Ex parte
Schollenberger, supra, 377; Madisonville Traction Co. v.
Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239, 255-256; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Chatters, 279 U. S. 320, 329. And since

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the consent is to suits in the federal courts, it is a consent
to suits brought in conformity to the federal regulations
governing the jurisdiction, venue and procedure of those
courts. Ex parte Schollenberger,supra, 377; Neirbo Co.
v. Bethlehem Corp., supra, 175.
The question remains whether Rule 4 (f) is an effective
means of bringing the petitioner before the district court
in the northern district where the suit was properly
brought in conformity to § 51 of the Judicial Code. The
fact that this Court promulgated the rules as formulated
and recommended by the Advisory Committee does not
foreclose consideration of their validity, meaning or consistency. But in ascertaining their meaning the construction given to them by the Committee is of weight. Rule
4 (f), as explained by the authorized spokesmen for the
Advisory Committee, see Proceedings of Washington and
New York Institute on Federal Rules, 291, 292; Proceedings of The Cleveland Institute on the Federal Rules, 205,
206, was devised so as to permit service of process anywhere within a state in which the district court issuing
the process is held and where the state embraces two or
more districts. It was adopted with particular reference
to suits against a foreign corporation having an agent to
receive service of process resident in a district within the
state other than that in which the suit is brought. It was
pointed out that the rule did not affect the jurisdiction or
venue of the district court as fixed by the statute, but was
intended among other things to provide a procedural
means of bringing the corporation defendant before the
court in conformity to its consent, by serving the agent
wherever he might be found within the state. See also
Hughes, Federal Practice, Vol. 17, § 18993; Moore, Federal
Practice, Vol. 1, p. 360-361.
It is true that the service of summons is the procedure
by which a court having venue and jurisdiction of the
subject matter of the suit asserts jurisdiction over the

MISSISSIPPI PUB. CORP. v. MURPHREE. 445
438

Opinion of the Court.

person of the party served. But it is evident that Rule 4
(f) and Rule 82 must be construed together, and that the
Advisory Committee, in doing so, has treated Rule 82 as
referring to venue and jurisdiction of the subject matter
of the district courts as defined by the statutes, §§ 51 and
52 of the Judicial Code in particular, rather than the
means of bringing the defendant before the court already
having venue and jurisdiction of the subject matter. Rule
4 (f) does not enlarge or diminish the venue of the district
court, or its power to decide the issues in the suit, which
is jurisdiction of the subject matter, Industrial Assn. v.
Commissioner, 323 U. S. 310, 313, to which Rule 82 must
be taken to refer. Rule 4 (f) serves only to implement the
jurisdiction over the subject matter which Congress has
conferred, by providing a procedure by which the defendant may be brought into court at the place where Congress
has declared that the suit may be maintained. Thus construed, the rules are consistent with each other and do
not conflict with the statute fixing venue and jurisdiction
of the district courts.
We think that Rule 4 (f) is in harmony with the Enabling Act which, in authorizing this Court to prescribe
general rules for the district courts governing practice
and procedure in civil suits in law and equity, directed
that the rules "shall neither abridge, enlarge, nor modify
the substantive rights of any litigant." Undoubtedly
most alterations of the rules of practice and procedure
may and often do affect the rights of litigants. Congress'
prohibition of any alteration of substantive rights of litigants was obviously not addressed to such incidental effects as necessarily attend the adoption of the prescribed
new rules of procedure upon the rights of litigants who,
agreeably to rules of practice and procedure, have been
brought before a court authorized to determine their rights.
Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312 U. S. 1, 11-14. The fact
that the application of Rule 4 (f) will operate to subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

446

326 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

petitioner's rights to adjudication by the district court
for northern Mississippi will undoubtedly affect those
rights. But it does not operate to abridge, enlarge or
modify the rules of decision by which that court will adjudicate its rights. It relates merely to "the manner and
the means by which a right to recover . . . is enforced."
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99, 109. In this
sense the rule is a rule of procedure and not of substantive
right, and is not subject to the prohibition of the Enabling
Act.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JusrIc JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD

ET AL. V.

DUQUESNE WAREHOUSE CO.
NO. 95.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 14, 1945.-Decided January 2, 1946.
Where a warehouse company wholly owned by a railroad company
* loads and unloads goods shipped on the railroad, it performs services
"in connection with the transportation of . . . property by railroad"; it is an "employer" within the meaning of § 1 (a) of the
Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 and § 1 (a) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act of 1938; and its employees are entitled
to the benefits of those Acts, even though the services are rendered
to, and paid for by, the shippers. P. 453.
148 F. 2d 473, reversed; 149 F. 2d 507, affirmed.
No. 95.

CERTIORARI,

325 U. S. 848, to review affirmance

of a judgment, 56 F. Supp. 87, setting aside a decision of
*Together with No. 103, Duquesne Warehouse Co. v. Railroad
Retirement Board et al., on certiorari to the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia.

