OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

provisions" of the Act. Although the district court has
jurisdiction of the present case under § 24 (1) of the
Judicial Code, irrespective of § 17, the latter section plainly
indicates that Congress has adopted the policy of permitting the Custodian to proceed in the district courts to
enforce his rights under the Act, whether they depend on
state or federal law. The cause was therefore within the
jurisdiction of the district court, which could appropriately
proceed with the case, and the Court of Appeals erroneously ordered its dismissal.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RuTLEGE is of the opinion that the cause
should be remanded to the district court and jurisdiction
should be retained by it pending the state court's decision
as to the persons entitled to receive the net estate.

NEW YORK

EX REL.

RAY v. MARTIN, WARDEN.

CERTIORARI TO THE COUNTY COURT OF WYOMING COUNTY,
NEW YORK.

No. 158.

Argued December 13, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.

1. A state court of New York has jurisdiction to try a non-Indian
for the murder of another non-Indian committed on the Allegany
Reservation of the Seneca Indians within that State. United States

v. McBratrey, 104 U. S. 621, followed. P. 498.
2. Section 2145 of the Revised Statutes does not operate to deprive
States of jurisdiction of crimes committed on Indian reservations
by one non-Indian against another. P. 499.

3. Exercise of jurisdiction by a state court of New York over crimes

N. Y.
496

EX REL.

RAY v. MARTIN.

Opinion of the Court.

involving only non-Indians and committed on the Allegany Reservation of the Seneca Indians within that State does not violate the
Treaty of 1794. P. 500.
294 N. Y. 61, 60 N. E. 2d 541, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 685, to review the affirmance of a

judgment dismissing a writ of habeas corpus. See 268
App. Div. 218, 52N. Y. S. 2d 496; 181 Misc. 925, 47 N. Y.
S. 2d 883.
Mr. Thomas J. McKenna for petitioner.
Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General of New
York, with whom Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney General, and Orrin G. Judd, Solicitor General, were on the
brief, for the Warden and the State of New York. Mr.
Charles E. Congdon for Cattaraugus County.
Mr. Roger P. Marquis, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Messrs. J. Edward Williams, John C. Harrington and Walter J. Cummings, Jr.were on the brief, for the
United States, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In UnitedStates v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621, this Court
held that the State courts of Colorado, not the Federal
courts, had jurisdiction to prosecute a murder of one nonIndian by another committed on an Indian reservation
located within that State. The holding in that case was
that the Act of Congress admitting Colorado into the
Union overruled all prior inconsistent statutes and treaties
and placed it "upon an equal footing with the original
States . . ."; that this meant that Colorado had "criminal jurisdiction over its own citizens and other white persons throughout the whole of the territory within its limits,
including the Ute Reservation"; and that consequently,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the United States no longer had "sole and exclusive juris-

diction" over the Reservation, except to the extent necessary to carry out such treaty provisions which remained
in force. That case has since been followed by this Court 1
and its holding has not been modified by any act of Congress. The question this case presents is whether New
York, which is one of the original States, has jurisdiction
to punish a murder of one non-Indian committed by another non-Indian upon the Allegany Reservation of the
Seneca Indians located within the State of New York.
In 1939, the petitioner was sentenced to life imprisonment in a New York State court for the murder of a man
in the City of Salamanca, which is within the Allegany
Reservation but has only 8 Indian families living among
its 9,000 inhabitants. He later brought this habeas corpus
proceeding in a county court of the State.! He alleged that
since the Indian reservation was under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, the State courts lacked jurisdiction to try and convict him. The County Court of
Wyoming County heard the case and ordered the writ
dismissed. 181 Misc. 925, 47 N. Y. S. 2d 883. Both the
Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, 268 App. Div.
218, 52 N. Y. S. 2d 496, and the Court of Appeals, 294
N. Y. 61, 60 N. E. 2d 541, affirmed the dismissal.8 We
granted certiorari because of the federal questions raised.
2Draper,v. United States, 164 U. S. 240. See also United States v.
Ramsey, 271 U. S. 467, 469; Donnelly v. United States, 228 U. S. 243,
271; United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383.
2 A previous petition in the Federal courts had been denied because
relief had not first been sought in the New York State courts. 54
F. Supp. 218; 141 F. 2d 300.
8 The New York Court of Appeals held, and the State urges here,
that the State court had jurisdiction by virtue of § 7 of the Act of
Congress passed in 1875, 18 Stat. 330, authorizing certain parts of the
Allegany Reservation to be surveyed for establishment of a number
of villages including Salamanca. Section 8 provided among other
things that "all the municipal laws and regulations of said State [New
York] may extend over and be enforced within said villages." Act-

N. Y.
496

EX REL.

RAY v. MARTIN.

Opinion of the Court.

We think the rule announced in the McBratney case
controlling and that the New York Court therefore properly exercised its jurisdiction. For that, case and others
which followed it all held that in the absence of a limiting
treaty obligation or Congressional enactment each state
had a right to exercise jurisdiction over Indian reservations within its boundaries.' Petitioner claims that the
McBratney case differs from this proceeding in several respects. First, he contends that Colorado could exercise
greater powers over its Indian reservations than New York
can by virtue of the enabling act which admitted Colorado
into the Union, a similar enactment being lacking here
since New York is one of the original states. As we have
seen, the Colorado enabling act was held in the McBratney
case to put Colorado "upon an equal footing with the original States," and to repeal earlier legislation and treaties
inconsistent with the enabling act. The fact that Colorado was put on an equal footing with the original states
obviously did not give it any greater power than New
York. And no greater power can be inferred from the repealing function of the enabling act, since, as we shall point
out, the statutes and treaties which petitioner claims
deprive New York of jurisdiction do not in fact do so.
This brings us to petitioner's further contention that
certain Federal statutes specifically grant the United States
exclusive jurisdiction over the Seneca Reservation. He
points out that the laws of the United States make murder
a crime "if committed in any place within the sole and
ing under what it conceived to be the authority granted by this Section, New York passed a law, Chap. 188 of New York Laws of 1881,
extending its "general law" so as to apply to Salamanca. Since we
think the rule in the McBratney case controlling, we find it unnecessary in this case to pass on the scope and validity of this Act.
' This holding was in harmony with general principles governing
this subject. Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 647, 651;
Hallowell v. United States, 221 U. S. 317, 320; United States v.
McGowan, 302 U. S. 535, 539.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

exclusive jurisdiction of the United States ... "; 18
U. S. C. 452; that § 2145 of the Revised Statutes, 25 U. S. C.
217, makes this murder statute applicable to "Indian
country"; and contends that the Seneca Reservation is
Indian country, and that consequently New York has no
jurisdicti3n to punish a murder committed on that Reservation. The cases following the McBratney case adequately answer petitioner's contentions concerning § 2145,
even if we assume, what we need not decide, that the
Seneca Reservation is Indian country within the meaning
of the statute. While § 2145 of the Revised Statutes has
been held applicable in territories to crimes between whites
and whites which do not affect Indians,5 the McBratney
line of decisions stands for the proposition that States, by
virtue of their statehood, have jurisdiction over such
crimes notwithstanding § 2145.' See also New York v.
Dibble, 21 How. 366.
Petitioner further contends that the McBratney rule is
not applicable here because exercise of state jurisdiction
over non-Indians at Salamanca would violate the Treaty of
1794, 7 Stat. 44. We can find no language in that Treaty
that lends itself to such interpretation. The Treaty was
one of peace and friendship between the United States and
the Indians. It provided against private revenge or retaliation on account of injuries done by individuals on either
side. Such injuries were to be reported by each nation to
the other with a view of having the nation to which the
individual offender belonged take "such prudent measures
8

In re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575; Pickett v. United States, 216 U. S.
456, 458.
8 In Donnelly v. United States, supra,228 U. S. at p. 270, this Court
pointed out that the provisions contained in § 2145 of the Revised
Statutes were first enacted as § 25 of the Indian Intercourse Act of
June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. 729, 733. This means that the statute was in
effect at the time of the McBratney decision. Yet, significantly, the

Court did not even find it necessary to mention it.

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
496

Syllabus.

• . . as shall be necessary to preserve . . .peace and

friendship unbroken." This procedure was to be followed
until Congress made "other equitable provision for the
purpose." This latter language, upon which the petitioner
most strongly relies as imposing a duty upon the United
States to exercise jurisdiction over the whole Reservation
to the exclusion of the State, even as to offenses committed
by whites against whites, cannot properly be interpreted
as the petitioner asks. The entire emphasis in treaties and
Congressional enactments dealing with Indian affairs has
always been focused upon the treatment of the Indians
themselves and their property. Generally no emphasis has
been placed on whether state or United States courts
should try white offenders for conduct which happened to
take place upon an Indian reservation, but which did not
directly affect the Indians. Neither the 1794 Treaty nor
any other requires a holding that offenses by non-Indians
against non-Indians disturbing the peace and order of
Salamanca are beyond New York's power to punish.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
MARSH v. ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF ALABAMA.

No. 114. Argued December 6, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A state can not, consistently with the freedom of religion and the
press guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments, impose
criminal punishment on a person for distributing religious literature
on the sidewalk of a company-owned town contrary to regulations
of the town's management, where the town and its shopping district
are freely accessible to and freely used by the public in general,
even though the punishment is attempted under a state statute
making it a crime for anyone to enter or remain on the premises
of another after having been warned not to do so. Pp. 502, 505.

