OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

224

Counsel for Parties.

326 U. S.

sequently, whatever weight such factors might be accorded
in determining administrative finality of the orders is
absent here.
Our conclusion is that the motion is in its effect so much
like the normal, formal type of motion for rehearing that
we cannot read into the Act an intention to make it a prerequisite to the judicial review specifically provided by
Congress. Whether the Circuit Court of Appeals was possessed of power to exercise a discretion to stay its review
until an application was made to the Supervisor to grant
a rehearing is a question which was not decided and upon
which we express no opinion. See United States v. Abilene
& Southern R. Co., supra, 282.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
IN THE MATTER OF MICHAEL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued October 11, 12, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.
1. A witness may not be punished for contempt under § 268 of the
Judicial Code for perjury alone. Clark v. United States, 289 U. S.
1, distinguished.

P. 228.

2. Nor may a trustee in bankruptcy be adjudged guilty of contempt
under § 268 of the Judicial Code for misbehavior as an officer of
the court in an official transaction, solely on the ground that he
testified falsely before a Grand Jury in the course of a general investigation of frauds against the United States; since such testimony
is not an "official transaction" as trustee. P. 229.

146 F. 2d 627, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

324 U. S. 837, to review the affirmance of an

order upon an adjudication of contempt.
Mr. Robert T. McCracken, with whom Messrs. Stanley
F. Coarand D. H. Jenkins were on the brief, for petitioner.

IN RE MICHAEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert M. Hitchcock, with whom Acting Solicitor
General Judson, Messrs. W. Marvin Smith, Robert S. Erda! and Miss Beatrice Rosenberg were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUsTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
A Federal District Court, after a hearing, adjudged
that the petitioner was guilty of contempt on findings that
he had given "false and evasive" testimony before a Grand
Jury which "obstructed the said Grand Jury in its inquiry
and the due administration of justice." A sentence of
six months imprisonment was imposed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reviewed the evidence, found that the
petitioner had not been "contumacious or obstreperous,"
had not refused to answer questions, and that his testimony could not "fairly be characterized as unresponsive
in failing to give direct answers to the questions asked
him." But it accepted the District Court's finding that
the petitioner's testimony as to relevant facts was false,
and concluded that it was of a type tending to block the
inquiry and consequently "an obstruction of the administration of justice" within the meaning of § 268 of the
Judicial Code 1 so as to subject petitioner to the District
Court's power to punish for contempt. 146 F. 2d 627.
We granted certiorari to review this question, in view of
the close similarity of the issues here to those decided in
Ex porte Hudgings, 249 U. S. 378, a case in which the
District Court was held to have exceeded its contempt
power.
A brief summary of circumstances leading to the petitioner's conviction will help to focus the issues. The Grand
Section 268 provides in part that the "power to punish contempts
shall not be construed to extend to any cases except the misbehavior
of any person in their presence, or so near thereto as to obstruct the
administration of justice, .... and the disobedience or resistance
by any .

.

. witness, or other person to any lawful writ, process,

order, rule, decree, or command of the said courts."

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Jury undertook a general investigation of frauds against
the United States which led to an inquiry concerning administration of the reorganization of the Central Forging
Company under § 77 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act. The
petitioner, by appointment of a district judge, had been
serving as that company's trustee. While before the Grand
Jury he was repeatedly interrogated concerning payments
of various amounts made from the bankrupt's assets. He
was asked to explain the purposes for which numerous
checks had been drawn. After weeks of inquiry in which
he and others were interrogated about these matters, the
Court, on petition of the prosecution before the Grand
Jury, issued a rule to petitioner to show cause why an
order should not be made adjudging him in contempt of
court for obstructing the investigation. Upon trial by the
Court the transcript of petitioner's Grand Jury testimony
was offered in evidence. The Court then heard other witnesses on behalf of the prosecution who testified to facts
which directly conflicted with the petitioner's explanations
before the Grand Jury. The District Court, disbelieving
petitioner and believing the other witnesses, made its finding that petitioner's Grand Jury testimony had been false.
No witness was offered to indicate that the petitioner in
the Grand Jury room had been guilty of misconduct of any
kind other than false swearing. And a reading of the evidence persuades us that the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly found that he had directly responded with unequivocal answers. ' These unequivocal answers were clear
enough so that if they are shown to be false petitioner
would clearly be guilty of perjury. But he could have been
2

It is true that when petitioner was first asked whether he drew
certain checks on specified dates he answered that he could not be
sure in view of the number of checks he drew. When the particular
checks were more specifically pointed out petitioner did offer explanations, which though they might have been false, nevertheless constituted clearcut answers.

IN RE MICHAEL.
224

Opinion- of the Court.

indicted for that offense, in which event a jury would have
been the proper tribunal to say whether he or other witnesses told the truth. Our question is whether it was
proper for the District Court to make its finding on that
issue the crucial element in determining its power to try
and convict petitioner for contempt.
Not very long ago we had occasion to point out that the
Act of 1831, 4 Stat. 487, from which § 268 of the Judicial
Code derives, represented a deliberate Congressional purpose drastically to curtail the range of conduct which
courts could punish as contempt. Nye v. United States,
313 U. S. 33, 44-48.' True, the Act of 1831 carries upon
its face the purpose to 'leave the courts ample power to
protect the administration of justice against immediate
interruption of its business. But the references to that
Act's history in the Nye case, supra,reveal a Congressional
intent to safeguard Constitutional procedures by limiting
courts, as Coilgress is limited in contempt cases, to "the
least possible power adequate to the end proposed."
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 231. The exercise by
federal courts of any broader contempt power than this
would permit too great inroads on the procedural safeguards of the Bill of Rights, since contempts are summary
in their nature, and leave determination of guilt to a judge
rather than a jury. It is in this Constitutional setting that
we must resolve the issues here raised.
All perjured relevant testimony is at war with justice,
since it may produce a judgment not resting on truth.
Therefore it cannot be denied that it tends to defeat the
sole ultimate objective of a trial. It need not necessarily,
however, obstruct or halt the judicial process. For the
function of trial is to sift the truth from a mass of contradictory evidence, and to do so the fact-finding tribunal
a See also as to this historical purpose, Nelles and King, Contempt
by Publication in the United States, 28 Col. L. Rev. 401 et aeq.; 525
et 8eq.; Fox, The History of Contempt of Court (1927).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

must hear both truthful and false witnesses. It is in this
sense, doubtless, that this Court spoke when it decided
that perjury alone does not constitute an "obstruction"
which justifies exertion of the contempt power and that
there "must be added to the essential elements of perjury
under the general law the further element of obstruction
to the Court in the performance of its duty." Ex parte
Hudging8, s-upra, 382, 383, 384. And the Court added,
"the presence of that element [obstruction] must clearly
be shown in every case where the power to punish for
contempt is exerted."
Clark v. United States, 289 U. S. 1, is a case in which
the Court found that element "clearly shown." In that
case, the Court found that a prospective juror had testified falsely in order to qualify despite the fact that she
was a partisan who would vote for a verdict of not guilty
regardless of evidence of guilt. It is difficult to conceive
of a more effective obstruction to the judicial process than
a juror who has prejudged the case. For this prevents
the very formation of a proper judicial tribunal. As the
Court said in the Clark case, "The doom of mere sterility
was on the trial from the beginning." p. 11. Perjury
was not even the basis of the conviction. The Court's
opinion makes it clear that the obstruction would have
been the same had the partisan plan to thwart justice been
carried out without any swearing at all. Of course the
mere fact that false swearing is an incident to the obstruction charged does not immunize the culprit from contempt
proceedings. Certainly that position offers no support for
the present conviction.
Here there was, at best, no element except perjury
"clearly shown." Nor need we consider cases like United
States v. Appel, 211 F. 495, 496, pressed upon us by the
government. For there the Court thought that the testimony of Appel was "on its mere face, and without inquiry
collaterally, . . . not a bona fide effort to answer the ques-

IN RE MICHAEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

tions at all." In the instant case there was collateral inquiry; the testimony of other witnesses was invoked to
convince the trial judge that petitioner was a perjurer.
Only after determining from their testimony that petitioner had wilfully sworn falsely, did the Court conclude
that petitioner was "blocking the inquiry just as effectively
by giving a false answer as refusing to give any at all."
This was the equivalent of saying that for perjury alone a
witness may be punished for contempt. Sec. 268 is not
an attempt to grant such power.
Nor can the conviction be upheld under that part of
§ 268 which authorizes punishment for contempts which
consist of "the misbehavior of any of the officers of said
courts in their official transactions." While the petitioner
was a trustee, and we may assume an officer of the Court
within the statutory meaning, he was not engaged in an
"official transaction" as trustee when he testified before
the Grand Jury in the course of a general inquiry. Whether
he could be punished for contempt for giving perjured
testimony in the course of proceedings directly involving
administration of the estate is another matter not now
before us.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and the
District Court are
Reversed.
MR. Jusncz JAcKsoN took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

