OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

At the same time, however, it seems only fair to state that
on the facts presented it is difficult to see any justification
for the agreement whereby Associated Press is given the
exclusive right to Canadian Press news reports in the
United States. Associated Press is thereby given an out-

right monopoly of the only available comprehensive news
coverage of a great nation, no comparable substitute being

available. The only other matter remaining in doubt is
the by-law restriction which prevents the Associated Press
members from making their spontaneous local news available to non-members and to rival news agencies. The
lower court appears to have thought this provision reasonable when considered apart from the membership
restriction. On the present state of the record I am not
prepared to disagree although I am inclined to believe that
this provision may well be shown to be unreasonable.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
PARKER, DOING BUSINESS AS PARKER MOTOR
FREIGHT, ET AL.
NO.

507.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.*

Argued March 28, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.
1. Upon an application made under §§ 206 and 207 of Part II of the
Interstate Commerce Act by an applicant which was owned wholly
by a railroad, the Interstate Commerce Commission granted a certificate of public convenience and necessity, authorizing operations
by the applicant as a common carrier by motor vehicle over specified
routes along rail lines of the railroad, upon conditions designed to
restrict the applicant's operations to service auxiliary to and supplemental of rail service. The Commission found, upon adequate
evidence, that the restricted operations authorized were of a character different from existing motor carrier service and not directly
*Together with No. 508, United States v. Parker,doing business as
Parker Motor Freight, et al., also on appeal from the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Indiana.

I. C. C. v. PARKER.
60

61

Counsel for Parties.

competitive or unduly prejudicial to existing motor carriers. Held
that issuance of the certificate was within the statutory authority
and administrative discretion of the Commission. Pp. 62, 69.
2. In determining whether motor carrier service by a railroad is
required by public convenience and necessity, the Commission must
weigh the advantages of improved railroad service against any
serious impairment of over-the-road motor carrier service. P. 68.
3. Where an existing rail service may be improved by a unified and
limited rail-truck operation, which would not be unduly prejudicial
to motor carrier operations, the Commission may authorize such
operation by the railroad, even though existing motor carriers might
have been utilized. P. 69.
The Commission here was entitled to conclude that the public
will be better served through unified operation by the railroad than
by use of the available motor carrier facilities. P. 73.
4. It is the duty of the Commission, in pursuance of the national
transportation policy, to guard against transportation monopolies
and to preserve the inherent advantages of all modes of transportation. P. 73.
5. The Commission did not abuse its discretion in refusing to reopen
the proceeding to admit evidence as to the bias of witnesses, in the
absence of excuse for failure to adduce such evidence previously.
P. 73.
6. In view of the conclusions here reached, refusal upon the hearing
to require production of the contract between the railroad and its
subsidiary was not material error. P. 74.

Reversed.
APPEALS from a decree of a district court of three judges
enjoining the enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. See 42 M. C. C. 721.

Mr. Daniel H. Kunkel, with whom Mr. Daniel W.
Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission; and Mr. John Dickinson, with whom Messrs.
Harry E. Yockey, H. Z. Maxwell, John B. Prizer,Sterling
G. McNees and R. Aubrey Bogley were on the brief, for
the Willett Company et al., appellants in No. 507.
Mr. Kit F. Clardy, with whom Mr. Howell Ellis was on
the brief, for Parker et al.; Mr. Fred I. King, with whom

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Mr. Clair McTurnan was on the brief, for the Norwalk
Truck Line Co.; and Mr. Claude H. Anderson entered an
appearance for Days Transfer, Inc. et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
These appeals bring here for review a final judgment of
the Special District Court which enjoined the enforcement
of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The
proceedings below and the appeals here were brought under 28 U. S. C. § 41 (28), § § 43-48 and § 345. The report
of the Commission appears under the title Willett Co. of
Ind., Inc., Extension-Fort Wayne-Mackinaw City, 42
M. C. C. 721. The district court did not file an opinion.
The applicant, the Willett Company, is a wholly owned,
common carrier by motor, subsidiary of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company. Previous to this application it held
motor carrier operating rights for some twenty-five routes
which paralleled lines of the Pennsylvania Railroad at
other points than those covered by this application. Fort
Wayne was included. Willett sought to secure from the
Commission in this case certificates of convenience and
necessity for seven additional routes extending along the
lines of the Pennsylvania Railroad between Fort Wayne,
Indiana, and Mackinaw City, Michigan.
The applications were granted after findings that Willett
would render service auxiliary to and supplemental of the
Pennsylvania's service in the transportation of less-thancarload freight. The service is to be rendered on railroad
billings and is to employ railroad fixed and clerical facilities. The Commission found that Willett's service would
be coordinated with the rail service and under railroad
supervision. 42 M. C. C. 725; 21 M. C. C. at 407. It also
found that the present and future public convenience and
necessity required those motor carrier operations.
In accordance with the policy of the Commission in
granting certificates to railroad motor carrier affiliates

I. C. C. v. PARKER.
60

63

Opinion of the Court.

to improve the service of the railroad, the Commission
limited the carrier to service which is auxiliary to or supplemental of the rail service of the Pennsylvania. It forbade service to "any point not a station on a rail line of
the railroad," and took steps to keep the Commission informed of the contractual arrangements between Willett
and the Pennsylvania.
While the routes paralleled the lines of the Pennsylvania in northern Indiana and the southern peninsula of
Michigan, the authorization to Willett forbade the transportation by applicant as a common carrier of any shipments from Fort Wayne, Indiana, to Grand Rapids, Michigan, or through or to or from more than one of said points.
The purpose of this limitation was to restrict Willett to
transportation truly supplemental or auxiliary to the rail
traffic. The two cities are break-bulk or key points. Lessthan-carload freight comes to or leaves them in carload
lots. When a mixed carload reaches one of these key
points, the contents are distributed to the smaller, intermediate points of destination as way-freight by "peddler"
cars. The Willett Company seeks to take over this
"peddler" work and not to do over-the-road trucking.
Such motor-rail coordination has proven successful in
improving service and reducing carrier costs.
As a further assurance that Willett might not inadvertently have received privileges beyond the Commission's intention to grant, a right was reserved by the
Commission to impose such further specific conditions as
it might find necessary in the future to restrict Willett's
operation "to service which is auxiliary to, or supplemental
of, rail service."
The operation of the order of the Commission was enjoined by the district court because there was no substantial evidence to support the order of the Commission that
public convenience and necessity required the issuance of
a certificate to Willett. The district court said in the find-

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

ings of fact that there was no proof that the present highway, common motor carrier transportation service by certificated carriers was or would be inadequate to serve the
public need. The appellants, of course, contest here the
soundness of the district court judgment.
The Interstate Commerce Commission insists that its
order authorizing the issuance to Willett of the certificates
of convenience and necessity for the specified routes is
valid. It bases its contention on the statutory provisions
which authorize the Commission to act in regulation of
motor carriers and asserts its compliance with them.
Under the Interstate Commerce Act, part II, § 206 (a),
49 Stat. 551, no motor vehicle subject to the act may operate on the highways without a certificate of public convenience and necessity. Section 207 (a) provides for issuance
of the certificate on application, if the proposed service "is
or will be required by the present or future public convenience and necessity." No other provisions are here
involved. The entire subsection appears below.' A finding of public convenience and necessity was made, 42
M. C. C. at 726, but that ultimate finding must have been
based on the proper statutory criteria and must have had
the necessary factual findings to support it.
149 Stat. 551-52:

"Sec. 207. (a) Subject to section 210, a certificate shall be issued to
any qualified applicant therefor, authorizing the whole or any part
of the operations covered by the application, if it is found that the
applicant is fit, willing, and able properly to perform the service proposed and to conform to the provisions of this part and the requirements, rules, and regulations of the Commission thereunder, and that
the proposed service, to the extent to be authorized by the certificate,
is or will be required by the present or future public convenience and
necessity; otherwise such application shall be denied: Provided, however, That no such certificate shall be issued to any common carrier
of passengers by motor vehicle for operations over other than a regular route or routes, and between fixed termini, except as such carriers
may be authorized to engage in special or charter operations."

I. C. C. v. PARKER.
60

Opinion. of the Court.

Public convenience and necessity is not defined by the
statute. The nouns in the phrase possess connotations
which have evolved from the half-century experience of
government in the regulation of transportation. When
Congress in 1935 amended the Interstate Commerce Act
by adding the Motor Carrier Act, it chose the same words
to state the condition for new motor lines which had been
employed for similar purposes for railroads in the same
act since the Transportation Act of 1920, § 402 (18) and
(20), 41 Stat. 477. Such use indicated a continuation of
the administrative and judicial interpretation of the language. Cf. Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co., 308 U. S. 106,
115. The Commission had assumed, as its duty under
these earlier subsections, the finding of facts and the exercise of its judgment to determine public convenience and
necessity. This Court approved this construction. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 35, 42.
Cf. Gray v. Powell, 314 U.S. 402,411-12. The purpose of
Congress was to leave to the Commission authoritatively
to decide whether additional motor service would serve
public convenience and necessity. Cf. Powell v. United
States, 300 U. S. 276, 287. This, of course, gives administrative discretion to the Commission, cf. McLean Trucking Co. v. United States, 321 U. S. 67, 87-88, to draw its
conclusion from the infinite variety of circumstances which
may occur in specific instances. The disputants, here, do
not clash over the power of the Commission to determine
the need for the new service or that it will serve the public
convenience and necessity. The evidence is ample and
uncontradicted that delivery by motor of less-than-carload
freight to way stations is a more adequate, efficient and
economical method for railroads than by "peddler" car.
They join issue on the Commission's determination as to
the carrier which will render that service. Shall it be by
the railroad through the use of its trucking subsidiary or
by the existing common carriers by motor?

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

The National Transportation Policy has recently been
authoritatively summarized by Congress. That declaration requires administration so as to preserve the inherent
advantages of each method of transportation and to pro2
mote "safe, adequate, economical, and efficient service."
Such broad generalizations, while well expressing the Congressional purpose, must frequently produce overlapping
aims. In such situations, the solution lies in the balancing
by the Commission of the public interests in the different
types of carriers with due regard to the declared purposes
of Congress. Cf. I. C. C. v. Inland Waterways Corp., 319
U. S. 671, 691; United States v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 323
U. S. 612, 615.
When Congress directed that the act should be administered to preserve the inherent advantages of each mode
of transportation, it is abundantly clear that it was not
intended to bar railroads from the operation of off-the-rail
motor vehicles. In 1938 when committee hearings were
being held to consider amendments to the Motor Carrier
Act, 1935, Mr. Eastman explained the difference in opin2 54 Stat. 899:

"It is hereby declared to be the national transportation policy of
the Congress to provide for fair and impartial regulation of all modes
of transportation subject to the provisions of this Act, so administered as to recognize and preserve the inherent advantages of each;
to promote safe, adequate, economical, and efficient service and foster
sound economic conditions in transportation and among the several
carriers; to encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable charges for transportation services, without unjust discriminations, undue preferences or advantages, or unfair or destructive competitive practices; to cooperate with the several States and the duly
authorized officials thereof; and to encourage fair wages and equitable
working conditions;-aU to the end of developing, coordinating, and
preserving a national transportation system by water, highway, and
rail, as well as other means, adequate to meet the needs of the commerce of the United States, of the Postal Service, and of the national
defense. All of the provisions of this Act shall be administered and
enforced with a view to carrying out the above declaration of policy."

I. C. C. v. PARKER.
60

Opinion of the Court.

ion as to whether or not railroads should acquire motor
carriers." Section 213 (a) of the 1935 act specifically
regulated acquisition of motor carriers by railroads. Provision for such acquisitions appear now in § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 54 Stat. 905. See McLean Trucking
Co. v. United States, supra. Section 202 (c) (1) of the
1940 Interstate Commerce Act, part II, as amended, withdraws railroad operation of motor carriers in terminal
areas from the scope of motor carrier regulation and leaves
such operations under part I." Railroads may, therefore,

'Hearings before a subcommittee of the Committee on Interstate
Commerce, United States Senate, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., on S. 3606,
p. 23:
"The reason for that proviso was that at the time when this act was
under consideration by your committee, there was a feeling on the part
of many that railroads, for example, ought not be permitted to acquire
motor carriers at all. It was pointed out, in opposition to that view,
that there were many cases where railroads could use motor vehicles
to great advantage in their operations, in substitution for rail service,
as many of them are now doing. Many railroad men, for example,
feel that the operation of way trains has become obsolete; that the
motor vehicle can handle such traffic between small stations much
more economically and conveniently than can be done by a way train;
and the motor vehicles are being used in that way by many railroads.
The same is true of many terminal operations. The motor vehicle is
a much more flexible unit than a locomotive switching cars, and it
can be used to great advantage and with great economy in many
railroad operations.
"For that reason, something of a compromise was reached between
those two opposing views, and it was provided that a railroad could
acquire a motor carrier if it could make special proof that the transaction was not only consistent with the public interest but would promote the public interest and would also promote the public interest in
a special way, namely, by enabling such carrier other than a motor
carrier to use service by motor vehicle to public advantage in its
operations. And a further finding was required, that the acquisition
will not unduly restrain competition."
' 56 Stat. 300, § 2:
"(c) Notwithstanding any provision of this section or of section
203, the provisions of this part . .. shall not apply-

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

in appropriate places operate trucks. However, since the
preservation of the inherent advantages of motor carriers
is of equal importance with efficiency under the national
transportation policy, the Commission must weigh the
needs of the railroad against disadvantages to the motor
carriers to find the balance of public convenience and
necessity in determining whether to grant a railroad application for motor operation where these certificates are
required. Cf. Texas v. United States, 292 U. S. 522, 530.
This the Commission did in its findings and conclusion.
It said:
"The motor-carrier service proposed by applicant, operated in close coordination with the railroad's service, will
effectuate a reduction in cost, and will result in an increase
in efficiency in the transportation over the routes herein
considered, which will inure to the benefit of the general
public. Furthermore, it does not appear that the restricted
service would be directly competitive or unduly prejudicial
to the operations of any other motor carrier. . . ." 42 M.
C. C. at 726.
In support of this statement the evidence showed that
Willett served, similarly and satisfactorily, other localities
along the Pennsylvania lines in Ohio, Indiana and Illinois.
The coordination of Willett's line-haul method of operations with the rail service has been explained. The existing schedules of protestants do not fit into the needs of
the projected service. Common management of railroad
"(1) to transportation by motor vehicle by a carrier by railroad
subject to part I, or by a water carrier subject to part III, or by a
freight forwarder subject to part IV, incidental to transportation or
service subject to such parts, in the performance within terminal areas
of transfer, collection, or delivery services; but such transportation
shall be considered to be and shall be regulated as transportation subject to part I when performed by such carrier by railyoad, as transportation subject to part III when performed by such water carrier,
and as transportation or service subject to part IV when performed
by such freight forwarder . . i)
See Conference Report, H. Rep. No. 2832, 76th Cong., 3d Sess.,
§ 17 (B), p. 74.

I. C. C. v. PARKER.
60

Opinion of the Court

and trucks gave promise of better cooperation than would
be obtained by arm's-length contracts or agreements.
While the evidence shows that there were operating truck
lines in the area which individually could servre all the waystations by securing extensions to their present routes, it
also shows that no motor carrier is now in a position to
render this complete service. Cf. Kansas City Southern
Transport Co., Common CarrierApplication, 10 M. C. C.
221, 232. The Commission on this evidence had a basis to
conclude that a railroad subsidiary offered the most satisfactory facilities for making less-than-carload deliveries to
way-stations.
The contention of appellees, protestant motor carriers,
is that since no evidence was offered as to the inadequacy
of the presently duly certificated motor carriers to serve
the railroad's need, there was a failure of proof as to convenience of and necessity for a new motor truck operation
in the territory. Public convenience and necessity should
be interpreted so as to secure for the Nation the broad
aims of the Interstate Commerce Act of 1940. Cf. New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 189; I. C. C. v.
Railway Labor Assn., 315 U. S. 373, 376-77; United States
v. Lowden, 308 U. S. 225, 230; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Northside Belt R. Co., 276 U. S. 475, 479. In protestants'
view a certificate of convenience and necessity should not
be granted to railroads for motor truck operation when
existing motor carriers are capable of rendering the same
service. Appellants take the position that this precise
issue need not be decided in this case. They look upon the
application as asking for authority to improve "an existing
service." We think that it was for a motor service to improve an existing rail service. Consequently, the issuance
of the certificate is subject to all the requirements of any
other application for a certificate for operation of motor
lines. Since, however, on adequate evidence the Commisision found that the motor service sought was of a different
character from the existing motor service and not directly

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

competitive or unduly prejudicial to the already certificated motor carriers, 42 M. C. C. 725-26, we hold that the
Commission had statutory authority and administrative
discretion to order the certificate to issue. The public is
entitled to the benefits of improved transportation.
Where that improvement depends in the Commission's
judgment upon a unified and limited rail-truck operation
which is found not "unduly prejudicial" to motor carrier
operations, the Commission may authorize the certificate
even though the existing carriers might arrange to furnish
successfully the projected service.
Certificates of the general character of the one proposed
by the Commission for Willett have been granted heretofore.' The motor service was not the normal over-the-road
type but restricted to services auxiliary or supplemental to
the rail service. In order to restrict motor carriers which
were operated by railroads to this coordinated service, the
Commission customarily inserted a provision in the order
granting the application that the motor shipments must
have prior or subsequent movement by rail. E. g. Kansas
City Southern Transport Co., Common CarrierApplication, 10 M. C. C. 221, 240. The rail carriers pointed out,
however, that this restriction interfered with the efficieficy
of their operations, since commodities might be offered
them at one way-station for transportation to another
way-station within ordinary motoring distance. In such
a case a way-freight train would be required. It was to
5

Pennsylvania Truck Line8-Control--Barker, 1 M. C. C. 101,
113; 5 M. C. C. 9. Similar finding was made in Illinois Central R. Co.,
Common CarrierApplication, 12 M. C. C. 485; Gulf, M. & N. R. Co.,
Common CarrierApplication, 18 M. C. C. 721; Missouri Pacific R.
Co., Extension of Operations-Illinois,19 M. C. C. 605; Willett Co. of
Ind., Extension-Ill., Ind. and Ky., 21 M. C. C. 405; Pacific Motor
Trucking Co., Common Carrier Application, 34 M. C. C. 249, 322,

par. 4.
The Commission's brief, Appendix B, lists 94 opinions dealing with
truck movement of rail freight.

I. C. C' v. PARKER.
60

Opinion- of the Court.

meet this situation that the key-point or break-bulk rule,
which is employed here, was developed. Kansas City
Southern Transport Co., Common CarrierApplication, 28
M. C. C. 5, 9, 11, 22 (par. 3), 25 (App. B).
This key-point requirement is one factor of differentiation between this certificate and the normal over-the-road
motor certificate of convenience and necessity. Other differentiations are found in the limitation of service to rail
station points and the condition that the Commission
reserved the right to impose such other requirements as
might be found necessary to restrict the rail subsidiary to
coordinated rail service instead of permitting general competition with motor carriers in over-the-road service.
It is, of course, obvious that opportunity exists for
limited encroachment upon the over-the-road business of
the existing motor carriers. A shipper from one way-station to another station on the same railroad within the
permitted key-point limitation may use the railroad motor
carrier instead of the motor carrier. Free pickup and
delivery service may extend the competition to the limits
of the territorial boundaries of the railroad terminal areas
and give a further advantage to the railroad where the
motor carrier does not furnish the same service.' If the
6 I. C. C. Local Freight Tariff, Rules, Charges and Allowances for
the Pick-Up and Delivery Service on Less Than Carload Freight,
Issued January 2, 1942, effective February 6, 1942, p. 9:
"Item No. 30. Territorial Boundaries. (a) Except as otherwise
specifically indicated in Section 2, Pick-up or Delivery service will be
confined within the corporate limits of cities or towns; at points not
having corporate limits, within a radius of one mile of carrier's freight
station."
See also Pick-up and Delivery in Official Territory, 218 I. C. C. 441,
445; dissent, 483-84; Pick-up of Livestock in Illinois, Iowa and Wisconsin, 238 I. C. C. 671; 248 I. C. C. 385, 391, 397; 251 I. C. C. 549;
Morgain ForwardingCo., Pick-up and Storage, 258 I. C. C. 547, 771;
Empire Carpet Corp. v. Boston & M. R. Co., 258 I. C. C. 697. Also

see, § 202 (c) of part II, Interstate Commerce Act, 54 Stat. 920, 56
Stat. 300.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Commission later determines that the balance of public
convenience and necessity shifts through competition or
otherwise, so that injury to the public from impairment of
the inherent advantages of motor transportation exceeds
the advantage to the public of efficient rail transportation,
the Commission may correct the tendency by restoration
of the rail movement requirement or otherwise.
Administrative discretion rests with the Commission to
further improvements in transportation. The Interstate
Commerce Act contains no provision by which the Commission may compel non-rail motor carriers to coordinate
their road service with rail service or may compel rail carriers to coordinate their service with motor carriers."
When in railroad applications for coordinated motor service the Commission finds public convenience and necessity
for such motor service on evidence of transportation advantages to shippers and economy to the rail carriers, cf.
Texas v. UnitedStates, 292 U. S. 522, 530, it is in a position
to determine by its administrative discretion whether the
10 M. C. C. 235-36:
"We are without jurisdiction to compel coordinated service between
carriers by rail and carriers by motor vehicle. It could only be accomplished through the medium of through routes and joint rates and we
have no power to require their establishment. It follows that any
such plan must be dependent on voluntary cooperation. While protestants say that they are willing to entertain proposals, they have not
developed a plan nor do they suggest what general form it might take.
7

"Upon the evidence, therefore, we are persuaded that coordinated
service through the voluntary cooperation of all or some of the protesting motor carriers is not here practicable, and that the 'useful
public purpose' which the proposed new operation will serve cannot
'be served as well by existing lines or carriers.' It remains to be determined whether, in accordance with the definition of 'public convenience
and necessity' in the Pan-American case, [1 M. C. C. 190], 'it can be
served by applicant with the new operation or service proposed without endangering or impairing the operations of existing carriers contrary to the public interest.'"

I. C. C. v. PARKER.
60

Opinion of the Court.

projected service may be better rendered by the railroad
or existing motor carriers& In the absence of power to
compel coordination between the modes of transportation
and in the presence of the probable gains in operative
efficiency from unified management, we think the Commission, in view of the limitations on the railroad's motor
service, is entitled to conclude that the public will be better
served by the rail operation than by use of the available
motor carrier facilities. The alternative to the existence
of this discretion is that the language of the Interstate
Commerce Act, part II, forbids the granting to railroads
of a certificate of convenience and necessity for the operation of motor trucks, under specially limited certificates,
when there are certificated motor carriers, independent of
railroad authority or supervision, with whom arrangements for the service might be made by the rail carriers.
There is no such prohibition in terms. -Any such implication is negated by the discretion to grant certificates conferred on the Commission by the Act.
Protestants, the appellee motor carriers, point out that
under this interpretation in every case of an application
by a rail carrier or its wholly owned subsidiary, for a certificate of convenience and necessity to operate a motor
line to render service at way-stations, the Commission will
have power, under facts and with limitations in the certificate, previously described, to grant the certificate. This is
true. It must be expected, however, that the Commission
will be as alert to perform its duty in protecting the public
in the maintenance of an efficient motor transportation
system as it is in protecting that same public in the successful operation of its rail system. The Commission is
trusted by Congress to guard against the danger of the
development of a transportation monopoly. 49 U. S. C.
§ 5 (2) (a) and (b). It has the duty to preserve the
inherent advantages of each mode of transportation.
Appellees raise here an objection to the failure of the
Commission to reopen the case to hear evidence on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

326 U.S..

bias of the railroad witnesses. No valid reason for failure
to bring out the alleged bias at the trial is suggested.
We pass also without further discussion the appellees'
complaint of material error in the refusal to produce the
contract between the Pennsylvania and Willett at the
hearing. It does not seem material in view of our conclusions. The Joint Board directed that the contract be filed
as a "late exhibit."
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.

I
Sec. 207 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act authorizes
the issuance of a certificate to a common carrier by motor
vehicle if the proposed service "is or will be required by
the present or future public convenience and necessity."
But the present decision allows the Commission to construe the statute as if "railroad convenience and necessity"
rather than "public convenience and necessity" were the
standard.
I can find in the Act no indication whatsoever that railroad applicants for a motor vehicle certificate are to be
considered any more favorably than any other type of
applicant. Yet it is plain that this decision permits just
that. For if any applicant other than a railroad affiliate
were before the Commission with an application for a certificate to serve this precise territory, it would have to show
that existing transportation facilities were inadequate to
serve the needs of the public efficiently.' No such showing
has been made here. None has been attempted.
I Norton, Common Carrier Application, 1 M. C. C. 114; C & D
Oil Co., Contract Carrier Application, 1 M. C. C. 329; Car, Contract CarrierApplication, 2 M. C.C.263, 269; Irven G. Saar, Common Carrier Application, 2 M. C. C. 729; Merrill & Hamel,
Common Carrier Application, 8 M. C. C. 115, 117; Boyles &
Luten, Common Carrier Application, 8 M. C. C. 593; White Circle
Line, Common CarrierApplication, 16 M. C. C. 516.

I. C. C: v. PARKER.
60

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

That necessity is sought to be avoided by holding that
the motor carrier service to be rendered is "auxiliary to or
supplemental of rail service." If, as the Commission at
first required (Kansas City Southern Transport Co., 10
M. C. C. 221), this motor carrier service was restricted to
goods which had a prior or subsequent rail haul, the service
might properly be designated as an auxiliary or supplemental one. But the Commission changed its position and
withdrew that condition. Kansas City Southern Transport Co., 28 M. C. C. 5. The key-point condition was substituted. Between those points the railroad will operate
like any motor carrier. The service which it seeks to
render is not a combined rail-and-truck service. As the
Commission states in its report in the present case, "The
railroad, through its subsidiary, merely seeks the substitution of a more efficient for a less efficient means of service."
This "substituted" service differs from the adequate independent motor carrier service already existing only in
its being under railroad control. In that respect and in
that respect alone is the service of a new and different
character.
The Commission justifies that "substitution" of service
on the grounds of the operating convenience of the railroad and a reduction in its costs. That is a standard of
"railroad" not "public" convenience. Would it be thought
for a moment that motor carriers could obtain authority
to build a new competing railroad by any such standard of
"motor carrier" convenience?
Whether it is wise policy for the railroads to enter and
dominate this field is neither for us nor the Commission
to decide. If the railroads are to be given this preferred
treatment when they seek to substitute motor carrier
service for rail service, the authority should come from
Congress, not this Court. Meanwhile, we should be alert
to see to it that administrative discretion does not become
the vehicle for reshaping the laws which Congress writes.

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Douous, J., dissenting.

326 U.JS

II

If the railroad company was acquiring an existing motor
carrier to render this service, the Commission could approve the acquisition only if it found, among other things,
that the acquisition would "not unduly restrain competition." 49 U. S. C. § 5 (2) (b). See McLean Trucking
Co. v. United States, 321 U. S. 67. This provision was
inserted so as to protect the motor carrier industry from
the domination of other types of carriers which "might use
the control as a means to strangle, curtail, or hinder
progress in highway transportation for the benefit of the
other competing transportation." 79 Cong. Rec. 12206.
The same standard should be applied whether the railroads enter the motor carrier field by acquisition of existing facilities or by establishment of their own motor carrier
affiliates. The potentialities for abuse may be as great
in one case as in the other. Railroads, like other business
enterprises, are subject to the anti-trust laws except as
Congress has created exemptions for them. Georgia v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 324 U. S. 439. And the anti-trust
policy is one of the components of the public interest
which the Commission is supposed to protect in the transportation field. McLean Trucking Co. v. United States,
supra.
The preservation of healthy competitive conditions
must therefore be an ingredient of "public convenience
and necessity" which the Commission is under the duty
to determine in issuing certificates under § 207 (a). Certainly the effect on competition looms large when one type
of carrier seeks to enter another field of transportation.
The Commission paid lip-service to that policy when it
said in the present case that the restricted service to be
rendered by this railroad affiliate would not appear to be
"directly competitive or unduly prejudicial to the operations of any other motor carrier." But where is the evidence to support that finding? I do not find it. It is sug-

AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.
60

Syllabu.

gested that there can be no competition because the
railroad now has the business. But the railroad is not
restricted to business which it now has. Between the keypoints it is entitled to any and all business which it can
get. Every future movement of freight will be thesubject
of competition. If, as assumed, the present railroad service is poor as compared with the proposed new motor
carrier service, a new and important competitive element
will certainly be introduced. The railroad wants this
broad certificate so it can better compete with existing
motor carriers. If the railroad really wants a purely
auxiliary service, let the certificate be limited to commodities which have a prior or subsequent rail haul. But
it is not so conditioned. The railroad is entering the motor
carrier field and rendering a pure motor carrier service.
If the policy of Congress is to be honored, there must be a
finding supported by evidence that competition will not
be unduly restrained. On this record no such finding has
been or can be made.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join in
this dissent.
AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS, INC. EPT AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 558. Argued March 28, 29, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.
1. Under §§ 206 (a) and 207 (a) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act, -a railroad filed several applications for certificates
authorizing motor carrier operations auxiliary to and supplemental
of its rail service. Some of the routes involved were wholly within
a State, others crossed state lines, and many were contiguous.
Held that, in referring each application to a joint board composed
of one member from each State . which the application showed
that operations were to be conducted, the Commission complied

with § 205 (a). P. 81.

