480

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U.S.

from the "statutory setting" a meaning at odds with the
plain wording of the clause, the Government makes over
understandable ordinary English into highly technical tax
jargon. There is enough of this in the tax laws inescapably, without adding more in the absence of either compulsion or authority. The arm of the tax-gatherer reaches
far. In my judgment it should not go the length of this
case. Congress has revised § 23 once to overcome niggardly construction.8 It should not have to do so again.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE
v. ESTATE OF HOLMES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 203. Argued December 12, 1945.--Decided January 2, 1946.
1. Decedent in 1935 transferred property upon trusts for the benefit
of three sons, retaining no power to revest in himself or in his estate
any part of the income or corpus. Decedent was named trustee
and acted as such until his death. Each trust was to continue for
15 years, or on certain conditions longer; and various provisions
were made for disposition over upon the death of any beneficiary.
The trustee was authorized in his discretion either to distribute or
to accumulate the income, and to apply each beneficiary's share of
the corpus to the welfare and happiness of such beneficiary. Decedent reserved to himself the power to terminate any or all of the
trusts, and to distribute the principal and accumulated income to
the beneficiaries then entitled to receive it. Held that, under §811
(d) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code, for the purpose of the federal
estate tax, the value of the property so transferred by the decedent
was includible in his gross estate, as an interest whereof the "enjoyment" was subject, at the date of his death, to change through exercise of a power to "alter, amend, or revoke." P. 483.
8 The Treasury Regulations in force in 1920 allowed deduction of

only the excess of the cost of meals and lodging away from home over
the cost at home; and under earlier regulations none of this expense
was allowed. Congress inserted the words "all" and "entire" in the
1921 Act to overcome this ruling.

COMM'R v. ESTATE OF HOLMES.
480

Opinion of the Court.

(a) One who has the power to terminate contingencies upon
which the right of enjoyment is staked, so as to make certain that
a beneficiary will have it who may never come into it if the power
is not exercised, has not divested himself of control to the extent
which § 811 (d) (2) requires in order to avoid the tax. P. 487.
(b) Decedent's failure to reserve for himself any beneficial interest or power to recapture one is not controlling. P. 489.
(c) Nor is it controlling that the decedent was without power
to designate beneficiaries other than those specified in the indenture,
and was therefore limited to changing enjoyment among only that
group. P. 489.
(d) Upon the language of the trusts, it can not be said that the
decedent reserved the power of termination to himself merely as
trustee rather than as donor; and it is therefore unnecessary to
determine the effect of the variation between §§ 811 (d) (1) and
(2) in this respect. P. 489.
2. The words "enjoyment" and "enjoy," as used in § 811 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar statutes, are not terms of art,
but connote substantial present economic benefit rather than technical vesting of title or estates. P. 486.
3. The 1936 amendment of § 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1926,
whereby as to transfers subsequent to June 22, 1936, the words
"or terminate" were added to "alter, amend, or revoke," was declaratory of the existing law. P. 488.
148 F. 2d 740, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 702, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Tax Court, 3 T. C. 571, which set aside the
Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in estate
tax.

Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark,
Jr., Messrs. Sewall Key and Hilbert P. Zarky were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. V. Wheat, with whom Messrs. W. J. Howard and
J. E. Pricewere on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE RUTEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In White v. Poor, 296 U. S. 98, the question arose
whether the power "to alter, amend, or revoke" included

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the power of a decedent to terminate a trust so as to bring
the trust estate within his gross estate for purposes of the
transfer tax imposed by § 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 71. The Court, finding it unnecessary to determine that question, disposed of the case upon

another ground. The question is here again, this time
inescapably, but with a further legislative history and a
somewhat different setting of fact.
In 1936, immediately following the White decision, Congress revised § 302 (d) by rewriting it into two separate
paragraphs relating to "revocable transfers," one applying to transfers after June 22, 1936, the other to transfers
on or prior to that date. These are now §§ 811 (d) (1)
and (2) of the Internal Revenue Code, which are set
forth in the margin.1 For present purposes the difference
claimed to be important consisted in changing the phrase
1

"Sec. 811. Gross Estate. The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by including the value at the time of his
death of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, whereever situated, except real property situated outside of the United
States"(d) Revocable transfers.-(1) Transfers after June 22, 1936.To the extent of any interest therein of which the decedent has at
any time made a transfer (except in case of a bona-fide sale for an
adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth), by
trust or otherwise, where the enjoyment thereof was subject at the
date of his death to any change through the exercise of a power (in
whatever capacity exercisable) by the decedent alone or by the decedent in conjunction with any other person (without regard to when
or from what source the decedent acquired such power), to alter,
amend, revoke, or terminate, or where any such power is relinquished
in contemplation of decedent's death;
"(2) Transfers on or prior to June 22, 1936.-To the extent of any
interest therein of which the decedent has at any time made a transfer,
by trust or otherwise, where the enjoyment thereof was subject at
the date of his death to any change through the exercise of a power,
either by the decedent alone or in conjunction with any person, to
alter, amend, or revoke, or where the decedent relinquished any such
power in contemplation of his death, except in case of a bona fide sale

COMM'R v. ESTATE OF HOLMES.
480

Opinion of the Court.

"to alter, amend, or revoke" applying to transfers on or
prior to June 22, 1936, so that in § 811 (d) (1) it reads
"to alter, amend, revoke, or terminate," as to transfers
after that date.
However § 811 (d) (2) governs the transfer in this case,
since it was made in January, 1935, prior to the dividing
date. And the question most mooted has been whether
the change was one of substance or was only a clarifying
amendment. Put differently, the principal issue is
whether power to "alter, amend, or revoke" included power
merely to terminate the interests created by the trust or
required some further change.
The Tax Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, one judge dissenting, have ruled that
the change was substantial, not merely declaratory. 3
T. C. 571; 148 F. 2d 740. Accordingly they have held that
no deficiency resulted from the taxpayer's failure to include the value of the trust estate created by the decedent
Holmes in his gross estate for estate tax purposes. The
Commissioner maintains the contrary view. Because of
alleged conflict with decisions from other circuits, 2 certiorari was granted. 326 U. S. 702.
We think the Tax Court and the Court of Appeals were
in error in their view of the statute's effect.
The facts were stipulated. In so far as necessary to
state, they are as follows. On January 20,1935, by a single
trust indenture Holmes created three several irrevocable
trusts, one for each of three sons then aged 22, 19 and 14
for an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth.
Except in the case of transfers made after June 22, 1936, no interest
of the decedent of which he has made a transfer shall be included in
the gross estate under paragraph (1) unless it is includible under
this paragraph." 26 U. S. C. § 811.
2 Mellon v. Dr;ecoU, 117 F. 2d 477 (C.C.A. 3); Commiaioner v.
Hofheimer'a Eatate, 149 F. 2d 738 (C. C. A. 2). See also the authorities cited in note 11 infra.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

years respectively. Each was given the beneficial interest
in one-third of a common fund consisting of corporate
stock later converted into other assets.8 The three trusts
were identical in terms. Holmes was named and acted as
trustee until his death October 5, 1940.
Each trust was to continue for a period of fifteen years,
unless earlier terminated under power reserved to the
grantor, or for a longer term on specified conditions summarized below. But the grantor reserved to himself during his lifetime the power to terminate any or all of the
trusts and distribute the principal, with accumulated income, to the beneficiaries then entitled to receive it."
He retained no power to revest in himself or his estate
any portion of the corpus or income.
Various provisions for disposition over were made to
cover contingencies created by the death of beneficiaries
during continuance of the trust. Generally stated, the
scheme was that the surviving issue of each son should
take his share of the corpus, receiving it share and share
alike, unconditionally if over 21; as beneficiaries until at'The corporation which had issued the stock was liquidated and
the corporate assets were transferred to the trust to replace the
stock.
' The power of termination was reserved by paragraph eleven of
the indenture, as follows:
"Grantor, during his lifetime, and my son or sons herein named,
while acting as Trustee hereunder, may, if deemed advisable by them
as Trustee, distribute to either of Grantor's children, the whole or
any part of the principal of their respective trusts, and their interests
thereunder. And Grantor may, during his lifetime, if deemed advisable by him, and my son or sons herein named, while acting as
Trustee hereunder, may, if deemed advisable by them as Trustee,
terminate either or all of said trusts herein created for the respective
benefit of my said sons, and distribute the principal of the trust to
the persons entitled to receive the same under the terms hereof on
the date of such termination."
It seems questionable on the wording that the grantor's power of
termination, like that of his sons, was limited by the clause "while
acting as Trustee hereunder." See note 13 and text.

COMM'R v. ESTATE OF HOLMES.
480

Opinion of the Court.

taining that age, if under it. If a son should die without
issue, his "share or trust" was to go "pro rata" to the other
two sons, or their surviving issue per 8tirpes;if either other
son should be dead without issue, the survivor or his issue
was to take the whole; and if all the sons should be deceased without issue, whatever might remain in the trust
estate was given to the grantor's wife, if living; if not, to
her heirs at law. The trust was to terminate in any event
upon the death of the last survivor of the three sons and
the expiration of twenty-one years thereafter.
The trustee was given broad discretionary power to apply each beneficiary's share of the corpus for his maintenance, welfare, comfort or happiness, with a precatory
suggestion Of liberality.
The income was subject to spendthrift provisions and
discretionary power of accumulation. If not accumulated,
it was to be distributed to the beneficiary, preferably in
monthly instalments.
The principal contention is that the sum of the various
provisions was to create or reserve to the decedent only a
power to accelerate in time the enjoyment of the beneficial
interests brought into being by the trusts; that these were
vested interests; that no power was reserved to revest
them or any of them in the donor or his estate or to change
or alter them, or the terms of the gifts, in any manner
other than by mere acceleration of enjoyment; and that
the powers thus reserved are not sufficient to bring the
trust estate, or any part of it, within the coverage of § 811
(d) (2)
8 The taxpayer asserts that each son acquired, on execution of the
indenture, "a fee simple title to one-third of the trust corpus and
income," subject only to the trustee's power of management for 15
years at the most and to the son's living until this power should end.
The reserved power of termination, it is said, applies only to the several contingencies which might affect the time of enjoyment, but not
enjoyment itself.

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

This view presupposes two things. One is that termination of contingencies upon which enjoyment is dependent does not "change, alter, or revoke" enjoyment; the
other, that the power "to alter, amend, or revoke" specified
in § 811 (d) (2) does not include a power to terminate
contingencies which accelerate enjoyment, with the effect
of making certain that the beneficiary taking will have
it rather than others to whom it would or might inure if
termination were longer deferred.
One difficulty with respondent's position is in its conception of "enjoyment." More than once recently we
have emphasized that "enjoyment" and "enjoy," as used
in these and similar statutes, are not terms of art, but
connote substantial present economic benefit rather than
technical vesting of title or estates. Cf. United States v.
Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399, 403; Fondren v. Commissioner, 324
U. S. 18, 20; Commissionerv. Disston, 325 U. S. 442! In
this sense it is clear that none of the sons here had a present
right to immediate enjoyment of either income or principal, see Commissioner v. Disston, supra, although each
may have been invested with what respondent regards as
a "fee simple" in an equitable interest, subject to divestment by the contingency of the beneficiary's death during
continuance of the trust. So long as it continued-and it
might continue for the life of the survivor of the three
sons and 21 years-it could not be said with assurance
that any of the sons, or his issue, would come into present
enjoyment of his share, or any part of it; for in connection
with the possible occurrence of many contingencies, in4A

'It is true that this case is not one involving the taxability of gifts

of "future interests in property" as was true of the canes cited. It is
likewise true that the laws relating to estate taxes and those relating
to gift taxes are not completely reciprocal. Estate of Sanford v. Commiaioner, 308 U. S. 39; Smith v. Shaughnessy, 318 U. S. 176. But
there can be no difference in the meaning of the words "enjoyment"
and "enjoy" as they are used in the pertinent statutory provisions

regpetively.

COMM'R v. ESTATE OF HOLMES.
480

Opinion of the Court.

cluding the grantor's death and his earlier exercise of the
power of termination, it is to be recalled that the grantor
reserved to himself, while acting as trustee, the power to
accumulate the income.
It seems obvious that one who has the power to terminate contingencies upon which the right of enjoyment
is staked, so as to make certain that a beneficiary will have
it who may never come into it if the power is not exercised, has power which affects not only the time of enjoyment but also the person or persons who may enjoy
the donation. More therefore is involved than mere acceleration of the time of enjoyment. The very right of
enjoyment is affected, the difference dependent upon the
grantor's power being between present substantial benefit
and the mere prospect or possibility, even the probability,
that one may have it at some uncertain future time or
perhaps not at all. A donor who keeps so strong a hold
over the actual and immediate enjoyment of what he
puts beyond his own power to retake has not divested
himself of that degree of control which § 811 (d) (2)
requires in order to avoid the tax.
But the respondent relies heavily upon the legislative
history and the continued use of "alter, amend, or revoke"
in the 1936 revision, which at the same time introduced
"or terminate" to govern future transactions, as expressive
of intention to differentiate the two classes of transfers.
This view puts emphasis on the meaning of "revoke"
rather than of "enjoyment," and excludes from that
term's scope a power not amounting to more than one of
termination.
We think the history gives the opposite story. The
1936 revision resulted from the White decision, which
raised doubt whether Congress had included the power
to terminate in the words "alter, amend, or revoke." To
clarify the matter Congress removed all doubt for the
future by enacting §811 (d) (1). At the same time it
adopted § 811 (d) (2), which retained the earlier phrasing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

This was from concern that retroactive application of
§ 811 (d) (1) should not impose taxes on prior transfers
not comprehended by the prior law, as the concluding sentence of § 811 (d) (2) shows.! Notwithstanding this and
the doubt created by White v. Poor, supra, the report of
the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives expressly states that the addition of "or terminate" in § 811 (d) (1) was "declaratory *f existing
law." 8 Administrative interpretation, including Treasury
Regulations, support this view,' which also is either followed or indicated in decisions of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, except the one now in review.10 As we have
pointed out, that view is more consonant with the structure and interpretation given concomitant taxing act provisions. For all these reasons, we think it must prevail.
t

See note 1.
The report stated: "Another change made in subsection (a) of
section 206 has been to expressly include a power to terminate along
with the powers to alter, amend, or revoke. In the case of White v.
Poor, supra, the Supreme Court did not pass on the question of
whether the power to terminate was included in the language relating
to a power 'to alter, amend or revoke.' Since in substance a power
to terminate is the equivalent of a power to revoke, this question
should be set at rest. Express provision to that effect has been made
and it is believed that it is declaratory of existing law." H. Rep. No.
2818, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., 10. The report was issued in connection
with H. R. 12,793, of the same session, of which § 206 contained the
changes later enacted, without presently material difference, as § 805
of the Revenue Act of 1936, now § 811 (d) of the Code.
' See Treasury Regulations 105, § 8120, stating: "Such addition is
considered but declaratory of the meaning of the subdivision prior
to the amendment. A power to terminate capable of being so exercised as to revest in the decedent the ownership of the transferred
property or an interest therein, or as otherwise to inure to his benefit
or the benefit of his estate, is, to that extent, the equivalent of a
power to 'revoke,' and when otherwise so exercisable as to effect
a change in the enjoyment, is the equivalent of a power to 'alter.'"
(Emphasis
added.)
'0 Cf. the authorities cited in note 11.

COMM'R v. ESTATE OF HOLMES.
480

489

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent's other contentions require only brief
notice. The contingencies here were too numerous and
too important in their effects not only upon the time but
also upon the right of immediate enjoyment for them to
be regarded as trivial or inconsequential, as respondent
urges. Decedent's failure to reserve for himself any beneficial interest or power to recapture one is not controlling.
Porterv. Commissioner,288 U. S. 436. Nor is the fact that
he could not select new beneficiaries outside those comprehended by the indenture, and was therefore limited to
changing enjoyment among that group."
It seems suggested that the power of termination was
reserved to the grantor, not in the capacity of donor, but
only in that of trustee, from which the conclusion appears
to be drawn that no power of termination was reserved
within the meaning of § 811 (d) (2). As we have noted, 2
the eleventh paragraph of the indenture is not wholly
clear concerning the premise. But in terms the reservation is to the "Grantor, during his lifetime" and grammatical construction of the second sentence seems to indicate the qualifying clause "while acting as Trustee hereunder" was intended to apply only to the decedent's son or
sons acting in that capacity'
If the question has been
" Chickering v. Commissioner, 118 F. 2d 254; Commissioner v. Hofheimer's Estate, 149 F. 2d 733; Commissioner v. BridgeportCity Trust
Co., 124 F. 2d 48; Guggenheim v. Helvering, 117 F. 2d 469; Commissioner v. Chase NationalBank, 82 F. 2d 157; Union Trust Co. v. Driscol, 138 F. 2d 152; Millard v. Maloney, 121 F. 2d 257; Mellon v.
Driscol, 117 F. 2d 477; Holderness v. Commissioner, 86 F. 2d 137.
12Note

4.

13 Ibid. The parenthetical phrase "(in whatever capacity exercisable)" was added to § 811 (d) (1) at the same time as "or terminate,"
and possibly also as a consequence of the decision in White v. Poor.
Although the legislative reports are not clear, see H. Rep. No. 2818,
74th Cong., 2d Sess., 9, this change also has been held to have been
declaratory of existing law. Welch v. Terhune, 126 F. 2d 695; Union
Trust Co. v. Driscoll, 138 F. 2d 152; see also Treas. Reg. 105, § 81.20;
Estate of Nettleton v. Commissioner,4 T. C. 987.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

saved, we cannot say upon this language that the grantor
did not reserve the power of termination to himself as
donor rather than merely as trustee. It is unnecessary
therefore to determine whether, if the reservation were
different, the variation in wording between §§ 811 (d) (1)
and (2) in this respect would be material.1 ' We have considered respondent's remaining contentions and find them
without merit.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the cause is remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.
Reversed andremanded.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAS dissents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MARKHAM, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.

ALLEN ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60. Argued December 5, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A federal district court has jurisdiction of a suit by the Alien
Property Custodian against an executor and resident heirs to determine the Custodian's asserted right to share in the decedent's
estate which is in course of probate administration in a state court.
Pp. 491, 496.
2. While a federal court has no jurisdiction to probate a will or administer an estate, it does have jurisdiction to entertain suits to
establish claims against a decedent's estate, so long as it does not
interfere with the probate proceedings or assume general jurisdiction of the probate or control of the property in the -custody of
the state court. P. 494.
1 See the preceding note.

