ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.

657

Syllabus.

ROLAND ELECTRICAL CO. v. WALLING, WAGE
AND HOUR ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 45.

Argued October 8, 1945.-Decided January 28, 1946.

Petitioner, a Maryland corporation having its principal office, place
of business and a manufacturing plant in Baltimore, is engaged
there in commercial and industrial wiring, electrical contracting,
and dealing in electrical motors and generators for private, commercial and industrial uses. It had approximately 1,000 active
accounts, 99% of which were commercial or industrial firms. Of
its 33 larger and most active accounts, one was a telephone company engaged in interstate commerce, four were engaged in the repair of ships, tugs, barges and other boats intended for movement
in interstate commerce, and (with one exception) the remainder
were engaged in the production of goods for commerce as defined
in § 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act, shipping at least a substantial portion of their total production out of Maryland. All
of petitioner's mechanics worked, in practically every work week,
for some of these 33 customers, either in the repair of their motors
or generators, the reconstruction of used motors sold to them, or
in performing electrical work at their respective establishments.
The Wage and Hour Administrator brought suit to enjoin petitioner
from violating the minimum wage, maximum hour, and reportmaking provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Held:
1. Petitioner's employees are engaged "in the production of goods
for [interstate] commerce" so as to bring them within the coverage
of §§ 6 and 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 662.
2. They are not exempted from the Act on the ground that
petitioner is a "service establishment" within the meaning of § 13
(a) (2). P. 666.
3. Section 6 (a) of the Act, when read with the definitions of
"commerce," "goods," and "produced" in § 3 (b), (i), and (j), requires every employer to pay not less than the required minimum
wages to each of his employees who is employed in any process
or occupation necessary to the production, in any State, of any
part or ingredient of any articles or subjects of trade, commerce
or transportation, of any character, for trade, commerce or transportation among the several States. P. 663.

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

(a) This does not require the employee to be directly "engaged
in commerce" among the several States. P. 663.
(b) It does not require the employee to be employed in the
production of an article which itself becomes a subject of commerce or transportation among the several States. P. 663.
(c) It is enough that the employee be employed, for example,
in an occupation which is necessary to the production of a part of
any other "articles or subjects of commerce of any character"
which are produced for trade, commerce or transportation among
the several States. P. 663.
(d) It does not require an employee to be employed exclusively
in the specified occupation. P. 664.
(e) It does not require the occupation in which he is employed
to be indispensable to the production under consideration. P. 664.
(f) It is enough that his occupation be "necessary to the production." P. 664.
(g) Even though there may be alternative occupations that
could be substituted for it, it is enough that the one at issue is
needed in such production and would, if omitted, handicap the
production. P. 664.
4. The work of petitioner's employees has such a close and immediate tie with the process of production for commerce, and was
such an essential part of it, that the employees are to be regarded
as engaged in an occupation "necessary to the production of goods
for commerce." KirschbaumCo. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517. P. 665.
5. When read in the light of the declared purpose of the Act, its
legislative history, and its administrative interpretation, § 13 (a)
(2), exempting employees "engaged in any retail or service establishment the greater part of whose selling or servicing is in intrastate commerce," does not exempt employees "engaged in the
production of goods for [interstate] commerce." P. 666.
(a) When so read, it exempts employees of only such retail or
service establishments as are comparable to local merchants, corner
grocers or filling station operators who sell to or serve ultimate
consumers. P. 666.
(b) Its origin has nothing to do with establishments "producing goods for [interstate] commerce." P. 667.
6. To the extent that sales or services are necessary for the production of goods for interstate commerce, they generally are not
sales or services to an ultimate consumer for his personal use and,
accordingly, are neither retail sales nor services of a comparable
character within the meaning of § 13 (a) (2). P. 667.

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

659

Syllabus.

7. To fail to cover in this Act the multitude of employees who are
engaged in establishments which supply the materials and services
currently needed for the maintenance of productive machinery used
by those who produce goods for interstate commerce would take the
heart out of the Act. P. 668.
8. Its primary purpose is not so much to regulate interstate commerce as such, as it is to prohibit the shipment in interstate commerce of goods produced under substandard labor conditions and
thus to raise living standards. P. 669.
9. This purpose will fail of realization unless the Act has sufficiently broad coverage to eliminate in large measure from interstate commerce the competitive advantage accruing from savings
in costs based upon substandard labor conditions. P. 670.
10. In the legislative history of the Act, there never was an intent
expressed to exempt retailers other than local merchants of the
type dealing with the ultimate consumer. P. 671.
11. The debates in Congress show an intent to restrict the word
"retail" to such transactions with ultimate consumers as are commonly carried on at local dry goods, butchering or grocery stores.
P. 672.
12. This is confirmed by the general usage of the word "retail,"
which makes a distinction, not merely between the size and volume
of sales but also between types of purchasers. It relates to sales to
ultimate consumers, as distinguished from those who buy to resell
or to use for business needs. P. 673.
13. Government usage makes the same distinction on the basis
of the use for which the goods are purchased. P. 674.
14. The word "service" is associated with the word "retail" in
this Act so as to restrict its meaning similarly to services to ultimate users of them for personal rather than commercial purposes.
P. 675.
15. This interpretation of the term "retail and service establishments" is reinforced by the administrative interpretations of
the Wage and Hour Administrator, which are entitled to great
weight. P. 676.
16. Although the motors sold by petitioner were not purchased
by its customers for resale or to be processed for resale, and although
they were to be used and probably ultimately "consumed" in the
hands of petitioner's customers, they remained actively in use in
the great field of the production of goods for interstate commerce
to which the Act is directed. P. 678.

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

17. The record establishes the character of petitioner's customers
as "commercial and industrial" and not "retail" customers in the
same sense as is the customer of the local merchant, grocer or filling
station operator who buys for his own personal consumption.

P. 678.
18. The Act is concerned with goods in the stream of commerce
but not with those in "the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or
processor thereof." P. 678.
146 F. 2d 745, affirmed.

325 U. S. 849, to review reversal of an order,
54 F. Supp. 733, dismissing a complaint of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the Department
of Labor seeking to enjoin violations of the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938.
CERTIORmA,

Mr. 0. R. McGuire for petitioner.
Miss Bessie Margolin,with whom Acting Solicitor General Judson,Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Albert A. Spiegel
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BuRToN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The questions prtzented are (1) whether petitioner's
employees are engaged "in the production of goods for
commerce" so as to bring them within the coverage of
§§ 6 and 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (52
Stat. 1060, 1062-3, 29 U. S. C. §§ 206 and 207), and (2),
if so, whether they are exempted from the Act because
"engaged in any retail or service establishment the greater
part of whose selling or servicing is in intrastate commerce" within the meaning of § 13 (a) (2). 29 U. S. C.
§ 213 (a) (2).
Respondent sought a permanent injunction in the
United States District Court restraining petitioner from
continued violation of the minimum wage, maximum hour
and report-making provisions of the Act. 29 U. S. C.

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

Opinion of the Court.

§§ 206, 207, 211 (c). As to the coverage by the Act, the
District Court said that "the view of the Administrator
should not be accepted," but it rested its dismissal of the
complaint upon the ground that the petitioner was exempted under § 13 (a) (2). 54 F. Supp. 733, 736. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, on the other hand, held that
petitioner's employees "were engaged in the production
of goods for commerce" and that the petitioner was not
a "retail or service establishment" within the exemption
prescribed in § 13 (a) (2). It accordingly reversed the
order of dismissal and remanded the cause for further
proceedings in accordance with its opinion. 146 F. 2d 745.
We granted certiorari especially because of the divergence
of opinions among the Circuit Courts of Appeals as to the
interpretation of § 13 (a) (2).'
Most of the relevant facts were stipulated. Petitioner
is a Maryland corporation "having its principal office,
place of business and a manufacturing plant" in Baltimore. It is there engaged in "commercial and industrial
wiring, electrical contracting, and dealing in electrical
motors and generators, for private, commercial, and industrial. uses."
Petitioner had "approximately 1,000 active accounts
. . . 99 percent of which are commercial or industrial
firms." Its "larger and most active accounts" were 33 in
number. Of such 33 customers, one was a telephone company "engaged in interstate commerce"; four were "engaged in the repair of ships, tugs, barges, and other boats
which were intended for movement in interstate com1 Compare Fleming v. A. B. Kirschbaum Co., 124 F. 2d 567, 572,

and Fleming v. Arsenal Bldg. Corp., 125 F. 2d 278, 280, both affirmed
sub nom. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, without disposing of the question now presented; Guess v. Montague, 140 F.
2d 500; Bracey v. Luray, 138 F. 2d 8; with Lonas v. National Linen
Corp., 136 F. 2d 433, cert. denied, 320 U. S. 785; Martino v. Michigan
Window Cleaning Co., 145 F. 2d 163, cert. granted, 325 U. S. 849.

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

merce"; and "the remaining companies on said list, with
the exclusion of the American Ice Company [a small account in the period stipulated to be representative], were
engaged in the production of goods for commerce as defined in Section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938,
shipping at least a substantial portion of their total
production to points outside the State of Maryland."
During the period stipulated, "every mechanic of the defendant [petitioner] worked, in practically every workweek, for some of the said [33] customers either in the
repair of their motors, generators, the reconstruction of
used motors sold to them, or in performing electrical work
at their respective establishments." To carry on its entire business, the petitioner had 36 employees, consisting
of a foreman, 4 trouble shooters, 14 mechanics, 11 helpers
and 6 office employees. No claim of coverage is made on
the ground that any of the petitioner's employees were
engaged "in [interstate] commerce," but only that they
were engaged "in production of goods for [interstate]
commerce."
S I
As to coverage, the Act is unambiguous and the petitioner's employees come squarely within it as employees
"engaged in the production of goods for commerce." This
turns on §§ 6 (a), 7 (a), 3 (b),'3 (i) and 3 (j). Section 6
(a) provides: "Every employer shall pay to each of his
employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce wages at the following rates
."
(Italics supplied.) Section 7 (a) likewise provides: "No employer shall, except as otherwise provided
in this section, employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce" at wages less than 1/ times the regular rate, where
an employee is employed for more than the maximum
number of hours prescribed. (Italics supplied.)

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

Opinion of the Court.

Section 3 includes the following:
"(b) 'Commerce' means trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several
States or from any State to any place outside thereof.
"(i) 'Goods' means goods (including ships and marine
equipment), wares, products, commodities, merchandise,
or articlesor subjects of commerce of any character,or any
part or ingredient thereof, but does not include goods after
their delivery into the actual physical possession of the
ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof.
"(j) 'Produced' means produced, manufactured, mined,
handled, or in any other manner worked on in any State;
and for the purposes of this Act an employee shall be
deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if
such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in any process or occupation
necessary to the production thereof, in any State."
(Italics supplied.)
Putting these definitions together in their own terms,
§ 6 (a), as applied to the facts of this case, provides in
effect that "Every employer shall pay [not less than the
required minimum wages] to each of his employees who
is employed in any process or occupation necessary to the
production, in any state, of any part or ingredient of any
articles or subjects of trade, commerce or transportation,
of any character, for trade, commerce or transportation
among the several states." This does not require the
employee to be directly "engaged in commerce" among
the several states. This does not require the employee to
be employed even in the production of an article which
itself becomes the subject of commerce or transportation
among the several states. It is enough that the employee
be employed, for example, in an occupation which is neces-

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

sary to the production of a part of any other "articles or
subjects of commerce of any character" which are produced for trade, commerce or transportation among the
several states. This does not require an employee to be
employed exclusively in the specified occupation. This
does not require that the occupation in which he is employed be indispensable to the production under consideration. It is enough that his occupation be "necessary
to the production." There may be alternative occupations
that could be substituted for it but it is enough that the
one at issue is needed in such production and would, if
omitted, handicap the production.
The necessity to the petitioner's customers, in their productive work, of the sales made and the services supplied
to them by the petitioner's employees is the foundation
of petitioner's business. The essential need for motors
and wiring in the conduct of electrically operated productive processes of manufacture is beyond question. When
commercial or industrial producers, such as the petitioner's customers, use electric motors in the production of
goods for interstate commerce, services such as those
of petitioner's employees are necessary to the continuity
of such production. Such sales and services must be immediately available to petitioner's customers or their production will stop. If not supplied to the customers by
employees of the petitioner, such customers would have
to employ comparable employees of their own or of other
contractors.
2

The dependence of the commercial and industrial customers of the
petitioner upon such sales and services is well presented in the petitioner's advertising circular:
"It costs more to operate a faulty motor than to buy a new one.
But it isn't necessary to buy a new motor. We'll recondition your
present motors to give you the same service and satisfaction as new
ones. And well save you 25% to 50% on new motor costs. ...
"When a motor suddenly goes dead or lags, when trouble in electrical equipment arises, you need service and you need it quick!
Every second of delay means more dollars lost How well do we ap-

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

665

Opinion of the Court.

The work of petitioner's employees has "such a close
and immediate tie with the process of production for commerce, and was therefore so much an essential part of it,
that the employees are to be regarded as engaged in an
occupation 'necessary to the production of goods for commerce.'" Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 525526. The relation of petitioner's employees to the production of goods for interstate commerce by petitioner's custoiners is fully as close and "necessary" as was that of the
loft building watchmen and porters to the petitioner's
tenants in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, supra; the manufacturing plant watchman of the respondent in Walton
v. Southern Package Corp., 320 U. S. 540; or the fireguards
subject to call in Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S. 126.
In the latter case this Court said (p. 130):
". .. no hard and fast rule may be transposed from one
industry to another to say what is necessary in 'the production of goods.' What is practically necessary to it will
depend on its environment and position. . . . What is
required is a practical judgment as to whether the particular employer actually operates the work as part of an
integrated effort for the production of goods."
The foregoing conclusions follow so clearly from the
language of the statute as to make unnecessary a discussion of the declared purpose or the legislative history of
the Act to support them.3
preciate what speed means to our patrons, as well as dependable workmanship! . . .
"No job is too small or too large to handle promptly. Temporary
replacements can be made immediately from our stocks. No charge
is made for equipment that is loaned while repairs are being made."
BThe decision does not rest on the small quantities of scrap annually sold, melted down and shipped in interstate commerce, nor
on the small amount of work performed by the petitioner in Maryland directly for customers outside of the State, nor upon the small
numbers of sales of rebuilt motors to customers outside of the State.
The result reached makes it unnecessary to consider whether any
or all of the petitioner's employees were engaged "in [interstate]
commerce" as distinguished from the "production of goods for [interstate] commerce."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

II

The second question is whether or not petitioner's employees are exempted from the Act on the ground that
petitioner is a "service establishment" within the meaning of § 13 (a) (2).' The language of that clause is capable of two interpretations. If read in a detached and
broad sense, it can be made to exempt from the Act the
employees of the petitioner together with hundreds of
thousands of other employees like them, to the serious detriment of the effectiveness of the Act. However, if read
in connection with the declared purpose of the Act and
in the light of its legislative history and administrative
interpretation, the clause does not reach employees
"engaged in the production of goods for commerce" as
were those in this case. When so read, the exemption
reaches employees of only such retail or service establishments as are comparable to the local merchant, corner
grocer or filling station operator who sells to or serves
ultimate consumers who are at the end of, or beyond, that
"flow of goods in commerce" which it is the purpose of
the Act to reach. See § 2, infra. Without this clause such
local establishments might find themselves technically
covered by the Act, not because they were "producing
goods for [interstate] commerce," but because, for example, they were retailing milk near a state line and,
therefore, might be regarded as actually in interstate
commerce when delivering retail sales of milk to local
customers, all of whom were ultimate consumers of it for
their personal use, but a small proportion of whom lived
across the state line from the milk dealer. Walling v.
1 "See. 13. (a) The provisions of sections 6 and 7 shall not apply
with respect to . .. (2) any employee engaged in any retail or service establishment the greater part of whose selling or servicing is in
intrastate commerce; . . ." 52 Stat. 1060, 1067, 29 U. S. C. § 213
(a) (2). (Italics supplied.)

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

Opinion of the Court.

Jacksonville PaperCo., 317 U. S. 564, 571; Phillips Co. v.
Walling, 324 U. S. 490, 497. Similarly, it was felt that
without this exemption clause, the employees of a local
merchant who purchased his goods from outside his State
but retailed them all within his State to ultimate consumers across his counter, might, nevertheless, technically
be covered by the Act as being actually "in [interstate]
commerce" because of his purchases, although his sales
all might be at "retail" and beyond the end of the "flow
of goods in commerce." 83 Cong. Rec. 7393-7394, 74367438. The origin of this clause, § 13 (a) (2), had nothing
to do with establishments "producing goods for [interstate] commerce."
It is rare, if not impossible, for an employee who is engaged in an occupation necessary to the production of
goods for interstate commerce to be said to be at the same
time an employee engaged in a retail or service establishment whose selling and servicing is confined to ultimate
consumers. These employments are largely mutually exclusive. To the extent that sales or services are necessary
for the production of goods for interstate commerce they
generally are by that hypothesis not sales or services to
an ultimate consumer for his personal use and, accordingly,
are neither "retail" sales nor services of a comparable
character, within the meaning of § 13 (a) (2).
The logic of this result is as clear as the declared purpose, legislative history and administrative practice which
combine to produce it.
The purposes of the Act are declared as follows in § 2:
"(a) The Congress hereby finds that the existence, in
industries engaged in commerce or in the production of
goods for commerce, of labor conditions detrimental to
the maintenance of the minimum standard of living
necessary for health, efficiency, and general well-being of
workers (1) causes commerce and the channels and instrumentalities of commerce to be used to spread and per-

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

petuate such labor conditions among the workers of the
several States; (2) burdens commerce and the free flow
of goods in commerce; (3) constitutes an unfair method of
competition in commerce; (4) leads to labor disputes burdening and obstructing commerce and the free flow of
goods in commerce; and (5) interferes with the orderly
and fair marketing of goods in commerce.
"(b) It is hereby declared to be the policy of this Act,
through the exercise by Congress of its power to regutate
commerce among the several States, to correct and as
rapidly as practicable to eliminate the conditions above
referred to in such industries without substantially curtailing employment or earning power." 52 Stat. 1060, 29
U. S. C. § 202. (Italics supplied.)
To fail to cover in this Act the multitude of employees
who are engaged in establishments like that of the petitioner and which supply the materials and services currently needed for the maintenance of productive machinery used by those who produce goods for interstate
commerce would take the heart out of this Act. Savings
resulting from substandard labor. conditions would be
reflected directly into competitive costs. This would
weaken the 'governmental mechanism for sustaining "the

minimum standard of living necessary for the health,
efficiency, and general well-being of workers" referred to
as the purpose of the Act.
'Phillip8 Co. v. Walling, 324 U. S. 490, 493. The Bill was introduced May 24, 1937, as S. 2475 and H. R. 7200, accompanied by a
Presidential message. The sponsor of the Bill agreed that the Bill
was "intended to carry out the suggestions made by the President
in his message." 81 Cong. Rec. 4960, 4961. The President said "to
protect the fundamental interests of free labor and a free people we
propose that only goods which have been produced under conditions which meet the minimum standards of free labor shall be
admitted to interstate commerce. Goods produced under conditions
which do not meet rudimentary standards of decency should be
regarded as contraband and ought not to be allowed to pollute the

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

669

Opinion of the Court.

The primary purpose of the Act is not so much to regulate interstate commerce as such, .as it is, through the
exercise of legislative power, to prohibit the shipment of
goods in interstate commerce if they are produced under
substandard labor conditions. Such a prohibition is an
appropriate exercise of the power of Congress over interstate commerce. United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100,
115; United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S.
144, 147. This Act seeks to eliminate substandard labor
channels of interstate trade." Id. at 4961. The President emphasized
his purpose to follow the reasoning of Mr. Justice Holmes' dissenting
opinion in the 5 to 4 decision in Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251,
277. This Court has now overruled that decision and unanimously
upheld the constitutionality of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 115-117. The Bill became
known as the "Wage and Hour Bill." Later it received its official
title of the "Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938." The respective Bills
were referred to the Committee on Education and Labor in the Senate
and the Committee on Labor ifi the House. Joint hearings were had
before these Committees June 2-5, 7-15, 21 and 22, 1937. Hearings
on S. 2475 and H. R. 7200, 75th Cong., 1st Sess. It was reported to
the Senate July 8, 1937 with amendments. Sen. Rep. No. 884, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess. After full discussion it was passed by the Senate
July 31, 1937, with amendments. 81 Cong. Rec. 7957. In that form
it was referred to the Committee on Labor of the House, and was
reported out August 6, 1937 (H. Rep. No. 1452, 75th Cong., 1st
Sess.), without significant changes as to coverage or exemptions.
After debate, it was recommitted to the Committee on Labor December 17, 1937 (82 Cong. Rec. 1835), including particularly the substitution of a single Administrator in place of the Fair Labor Standards
Board proposed in the original Bill. It was again reported favorably
by the House Committee on Labor April 21, 1938, with amendments.
H. Rep. No. 2182, 75th Cong., 3d Sess. After debate, it was passed by
the House May 24, 1938. 83 Cong. Rec. 7449. It went to conference
between the two Houses and was reported out of conference with
several amendments in substantially its present form and the conference reports were adopted in both Houses June 14, 1938. 83 Cong.
Rec. 9158, 9246. It was approved by the President June 25, 1938.
The questions of coverage and exemption are closely related to each
other in the discussion in Congress and in the amendments adopted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

conditions, including child labor, on a wide scale throughout the nation. The purpose is to raise living standards.
This purpose will fail of realization unless the Act has
sufficiently broad coverage to eliminate in large measure
from interstate commerce the competitive advantage accruing from savinfgs in costs based upon substandard labor
conditions. Otherwise the Act will be ineffective, and will
penalize those who practice fair labor standards as against
those who do not.
The original Bill provided for a labor standards board
which was given broad authority to issue regulations and
orders to carry out the provisions of the Act including authority to determine some questions of coverage. It listed
no specific exemptions such as are now contained in § 13.
In the joint hearings on this Bill (Joint Hearings, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess., on S. 2475 and H. R. 7200, pp. 1-89, see
especially pp. 24-25, 24-29, 35 et seq.), the Chairman of
the Senate Committee on Education and Labor asked the
Assistant Attorney General (p. 35)"Would you explain under just what circumstances and
under what circumstances only, it would be possible for
the regulation of retail establishments and small business
enterprises to come under this bill?"
to which he replied"It was not intended by this,,bill to apply generally to
retailers or to apply to the service trades, such as the
filling-station attendant, and the pants presser and small
business generally.
"Practically, the situation in which a local merchant might
be affected would be if he were moving his goods in the
course of delivery across the State line to a substantial
extent so that he were engaging in interstate commerce;
but generally speaking, the policy of the bill is not to
include the service trades and small businesses and the
retailing enterprises."

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

Opinion of the Court.

Section 6 (a) of the original Bill proposed to exempt
the employees of any employer employing less than a fixed
minimum number of employees except in those circumstances where the Labor Standards Board found that the
maintenance of appropriate fair labor standards by even
such a class of employers was necessary or appropriate in
order to carry out the purposes, or prevent the circumvention, of any provision of the Act. The requirement of
a minimum size for an included establishment, and the
provisions for the Board and its discretionary power were
later eliminated but the purpose of all of these provisions
is served to a substantial degree by the insertion of § 13
in their place.
While its language and coverage were changed in details,
the Bill did not depart substantially from its original purpose. This purpose remains the key to the meaning of
the words defining its coverage and also to those defining
exemption from its coverage. There never was an intent
expressed to exempt retailers other than the local merchants of the type dealing with the ultimate consumer.
Section 13 (a) (2) clarified the exemption of such of these
as were near state lines and of local merchants whose
purchases might be interstate although the greater part
of their sales were intrastate. 6
6 The original Senate Committee report said (Sen. Rep. No. 884,
75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5):
"The bill carefully, excludes from its scope business in the several
States that is of a purely local nature. It applies only to the industrial and business activities of the Nation insofar as they utilize the
channels of interstate commerce, or seriously and substantially burden
or harass such commerce. It leaves to State and local communities
their own responsibilities concerning those local service and other
business trades that do not substantially influence the stream of interstate commerce. For example, the policy in this regard is such that
it is not even intended to include in its scope those purely local and
small business establishments that happen to lie near State lines,
and solely on account of such location, actually serve a wholly local
community trade within two States."
See also, note 8, infra; Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., 317 U. S.
564, 571, and Phillips Co. v. Walling, 324 U. S. 490, 497.

.672

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

In the Bill as reported to the House of Representatives,
April 21, 1938, the declaration of purposes referred to
"substandard labor conditions in occupations in commerce, in the production of goods for commerce, or otherwise affecting commerce."' (Italics supplied.) The
breadth of the phrase "affecting commerce" was so uncertain and difficult of definition that it was at first proposed
in the Bill to grant to a labor standards board, and later
to the Secretary of Labor, authority to determine what
should be considered as actually "affecting commerce"
within the meaning of the Act. This proposal proved
unsatisfactory and Congress finally chose to forego the
exercise of its full constitutional power and eliminated
from the Act the clause "affecting commerce." The remaining coverage relates only to employees (1) "in
[interstate] commerce,"-from whom § 13 (a) (2) exempts employees of retail and service establishments the
greater part of whose selling or servicing is in intrastate
commerce-and to those (2) "in production of goods for
[interstate] commerce." The debates in Congress show
an intent to restrict the word "retail" to such transactions
with ultimate consumers as are commonly carried on at
local dry goods, butchering, or grocery stores. The words
"service establishments" and "servicing," however, were
introduced in the final Conference Report and were not
discussed on the floor.8 83 Cong. Rec. 9161, 9249.
?Section 2 (a), S. 2475 accompanying report No. 2182 on Union
Calendar No. 804 in the House of Representatives, 75th Cong., 3d

Sess.

8
See, Debates in House of Representatives, 83 Cong. Rec. 73937394, 7436-7438. It is here that § 13 (a) (2) had its origin in an
amendment presented by Representative Celler and accepted by
Chairman Norton of the House Committee on Labor. It provided
for the insertion of the words "but no such order shall be applicable
to any retail industry, the greater part of whose sales is in intrastate
commerce."
It was intended "to eliminate retailing" and to prevent the classi-

fication of employees of retail establishments as employees engaged

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

673

Opinion of the' Court.

Returning to the text of the Act and to its authoritative
administrative interpretation, further confirmation is apparent. In general usage the noun "retail" means "The
sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels;-opposed to wholesale." The verb "retail" means "To sell
in small quantities, as by the single yard, pound, gallon,
etc.; to sell directly to the consumer; as, to retail cloth
or groceries." Webster's New International Dictionary,
Unabridged (2d ed., 1938).
In the suggested use of the word "retail" as opposed to
the word "wholesale," a distinction appears not merely between the size and volume of the sales but between types
of purchasers. For examplein interstate commerce because of either purchases or sales made by
such employers across state lines. Representative Celler said (83
Cong. Rec. 7438):
"The courts will look to the debates in this House for what is
meant by these words.... If you want to eliminate retailing, you
should say so in clear-cut language, and this amendment which I
offer indicates in the clearest way that retailing is exempted....
Accept it and then retail dry goods, retail butchering, grocers, retail
clothing stores, department stores will all be exempt."
Representative Norton replied: "; . . in view of the great misunderstanding there must be about this retailing feature of the bill, the
committee will accept the amendment. There has been a great deal
of doubt as to the understanding of that particular section, and I
think this amendment will not weaken our bill, but will in fact
strengthen it."
The amendment thereupon was agreed to. (Ayes, 145--Noes, 56.)
Representative Johnson of Oklahoma, in withdrawing an amendment which would have expressly stricken out interstate purchases
as a basis for bringing within the Act employees of an industry making such purchases, then said:
".... the amendment . . . offered by the gentleman from New
York [Mr. Celler], which amendment has been approved by this
body, is to protect the little corner store, filling station, and other
retailers who purchase a substantial part of their goods across the
State line."

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

"Wholesaling includes all marketing transactions in
which the purchaser is actuated solely by a profit or business motive in making the purchase.
"Retailing includes all marketing transactions in which
the purchaser is actuated solely by a desire to satisfy his
own personal wants or those of his family or friends
through the personal use of the commodity or service purchased." (Beckman and Engle in Wholesaling Principles
and Practice (1937) p. 25.)
Similarly the Encyclopedia of Social Sciences states that
"The distinguishing feature of the retgil trade . . . consists in selling merchandise to ultimate consumers," (Vol.
13, p.. 346), whereas wholesaling is said to cover sales "to
a retailer, a wholesaler or an industrial consumer so long
as the purpose of the customer in buying such goods is to
resell them in one form or another or to use them for business needs as supplies or equipment." (Vol. 15, p. 411.)
Governmental usage makes the same distinction on the
basis of the use for which the goods are purchased. The
Bureau of the Census states in its definition of "wholesale"
that "in general, the distinguishing characteristic is that
goods sold at wholesale are to be used for business purposes (such as materials for further processing and fabrication, merchandise for resale unchanged, etc.), rather
than for personal or household consumption." U. S. Census of Business, 1939, Instructions to Enumerators For
Business and Manufacturers, p. 18; also Vol. I, Retail
Trade, p. 1; Vol. II, Wholesale Trade, p. 1. It classifies
as "wholesale sales," sales of goods or merchandise "to
trading establishments of all kinds, to institutions, industrial, commercial, and professional users, and sales to governmental bodies." (Ibid.) The Bureau of the Budget,
in its Standard Industrial Classification Manual, likewise classifies "wholesale trade" to include "all establishments or places of business engaged primarily in selling
merchandise to retailers, to industrial or commercial

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

Opinion of the Court.

users, or to other wholesalers . . ." Vol. II-Nonmanufacturing Industries, 1942, p. 35. It defines "retail trade"
to include "establishments engaged in selling merchandise for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sales of goods." (Ibid.)
Similarly the Social Security Board, in its Industrial Clas.sationCode, Vol. I, Description of Industries, 1942,
pp. 99-100, prepared for use of the Board and State agencies administering employment security legislation, distinguishes between wholesale and retail establishments
on the basis of whether the goods they sell are to be
used for business purposes or for personal or household
purposes.
The word "retail" because of its ready contrast with
"wholesale" is generally more restrictive than the word
"service." The two, however, are used so closely together
in this statute as to require them to be interpreted similarly. This makes it appropriate to restrict the broader
meaning of "service" to a meaning comparable to that
given the narrower term "retail." The words are put on
a like level especially by their use in the alternative with
the single word "establishment" in the phrase "any retail
or service establishment the greater part of whose selling
or servicing is in intrastate commerce." (Italics supplied.) Accordingly, in proportion as the meaning of the
word "retail" is restricted to sales made in small quantities to ultimate consumers to meet personal rather *than
commercial and industrial uses of those articles, so it is
correspondingly appropriate to restrict the word "service"
to services to ultimate users of them for personal rather
than commercial purposes. This is supported by judicial
interpretation of the clause.0
SGuess v. Montague, 140 F. 2d 500, 503; of. Fleming v. Arsenal
Bldg. Corp., 125 F. 2d 278, 280, alarmed sub nori., Kirschbaum Co.
v. Walling, 816 U. S.517, 526.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

The administrative interpretation by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the terms "retail and
service establishments," "retail sales" and "services" as
used in this connection reinforces the interpretations above
stated, 0 ' and this Court, in speaking of interpretations of
this Act by the Wage and Hour Division, has said: "In
any case such interpretations are entitled to great weight."
Interpretative Bulletin No. 6 of the Wage and Hour Division of
the United States Department of Labor and under the title of "Retail
and Service Establishment-The Scope and Applicability of the Exemption Provided by Section 13 (a) (2) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938" originally issued December, 1938, and revised June, 1941,
2 C. C. H. Labor Law Service, 32,106.
Some of these interpretations are as follows:
"Section 13 (a) (2), was intended to apply typically to the grocery
store, butcher shop, haberdashery, clothing store, filling station, beauty
parlor, hotel, and similar commonly recognized retail and service
establishments." Par. 3.
"A retail sale is a sale of goods for direct consumption and not for
purposes of resale or redistribution in any form." Par. 12.
"A retail establishment sells goods to private individuals for personal or family consumption." Par. 14.
"The term 'service establishment' as used in section 13 (a) (2) may
be considered to include generally that large miscellaneous assortment
of business enterprises which are similar in character to retail establishments, but which may not be accurately classified as such. Such
an interpretation is suggested by the manner in which section 13 (a)
(2) is drafted. Service and retail establishments are considered in the
same sentence and the same criterion of intrastate commerce is made
applicable to both." Par. 22. See also, Pars. 23-29.
"As already indicated, establishments which perform a substantial
amount of work for industrial or business users, government agencies,
institutions, and similar customers may not be considered service
establishments. A service establishment is one which performs service
for private individuals for personal or family use." Par. 27.
In paragraph 29, the Adminitrator lists many examples of "establishments not considered service establishments under exemption"
and says of them"Although we recognize that the foregoing companies perform service, it is nevertheless our opinion that establishments engaged in such
businesses are not in the ordinary case sufficiently similar in character
20

ROLAND CO. v. WALLING.
657

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534,
549. See also, Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134,
140. The Administrator classifies as "non-retail" many
types of sales closely comparable to those made by the
petitioner in this case, of motors, generators and similar
equipment to commercial and industrial customers for
their use in producing goods for interstate commerce 1
to retailestablishments to be considered service establishments within
the meaning of section 13 (a) (2)." (Italics supplied.)
Among the companies so listed in paragraph 29, and to which the
above quotation refers, are the following which have special significance in connection with this case: engineering firms, machine shops
and foundries, establishments engaged in sharpening and reconditioning industrial tools, in resistance welding, in armature rewinding, or
in making electric signs, companies engaged in the repair of business
machines or in repairing elevators.
11
"Thus, many establishments are engaged in selling goods which
have only an industrial or business market, e. g., establishments
engaged in selling production machinery, freight trailers, oil-well
drilling machinery and equipment, etc. These establishments are
not retail establishments within the meaning of section 13 (a) (2)
since they do not sell regularly to the general consuming public."
(Italics supplied.) Interpretative Bulletin No. 6, Par. 11, 2 C. C. H.
Labor Law Service, 32,106. A footnote to paragraph 11 in the same
bulletin contains the following statement: "Ordinarily the following
types of goods have only an industrial or business market and are
not sold to the general consuming public. Accordingly, sales of such
goods, in the ordinary case, are not retail. It should be noted that
the types of goods listed below are merely examples and do not comprise an exhaustive enumeration." The note then lists many illustrations some of which are closely comparable to the types of goods
sold and serviced in this case. Among the illustrations are butchers'
equipment, filling station equipment, construction equipment, machine tools, mechanical rubber goods (such as belting, packing, gaskets, and recoil pads), power engines, powerhouse equipment, welding
equipment, hospital equipment (such as X-ray machines), plumbers'
equipment, shoe repairers' equipment, commercial aircraft equipment,
railroad equipment and connercial ship equipment.

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Although in this case the motors sold by the petitioner
were not purchased by its customers for resale or to be
processed for resale, and although they were to be used
and probably ultimately to be "consumed" in the hands of
the petitioner's customers, these motors remained actively
in use in the production of the "flow of goods in commerce." It is to this great field of the production of goods
for interstate commerce that the Act is directed.
The record establishes the "commercial and industrial"
character of the petitioner's customers. The petitioner's
circular advertises its business as that of "electrical engineers, motor dealers, commercial and industrial wiring."
(Italics supplied.) The circular offers "service for all
types of commercial and industrialwiring." (Italics supplied.) The stipulation filed by the petitioner shows that
99% of its "active accounts as reflected in its Accounts
Receivable Ledger . . . are commercial or industrial
firms." (Italics supplied.) These are not "retail" customers in the same sense as is the customer of the local merchant, local grocer or filling station operator who buys for
his own personal consumption. The Fair Labor Standards
Act is concerned with goods in the stream of commerce but
not with those in "the actual physical possession of the
ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof." See § 3 (i), supra.
For these reasons the employees of the petitioner were
properly held to be engaged in the production of goods for
interstate commerce under the coverage of the Fair Labor
Standards Act and were not taken out of that coverage by
the exemption stated in § 13 (a) (2). The judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals accordingly is
Affirmed.
Mi. JusTicE JACo

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

