340

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

FERNANDEZ, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WIENER ET AU.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 58.

Argued November 5, 1945.-Decided December 10, 1945.

1. Upon the termination of a Louisiana marital community by the
death of the husband, a federal estate tax, measured by the value
of the entire community property, was levied pursuant to § 811
(e) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code as amended by § 402 of the
Revenue Act of 1942. Held that the tax does not infringe any
provision of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 342, 362.
(1) The statute is a revenue measure enacted by Congress in
the exercise of the federal power to lay and collect an excise.
P. 351.
(2) The tax does not violate the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. Pp. 346, 357.
(a) The power of Congress to impose death taxes is not limited
to the taxation of transfers at death, but extends to the creation,
exercise, acquisition, or relinquishment of any -power or legal
privilege which is incident to the ownership of property, when
any of these is occasioned by death. P. 352.
(b) Upon the termination of a Louisiana marital community
by the death of either the husband or wife, there occurs, by virtue
of state law, a redistribution of powers and restrictions upon power
with respect to the entire community property which affords an
appropriate occasion for the levy of an excise tax measured by the
value of the entire community property, although from the moment
the community was established the respective rights of the spouses
in the community were in every sense "vested," and it was certain
that the changes in legal and economic relationships to property
which occasion the tax would occur. P. 355.
(c) The statute is not invalid as arbitrary and capricious although it taxes transfers at death and also the shifting at death
of particular incidents of property. P. 358.
(d) The statute is an excise tax upon the shifting at death of
the incidents of property, regardless of their origin, and does not
depend for its operation upon any presumption that the entire community property is owned or economically attributable to the spouse
first to die. P. 358.

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

341

Statement of the Case.

(3) The statute does not contravene the requirement of Article
I, § 8 of the Constitution that "excises shall be uniform throughout
the United States." P. 359.
(a) The uniformity commanded by the Constitution is geographical uniformity, not uniformity of intrinsic equality and
operation. P. 359.
(b) The tax on community property interests is not lacking in
geographical uniformity by reason of the fact that in some States
such interests are not found. A taxing statute does not fall short
of the prescribed uniformity because its operation and incidence
may be affected by differences in state laws. P. 359.
(c) The statute is not lacking in uniformity, even though it
applies to community property interests and not to interests in
tenancies in common and limited partnerships. P. 360.
(4) The tax imposed by the statute, laid upon the shifting at
death of some of the incidents of property, is not a direct tax
which the Constitution requires to be apportioned. P. 361.
(5) The tax does not invade the powers reserved to the States
by the Tenth Amendment. P. 362.
(a) The Tenth Amendment does not restrict the power delegated to the national government to lay an excise tax qua tax.
P. 362.
(b) The incidental regulatory effect of the tax is embraced
within the power to lay it. P. 362.
(c) It is not within the province of the courts to inquire into
the unexpressed purposes or motives which may have moved
Congress to exercise a power constitutionally conferred upon it.
P. 362.
2. Also included in the decedent's gross estate, pursuant to § 811 (g)
(4) of the Code as amended by § 404 of the Act, were the entire
proceeds of insurance policies on the life of the decedent, on all of
which policies the wife was named beneficiary, the right to change
the name of the beneficiary was reserved to the insured, and premiums were paid from community funds. Held that the tax as so
applied is constitutional. Pp. 362-363.
The death of the insured, since it ended his control over the disposition of the proceeds and gave his wife the present enjoyment
of them, may constitutionally be made the occasion for the imposition of an indirect tax measured by the proceeds themselves.
P. 363.
60 F. Supp. 169, reversed.

APPFAL under § 2 of the Act of August 24, 1937, from a
judgment for the plaintiffs in a suit against the Collector

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

of Internal Revenue to recover an alleged overpayment of
federal estate tax, the decision being against the constitutionality of the federal estate tax statute as applied.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Acting
Solicitor General Judson, Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold
Raum, BernardChertcoff and Miss Helen R. Carloss were
on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Sidney L. Herold and Charles E. Dunbar, Jr.,
with whom Mr. Esmond Phelps was on the brief, for
appellees.
The Attorneys General of the States of Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas,
and Washington filed a brief (Messrs. Max Radin and
Joseph D. Brady of counsel), and by special leave of Court
Mr. Radin argued the cause, on behalf of those States, as
amici curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
proceeding under § 811 (e) (2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 U. S. C. § 811 (e) (2), as amended by § 402 of
the Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, has levied an estate
tax on the termination of the marital community by the
death of the husband, a domiciled resident of Louisiana,
the tax being measured by the value of the entire community property. And, on the authority of § 811 (g) (4)
of the Code, 26 U. S. C. § 811 (g) (4), as amended by
§ 404 of the same statute, he also included in decedent's
gross estate the entire proceeds of insurance policies on
the decedent's life.
The principal questions for decision are (1) whether the
power asserted by the statute, to tax the entire community
interest, is within the taxing power of the United States;

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

(2) whether the tax infringes the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment; (3) whether the taxing statute
contravenes the command of Article I, § 8 of the Constitution that "excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States"; (4) whether the tax so far as it is measured by
the surviving wife's share of the community property, is
a direct tax, invalid because not apportioned as required
by Article I, § 8 of the Constitution; and (5) whether the
tax invades the powers reserved to the states by the
Tenth Amendment.
Appellees, the children and sole heirs of decedent,
brought this suit in the District Court for Eastern Louisiana, to recover from appellant, the collector, as an alleged
overpayment, so much of the estate tax paid as is attributable to the inclusion in decedent's gross estate of his wife's
share of the community property, and of all, rather than
half, of the insurance money. The district court gave
judgment for appellees, 60 F. Supp. 169, holding that the
statute as applied violated the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. The case comes here on direct appeal
from the judgment of the district court under § 2 of the
Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 751, 28 U. S. C. § 349a,
appellant assigning as error the lower court's ruling that
the statute denied due process, and the court's failure to
sustain the levy as a constitutional exercise of the federal
taxing power.
The facts as found by the district court are not in
dispute. In 1907, decedent, a resident of Louisiana, married a Louisiana resident with whom he lived in that state
until his death, his wife surviving. During the marriage
he carried on in Louisiana various kinds of business. With
the exception of certain real estate located in Mississippi,
all the property of decedent at the time of his death was
held in ownership by the marital community which existed between him and his wife. At no time during the
existence of the community was the wife gainfully em-

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

ployed outside the household, nor did she receive from any
one any salary or other compensation for personal services,
nor was any part of the community property derived
originally from any separate property of her own. Decedent, having by his will constituted appellees his sole
heirs, and having no debts of consequence, no administration was had on his estate, and appellees were by
judgment of the probate court placed in possession of all
decedent's property.
Appellees filed the federal estate tax return, in which
they reported only one-half of the net value of the community property as subject to the tax. Included in the
community property, and also reported to the extent of
only one-half, were the proceeds of fifteen policies of insurance on the life of decedent, all of which were (a)
effected by decedent during the marriage, (b) named the
wife as beneficiary, and (c) reserved the right to the
insured of changing the beneficiary. All of the premiums
on these policies had been paid from community funds.
The Commissioner assessed a deficiency in estate tax
based upon appellees' failure to include in the gross
estate, subject to tax, the entire value of all the community property, and the proceeds of the fifteen insurance policies. Appellees paid the deficiency and, following rejection of their claim for refund, brought the present
suit to recover the amount of the deficiency payment
which has resulted in the judgment in their favor.
Section 402 of the Revenue Act of 1942 amended § 811
(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. § 811 (e),
so as to include in the gross estate of decedent, subject to
the estate tax:
"(2) Community Interests.-To the extent of the interest therein held as community property by the decedent and surviving spouse under the law of any State
. . . of the United States, . .. except such part thereof

as may be shown to have been received as compensation

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

for personal services actually rendered by the surviving
spouse or derived originally from such compensation or
from separate property of the surviving spouse. In no
case shall such interest included in the gross estate of the
decedent be less than the value of such part of the community property as was subject to the decedent's power
of testamentary disposition." 1
The revenue laws make no provision for the distribution of the burden of the tax beyond providing that the
tax shall be a lien on all of the property included in the
decedent's gross estate. § 827 (a) I. R. C., 26 U. S. C.
§ 827 (a). See Detroit Bank v. United States, 317 U. S.
329, 331-333. Section 826 (b) of the I. R. C. contemplates
that the tax "be paid out of the [taxable] estate before
its distribution," unless otherwise directed by decedent's
will. Although the share of the surviving spouse is subject to the lien and the tax must be paid out of the estate
I Section 811 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U. S.C. § 811) as
amended by § 404 of the Act of 1942, provides that the taxable value
of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by including
the value at the time of his death of
"(g) Proceedq of life insurance
"(1) . . .To the extent of the amount receivable by the executor

"(2) .. .To the extent of the amount receivable by all other
beneficiaries as insurance under policies upon the life of the decedent
(A) purchased with premiums, or other consideration, paid...
by the decedent, . .. or (B) with respect to which the decedent
possessed at his death any of the incidents of ownership . . .
"(4) .. .For the purposes of this subsection, premiums...
paid with property held as community property by the insured and
surviving spouse under the law of any State, . . .shall be considered
to have been paid by the insured, except such part thereof as may
be shown to have been received as compensation for personal services
actually rendered by the surviving spouse or derived originally from
such compensation or from separate property of the surviving spouse;
and the term 'incidents of ownership' includes incidents" of ownership
possessed by the decedent at his death as manager of the community."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

as a whole, the federal statute leaves it to the states to
determine how the tax burden shall be distributed among
those who share in the taxed estate. See Riggs v. Del
Drago, 317 U. S. 95.
Appellees' argument is in substance that the nature of
community property is such that husband and wife each
has, by virtue of the establishment of their marital community, and from its beginning, a present half interest
in such property; that the death of either effects no transfet or relinquishment of any interest in the property
other than that of the half share which the decedent had
before his death; and that the survivor in consequence of
the death of the other spouse acquires no new or different
interest in the property, but only retains the half share
he or she had prior to the death of the other spouse. From
this appellees conclude that the death of either spouse
is not an event which in any case can bring more than
one-half of the community property within the reach of
the power to "lay and collect . . . imposts and excises"

conferred on Congress by Article I, § 8 of the Constitution,
and that the present amendment taxing the entire value
of the community property on the death of either spouse
is a denial of due process because the death of neither
operates to transfer, relinquish or enlarge any legal or
economic interest in the property of the other spouse.
Hence it is said that the statute infringes due process by
adding to the concededly valid tax on the decedent's half
share a further tax measured by the one-half interest of
the surviving spouse. Further, it is urged in support of
the due process contention, that the statute arbitrarily
and capriciously invents different rules of taxation whose
alternative application is governed by a single consideration, namely, which will yield the greater tax; and that
the statute creates a presumption contrary to state law,
and having no rational basis in fact, that the entire com-

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

munity is owned or economically attributable to the
spouse first to die. It is also argued that even if Congress
could validly impose the tax where, as here, the husband
is first to die, there is no basis for the tax where the wife
dies first, and that since the statute purports to apply in
either case, and is not separable, it cannot be validly
applied in this.
It is also contended that the tax is not uniform as required by Article I, § 8, Clause 1 of the Constitution,
because the joint interests of husband and wife in community property states are taxed according to a different
and more onerous standard than is applied to comparable
joint interests, and specifically to tenancies in common
and limited partnerships, created under the laws of other
states in which the presumption is not applied; and because the statute disregards for purposes of taxation the
property laws of the community property states, while
recognizing the property laws of other states for those
purposes.
It is said too that the levy is a direct tax, invalid because not apportioned (Article I, §9, Clause 4 of the Constitution), insofar as it contemplates collection of part of
the tax out of the wife's half of the community property,
since, it is said, there is no excisable event touching her
property on her husband's death and the tax collected out
of her property is in effect a direct tax upon it. And finally
the tax is said to invade the powers reserved to the states
by the Tenth Amendment, to determine property relationships within their borders.
The merits of these contentions cannot be accurately
appraised without some inquiry as to the nature of respective spouses' community property interests as defined by
Louisiana law. We have had occasion in several earlier
cases to make some examination of the laws governing the
/ interests of the spouses in community property states.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

See e. g., Moffitt v. Kelly, 218 U. S. 400; Poe v. Seaborn,
282 U. S. 101; Bender v. Pfaff, 282 U. S. 127; Commissioner
v. Harmon, 323 U. S. 44. Counsel for appellees concede
that the opinion in Bender v. Pfaff, supra, so far as it goes,
correctly defines the several interests of the spouses in
Louisiana community property. To that we now add a
more detailed statement so far as it may be relevant to
the decision of the present case.
By the law of Louisiana, every marital status subject to
the laws of the state superinduces a partnership or community of the spouses with respect to property in the state
acquired during the life of the community, unless there
be at the time of the marriage a stipulation to the contrary.' All earnings and all property acquired by the husband or wife during the life of the community become
community property, with certain limited exceptions not
here involved, and which need not be detailed further than
to say that the spouses can acquire some separate property
during marriage.! It is said that all property acquired by
the spouses during the marriage which falls into the community is "due to the joint or common efforts, labor, industry, economy, and sacrifices of the husband and wife,"
and that for this reason the husband and wife each has at
all times an equal present interest in an undivided half of
the whole community.' The management of the community is entrusted to the exclusive control of the husband,' and he may deal with and dispose of community
property with no liability to account to the wife so long
Dart's Louisiana Civil Code (1945) Article 2399.
Id., Article 2402; see Trozler v. Colley, 33 La. Ann. 425. The income from the separate property of the husband, and of such of the
wife's separate property as is given over to the husband's management also falls into the community by Article 2402, supra; see also
Hellberg v. Hyland, 168 La. 493, 122 So. 593.
'Succession of Wiener, 203 La. 649, 14 So. 2d 475; see also Phillips
v. Phillips,160 La. 813,825 et 8eq., 107 So. 584.
5Dart's Louisiana Civil Code (1945) Article 2404.

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

349

Opinion of the Court.

as the community continues.' The rule is, however, that
the husband may not give away any of the immovables,
nor a quota of the movables, nor may he fraudulently
make any alienation of property "to injure his wife."'
So long as the community continues, the wife has no
control over community property. She may not give it
away, nor sell it, and in general, may not bind it for the
payment of her debts.' But upon the termination of the
community,' she, her heirs, or other designees receive in
full possession and enjoyment one-half in value of the

6McCaffrey v. Benson, 40 La. Ann. 10, 3 So. 393; Friersonv. Frierson, 164 La. 687, 114 So. 594.
T
Dart's Louisiana Civil Code (1945) Art. 2404. The -rights secured
to the wife by this inhibition on gifts apparently may not be enforced against the husband or those taking under him either during
the life of the community or after its termination. The sole remedy
is a suit against the donee to recover the property in his hands, Bister
v. Menge, 21 La. Ann. 216; Friersonv. Frierson,supra, and even such
a suit apparently may not be maintained until after the termination
of the community. Daggett, The Community Property System of
Louisiana (1931) 24. Where the husband has aliened some part of
the community in fraud of his wife's rights, she or those representing
her have an action for reimbursement against the husband or his
representatives upon the termination of the community, but not
before. Guice v. Lawrence, 2 La. Ann. 226, 228. The fraud required
for an action of this kind seemingly must be intentional and the motive
for the transfer. See Art. 2404, eupra; Succession of Packwood, 12
Rob. (La.) 334, 364-5; Ezpoaito v. Lapeyrouse, 195 So. 814 (La.
App.).
.8 Bywater v. Enderle, 175 La. 1098,145 So. 118; D. H. Holmes Co. v.
Morris, 188 La. 431, 177 So. 417.
9Dart's Louisiana Civil Code (1945) Articles 2406, 2425. At the
dissolution of the community, the share of each spouse in the partnership's assets is credited with one-half of the amount by which the
other spouse's separate property has been enhanced in value by the
application thereto of community funds or of common labor, id.,
Article 2408; Dillon v. Dillon, 35 La. Ann. 92. The wife's share must
also be credited with one-half of the amount of community funds
expended to pay the husband's separate debts, Glenn v. Elam, 3 La.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

total community assets subject to the payment of community debts."0 This right so to receive one-half is indefeasible, and if she die first, her heirs or legatees take her
half-share to the exclusion of the husband; if the husband
die first, his half passes to his heirs or as he has directed,
and the other half is the wife's.'
Examination of the legislative history of the challenged
statute, as disclosed by the Committee Hearings and Reports and the Congressional debates, can leave no doubt
that the purpose of Congress in enacting it was the elimination of what was believed to be an unequal distribution
of the tax burdens of estate taxes which led Congress to
apply to community property the principles of death taxes
which it had already applied to other forms of joint ownership, on the death of either of the joint owners. The
Report of the House Committee recommending the adoption of the amendment to § 811 of the Internal Revenue
Code pointed out the preferential treatment accorded by
Ann. 611, although those debts may be satisfied during the community
by levy upon community property. Davis v. Compton, 13 La.
Ann. 396.
The community relationship ends upon the death of one spouse,
divorce, separation from bed and board, or, in the absence of these,
upon a judgment of judicial separation of property. See Dart's
Louisiana Civil Code (1945), Articles 2425, 2427, 2430. Only the
wife may request such a separation, and the separation is not a mere
matter of consent between the spouses. Driscoll v. Pierce, 115 La.
156, 38 So. 949. She must show that her dowry rights or other
separate property entrusted to the husband are in danger owing to
her husband's mismanagement or financial embarrassment, or that
like conditions render it doubtful that she or the children of the
marriage will have the benefit of her own earnings, or of her future
acquisitions of separate property. Davock. v. Darcy, 6 Rob. (La.)
342; Webb v. Bell, 24 La. Ann. 75; Meyer v. Smith & Co., 24 La. Ann.
163;
Jones v. Jones, 119 La. 677, 44 So. 429.
1 Dart's Louisiana Civil Code (1945) Articles 2406, 2409, 2430.
11See Successon of Wiener, 8upra.

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

the federal estate tax laws to community property. H.
Rep. No. 2333, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 35 to 37, 160.1
There is no dispute as to the construction or operation
of the provisions of the statute. Appellees do not deny
that the Commissioner correctly applied the statute and
correctly computed the tax if the statute is valid. Here,
as will presently appear, there is no basis for saying that
the statute, either in its purpose or in its practical effect,
operates to regulate matters whose regulation the Constitution reserved to the states. It is a revenue measure
report stated:
'For the purpose of Federal estate taxation, husband and wife living
in community-property States enjoy a preferential treatment over
those living in non-community-property States. This is due to the fact
that all of the property acquired by the husband after marriage,
through his own efforts, in a community-property State is treated as
if one-half belonged to the wife. In non-community-property States,
all such property is regarded as belonging entirely to the husband.
The difference in the amount of the Federal estate tax is enormous
as shown by the following tables: . . ."
The tables show the great disparity between the estate tax levied on
community property upon the death of the husband who had accumulated it and the death of the husband in like circumstances in
non-community states. The tax upon an estate of $100,000 being
$500 in a community property state and $9,500 in non-community
property states. In the case of a $5,000,000 estate the tax saving in
a community property state would amount to as much as $485,800,
the saving on a $10,000,000 estate in a community property state
amounting to as much as $1,171,800.
The proposed amendment, it was said, "eliminates special estate
tax privileges enjoyed by decedents of community property estates."
To the same effect is S. Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d Seas., p. 231.
The inequity inherent in allowing spouses in community property
states to bear a lighter tax burden than their counterparts in other
states had been brought to Congressional attention on other occasions.
See e. g., President Roosevelt's message to Congress June 1, 1937,
H. Doe. No. 260, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5; also Reports to the Joint
Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation, Vol. 2, Part II (1933),
pp. 15, 118-121, 139-140.
1
1The

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

enacted in the exercise of the federal power to lay and
collect an excise. Congress has a wide latitude in the
selection of objects of taxation, Brwshaber v. Union
Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 12; Steward Machine Co. v.
Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 581, and even under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which was
not included in the Fifth, the states may distinguish, for
purposes of transfer taxes, between property which has
borne its fair share of the tax burdens and similar or like
property passing to the same class of beneficiaries which
has not. Watson v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122.
Hence we are concerned only with the power of Congress
to enact the tax.
It is true that the estate tax as originally devised and
constitutionally supported was a tax upon transfers.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Y. M. C. A. v. Davis,
264 U. S. 47, 50. But the power of Congress to impose
death taxes is not limited to the taxation of transfers
at death. It extends to the creation, exercise, acquisition,
or relinquishment of any power or legal privilege which
is incident to the ownership of property, and when any
of these is occasioned by death, it may as readily be the
subject of the federal tax as the transfer of the property at
death. See Bromley v. McCaughn, 280 U. S. 124, 135,
et seq.
Congress may tax real estate or chattels if the tax is
apportioned, and without apportionment it may lay an
excise upon a particular use or enjoyment of property
or the shifting from one to another of any power or privilege incidental to the ownership or enjoyment of property.
Bromley v. McCaughn, supra; Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S.
670, 678; cf. Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288
U. S. 249, 267-8; Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300
U. S. 577, 582. The power to tax the whole necessarily
embraces the power to tax any of its incidents or the use
or enjoyment of them. If the property itself may con-

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

stitutionally be taxed, obviously it is competent to tax
the use of it, Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171; Billings
v. United States, 232 U. S. 261, or the sale of it, Nicol v.
Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S.
363, 370, or the gift of it, Bromley v. McCaughn, supra.
It may tax the exercise, non-exercise, or relinquishment
of a power of disposition of property, where other important indicia of ownership are lacking. Saltonstall v.
Saltonstall,276 U. S. 260; Chase NationalBank v. United
States, 278 U. S. 327; Estate of Rogers v. Commissioner,
320 U. S. 410; cf. Graves v. Schmidlapp, 315 U. S. 657
with § 811 (d) (f) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26
U.S. C. § 811 (d) (f).
If the gift of property may be taxed, we cannot say that
there is any want of constitutional power to tax the receipt of it, whether as the result of inheritance, Stebbins
v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137, or otherwise, whatever name may
be given to the tax, and even though the right to receive
it, as distinguished from its .actual receipt and possession
at a future date, antedated the statute. Receipt in possession and enjoyment is as much a taxable occasion within
the reach of the federal taxing power as the enjoyment of
any other incident of property. The taking of possession
of inherited property is one of the most ancient subjects
of taxation known to the law. Such taxes existed on the
European Continent and in England prior to the adoption
of our Constitution."
It is upon these principles that this Court has consistently sustained the application of estate taxes upon the
death of one of the joint owners to property held in joint
ownership, measured by the full value of the property so
'a Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 47, 54, et seq.; Gleason &Otis, "Inheritance Taxation" (4th ed.), p. 243 et seq. Feudal "relief" was a

payment exacted of the heir for the privilege of admission to possession of the land of his ancestor. Digby, "History of the Law of Real
Property" (5th ed.), p. 40.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

held. We upheld a like tax when applied to tenancies by
the entirety in Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497;
Third NationalBank & Trust Co. v. White, 287 U. S. 577,
and to property held in joint tenancy inUnited States v.
Jacobs and Dimock v. Corwin (companion cases), 306
U. S. 363.
Decision in these cases was not rested, as appellees
argue, on the ground that the tax was imposed on a gift
made by the husband, who had created the tenancy,
viewed as a substitute for a testamentary transfer, or on
any event which antedated the death of one of the joint
owners. Instead, as we said in Whitney v. Tax Commissian, 309 U. S. 530, 539, "the emphasis in these cases [was]
on the practical effect of death in bringing about a shift
in economic interest, and the power of the legislature to
fasten on that shift as the occasion for a tax." We pointed
out in Tyler v. UnitedStates, eupra,503, 504, that the use,
possession and enjoyment of the joint property which was
joint before the death was thereby made exclusive in the
survivor, and thus constituted a "definite accession to the
property rights" of the survivor. These circumstances
were thought sufficient to make valid the inclusion of the
property in the gross estate which forms the primary basis
for the measurement of the tax. And in United States v.
Jacobs, supra, this Court sustained the tax, assailed on
due process grounds, when applied to a joint tenancy
created before the enactment of the taxing statute. We
said, 306 U. S. at 371, that the subject of the tax was not
the gift to the wife made by the husband's creation of the
joint tenancy for himself and wife, but the change in
possession and enjoyment of the entire property, occasioned by the death of one of the joint tenants, and that the
tax was appropriately measured by the value of the entire
property. "Under the statute the death of decedent is the
event in respect of which the tax is laid. It is the existence of the joint tenancy at that time, and not its creation

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

at the earlier date, which furnishes the basis for the tax."
Griswold v. Helvering, 290 U. S. 56, 58. Compare Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, supra, 271.
Similarly, a tax upon the termination by death of a
power to dispose of property, created before the enactment of the tax statute, does not offend due process,
Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, nor does a
tax upon the receipt of income which was earned and due
before the enactment of the taxing statute. Brushaberv.
Union Pacific R. Co., supra, 20; Lynch v. Hornby, 247
U. S. 339, 343; Taft v. Bowers, 278 U. S. 470, 483, 484;
Coor" v. United States, 280 U. S. 409, 411. It is the
receipt in possession or enjoyment of the proceeds of a
right previously acquired and vested upon which the tax
is laid. Such was deemed to be the taxable event under
our earlier death taxes. Clapp v. Mason, 94 U. S. 589;
'Vanderbilt v. Eidman, 196 U. S. 480. And see Moffitt v.
Kelly, supra.
With these general principles in mind, we turn to their
application to federal death taxes laid with respect to the
interests in community property. As we have seen, the
death of the husband of the Louisiana marital community
not only operates to transfer his rights in his share of
the community to his heirs or those taking under his will.
It terminates his expansive and sometimes profitable
control over the wife's share, and for the first time brings
her half of the property into her full and exclusive possession, control and enjoyment. The cessation of these extensive powers of the husband, even though they were
powers over property which he never "owned," and the
establishment in the wife of new powers of control over
her share, though it was always hers, furnish appropriate
occasions for the imposition of an excise tax.
Similarly, with the death of the wife, her title or ownership in her share of the community property ends, and
passes to her heirs or other appointees. More than this,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

her death, by ending the marital community, liberates her
husband's share from the restrictions which the existence
of the community had placed upon his control of it. He
acquires by her death, the right to have his share of the
community separated from hers by partition and to hold
it free of all controls. He obtains, for the first time, the
right to give away his immovables, and the right to give
away his movables as a whole or by a fraction of the
whole. Here too, the wife's death brings into being a new
set of relationships with respect to his share of the community as well as hers, among which are new powers of
control and disposition which are proper subjects bf an
excise tax measured by the value of his'share. And while
we do not rest decision on the point, it is of some significance that this shift of legal relationships effects a
shift in point of economic substance. The precept that
the wife is equal co-owner with her husband of community
property undoubtedly calls into play within the marital
relationship personal and psychological forces which have
great importance in the practical determination of how
community property shall be managed by the husband.
Though it may be impossible fully to translate these imponderables into legal rules, the death of the wife undoubtedly brings, in every practical aspect, greater freedom to the husband in his disposition of that share of
community property which is technically his, than is to
be gathered solely from a reading of statutes and case law.
This redistribution of powers and restrictions upon
power is brought about by death notwithstanding that the
rights in the property subject to these powers and restrictions were in every sense "vested" from the moment the
community began. It is enough that death brings about
changes in the legal and economic relationships to the
property taxed, and the earlier certainty that those
changes would occur does not impair the legislative power

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

to recognize them, and to levy a tax on the happening of
the event which was their generating source.
The principles which sustain the present tax against
due process objections are precisely those which sustained
the California tax, measured by the entire value of community property in Moffitt v. Kelly, supra. There the
Court recognized that the surviving wife took her share
of the property on her husband's death, not as an heir, but
as an owner of an interest, the right to which she acquired
before the death and before the enactment of the taxing
act. But the levy upon the entire value of the community
was sustained, not as a tax upon property or the transfer
of it, but as a tax upon the "vesting of the wife's right of
possession and enjoyment arising upon the death of her
husband," which the Court deemed an appropriate subject of taxation, notwithstanding the contract, equal protection and due process clauses of the Constitution." So
far as Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582, is inconsistent with
Moffitt v. Kelly, supra, and the contentions now urged by
the Government, the application of the reasoning of the
Coolidge case to the taxation of joint or community interests must be taken to have been limited by our decisions
in Tyler v. United States, supra, and United States v.
Jacobs, supra,and the cases following them.
What we have said of the nature and incidence of the
tax on community property in large measure disposes of
the various other contentions of appellees. Since the levy
is an excise and not a property tax, the case is not one of
"1 The force of Moffitt v. Kelly, supra, as an authority controlling
the taxation of community property in Louisiana, where the wife's
interest is vested before the death of the husband, is not impaired by
the fact that the California courts later held that the wife's interest
in community property in that state is not so vested. Cf. United
States v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315 with United States v. Malcolm, 282

U. S. 792. The Moffitt case was decided upon the assumption that
the wife's interest was "vested."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

taking the survivor's property to pay the tax on decedent's
estate. As the tax is upon the surrender of old incidents
of property by the decedent and the acquisition of new
by the survivor, it is appropriately measured by the value
of the property to which these incidents attach. The tax
burden thus laid is not so unrelated to the privileges enjoyed by the taxpayers who are owners of the property
affected that it can be said to be an arbitrary exercise of
the taxing power. Milliken v. United States, 283 U. S. 15;
Burnet v. Wells, upra, 678-9. Compare Saltontall v.
Saltonstall, supra. While it may generally be true, as
appellees argue, that neither the husband nor wife gains
any over-all financial advantage when the other dies, it
suffices that the decedent loses and the survivor acquires,
with respect to the property taxed, substantial rights of
enjoyment and control which may be of value. Liability
to the tax, in order to avoid constitutional objection, does
not have to rest upon the enjoyment by the taxpayer of
all the privileges and benefits of the most favored owner
at a given time and place. Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U. S.
376; Reinecke v. Smith, 289 U. S. 172; cf. Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280.
We find no basis for the contention that the tax is
arbitrary and capricious because it taxes transfers at death
and also the shifting at death of particular incidents of
property. Congress is free to tax either or both, and here
it has taxed both, as it may constitutionally do, in order
to accomplish "the purposes and policy of taxation" to
protect the revenue and avoid an unequal distribution of
the tax burden. Watson v. State Comptroller, upra.
Even if it could be thought to affect the constitutionality of the taxing statute, it is plain that the statute
does not depend for its operation upon any presumption
that the entire community property is owned or economically attributable to the spouse first to die. Save as the
statute itself grants an exemption by such attribution, so

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

far as the community property "may be shown to have
been received as compensation for personal services actually rendered by the surviving spouse or derived originally
from such compensation or from separate property of the
surviving spouse," the tax is laid without regard to the
economic source of the community property. Apart from
the exemption, it is, as we have seen, the shifting at death
of the incidents of the property, regardless of origin, which
is the subject of the tax.
The present statute, which was enacted in order to secure a more equitable distribution of the burden of federal
1 is assailed because the tax is lacking in unideath taxes,2
formity. But the uniformity in excise taxes exacted by
the Constitution is geographical uniformity, not uniformity of intrinsic equality and operation. Knowlton v.
Moore, supra, 83-109. The Constitution does not command that a tax "have an equal effect in each State," id.
p. 104. It has long been settled that within the meaning
of the uniformity requirement a "tax is uniform when it
operates with the same force and effect in every place
where the subject of it is found." Head Money Cases,
112 U. S.580, 594. See also LaBelle Iron Works v. United
States, 256 U. S.377, 392-3; Bromley v. McCaughn, supra,
138; Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, supra,583.
The amendment taxing community property interests
is applicable throughout the territory of the United States
wherever such interests may be found. There is no lack
of geographical uniformity because in some states they are
not found. For a taxing statute does not fall short of the
prescribed uniformity because its operation and incidence
may be affected by differences in state laws. Phillips v.
Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 602; Riggs v. Del Drago,
supra, 102. "Differences of state law, which may bring
a person within or without the category designated by
25

See footnote 12, ante.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Congress as taxable, may not be read into the Revenue Act
to spell out a lack of uniformity" in the constitutional
sense. Poe v. Seaborn,supra, 117-8.
Appellees suggest that interests in tenancies in common
and limited partnerships are very like interests in community property, and that if the tax is to be uniform, the
one cannot be taxed unless the others are also. But even
if it be as appellees argue, that common law family partnership or other arrangements with different names can
be so devised that the marital relationship is attended by
the same powers and restrictions as those derived from the
laws of the community property states, and that they are
differently or more lihtly taxed than community property interests, we find no lack of uniformity in the constitutional sense. The present amendment is geographically uniform in its application to the only subject of which
it treats, community property interests, and it levies in
every state an identical tax upon the subject matter included within its terms--defined property interests created
by state law, having a common historical origin, a common
name, and constituting a universally recognized distinct
class of property interests.
There can be no doubt that the selection of such a class
for taxation would not offend against the Fifth Amendment, or even the Fourteenth, merely because it did not
attempt to reach casual arrangements resulting from individual agreements. Taxes must be laid by general rules.
See State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 612; Head
Money Cases, supra, 595; LaBelle Iron Works v. United
State8, supra, 392; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v.
Grosjean, 301 U. S. 412, 424. Considerations of practical
administrative convenience and cost in the administration
of tax laws afford adequate grounds for imposing a tax
on a well recognized and defined class, without attempting
to extend it so as to embrace a penumbra of special and
more or less casual interests which in each case may or

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

Opinion of the Court.

may not resemble the taxed class. Burnet v. Wells, supra,
678; Carmichaelv. Southern Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S.
495, 511; Rapid Transit Corp. v. New York, 303 U. S.
573, 582-3; Madison Avenue Offices v. Browne, appeal
dismissed, 326 U. S. 682. Such interests would be but
isolated specimens of the attorney's art, and likely to
resist efforts to identify them with the taxable subject.
Appellees' contention that the uniformity clause precludes such classification would in effect add to the constitutional restraints upon Congress an equal protection
clause more restrictive than' that of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and is without judicial or historical support.
This Court in LaBelle Iron Works v. United States, supra,
392, et seq. recognized that the uniformity clause, beyond
requiring geographical uniformity in the application of
the particular tax laid by the taxing act, could not be
taken to impose greater restrictions on Congress' power
to tax than those which the equal protection clause places
upon the states. We reaffirm what this Court has many
times held, that the constitutional command that "Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States"
refers to geographical uniformity in the application of the
particular excise which Congress has prescribed. We conclude that it adds nothing to restrictions which other
clauses of the Constitution may impose upon the power
of Congress to select and classify the subjects of taxation.
It requires only that what Congress has properly selected
for taxation must be identically taxed in every state where
it is found.
An excise tax, which the Constitution requires to be
uniform, laid upon the shifting at death of some of the
incidents of property, could hardly be thought to be a
direct tax which must be apportioned. See Bromley v.
McCaughn, supra, 138. The contention that such a tax
is direct because measured by the property whose incidents are shifted at death, was rejected in Bromley v.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

McCaughn, supra, and in Tyler v. United States, supra,
501-4, and Phillipsv. Dime Trust Co., 284 U. S. 160, 165.
A tax imposed upon the exercise of some of the numerous
rights of property is clearly distinguishable from a direct
tax, which falls upon the owner merely because he is
owner, regardless of his use or disposition of the property.
"The persistence of this distinction and the justification
for it rest upon the historic fact that [excise] taxes of this
type were not understood to be direct taxes when the Constitution was adopted and, as well, upon the reluctance
of this Court to enlarge, by construction, limitations upon
the sovereign power of taxation by Article I, § 8, so vital
to the maintenance of the national government." Bromley v. McCaughn,supra, 137.
The Tenth Amendment does not operate as a limitation
upon the powers, express or implied, delegated to the national government. UnitedStates v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100,
123-4. The amendment has clearly placed no restriction
upon the power delegated to the national government to
lay an excise tax qua tax. Undoubtedly every tax which
lays its burden on some and not others may have an incidental regulatory effect. But since that is an inseparable
concomitant of the power to tax, the incidental regulatory
effect of the tax is embraced within the power to lay it.
It has long been settled that an Act of Congress which on
its face purports to be an exercise of the taxing power, is
not any the less so because the tax is burdensome or tends
to restrict or suppress the thing taxed. In such a case it
is not within the province of courts to inquire into the
unexpressed purposes or motives which may have moved
Congress to exercise a power constitutionally conferred
upon it. Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S. 506, 513514, and cases cited.
We conclude that the tax here laid with respect to the
community property infringes no constitutional provision.
The inclusion of all the proceeds of decedent's life in-

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

surance policies within his gross estate for purposes of
estate taxation requires no extended discussion. There
is no contention that the proceeds of the policies are not
made taxable by the terms of § 811 (g) of the Internal
Revenue Code as amended by § 404 of the Revenue Act of
1942.10 The amendment indicates on its face the purpose
to bring the provisions for the taxation of the proceeds
of insurance policies payable at death into harmony with
the amendment taxing community interests, and the court
below seems to have regarded, as do the parties here, the
disposition of the questions affecting the tax on community interests as determinative of the validity of the
tax on the proceeds of the policies. But it is sufficient
for present purposes that the tax is laid upon the amount
receivable by the wife as a beneficiary of the policies on
the death of her husband, and that the husband possessed
at his death an incident of ownership, the power to change
the beneficiaries.
For reasons which we have already fully developed in
this opinion, the death of the insured, since it ended his
control over the disposition of the proceeds and gave his
wife the present enjoyment of them, may be constitutionally made the occasion for the imposition of an indirect tax measured by the proceeds themselves. Stebbins v. Riley, supra, 141; Chase National Bank v. United
States, 8upra.
Reversed.

MR.

JUSTICE JACKsoN

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
Ma. JusTIcE DOUGL.S, concurring.
Prior to the Revenue Act of 1942 there was a great lack
of uniformity among the States in the incidence of the
federal estate tax. In most of the States the accumulations
oFootnote 1,. ante.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DouGLAs, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

of the husband (who typically is the bread-winner) were
taxed in their entirety on his death. In the community
property states the tax generally reached only half of the
accumulations because of the theory that they were the
product of the wife's as well as of the husband's activities.
It was this disparity which Congress sought to eliminate.
As stated in the House Report (H. Rep. No. 2333, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 35-37),
"For the purpose of Federal estate taxation, husband
and wife living in community-property States enjoy a
preferential treatment over those living in non-community-property States. This is due to the fact that all of
the property acquired by the husband after marriage,
through his own efforts, in a community-property State
is treated as if one-half belonged to the wife. In noncommunity-property States, all such property is regarded
as belonging entirely to the husband."
There are contained in the Report tables showing the
difference in the amount of the federal estate tax in the
community property States and in the other States, after
which the Committee makes the following comment,
".... in some instances there is an entire exemption
from the Federal estate tax for the reason that the omission of one-half of the community property reduces the
husband's net estate below the minimum exemption of
$40,000. Moreover, this halving of community property
greatly reduces the estate tax because of the progressive
rates. For example, under the present law, a net estate
of $50,000 will pay an estate tax of $500 in a non-community-property State and no tax in a community-property State. An estate of $100,000 will pay a tax of $9,500
on the death of the husband in a non-community-property State and a tax of $500 on the death of the husband
in a community-property State.
"If the wife dies within 5 years of her husband, the
remaining $50,000 upon which the husband paid no estate

FERNANDEZ v. WIENER.
340

DOuGLAS, J., concurring.

tax will be subject to an estate tax of $500. Thus, the
total tax paid on this $100,000 estate in the communityproperty State will be $1,000 as compared with $9,500 in
the non-community-property State or a tax saving of
$8,500. In the case of a $5,000,000 estate, the tax saving
in a community-property State will amount to as much
as $485,800 and in the case of a $10,000,000 estate, the tax
saving in a community-property State will amount to as
much as $1,171,800."
And see S. Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 231.
Much may be said for the community property theory
that the accumulations of property during marriage are as
much the product of the activities of the wife as those
of the titular bread-winner. But I can see no constitutional reason why Congress may not credit them all to
the husband for estate tax purposes. The character and
extent of property interests under local law often determine the reach of federal tax statutes. Helvering v.
Stuart, 317 U. S. 154, 161-162, and cases cited. And see
Cahn, Local Law in Federal Taxation, 52 Yale L. Journ.
799. Yet that is not always so. United States v. Pelzer,
312 U. S.399. Taxation is eminently a practical matter.
Congress need not be circumscribed by whatever lines
are drawn by local law. It may rely, as Tyler v. United
States, 281 U. S. 497, 502-503, held, on more realistic considerations and base classifications for estate tax purposes
on economic actualities. It was held, to be sure, in Hoeper
v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S.206, that a State could not
assess against the husband an income tax computed on
the combined total of his and his wife's income. But I
can see no reason why that which is in fact an economic
unit may not be treated as one in law. ,For as Mr. Justice
Holmes pointed out in his dissent, there is a community
of interest "when two spouses live together and when
usually each would get the benefit of the income of each
without inquiry into the source." And he went on to say

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DouGLAs, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

"Taxation may consider not only command over, but
actual enjoyment of, the property taxed." 284 U. S.pp.
219-220. Cf. Helveringv. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331,335-337.
The Congress has not gone the full distance here. It
has not included in one estate all the property owned by
husband and wife. So far as this case is concerned, it
has only included in the estate of the husband the accumulations which under the community property system
are deemed to have been produced by the joint efforts of
him and his wife. I can see no obstacle to that course
unless it be the uniformity clause of the Constitution.
Art. I, § 8, Cl. 1. But there can be no objection on that
score. On the facts of this case the law goes no further
than to eliminate the estate tax advantage which a married rancher, business man, etc., in Louisiana has over
those similarly situated in the common law States. Congress, to be sure, has disregarded the manner in which
Louisiana divided "ownership" of property between husband and wife. But as between husband and wife, notions of "vested interests," "ownership," and the like,
established by local law, are no sure guide to what "belongs" to one or the other in any practical sense. We
would be blind to the usual implications of the intimate
relationship of marriage if we forced Congress to treat
such divisions of "ownership" the same way it does divisions of "ownership" among strangers. I find no such
compulsion in the Constitution.
MR. JUSTicE BLAcK joins in this opinion.

