OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

the constitutionality of an act which makes it possible to
enlarge an award where previously there had been a final
adjudication of the claim. Cf. Danzer & Co. v. Gulf &
Ship Island R. Co., 268 U. S. 633.
We would affirm the judgment.

INTERNATIONAL SHOE CO. v. STATE OF
WASHINGTON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 107.

Argued November 14, 1945.-Decided December 3, 1945.

Activities within a State of salesmen in the employ of a foreign corporation, exhibiting samples of merchandise and soliciting orders
from prospective buyers to be accepted or rejected by the corporation at a point outside the State, were systematic and continuous,
and resulted in a large volume of interstate business. A statute of
the State requires employers to pay into the state unemployment
compensation fund a specified percentage of the wages paid for the
services of employees within the State. Held:
1. In view of 26 U. S. C. § 1606 (a), providing that no person shall
be relieved from compliance with a state law requiring payments to
an unemployment fund on the ground that he is engaged in interstate commerce, the fact that the corporation is engaged in interstate
commerce does not relieve it from liability for payments to the
state unemployment compensation fund. P. 315.
2. The activities in behalf of the corporation render it amenable
to suit in courts of the State to recover payments due to the state
unemployment compensation fund. P. 320.
(a) The activities in question established between the State
and the corporation sufficient contacts or ties to make it reasonable
and just, and in conformity to the due process requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, for the State to enforce against the corporation an obligation arising out of such activities. P. 320.
(b) In such a suit to recover payments due to the unemployment compensation fund, service of process upon one of the corporation's salesmen within the State, and notice sent by registered
mail to the corporation at its home office, satisfies the requirements
of due process. P. 320.

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON.
310

311

Opinion of the Court.

3. The tax imposed by the state unemployment compensation
statute-construed by the state court, in its application to the
corporation, as a tax on the privilege of employing salesmen within
the State-does not violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 321.
22 Wash. 2d 146, 154 P. 2d 801, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment upholding the constitutionality of a state unemployment compensation statute as
applied to the appellant corporation.
Mr. Henry C. Lowenhaupt, with whom Messrs. Lawrence J. Bernard, Jacob Chasnoff and Abraham Lowenhaupt were on the brief, for appellant.
George W. Wilkins, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Washington, with whom Smith Troy, Attorney
General, and Edwin C. Ewing, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE STONuE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The questions for decision are (1) whether, within the
limitations of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, appellant, a Delaware corporation, has by
its activities in the State of Washington rendered itself
amenable to proceedings in the courts of that state to recover unpaid contributions to the state unemployment
compensation fund exacted by state statutes, Washington
Unemployment Compensation Act, Washington Revised
Statutes, § 9998-103a through § 9998-123a, 1941 Supp.,
and (2) whether the state can exact those contributions
consistently with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The statutes in question set up a comprehensive scheme
of unemployment compensation, the costs of which are
defrayed by contributions required to be made by employers to a state unemployment compensation fund.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

The contributions are a specified percentage of the wages
payable annually by each employer for his employees'
services in the state. The assessment and collection of
the contributions and the fund are administered by
appellees. Section 14 (c) of the Act (Wash. Rev. Stat.,
1941 Supp., §9998-114c) authorizes appellee Commissioner to issue an order and notice of assessment of delinquent contributions upon prescribed personal service of
the notice upon the employer if found within the state,
or, if not so found, by mailing the notice to the employer
by registered mail at his last known address. That section
also authorizes the Commissioner to collect the assessment
by distraint if it is not paid within ten days after service
of the notice. By §§ 14e and 6b the order of assessment
may be administratively reviewed by an appeal tribunal
within the office of unemployment upon petition of the
employer, and this determination is by § 6i made subject
to judicial review on questions of law by the state Superior
Court, with further right of appeal in the state Supreme
Court as in other civil cases.
In this case notice of assessment for the years in question was personally served upon a sales solicitor employed
by appellant in the State of Washington, and a copy of
the notice was mailed by registered mail to appellant at
its address in St. Louis, Missouri. Appellant appeared
specially before the office of unemployment and moved to
set aside the order and notice of assessment on the ground
that the service upon appellant's salesman was not proper
service upon appellant; that appellant was not a corporation of the State of Washington and was not doing business within the state; that it had no agent within the state
upon whom service could be made; and that appellant is
not an employer and does not furnish employment within
the meaning of the statute.
The motion was heard on evidence and a stipulation
of facts by the appeal tribunal which denied the motion

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON. 313
310

Opinion of the Court.

and ruled that appellee Commissioner was entitled to
recover the unpaid contributions. That action was
affirmed by the Commissioner; both the Superior Court
and the Supreme Court affirmed. 22 Wash. 2d 146, 154
P. 2d 801. Appellant in each of these courts assailed the
statute as applied, as a violation of the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, and as imposing a constitutionally prohibited burden on interstate commerce.
The cause comes here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), appellant assigning
as error that the challenged statutes as applied infringe
the due process claizse of the Fourteenth Amendment and
the commerce clause.
The facts as found by the appeal tribunal and accepted
by the state Superior Court and Supreme Court, are not
in dispute. Appellant is a Delaware corporation, having
its principal place of business in St. Louis, Missouri, and
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of shoes and other
footwear. It maintains places of business in several states,
other than Washington, at which its manufacturing is
carried on and from which its merchandise is distributed
interstate through several sales units or branches located
outside the State of Washington.
Appellant has no office in Washington and makes no
contracts either for sale or purchase of merchandise there.
It maintains no stock of merchandise in that state and
makes there no deliveries of goods in intrastate commerce.
During the years from 1937 to 1940, now in question, appellant employed eleven to thirteen salesmen under direct
supervision and control of sales managers located in St.
Louis, These salesmen resided in Washington; their principal activities were confined to that state; and they were
compensated by commissions based upon the amount of
their sales. The commissions for each year totaled more
than $31,000. Appellant supplies its salesmen with a line
of samples, each consisting of one shoe of a pair, which

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

they display to prospective purchasers. On occasion they
rent permanent sample rooms, for exhibiting samples, in
business buildings, or rent rooms in hotels or business
buildings temporarily for that purpose. The cost of such
rentals is reimbursed by appellant.
The authority of the salesmen is limited to exhibiting
their samples and soliciting orders from prospective buyers, at prices and on terms fixed by appellant. The salesmen transmit the orders to appellant's office in St. Louis
for acceptance or rejection, and when accepted the merchandise for filling the orders is shipped f. o. b. from points
outside Washington to the purchasers within the state.
All the merchandise shipped into Washington is invoiced
at the place of shipment from which collections are made.
No salesman has authority to enter into contracts or to
make collections.
The Supreme Court of Washington was of opinion that
the regular and systematic solicitation of orders in the
state by appellant's salesmen, resulting in a continuous
flow of appellant's product into the state, was sufficient to
constitute doing business in the state so as to make appellant amenable to suit in its courts. But it was also of
opinion that there were sufficient additional activities
shown to bring the case within the rule frequently stated,
that solicitation within a state by the agents of a foreign
corporation plus some additional activities there are sufficient to render the corporation amenable to suit brought
in the courts of the state to enforce an obligation arising
out of its activities there. InternationalHarvester Co. v.
Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579, 587; People's Tobacco Co. v.
American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79, 87; Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., 77 U. S. App. D. C. 129, 134 F. 2d 511,
516. The court found such additional activities in the
salesmen's display of samples sometimes in permanent
display rooms, and the salesmen's residence within the
state, continued over a period of years, all resulting in a

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON. 315
310

Opinion of the Court.

substantial volume of merchandise regularly shipped by
appellant to purchasers within the state. The court also
held that the statute as applied did not invade the constitutional power of Congres§ to regulate interstate commerce and did not impose a prohibited burden on such
commerce.
Appellant's argument, renewed here, that the statute
imposes an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce need not detain us. For 53 Stat. 1391, 26 U. S. C.
§ 1606 (a) provides that "No person required under a
State law to make payments to an unemployment fund
shall be relieved from compliance therewith on the ground
that he is engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, or
that the State law does not distinguish between employees
engaged in interstate or foreign commerce and those engaged in intrastate commerce." It is no longer debatable
that Congress, in the exercise of the commerce power, may
authorize the states, in specified ways, to regulate interstate commerce or impose burdens upon it. Kentucky
Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U. S.
334; Perkins v. Pennsylvania, 314 U. S. 586; Standard
Dredging Corp. v. Murphy, 319 U. S. 306, 308; Hooven
& Allison Co. v. Evatt, 324 U. S. 652, 679; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 769.
Appellant also insists that its activities within the state
were not sufficient to manifest its "presence" there and
that in its absence the state courts were without jurisdiction, that consequently it was a denial of due process
for the state to subject appellant to suit. It refers to
those cases in which it was said that the mere solicitation
of orders for the purchase of goods within a state, to be
accepted without the state and filled by shipment of the
purchased goods interstate, does not render the corporation seller amenable to suit within the state. See Green v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 205 U. S. 530, 533; International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra, 586-587; Philadelphia

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

& Reading R. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264,268; People's
Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., supra, 87. And
appellant further argues that since it was not present
within the state, it is a denial of due process to subject it
to taxation or other money exaction. It thus denies the
power of the state to lay the tax or to subject appellant to a
suit for its collection.
Historically the jurisdiction of courts to render judgment in personam is grounded on their de facto power
over the defendant's person. Hence his presence within
the territorial jurisdiction of a court was prerequisite to
its rendition of a judgment personally binding him.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 733. But now that the
capiasad respondendumhas given way to personal service
of summons or other form of notice, due process requires
only that in order to subject a defendant to a judgment
in personam, if he be not present within the territory of
the forum, he have certain minimum contacts with it such
that the maintenance of the suit does not offend "traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice."
Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U. S. 457, 463. See Holmes, J., in
McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90, 91. Compare Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318 U. S. 313, 316, 319. See
Blackmer v. UnitedStates, 284 U. S. 421; Hess v. Pawloski,
274 U. S. 352; Young v. Masci, 289 U. S. 253.
Since the corporate personality is a fiction, although a
fiction intended to be acted upon as though it were a fact,
Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19, 24, it is clear
that unlike an individual its "presence" without, as well
as within, the state of its origin can be manifested only
by activities carried on in its behalf by those who are
authorized to act for it. To say that the corporation, is
so far "present" there as to satisfy due process requirements, for purposes of taxation or the maintenance of suits
against it in the courts of the state, is to beg the question
to be decided. For the terms "present" or "presence" are

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON.. 317
310

Opinion of the CoUrt.

used merely to symbolize those activities of the corporation's agent within the state which courts will deem to be
sufficient to satisfy the demands of due process. L. Hand,
J., in Hutchinson v. Chase & Gilbert, 45 F. 2d 139, 141.
Those demands may be met by such contacts of the corporation with the state of the forum as make it reasonable,
in the context of our federal system of government, to
require the corporation to defend the particular suit which
is brought there. An "estimate of the inconveniences"
which would result to the corporation from a trial away
from its "home" or principal place of business is relevarit
in this. connection. Hutchinson v. Chase & Gilbert,
supra, 141.
"Presence" in the state in this sense has never been
doubted when the activities of-the corporation there have
not only been continuous and systematic, but also give
rise to the liabilities sued on, even though no consent to
be sued or authorization to an agent to accept service if
process has been given. St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350,
355; Connecticut Mutual Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602,
610-611; Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Ins. Co. v. Meyer,
197 U. S. 407, 414-415; CommercialMutual Co. v. Davis,
213 U. S. 245, 255-256; International Harvester Co. v.
Kentucky, supra; cf. St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. Alexander,
227 U. S. 218. Conversely it has been generally recognized
that the casual presence of the corporate agent or even
his conduct of single or isolated items of activities in a
state in the corporation's behalf are not enough to subject
it to suit on causes'of action unconnected with the activities there. St. Clair v. Cox, supra, 359, 360; Old Wayne
Life Assn. v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8, 21; Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., supra,515, and cases cited. To require
the corporation in such circumstances to defend the suit
away from its home or other jurisdiction where it carries
on more substantial activities has been thought to lay too
great and unreasonable a burden on the corporation to
comport with due process.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

While it has been held, in cases on which appellant
relies, that continuous activity of some sorts within a
state is not enough to support the demand that the corporation be amenable to suits unrelated to that activity,
Old Wayne Life Assn. v. McDonough, supra; Green v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., supra; Simon v. Southern R.
Co., 236 U. S. 115; People's Tobacco Co. v. American
Tobacco Co., supra;cf. Davisv. FarmersCo-operative Co.,
262 U. S. 312, 317, there have been instances in which the
continuous corporate operations within a state were
thought so substantial and of such a nature as to justify
suit against it on causes of action arising from dealings
entirely distinct from those activities. See Missouri,K. &
T. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 255 U. S. 565; Tauza v. Susquehanna
Coal Co., 220 N. Y. 259,115 N. E. 915; cf. St. Louis S. W. R.
Co. v. Alexander, supra.
Finally, although the commission of some single or occasional acts of the corporate agent in a state sufficient to
impose an obligation or liability on the corporation has
not been thought to confer upon the state authority to
enforce it, Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260
U. S. 516, other such acts, because of their nature and
quality and the circumstances of their commission, may be
deemed sufficient to render the corporation liable to suit.
Cf. Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Hess v. Pawloski,
supra; Young v. Masci,supram True, some of the decisions
holding the corporation amenable to suit have been supported by resort to the legal fiction that it has given its
consent to service and suit, consent being implied from
its presence in the state through the acts of its authorized agents. Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18
How. 404, 407; St. Clair v. Cox, supra, 356; Commercial
Mutual Co. v. Davis, supra, 254; Washington v. Superior
Court, 289 U. S. 361, 364-365. But more realistically it
may be said that those authorized acts were of such a
nature as to justify the fiction. Smolik v. Philadelphia&

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON.
310

319

Opinion of the Court.

Reading Co., 222 F. 148, 151. Henderson, The Position of
Foreign Corporations in American Constitutional Law,
94-95.
It is evident that the criteria by which we mark the
boundary line between those activities which justify the
subjection of a corporation to suit, and those which do not,
cannot be simply mechanical or quantitative. The test
is not merely, as has sometimes been suggested, whether
the activity, which the corporation has seen fit to procure
through its agents in another state, is a little more or a
little less. St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. Alexander, supra,228;
International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra, 587.
Whether due process is satisfied must depend rather upon
the quality and nature of the activity in relation to the
fair and orderly administration of the laws which it was
the purpose of the due process clause to insure. That
clause does not contemplate that a state may make binding a judgment in personam against an individual or corporate defendant with which the state has no contacts,
ties, or relations. Cf. Pennoyer v. Neff, supra; Minnesota
Commercial Assn. v. Benn, 261 U. S. 140.
But to the extent that a corporation exercises the privilege of conducting activities within a state, it enjoys the
benefits and protection of the laws of that state. The
exercise of that privilege may give rise to obligations, and,
so far as those obligations arise out of or are connected
with the activities within the state, a procedure which
requires the corporation to respond to a suit brought to
enforce them can, in most instances, hardly be said to be
undue. Compare International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, supra, with Green v. Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co., supra,
and People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., supra.
Compare Connecticut Mutual Co. v. Spratley, supra, 619,
620 and Commercial Mutual Co. v. Davis, supra, with
Old Wayne Life Assn. v. McDonough, supra. See 29
Columbia Law Review, 187-195.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Applying these standards, the activities carried on in
behalf of appellant in the State of Washington were
neither irregular nor casual. They were systematic and
continuous throughout the years in question. They resulted in a large volume of interstate business, in the
course of which appellant received the benefits and protection of the laws of the state, including the right to
resort to the courts for the enforcement of its rights. The
obligation which is here sued upon arose out of those very
activities. It is evident that these operations establish
sufficient contacts or ties with the state of the forum to
make it reasonable and just, according to our traditional
conception of fair play and substantial justice, to permit
the state to enforce the obligations which appellant has
incurred there. Hence we cannot say that the maintenance of the present suit in the State of Washington
involves an unreasonable or undue procedure.
We are likewise unable to conclude that the service of
the process within the state upon an agent whose activities establish appellant's "presence" there was not sufficient notice of the suit, or that the suit was so unrelated
to those activities as to make the agent an inappropriate
vehicle for communicating the notice. It is enough that
appellant has established such contacts with the state that
the particular form of substituted service adopted there
gives reasonable assurance that the notice will be actual.
Connecticut Mutual Co. v. Spratley, supra, 618, 619;
Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co., 198 U. S. 424,
437-438; Cqmmercial Mutual Co. v. Davis,supra,254-255.
Cf. Riverside Mills v. Menefee, 237 U. S. 189, 194, 195;
see Knowles v. Gaslight & Coke Co., 19 Wall. 58, 61; McDonald v. Mabee, supra; Milliken v. Meyer, supra. Nor
can we say that the mailing of the notice of suit to appellant by registered mail at its home office was not reasonably calculated to apprise appellant of the suit. Compare
Hess v. Pdwloski, supra, with McDonald v. Mabee, supra,

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON.
310

321

Opinion. of the Court.

92, and Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U. S. 13,19,24; cf. Becquet
v. MacCarthy, 2 B. & Ad. 951; Maubourquet v. Wyse, 1
Ir. Rep. C. L. 471. See Washington v. Superior Court,
supra,365.
Only a word need be said of appellant's liability for the
demanded contributions to the state unemployment fund.
The Supreme Court of Washington, construing and applying the statute, has held that it imposes a tax on the privilege of employing appellant's salesmen within the state
measured by a percentage of the wages, here the commissions payable to the salesmen. This construction we
accept for purposes of determining the constitutional
validity of the statute. The right to employ labor has
been deemed an appropriate subject of taxation in this
country and England, both before and since the adoption
of the Constitution. Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301
U. S. 548, 579, et seq. And such a tax imposed upon the
employer for unemployment benefits is within the constitutional power of the states. Carmichael v. Southern
Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495, 508, et seq.
Appellant having rendered itself amenable to suit upon
obligations arising out of the activities of its salesmen in
Washington, the state may maintain the present suit in
personam to collect' the tax laid upon the exercise of the
privilege of employing appellant's salesmen within the
state. For Washington has made one of those activities,
which taken together establish appellant's "presence"
there for purposes of suit, the taxable event by which the
state brings appellant within the reach of its taxing power.
The state thus has constitutional power to lay the tax and
to subject appellant to a suit to recover it. The activities
which establish its "presence" subject it alike to taxation
by the state and to suit to recover the tax. EquitableLife
Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143, 146; cf. International Harvester Co. v. Department of Taxation, 322
U. S. 435, 442, et seq.; Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen,

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

BIACK,

J.

326 U. S.

supra, 316-319; see General Trading Co. v. Tax Comm'n,
322 U. S. 335.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE JACKSONq took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the following opinion.
Congress, pursuant to its constitutional power to regulate commerce, has expressly provided that a State shall
not be prohibited from levying the kind of unemployment
compensation tax here challenged. 26 U. S. C. 1600. We
have twice decided that this Congressional consent is an
adequate answer to a claim that imposition of the tax
violates the Commerce Clause. Perkins v. Pennsylvania,
314 U. S. 586, affirming 342 Pa. 529; Standard Dredging
Corp. v. Murphy, 319 U. S. 306, 308. Two determinations
by this Court of an issue so palpably without merit are
sufficient. Consequently that part of this appeal which
again seeks to raise the question seems so patently frivolous as to make the case a fit candidate for dismissal. Fay
v. Crozer, 217 U. S. 455. Nor is the further ground advanced on this appeal, that the State of Washington has
denied appellant due process of law, any less devoid of
substance. It is my view, therefore, that we should dismiss the appeal as unsubstantial,1 Seaboard Air Line R.
Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 90, 92, and decline the invitation to formulate broad rules as to the meaning of due
process, which here would amount to deciding a constitutional question "in advance of the necessity for its decision." Federation of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S. 450,
461.
'This Court has on several occasions pointed out the undesirable
consequences of a failure to dismiss frivolous appeals. Salinger v.
United States, 272 U. S. 542, 544; United Surety Co. v. American
Fruit Product Co., 238 U. S. 140; De Beam v. Safe Deposit & Trust
Co., 233 U. S. 24, 33-34.

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON. 323
310

Opinion of BxAcx, J.

Certainly appellant cannot in the light of our past
decisions meritoriously claim that notice by registered
mail and by personal service on its sales solicitors in Washington did not meet the requirements of procedural due
process. And the due process clause is not brought in
issue any more by appellant's further conceptualistic contention that Washington could not levy a tax or bring
suit against the corporation because it did not honor that
State wth its mystical "presence." For it is unthinkable
that the vague due process clause was ever intended to
prohibit a State from regulating or taxing a business
carried on within its boundaries simply because this is
done by agents of a corporation organized and having its
headquarters elsewhere. To read this into the due process
clausewould in fact result in depriving a State's citizens
of due process by taking from the State the power to protect them-in their business dealings within its boundaries
with representatives of a foreign corporation. Nothing
could be more irrational or more designed to defeat the
function of our federative system of government. Certainly a State, at the very least, has power to tax and sue
those dealing with its citizens within its boundaries, as we
have held before. Hoopeston Cann ng Co. v. Cullen, 318
U. S. 313. Were the Court to follow this principle, it
would provide a workable standard for cases where, as
here, no other questions are involved. The Court has-'not
chosen to do so, but instead has engaged in an unnecessary
discussion in the course of which it has announced vague
Constitutional criteria applied for the first time to the
issue before us. It has thus introduced uncertain elements
confusing the simple pattern and tending to curtail the
exercise of State powers to an extent not justified by the
Constitution.
The criteria adopted insofar as they can be identified
read as follows: Due Process does permit State courts to
"enforce the obligations which appellant has incurred" if

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of BLAcK, J.

326 U. S.

it be found "reasonable and just according to our traditional conception of fair play and substantial justice."
And this in turn means that we will "permit" the State
to act if upon "an 'estimate of the inconveniences' which
would result to the corporation from a trial away from its
'home' or principal place of business," we conclude that
it is "reasonable" to subject it to suit in a State where it
is doing business.
It is true that this Court did use the terms "fair play"
and "substantial justice" in explaining the philosophy
underlying the holding that it could not be "due process
of law" to render a personal judgment against a defendant without notice and an opportunity to be heard.
Milliken v. Meyer, 311 U. S.457. In McDonald v. Mabee,
243 U. S. 90, 91, cited in the Milliken case, Mr. Justice
Holmes, speaking for the Court, warned against judicial
curtailment of this opportunity to be heard and referred
to such a curtailment as a denial of "fair play," which
even the common law would have deemed "contrary to
natural justice." And previous cases had indicated that
the ancient rule against judgments without notice had
stemmed from "natural justice" concepts. These cases,
while giving additional reasons why notice under particular circumstances is inadequate, did not mean thereby
that all legislative enactments which this Court might
deem to be' contrary to natural justice ought to be held
invalid under the due process clause. None of the cases
purport to support or could support a holding that a State
can tax and sue corporations only if its action comports
with this Court's notions of "natural justice." I should
have thought the Tenth Amendment settled that.
I believe that the Federal Constitution leaves to each
State, without any "ifs" or "buts," a power to tax and to
open the doors of its courts for its citizens to sue corporations whose agents do business in those States. Believing
that the Constitution gave the States that power, I think
it a judicial deprivation to condition its exercise upon this

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. WASHINGTON.
310

325

Opinion of BLAcx, J..

Court's notion of "fair play," however appealing that term
may be. Nor can I stretch the meaning of due process so
far as to authorize this Court to deprive a State of the
right to afford judicial protection to its citizens on the
ground that it would be more "convenient" for the corporation to be sued somewhere else.
There is a strong emotional appeal in the words "fair
play," "justice," and "reasonableness." But they were
not chosen by those who wrote the original Constitution
or the Fourteenth Amendment as a measuring rod for this
Court to use in invalidating State or Federal laws passed
by elected legislative representatives. No one, not even
those who most feared a democratic government, ever
formally proposed that courts should-be given power to
invalidate legislation under any such elastic standards.
Express prohibitions against certain types of legislation
are found in the Constitution, and under the long-settled
practice, courts invalidate laws found to conflict' with
them. This requires interpretation, and interpretation,
it is true, may result in extension of the Constitution's
purpose. But that is no reason for reading the due process
clause so as to restrict a State's power to tax and sue those
whose activities affect persons and businesses within the
State, provided proper service can be had. Superimposing
the natural justice concept on the Constitution's specific
prohibitions could operate as a drastic abridgment of
democratic safeguards they embody, such as freedom of
speech, press and religion,' and the right to counsel. This
2These

First Amendment liberties-freedom of speech, press and
religion-provide a graphic illustration of the potential restrictive
capacity of a rule under which they are protected at a particular
time only because the Court, as then constituted, believes them to
be a requirement of fundamental justice. Consequently, under the
same rule, another Court, with a different belief as to fundamental
justice, could, at least as against State action, completely or partially
withdraw Constitutional protection from these basic freedoms, just
as though the First Amendment had never been written.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of BLAcx, J.

326 U. S.

has already happened. Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455.
Compare Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S. 487, 494503. For application of this natural law concept, whether
under the terms "reasonableness," "justice," or "fair
play," makes judges the supreme arbiters of the country's
laws and practices. Polk Co. v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5, 17-18;
Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co.,
315 U. S. 575, 600, n. 4. This result, I believe, alters the
form of government our Constitution provides. I cannot
agree.
True, the State's power is here upheld. But the rule
announced means that tomorrow's judgment may strike
down a State or Federal enactment on the ground that
it does not conform to this Court's idea of natural justice.
I therefore find myself moved by the same fears that
caused Mr. Justice Holmes to say in 1930:
"I have not yet adequately expressed the more than
anxiety that I feel at the ever increasing scope given to
the Fourteenth Amendment in cutting down what I believe to be the constitutional rights of the States. As the
decisions now stand, I see hardly any limit but the sky
to the invalidating of those rights if they happen to strike
a majority of this Court as for any reason undesirable."
Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, 595.

