WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
536

549

Syllabus.

the face-value of the same bonds, get different equivalents,
and are, as to the only thing that matters, not bound together by the same ties but separated by antagonistic
interests. To put these groups with such antagonistic interests into the same class is to contradict the very notion
of a class. Reason rejects such classification and nothing
in the statute indicates that Congress intended to define a
class as a group with inconsistent interests.

WILLIAMS FT AL. v. GREEN BAY & WESTERN

RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 100. Argued December 10, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
Petitioners, residents of New York and holders of Class B debentures
issued by respondent, a Wisconsin corporation, brought suit in a
New York court to recover amounts due and payable under the
debentures out of earnings in lieu of interest. Under the covenant
in the Class B debentures, the holders thereof were entitled to all
of the remaining net earnings each year after holders of Class A
debentures had received 5% on the face value thereof and stockholders had received 5% on the par value of the stock, the amounts
payable to the Class B debenture holders to "be fixed and declared
by the Board of Directors." Respondent's railroad lines were wholly
in Wisconsin and its president and general auditor were there. However, it did business in New York; its Class B debentures were
payable, listed and traded in there; it maintained its financial office,
a traffic office and a bank account there; five of its six directors
(including all of the executive and fiscal officers except the president and general auditor) and two of the three members of its
executive committee were there; directors' meetings were customarily held there; and its financial records, transfer books, minute books and the like were kept there. After removing the case
to a federal district court in New York on the grounds of diversity,
respondent moved to dismiss on the ground that the suit concerned
the internal affairs of a foreign corporation and could more con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

veniently be tried in the state of its incorporation. The district
court granted the motion. Held:
1. It'was improper to dismiss the suit on the ground of forum
non conveniens. Pp. 552, 560.
2. This rule was designed as an instrument of justice to prevent
a case from being tried in one court when in fairness it should be
tried in another. (Illustrations given.) P. 554.
3. When it is invoked, each case turns on its facts. P. 557.
4. The relief sought, a money judgment, was not of such a character that a federal court in New York would be so handicapped
that it should remit the parties to Wisconsin. P. 558.
5. Nor should the case have been remitted to Wisconsin on the
theory that a construction of the 'covenant would primarily affect
the interests of the public in that State. P. 558.
6. Since the suit sought only a money judgment, it did not involve sufficient interference in the internal affairs of the foreign
corporation to justify dismissal on forum non conveniens. P. 559.
7. Under the facts in this case, it would not be vexatious or
oppressive to entertain the suit in New York, whether the availability of witnesses or any other aspect of a trial be considered.
P. 559.
147 F. 2d 777, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 699, to review affirmance of a judgment, 59 F. Supp. 98, dismissing a suit under the rule of
forum non conveniens.
Mr. Milton Pollack for petitioners.
Mr. W. Lloyd Kitchel, with whom Mesr. Merrill M.
Manning and Walter Bruchhausen were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DuOLmS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners, residents of the City of New York, are holders of Class B debentures issued by respondent railroad
company, a Wisconsin corporation. They brought this

suit in the New York courts to recover amounts alleged
to'be due and payable under the debentures out of earnings in lieu of interest. On petition of respondent the

WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
549

551

Opinion of the Court.

action was removed to the federal District Court for the
Southern District of New York on the grounds of diversity.
Respondent thereupon moved (1) to set aside the service
because respondent was not doing business in New York
and (2) to dismiss because the subject matter was concerned with the internal affairs of a foreign corporation.
The District Court denied the first motion, but granted
the second. 59 F. Supp. 98. On appeal the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed by a divided vote, holding that the
District Court did not abuse its discretion in basing its
dismissal on forum non cnveniens. 147 F. 2d 777. We
granted certiorari because of the importance of the question presented.
The Class B debentures, issued in 1896, have no maturity date. Their principal is payable "only in the event
of a sale or reorganization" of the company and "then
only out of any net proceeds" remaining after specified
payments to the Class A debentures and to the stock. The
covenant in the Class B debentures out of which this litigation arises is set forth below.1 The Circuit Court of
"The said Railroad Company Hereby Agrees that until such payment, the holders of this Series of Debentures shall in lieu of interest
thereon participate in the distribution of annual net income to the
following extent, viz.:--So much of the annual net earnings of the
said Company in any year as would be applicable to the payment
of dividends on stock shall be applied as follows, viz.:-To the holders
of Class A Debentures 21/2 per cent upon the face value thereof, or
if such annual net earnings are insufficient for the payment of the
same, then all such net earnings shall be distributed pro rata among
the holders of said Class A Debentures. After the payment of 2Y
per cent upon the face value of Class A Debentures, the stockholders
of the Company are entitled to receive the balance of such net earnings until 21/2 per cent shall have been paid out of the same upon the
par value of the said stock, and all surplus net earnings then remaining shall be paid to the holders of Class A Debentures and of the
stock pro rata until five per cent shall have been paid upon the face
value of said Debentures and upon the par of said stock for-such year,
and any surplus net earnings arising in such year which may then
remain shall be paid to and distributed among the holders of Class B

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

Appeals was divided as to its meaning. The majority
concluded that even though there were net earnings after
the payments to the Class A debentures and to the stock,
the directors had discretion to determine whether or not
that sum should be paid to the Class B debentures. The
court thereupon held, in reliance on Rogers v. Guaranty
Trust Co., 288 U. S. 123; Cohn v. Mishkoff Costello Co.,
256 N. Y. 102, 175 N. E. 529; Cohen v. American Window
Glass Co., 126 F. 2d 111, that the suit concerned the internal affairs of respondent and could better be tried in
Wisconsin, the State of its incorporation. The minority
thought that the amount of net earnings remaining after
deducting the payru,,iits made to the Class A debentures
and to the stock was to be paid to the Class B debentures,
that the directors had no discretion to withhold such
amounts, and that their payment involved nothing more
than a ministerial act.' In that view the suit was substantially the same as one for a liquidated sum and would
entail no interference with the internal affairs of a foreign
corporation.
We leave open the question of the proper construction
of the "net earnings" covenant in the Class B debentures.
Although we assume that the majority of the court below
Debentures pro rata. None of such payments shall be cumulative.
The amounts, if any, payable upon this series of debentures out of
the net earnings in any year, will be fixed and declared by the Board
of Directors on or before the first day of February, in the following
year .. "
2
Petitioners alleged that, with the exception of three years, respondent had substantial net earnings in each year from 1924 to
1943 inclusive, in excess of the amounts required to be paid and
actually paid on the Class A debentures and on the stock. The aggregate amount of such net earnings, after deducting reserves for
additions and general improvements and depreciation, and after
deducting the payments on the Class A debentures and the stock
was alleged to be approximately $1,650,000. The amounts actually
paid on the Class B debentures during those years was $840,000,
leaving due, according to petitioners, about $810,000.

WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
549

553

Opinion of the Court.

was right in its interpretation of the covenant, we think
it was improper to dismiss the case on the grounds of forum
non conveniens.
Rogers v. GuarantyTrust Co., supra, is the only decision
of this Court holding that a federal court should decline to
hear a case because it concerns the internal affairs of a corporation foreign to the State where the federal court sits.
A corporation chartered by one State commonly does business in the farthest reaches of the nation. Its business
engagements-the issuance of securities, mortgaging of
assets, contractual undertakings-frequently raise questions concerning the construction of its charter, by-laws
and the like, or the scope of authority of its officers or
directors, or the responsibility of one group in the corporate family to another group. All such questions involve
in a sense the internal affairs of a corporation-whether
in a suit on a contract the corporation interposes the defense of ultra vires, or a bondholder sues on his bond or a
stockholder asserts rights under his stock certificate. But
a federal court which undertakes to decide such a question
does not trespass on a forbidden domain. See Williamson
v. Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line Co., 56 F. 2d 503, 510.
Under the rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64,
a federal court in a diversity case applies local law. In
conflict of laws cases that may mean ascertaining and
applying the law of a State other than that in which the
federal court is located. Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric
Mfg. Co., 313 U. S.487. The fact that the corporation law
of another State is involved does not set the case apart for
special treatment. The problem of ascertaining the state
law may often be difficult. But that is not a sufficient
ground for a federal court to decline to exercise its jurisdiction to decide a case properly before it. As we said in
Meredithv. Winter Haven, 320 U. S.228,234, "The diversity jurisdiction was not conferred for the benefit of the
federal courts or to serve their convenience. Its purpose

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

was generally to afford to suitors an opportunity in such
cases, at their option, to assert their rights in the federal
rather than in the state courts." So long as diversity
jurisdiction remains, the parties may not be remitted to a
state court merely because of the difficulty of making a
decision in the federal court. Meredith v. Winter Haven,
supra. If the District Court were sustained in declining
to exercise its jurisdiction in this case, there could be no
assurance that the litigation would be transferred to the
Wisconsin state courts. If petitioners sued in the federal
court in Wisconsin, as they could by reason of diversity of
citizenship, no reason is apparent why that court should
not proceed to decision. The fact that the federal court
in Wisconsin could pass on this internal affair of this corporation does not, of course, mean that the federal court
in New York need do so. The nature of the problem presented and the relief sought might be of controlling significance in inducing the federal court in New York to
remit the parties to Wisconsin. But as we shall see, no
special circumstances of that nature are present here.
We mention this phase of the matter to put the rule of
forum non convenien8 in proper perspective. It was designed as an "instrument of justice." 8 Maintenance of
a suit away from the domicile of the defendant-whether
he be a corporation or an individual-might be vexatious
or oppressive.' An adventitious circumstance might land
3 Mr. Justice Cardozo dissenting, Rogers v. Guaranty Trust Co.,
supra, p. 151.
4 In Gibb, International Law of Jurisdiction (1926), pp. 212-213,
the law of England and Scotland is stated as follows: "the court will
not hold its hand unless there be, in the circumstances of the case,
such hardship on the party setting up the plea as would amount to
vexatiousness or oppression if the court persisted in exercising jurisdiction. The inconvenience, then, must amount to actual hardship,
and this must be regarded as a condition sine qua non of success in
putting forward a defence of forum non conveniens. For the general rule is that a court possessing jurisdiction must exercise it unless
the reasons to the contrary are clear and cogent."

WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
549

555

Opinion of the Court.

a case in one court when in fairness it should be tried in
another. The relief sought against a foreign corporation
In Societe du Gaz de Parisv. "Les Armateurs francais", 1926 S. C.
(H. L.) 13, perhaps the leading English case on the subject, a French
manufacturing company sued a firm of French shipowners in a
Scottish court on a charter-party. It provided that the vessel was
to load a cargo of coal in England and proceed to a French port. The
vessel, after loading, sailed and foundered. The plaintiff attached
another vessel of defendants found in a Scottish port and claimed
damages by reason of the unseaworthiness of the vessel. Neither
plaintiff nor defendant had a place of business in Scotland. The bulk
of the evidence necessary to determine the controversy was French,
no machinery existed for compelling the attendance of French witnesses ina Scottish court, no question of Scots law was involved, and
a trial in Scotland would deprive defendants of a defense open under
French law. A judgment sustaining the plea of forum non conveniens
was sustained. Lord Chancellor Cave summarized the rule as follows : ". . . if in any case it appeared to the Court, after giving consideration to the interests of both parties and to the requirements of
justice, that the case could not be suitably tried in the Court in which
it was instituted, and full justice could not be done there to the parties,
but could be done in another Court, then the former Court might give
effect to the plea by declining jurisdiction and permitting the issues
to be fought out in the more appropriate Court." pp. 16-17. Lord
Shaw of Dunfermline stated: "If in the whole circumstances of the
case it be discovered that there is a real unfairness to one of the
suitors in permitting the choice of a forum which is not the natural or
proper forum, either on the ground of convenience of trial or the
residence or domicile of parties, or of its being either the locus contractus, or the locus solutionis, then the doctrine of forum non conveniens is properly applied." p. 20.
And see CanadaMalting Co. v. PatersonSteamships, 285 U. S. 413,
423, where Mr. Justice Brandeis speaking for the Court said, "Courts
of equity and of law also occasionally decline, in the interest of justice,
to exercise jurisdiction, where the suit is between aliens or non-residents or where for kindred reasons the litigation can more appropriately be conducted in a foreign tribunal." For reviews of the cases
see Blair, The Doctrine of Forum Non Conveniens in Anglo-American
Law, 29 Col. L. Rev. 1; Foster, Place of Trial in Civil Actions, 43
Harv. L. Rev. 1217, 44 Harv. L. Rev. 41; Dainow, The Inappropriate
Forum, 29 Ill. L. Rev. 867.

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

may be so extensive or call for such detailed and continuing supervision that the matter could be more efficiently
handled nearer home.5 The limited territorial jurisdiction of the federal court I might indeed make it difficult
for it to make its decree effective.' But where in this
type of litigation only a money judgment is sought, the
case normally is different. The fact that the claim involves complicated affairs of a foreign corporation is not
alone a sufficient reason for a federal court to decline to
5 See Wallace v. Motor Products Corp., 25 F. 2d 655, where a suit
was brought in the federal court in Michigan to annul the reorganization of a New York corporation and to restore the stockholders of
the old corporation to the position they had occupied prior to the reincorporation; Eberhard v. Northwestern Life Ins. Co., 210 F. 520,
where policy holders of a Wisconsin life insurance company sued in
the federal court in Ohio for an accounting of dividends received and
paid and for an injunction against the election of trustees, and praying that the trustees who had committed allegedly wrongful acts be
decreed not to be officers of the company and that a receiver of the
company be appointed; Boyer v. Travelers' Protective Assn., 75 F.
2d 440, where suit was brought in the federal court in Pennsylvania
to enjoin a Missouri corporation from enforcing certain amendments
to its constitution; Cohen v. American Window Glass Co., 126 F. 2d
111, where stockholders of a Pennsylvania corporation sued in the
federal court in New York to enjoin a proposed merger, to have declared illegal the payment of dividends, and to have a receiver, resident
in Pennsylvania, appointed.
6 Georgiav. Pennsylvania R. Co., 324 U. S. 439, 467-468, and cases
cited.
7The same is true, of course, of state courts. See Taylor v. Mutual
Reserve Fund Life Assn., 97 Va. 60, 33 S. E. 385; Howell v. Chicago
& N. W. R. Co., 51 Barb. 378, 383. Cf. also the cases where the court
in which suit is brought cannot give the relief necessary to produce
an equitable result (Marshall v. Sherman, 148 N. Y. 9, 42 N. E. 419;
State v. Denton, 229 Mo. 187, 129 S. W. 709) or where the right of
recovery is incapable of enforcement because it is so dissimilar to any
which the court, whose jurisdiction is invoked, recognizes. Slater v.
Mexican National R. Co., 194 U. S. 120.

WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
549

557

Opinion of the Court.

decide it.' The same may be true even where an injunction is sought.9 We give these merely as illustrations.
Each case turns on its facts. There are no special circumstances here, however, which should lead the District
Court in New York to decline to exercise the jurisdiction
which it has.
If petitioners' theory of the case is right, the court need
go no further than it would in enforcing any contract to
pay money. If, as the majority of the court below thought,
the payment of net income to the Class B debentures
rested in the discretion of the directors, the question under
the applicable local law would normally be whether their
In case it were found to
discretion had been abused.'
8 American Seating Co. v. Bullard, 290 F. 896, 901, where stockholders of a New Jersey corporation, who did not consent to the sale of
its assets pursuant to a plan of reorganization and refinancing, sued
in the federal court in Michigan to recover the value of their stock;
United Milk Products Corp. v. Lovell, 75 F. 2d 923 (semble); National Lock Co. v. Hogland, 101 F. 2d 576 (semble); Overfield v.
PennroadCorp., 113 F. 2d 6, where stockholders brought a derivative
action in the federal court in Pennsylvania to recover for wrongs
done their company, a Delaware corporation, by a Pennsylvania
company; Williamson v. Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line Co., supra,
(semble). Cf. Kelley v. American Sugar Refining Co., 139 F. 2d 76.
9 Harr v. Pioneer Mechanical Corp., 65 F. 2d 332, where stockholders of a Delaware corporation sued in the federal court in New York
to enjoin the sale of stock on the representation that it had priority
over the shares held by plaintiffs; American Creosote Works v.
Powell, 298 F. 417, where stockholders of a Maryland corporation
sued in the federal court in Louisiana to annul and cancel the issuance
of certain stock.
10 That is the usual rule in suits to compel the declaration of dividends. Dodge v. Ford Motor Co., 204 Mich. 459, 170 N. W. 668;
Morey v. Fish Bros. Wagon Co., 108 Wis. 520, 529, 84 N. W. 862;
Hiscock v. Lacy, 9 Misc. 578, 30 N. Y. S. 860; Kassel v. Empire Tinware Co., 178 App. Div. 176, 164 N. Y. S. 1033.
See Spellman, Corporate Directors (1931) § 141; Weiner, Theory
of Anglo-American Dividend Law, 29 Col. L. Rev. 461; Ballantine
& Hills, Corporate Capital and Restrictions Upon Dividends Under
Modem Corporation Laws, 23 Calif. L. Rev. 229.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

have been abused, the customary remedy is comparable
to that which a court of equity affords in a suit for specific
performance. 1' The point is that, however this suit be
viewed, the relief sought is not of such a character as to
suggest that the federal court in New York would be so
handicapped that it should remit the parties to Wisconsin.
There is a suggestion that the parties should be remitted
to Wisconsin because a construction of the covenant will
primarily affect the interests of the public in that State
where all of respondent's railroad lines are located. Reference is made to New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Nickals,
119 U. S. 296, where preferred stockholders sued for dividends which they claimed had been earned on their stock
and wrongfully withheld. The Court construed the particular contract as vesting discretion in the directors. In
holding that their discretion in withholding a distribution
of net earnings had not been abused, it emphasized "the
duty of the company to maintain its track and cars in
such condition as to accommodate the public and provide
for the safe transportation of passengers and freight."
p. 306. But such considerations will frequently be involved in applying the rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
supra. They go no further than to suggest one additional
phase of local law which the federal court, whether it sits
in New York or in Wisconsin, may have to apply. They
fall far short of those instances, reviewed in Meredith v.
Winter Haven, supra,p. 235, where the federal court declines to act because its action might interfere with state
proceedings, or state functions, or the functioning of state
administrative agencies.
It was held in Weiss v. Routh, 149 F. 2d 193, that a
federal court in a diversity case was required by Erie R.
21

For the decree entered in Dodge v. Ford Motor Co., supra note 9,

see Kales v. Woodworth, 20 F. 2d 395, 396. And see Boardman v.
Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co., 84 N. Y. 157, 180; Kassel v. Empire Tinware Co., supra note 10, p. 180.

WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
549

559

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Tompkins, supra, to apply the local rule of forum
non conveniens. We reserve decision on that question.
For even if we assume the New York rule to be applicable
here, we would reach no different result. Cohn v. Mishkoff
Costello Co., supra, on which the court below relied, was
a suit against a foreign corporation for the redemption of
its shares of stock or in the alternative for a declaration
of a dividend. But that involved a degree of visitation
not present here where petitioners seek only a money
judgment on their debentures. Nor do petitioners challenge an act of the corporation which "offended solely
against the majesty of the State to which it owed its life."
Ernst v. Rutherford Gas Co., 38 App. Div. 388, 392, 56
N. Y. S. 403. The Court of Appeals in the Cohn case
stated that "contracts between a foreign corporation and
its members will usually be enforced in the courts of this
State." 256 N. Y. p. 105. Cardozo, J., stated the New
York rule in Travis v. Knox Terpezone Co., 215 N. Y. 259,
264, 109 N. E. 250, as follows: "To trace in advance the
precise line of demarcation between the controversies affecting a foreign corporation in which jurisdiction will be
assumed and those in which jurisdiction will be declined,
would be a difficult and hazardous venture. A litigant is
not, however, to be excluded because he is a stockholder,
unless considerations of convenience or of efficiency or of
justice point to the courts of the domicile of the corporation as the appropriate tribunals." And see the New
York authorities reviewed in Weiss v. Routh, supra. In
the Travis case the court entertained a suit by a stockholder of a foreign corporation to compel the transfer of
shares or to recover their value. We perceive in the
present case no greater interference in the internal affairis
of this foreign corporation.
Nor can we conclude that the maintenance of this suit
in New York will be vexatious or oppressive. Petitioners,
as we have said, reside there. While respondent's rail-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

road lines are wholly in Wisconsin, it does business in
New York. The Class B debentures are listed and traded
in on the New York Stock Exchange. The amounts payable on them in lieu of interest are payable in New York.
Respondent maintains its financial as well as a traffic
office in New York. It maintains a bank account in New
York, not only to take care of obligations under its securities, but also to handle excess operating funds not
needed in Wisconsin. Five of respondent's six directors
are to be found in New York. These five directors include
all the executive and fiscal officers, except the president
who supervises operations in Wisconsin and the general
auditor who is in Wisconsin. Directors' meetings are
customarily held in New York. Two of the three members of the executive committee, which acts for the board
between meetings, are to be found in New York. Financial
records, transfer books, minute books and the like are
kept in New York. These facts plainly indicate to us that
it would not be vexatious or oppressive to entertain this
suit in New York, whether the availability of witnesses
or any other aspect of a trial be considered. We accordingly conclude that, the requirements of jurisdiction and
venue being satisfied (Judicial Code, §§ 24, 51, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 41 (1), 112), the District Court should not have declined to hear and decide the case.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

