Oct. 1874.]

LEWIS v. HAWKINS.
Syllabus.

This suit is an effort to question the propriety of the condemnation and sale of the property in a collateral proceeding, not by the party even whose land was appropriated, but
by a stranger to the original proceeding, who, whatever his
motive in buying, got no other estate than the original owners could convey-a fee subject to the easement of the railroad company. The judgment of condemnation in this case
was rendered by a competent court, charged with a special
statutory jurisdiction, and all the facts necessary to the exercise of this jurisdiction are shown to exist. A judgment
thus obtained is no more subject to impeachment in a collateral proceeding than the judgment of any other court of
exclusive jurisdiction.*
If it were so, railroad companies would have no assurance
that the steps taken by them to procure the right of way
would conclude any one, and they would be constantly subject to vexatious litigation.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LEWIS v. HAWKINS ET AL.
0

1. Where a party agrees to sell -land to another and as consideration there-.
for the vendee gives his promissory notes payable at a future date
named, and the vendor gives his bond conditioned that on the payment
of the notes he will convey the premises in fee to the vendee, but makes
no deed, the legal estate remains, until the payment of the purchasemoney, in the vendor, and he has, by the law of those States where such
liens are recognized, a "vendor's lien." The vendee has an equitable
title only; one indeed which he can sell or devise, but one which if the
purchase-money is unpaid he cannot sell so as to exclude the vendor's
right to have payment of it. Any purchaser from the vendee who assumes to pay the notes takes the same title that the vendee bad, that is
to say an equitable title, the land being still charged with the payment
of the purchase-money.
2. A discharge of such purchaser from the vendee under the Bankrupt Act,
will relieve such purchaser from paying the notes, but it will not give
* 1 Redfleld on Railways, 5th edition, p. 271.

LEWIS v.

[Sup. Ct.

HAWKINS.

Statement of the case.

3.

4.

5.

6.

him a legal title in fee to the lands. That title, subject to the equity of
the vendee, or of the purchaser from him, remains in the vendor.
A statute of limitations barring suits for the recovery of real estate after
a certain lapse of time does not apply to a case like that above described.
The vendee, or the purchaser from him, stands in the relation of a trusfee to the vendor for the unpaid purchase-money (or, as the matter is
looked upon in some States, stands in that of a mortgagee) against whom
the statute does not run.
If the notes are not paid, the vendor may apply by bill in equity against
the vendee and the purchaser from him, tendering a good deed, and ask
that they pay the purchase-money at short date or be foreclosed from
setting up any right to the land, and that it be sold and the proceeds
applied to paying the purchase-money.
Where confessedly the title of a party claiming land as owner, and who
has agreed to sell, is denied by the vendee and a dispute has taken place
about title, so that a tender of a deed would be a useless ceremony, costs
on a bill filed to enforce the payment of the purchase-money must abide
the result of the suit.
If the purchaser from the vendee be dead, leaving a widow his executrix,
and heirs-at-law to whom with her his real estate has descended, they
ought to be made parties defendant to any bill to foreclose.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Arkansas.
The case was thus:
A statute of limitation in Arkansas, passed January 4th,
1851,* enacts that no suit at law or in equity for the recovery
of real estate shall be brought after the lapse ofseven years
from the time when the cause of action accrued.
This statute being in force, Lewis, in November, 1853,
agreed to sell to Hawkins certain real estate; Hawkins, for
the consideration-money giving to Lewis his two promissory
notes, each for the sum of $500, payable, one on the 1st of
February, 1855, and the other on the 1st of February, 1856,
and Lewis at the same time giving to Hawkins his bond in
the penal sum of $2000, binding him, Lewis, upon the payment of the two notes to Hawkins, to convey in fee simple
the premises so sold.
It did not appear that this bond authorized Hawkins to
take possession of the property sold, or that he did so.
Gould's Digest, chapter 106,

2.

Oct. 1874.]

LEwis v. HAWKINS.
Statement of the case.

In October, 1855, Hawkins sold and conveyed the land to
one Hamiter; Hamiter, as a part of the consideration, assuming the payment of the notes which Hawkins had given
to Lewis. Har-iter went into possession of the premises,
and occupied them, with his family, until May, 1866, when
he died, leaving a widow and nine children his heirs-at-law,
and whom, with the widow, he made' his devisees; the
widow being made his executrix. The widow and her
family had occupied the premises ever since Hamiter's, the
husband's, death.
Nothing having been paid by any one upon the two notes,
Lewis sued Hawkins, and on the 11th of August, 1860, recovered a judgment against him for $1201. The judgment
remaining also wholly unpaid, Lewis filed, in August, 1871,
bill against Hawkins and the widow and executrix of
Hamiter (his children and heirs-at-law not, however, being
made parties), to enforce the payment of the notes and

interest against the land.
The bill alleged that the complainant had always been
and still was willing to perform the agreement on his part,
and offered to execute and bring into court, to be delivered
to the defendants, or either of them lawfully entitled thereto,
a deed conveying the land in fee simple in accordance with
the condition of the title-bond, on being paid the purchasemoney due, with the interest. And alleged further that the
complainant, since the second note fell due, bad duly tendered to Hawkins a deed of conveyance, and demanded the
payment of the amount due for the purchase-money thereof;
but that Hawkins refused to accept the deed and to pay the
purchase-money.
The prayer of the bill was that the equity of redemption
of the defendants, and of all persons claiming through them
or either of them, might be barred and foreclosed, and that
the defendants be compelled to pay to the complainant the
amount due to him for the land with interest; the complainant being ready and willing to execute and deliver to
the defendant Hawkins, or his assigns, a deed for the land
in fee simple with warranty of title; and that in case the

LEwis V. HAwKINS.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the lien.

said defendants would not pay the said purchase-money by
a short day to be named, the premises might be sold and
the proceeds applied to the payment of the decree to be rendered for the purchase-money.
Both defendants answered.
The answer of Hawkins denied that any tender of a deed
as alleged in the bill had been made to him, and he set up
as a defence his discharge in bankruptcy.
Mrs. TIamiter, the widow, relied upon the already-mentioned statute of limitations of Arkansas, which bars suits
at law and in equity for real estate after the lapse of seven
years from the time the cause of action accrued.
The depositions of both Lewis and Hawkins were taken.
The former stated that the tender alleged in the bill had
been made; the latter that no such tender had ever been
made.
The court below dismissed the bill for want of equity, and
from that, its decree, Lewis, the complainant, brought the
case here.
Mr. A. E. Garland,for the appellant:
There is nothing in the record showing upon what grounds
the bill was dismissed.
If the court based its decision upon the question of tender
of a deed, it was error.
If upon the statute of limitations, it was error equally.
There are no other points upon which it is possible to
have founded the decree.
By the terms of the contract, as evidenced by the titlebond, the purchase-money was to have been paid before a
deed was made. The notes were due and payable at a
specified time, and if not paid then there was a default, and
Lewis had his right of action at once. Besides the tenor of
the notes, the title-bond made payment a condition precedent, and no tender of a deed was necessary at all.*
If, however, it were necessary to tender a deed, a failure
* 2 Parsons on Contracts, 41, ed. 1853; Ib. 187-189.

Oct. 1874.]

LEWIS V.

HAWKINS.

Argument in support of the lien.

to do so would be no cause of dismissal, but only a reason
for taxing Lewis for costs of suit, as he might possibly have
avoided a suit by tendering the deed. But to avoid all this,
we have the fact that Lewis could not know who claimed
the land after Hawkins, nor to whom to make the deed.
He avers, however, his readiness to make the deed to the
person entitled to it under the order and decree of the court,
and this was all he could do.* There can be nothing, then,
in the question of tender.
When Hawkins purchased the land and took a title-bond
from Lewis, the parties stood towards each other just as if
Lewis had made a deed to Hawkins, and Hawkins had mortgaged back the land to secure the payment of the purchasemoney.t And this proceeding is simply an attempt to foreclose a mortgage. It is a proceeding in rem to subject the
land to the payment of money, of the non-payment of which
Hawkins's vendee had due notice. This being true, the
plea of the statute of limitations is of no effect. This defence is set up by analogy to the statute bar to the remedy
at law; but it is well settled that the statute of limitations
which would bar a debt secured by mortgage will not bar
the remedy upon the mortgage, because the mortgage has a
legal import more extensive than the mere evidence of the
debt.1
Even if the judgment on these notes had been barred, yet
Lewis could recur to his mortgage and ask for its enforcement.ยง
Indeed, it is not seen how Hawkins and his vendee, holding by consent of Lewis, and necessarily with full knowledge
of the non-payment of the purchase-money, could plead limitations at all, whether in an action to recover the land or

to make it pay the debt.
* Turner v. Lassiter, 27 Arkansas, 662; 1 Leading Cases in Equity, Hare
& Wallace's notes, 270 et seq.
t Smith v. Robinson, 13 Arkansas, 534; Moore v. Anders, 14 Id. 633;
Harris v. King, 16 Id. 126.
1 Trotter. v. Erwin, 27 Mississippi, 772; Bush v. Cooper, 26 Id. 599;
Thayer v. Mann, 19 Pickering, 535.
Bank v. Guttschlick, 14 Peters, 19.

124

LEWIS v. HAWKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the lien.

Messrs. Pike and Johnson, contra,for the widow:
1st. The bond for title did not convey to Hawkins any
legal interest in the land, but at most an equity, with right
of possession.
2d. On failure of Hawkins to pay the notes the bond
was forfeited, and Lewis bad a right to retake the possession.
3d. The estate in fee being in Lewis, how can he have
a lien? The man cannot have a lien on that which is his
own ?
4th. The first note fell due on the 1st of February, 1855.
Upon that default Lewis was entitled to retake possession.
This suit was instituted by him on the 31st of August, 1871,
eleven years after he obtained judgment. The statute of
limitations then barred any action by him, in law or equity,
for possession. Having lost the right to regain possession,
he cannot avoid the statute bar by setting up a lien for the
purchase-money, and asking to have a decree for money
already in judgment, and a sale of his own land to satisfy such
decree.
5th. Suppose such sale were decreed. How would the
purchaser have legal title, when neither Hawkins nor Hamiter ever had any ?
6th. Assume that Lewis had once, on the 1st of February, 1855, a right to sue on the notes, to bring ejectment
or to foreclose, or to do all at once, yet the limitation prescribed by the act of January 4th, 1851, applied to the case
and barred an ejeetment or suit to foreclose at the end of
seven years thereafter. Under the statute the right to foreclose was barred long before this suit was brought.
7th. It so appears on the face of the bill, and there is no
averment of any fact to prevent the bar applying. The defendants could have availed themselves of the statutory bar
by demurrer.
8th. The bill, therefore, did not make a case in which the
plaintiff was entitled to relief or discovery, and therefore it
was properly dismissed for want of equity, i. e., for want of
right to equitable relief

Oct. 1874.]

LEWIS v.

HFAWKINS.

Opinion of the court.

-Mr.Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the execution of the notes and the title-bond between Lewis and Hawkins, Lewis held the legal title as
trustee for Hawkins; and Hawkins was a trustee for Lewis
as to the purchase-money. Hawkins was cestui que trust as
to the former and Lewis as to the latter.* The seller under
such circumstances has a vendor's lien, which is certainly
not impaired by withholding the conveyafice. The equitable estate of the vendee is alienable, descendible, and devisable in like manner as real estate held by a legal title.
The securities for the purchase-money are personalty, and
in the event of the death of the vendor, go to his personal
representative.t It does not appear that the title-bond authorized Hawkins to take possession, or that he did so. If
there were no such authority, and he entered into possession,
he held as a licensee or tenant at will.T The vendee cannot
in such cases dispute the title of his vendor any more than
the lessee can dispute that of his lessor.ยง Any other person
coming into possession under the vendee, either with his
consent or as an intruder, is bound by a like estoppel.11
Hamiter, having bought and assumed the payment of the
purchase-money stipulated to be paid by Hawkins, took the
property subject to the same liabilities, legal and equitable,
to which it was subject in the hands of Hawkins.
The discharge in bankruptcy released Hawkins from personal liability for his debt, but the statute of limitations cannot avail to protect the land from the vendor's lien upon it,
* 1 Story's Equity, P4789; 2 Id. 1212; 1 Sugden on Vendors and Purchasers, 175; Swartwout v. Burr, 1 Barbour, 499; Champion v. Brown, 6
Johnson's Chancery, 402.
t 2 Story's Equity, . 1212.
J Suffern v. Townsend, 9 Johnson, 35; Dolittle v. Edd3R, 7 Barbour, 75.
SWhiteside v. Jackson, 1 Wendell, 422; Hamilton v. Taylor, 1 Littell's
Select Cases, 444.
Jackson v. Walker, 7 Cowan, 637.
1 Story's Equity, " 789; 1 Sugden on Vendors and Purchasers (Perkins's ed.), 175; Champion v. Brown, 6 Johnson's Chancery, 402; Muldrow's
Executors v. Muldrow's Heirs, 2 Dana, 387; 2 Harris & Johnson, 64; Shipman v. Cook, 1 Green's Chancery, 254.

LEWIS V. HAWKINS.

[Sup. 0i.

Opinion of the court.

for the purchase-money which Hawkins agreed to pay, and
which Hamiter, when he bought the land, assumed and
agreed to pay for him.
We have already shown that as between Lewis and Hawkins there was a trust which embraced the purchase-money
and fastened itself upon the land. The debt did not affect his
assignee personally, but as we have shown also it continued
to bind the land in all respects as if the transfer had not
been made. The trust was an express one. Its terms and
purposes were evinced by the title-bond, and the promissory
notes to which that instrument referred. "As between
trustee and cestui que trust, in the case of an express trust,
the statute of limitation has no application, and no length
of time is a bar. Accounts have been decreed against trustees extending over periods of thirty, forty, and even fifty
years. The relations and privity between trustee and cesluz
que trust are such that the possession of one is the possession
of the other, and there can be no adverse possession during
the continuance of the relation. . . . A cestui que trust cannot set up the statute against his co-eestu; que trust, nor against"
his trustee. These rules apply in all cases of express trusts."*
"As between trustees and cestui que trust, an express trust,
constituted by the act of the parties themselves, will not be
barred by any length of time, for in such cases there is no
adverse possession, the possession of the trustee being the
possession of the cestui que trust."t
The same principle applies where the cestui que trust is in
possession. -He is regarded as a tenant at will to the trustee.
"Therefore, until this tenancy is determined there can be
no adverse. possession between the parties."I The relation
once established is presumed to continue, unless a distinct
denial, or acts,,oi a possession inconsistent with it are clearly
shown.ยง
* Perry on Trusts,

863.
t Hill on Trustees, 264*.
: Id. 266*.
Whiting v. Whiting, 4 Gray, 236, Creigh's Heirs v. Henson, 10 Grattan, 231; Spickerneln v. Hotham, Kay, 669; Garard v. Tuck, 65 English
Common Law, 249; Same Case, 8 Manning, Granger & Scott, 231; Decouche v. Savetier, 3 Johnson's Chancery Reports, 190; Anstice v. Brown,
6 Paige, 448; Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johnson's Chancery, 90.

Oct. 1874.]

LEWIS V. HAWKINS.

Opinion of the court.

In many of the cases it is held that the lien of the vendor
under the circumstances of this case is substantially a mortgage.* It is well settled that the possession of the mortgagor is not adverse to that of the mortgagee. In the case
last cited it is said that to apply the statute of limitations
"would be like making the lapse of time the origin of title
in the tenant against his landlord." That the remedy upon
the bond, note, or simple contract for the purchase-money is
barred in cases like this, in no wise affects the right to proceed in equity against the land. As in respect to mortgages,
the lien will be presumed to have been satisfied after the
lapse of twenty years from the maturity of the debt, but in
both cases laches may be explained and the presumption repelled.t The principles upon which this opinion proceeds
are distinctly recognized in Harrisv. King.1 That case alone
would be decisive of the case before us. The considerations
which apply where the vendor in such cases resorts to an
action of ejectment were examined by this court in Burnett
v. Caldwell.ยง
The bill avers the tender of a deed by the complainant to
Hawkins before the bill was filed. The answer of Hawkins
denies the allegation. The testimony of Lewis sustains the
bill; that of Hawkins the answer. The averment is not
established. Except as to the costs the point is of no significance. If the tender of a deed had been properly made,
and there had been no unjustifiable resistance to the taking
of the decree by the complainant, to which he is entitled, he
would have been required to pay all the costs. There being
a contest, and it appearing that a tender would have been
without effect, the costs must abide the result of the litigation.1j
There is manifest error in the decree, but the bill is defective in not making the heirs-at-law of Itamiter parties,
* Lingan v. Henderson, 1 Bland's Chancery, 236; Moreton v. Harrison,
Id. 491; Relfe v. Relfe, 34 Alabama, 504.
j- Moreton v. Harrison, supra. * 16 Arkansas, 122.
9 Wallace, 290.
11Keisselbrack v. Livingston, 4 Johnson's Chancery, 144; Hanson v. Lake,
2 Younge ,z Collier, 328.

RAY V.

NoRSEWORTHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

unless there is some statutory provision of the State of Arkansas which obviates this objection.
If necessary the bill can be amended in the court below.
DECREE REVERSED,

tions to proceed

and the cause

REMANDED

with direc-

IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

RAY V. NORSEWORTHY.
Although District Courts of the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, have
power to order a sale of the real estate of the bankrupt which he has
mortgaged, in such a way as to discharge it of all liens, and although
as a general thing, if they order a sale so that the purchaser shall take
a title so discharged the purchaser will have a title wholly unincumbered, yet to pass in this way an unincumbered title of property previously mortgaged, it is indispensable that the mortgagee have notice
of the purpose of the court to make such an order; or that in some
other way he have had the power to be heard, in order that he may
show why the sale should not have the effect of discharging his lien.
And if a sale be made without any notice to him, his mortgage is not
discharged.

to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
The case was thus:
The first section of the Bankrupt Act enacts:
ERROR

"That the several District Courts be and hereby are constituted courts of bankruptcy. .

.

. And the jurisdiction hereby

conferred shall extend to all cases and controversies arising between the bankrupt and any creditor or creditors who shall claim
any debt or demand under the bankruptcy; to the collection of
all the assets of the bankrupt; to the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens and other specific claims thereon; to the adjustment of the various priorities and conflicting interests of all
parties, and to the marshalling and disposition of the different
funds and assets, so as to secure the rights of all parties, and
due distribution of the assets among all the creditors."
The twentieth section enacts:
"When a creditor has a mortgage or pledge of real or personal

