Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. KREIGER.
Syllabus.

sees fit, affirm the sale and proceed to enforce his priority
against the proceeds of the sale, which is the real nature of
the proceedings in this case.*
Authority is doubtless possessed by the assignee to sell
the property of the bankrupt, whether the same is or is not
incumbered, but when he sells incumbered property without
any special order from the court he sells the same subject
to any and all lawful incumbranees, and can convey no
better or higher interest than the bankrupt could have done.
In such a case it will be taken for granted that the assignee
sold on?y such right or title to the property as was vested in
him as the representative of the bankrupt, and therefore
that he sold it subject to the incumbrances.
Such sales may be made without notice to the secured
creditor, but if the assignee desires to sell the property free
of incumbrances he must obtain authority from the bankrupt court, and must see to it that all the creditors having
liens on the property are duly notified, and that they have.
opportunity to adopt proper measures to protect their interests.t
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit in this case.

RANDALL V.

KREIGER.

A. and wife, residents of the State of New York, executed a power of attorney
to B. to sell lands in Minnesota Territory of which A., the husband, was
seized. The power was executed and acknowledged by both parties, the,
wife undergoing such separate examination as by the laws of New York
makes valid the execution of deeds by afeme covert. At the time when
this power of attorney was given there was no law of the Territory authorizing such an instrument to be executed by the wife or the attorney
* Livaudais v. Livaudais, 3 Louisiana Annual, 454.

- King v. Bowman, 24 Louisiana Annual, 506; Bump on Bankruptcy
(7th ed.), 156; In re Kirtland, 10 Blatchford, 515.

RANDALL V. XREIGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
to convey under it. B., professing to act for the two parties, sold and
conveyed a piece of the land, then worth $3000, with general warranty,
to 0., for that sum, and A. received the money. The legislature of Minnesota subsequently passed an act by which it was enacted that "all
deeds of conveyance of any lands in the Territory, whether heretofore or
hereafter made, under a joint power of attorney from the husband and
wife, shall be as binding and have the same effect as if made by the original parties." The husband and wife afterwards revoked the power.
The husband died leaving a large estate composed entirely of personalty,
the whole of which he gave to his wife. The wife now brought suit for
dower in the land sold by B. as attorney for her husband and herself.
Held, that the power of attorney was validated by the curative act,
which the court, adverting to the fact that the husband had received the
purchase-money for the tract, and that it had become part of his estate,
and that the whole of it on his death passed to the wife, declares had a
strong natural equity at its root, and accomplished that which a court
of equity would have failed to decree against the wife, only because it
would be prevented by the unbending law as to feme coverts in such
cases.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota.
Mrs. Sarah Randall, whose husband, John Randall, had
been seized in fee during their marriage of a piece of land
in Minnesota, brought suit, her husband being now dead, to
have dower in the land.
The case was thus:
In May, 1849, the said John Randall, being seized as abovesaid in fee of the land, he and his wife, then, as always before
and afterwards, resident in the State of New York, executed
in the form proper to pass afeme covert's interest in lands in
that State, a power of attorney to a person in Minnesota, by
which the latter was authorized to sell and convey the land
in question, as also other tracts. The power was duly recorded in Minnesota. At the time when this power was
given it seemed that there was no mode prescribed by statute
in Minnesota by which a non-resident feme covert could execute a power under seal to pass her interest in real estate.
In January, 1855, there being still apparently no statute
in Minnesota of the sort just mentioned, the attorney, professing to act in behalf of Randall and his wife, sold and

Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. KREIGER.
Statement of the case.

conveyed with general warranty the land, in consideration
of $3000, to one Kreiger. The deed to Kreiger was in conformity to the local law of Minnesota, and the sum for which
he purchased the land-one apparently fair-was paid to
Randall, the husband.
On the 24th of February, 1857, the legislature of Minnesota, then still a Territory of the United States, passed an
act in these words :*
"A husband and wife may convey by their lawful agent or
attorney any estate or interest in any lands, situate in this Territory; and all deeds of conveyance of any such lands, whether
heretofore or hereafter made, under a joint power of attorney
from the husband and wife, shall be as binding and have the
same effect as if made and executed by the original parties."
In May, 1859, Randall and his wife by an instrument duly
executed revoked the power of attorney made in 1849.
Randall himself soon afterwards died, leaving to his wife
his entire estate; the same consisting wholly of personalty,
and being estimated as worth between $100,000 and $200,000. She had already received of it more than*$50,000.
The value of the property now was $7000, independently
of improvements put upon it after the conveyance.
The claim of the widow was resisted on several grounds;
among them that any defect in her acknowledgment had
been remedied by the curative act of 1857; that the purchase-money having been paid to her husband, and having
passed to and been accepted by her, she was estopped while
still holding it to claim dower in addition; that she had
elected to take the provision made by her husband's will,
and which was inconsistent with the claim to dower now
set up, &c., &c.
But the only question considered by the court, was the one
whether the case fell within the curative part of the abovequoted act of 1857; the concluding portion which enacts
that all deeds of conveyance in the Territory made prior to
the passage of the act under a joint power of attorney, from
* Laws of Minnesota for 1857, p. 29.

RANDALL V. KREIGER.

[Sup. ot.,

Statement of the case.

the husband and wife, shall be as binding and have the same
effect as if made by the original party.
The court below (Dillon, J.), said:
"I am of opiniofi that the case falls within the curative or
remedial provisions of the act of 1857, and that this act, having
been passed before the right to dower became consummated by
the death of the husband, is a valid exercise of legislative power.
"1Until the death of the husband the right to dower is inehoate and contingent. It becomes consummate only upon that
event. In my opinion, the better view is that while the right
remains inchoate it is as respects the wife under the absolute
control of the legislature, which may, by general enactments,
change, abridge, or even destroy it, as its judgment may dictate.*
' So,' says Wright, C. J., in -Lucasv. Sawyer, just cited, ' the legislature may declare what acts of the wife shall amount to a relinquishment of her right of dower, or that her deed shall be
effectual to bar the same.' Again he says: 'In measuring her
rights we look to the law in force at the time of the husband's
death, for it is this event which ripens or makes consummate
the prior right, which, so long as it rested upon the marriage
and seizure, was inchoate only. If there was no law in force
at that time giving her the right, then it is extinguished. She
cannot take under a law repealed prior to that time; and taking
a law then existing, she must take it with its restrictions and
limitations.'
"It was competent, therefore, for the legislature to say as respects all inchoate rights of dower, as it did say by the act of'
1857, that deeds executed under a joint power of attorney from
the husband and wife 'shall be binding;' and if binding, the
claim of the wife here to dower is barred, for she joined in the
power of attorney under which the deed was made.
"Of the constitutionality of the enactment there remains no.
question after the repeated decisions of the Supreme Court of
the United States."t
Judgment being entered on this view, the widow brought
the case here on appeal.
* Lucas v. Sawyer, 17 Iowa, 517, 521.

t Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380; Watson v. Mercer, 8 Id. 88; and
see 2 Scribner on Dower, 344-366; Cooley, Constitutional Limitations,
373-378.

Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. "KREIGER.

Argument in support of the right to dower.

Mr. Lorenzo Allis, for the appellant:
We will address ourselves to the point taken by the court
below, that point being conclusive of the case if it is well
taken:
1. The authorities all concur in asserting the doctrine
that the statutory formalities of the execution and acknowledgment of a deed by a married woman, affecting her real
estate, are a part of the execution of the deed, and not mere
matters of proof or evidence of such execution;* and no
court has gone farther in sustaining this doctrine than has
this court. Druryv. Fostert applies the rule rigidly in a case
so hard, that if the rule had been capable of relaxation it
would have been there relaxed. As to the wife the instrument signed by her vested no power whatever in the so-called
attorney. It was under that decision absolutely without
effect for any purpose. It was not her act or deed. It was
as to her no deed, no letter of attorney. The law is the
same under a leading decision in Minnesota.1
Where, indeed, there has been a defective conveyance or
grant, the legislature may cure the defect, if the defect relates merely to the evidence, or proof of the conveyance.
The legislature may also make a defective conveyance good
between the parties to it, provided such defective conveyance amounts to a contract between the parties which a court
of equity would enforce. But if the defective instrument,
as here, under the authorities cited, is void; if it is neither
a conveyance nor a contract to convey; if it grant or convey
nothing, either in law or in equity, the legislature cannot
make it valid and operative by any retrospective and curative act.ยง
The rule relative to retrospective acts made to cure defective conveyances is thus properly stated in Chestnut v. Shane's
Lessee :11
* Dodge v. Hollinshead, 6 Minnesota, 25; Kirk v. Dean, 2 Binney, 341;
Thompson v. Morrow, 5 Sergeant & Eawle, 289; Drury v. Foster, 2 Wallace, 33.
t 2 Wallace, 33.
: Thompson et al. v. Morgan, 6 Minnesota, 295.
Meighen et al. v. Strong, Ib. 177, 161.
1116 Ohio, 599.

RANDALL V. KREIGER.

[Sup. at.

Argument in support of the right to dower.

"The act operates only upon that class of deeds where enough
had been done to show that a court of chancery ought in each
case to render a decree for a conveyance, assuming that the
certificate was not such as the law required; and that when a
title in equity was such that a court of chancery ought to interfere and decree a good legal title, it was within the power
of the legislature to confirm the deed without subjecting an
indefinite number to the useless expense of unnecessary litigation."
That is to say, it is competent for the legislature, by a
retrospective act, to turn a mere equitable title into a goad
legal title.
But, a power of attorney, uncoupled with afiy interest in
the attorney, is not a contract between the parties thereto.
There is no such thing as a letter of attorney (uncoupled
with any interest) which is good in equity but bad at law.
There can be no such thing as an instrument which, though
not in itself amounting to a letter of attorney, would be a
contract for such letter, in the absence of any interest of the
grantee therein. No retrospective and curative legislation,
therefore, can, in the nature of things, be applicable to naked
powers of attorney except such as relate to the proofs or evidenee of their execution.
No court of equity will interfere to compel a married
woman to ratify a void letter of attorney, nor to compel her
to execute or complete a conveyance attempted to be made
under a void letter of attorney. No court of equity would
compel the plaintiff in this cause to recognize as her deed
an instrument which she never executed. A court of equity
would refuse to act for no reason, however, but that the
estate equitable as well as legal still belongs to the woman;
that she has never conveyed any thing; that the land is still
her property wholly unaffected, even in conscience, by what
she has done.
If this is the ground on which a court of equity acts, what
power can there be in the legislature to act in an opposite
way? The question involved is not one of defective execution or of the sufficiency of the proofs of execution, but of

Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. ]KREIGER.
Argument in support of the right to dower.

the capacity of the party to execute at all. How then can
the legislature declare that acts which have been done by
married women, when they had no capacity to do them,
shall be valid acts?
We are aware that it has been held in some of the States,
that curative legislation may be applied to defective deeds
executed by married women affecting their own separate
real estate. But in all these cases it will be found that statutes exist enabling a married woman to charge, convey, and
make contracts affecting her separate real estate.
Hence courts of equity would compel her to complete and
make good her defective conveyances, on the ground that
these deeds, though bad as conveyances, were good as contracts which she was by law capable of making. If this
would be the position she would occupy in a court of equity
relative to her defective deeds, no doubt the legislature could
to the same extent apply the remedy by retrospective and
curative legislation.
But we do not see that a married woman could possibly
stand in this position respecting her dower.
She cannot convey or assign her inchoate right of aower,
though she can, by performing a certain act specified by
statute, bar it. That is to say, by the performance of the
specified act she is thereafter estopped from asserting her
dower.*
Now, it is not perceived how the legislature can convert
a past act which, when it was done, was not a matter of
estoppel at all, into an estoppel.
Moreover, these subsequent curative acts cannot be made
to affect this letter of attorney so far as the plaintiff is concerned, upon the assumption that they merely carry into
effect her intentions. She was at the time, and continued
to be until 1857, incapable of barring her dower by power of
attorney. She could not, therefore, in reason, be held as
intending to do what she was absolutely without the capacity
to do.
*Malloney

v. loran, 49 New York, 117-120.

RANDALL V. ]KREIGER.

[Sup. Or.

Argument in support of the right to dower.

2. This learned judge below, says:
"lUntil the death of the husband the right to dower is inchoate, and contingent. It becomes consummate only upon
that event. In my opinion the better view is that while the
right remains inchoate, it is, as respects the wife, under the
absolute control of the legislature, which may, by general enactment, change, abridge, or even destroy it, as its judgment may
dictate."
Concede that this is a correct statement of the law. But
is the act of the 24th February, 1857, a "general enactment,"
changing, abridging, or destroying the inchoate right of
dower of married women ? It does not purport to be such
an act. And it does not have any effect of such an act even
under the construction given it by the learned judge below.
It is an act which, at best, selects out of all the married
women certain individuals, to wit, those who may have
signed powers of attorney jointly with their husbands under
which deeds of conveyance may have been made, and legisfates in regard to these individuals by taking away or "destroying" their inchoate right of dower.
Such legislation is unconstitutional. The legislature cannot select from married women particular individuals, nor
even a particular class of married women, and declare that
such particular individuals, or particular class, shall have no
dower in the lands of their husbands, while married women
generally do have such dower.*
The plaintiff's right of dower in these lands was, then,
not taken away or "destroyed" by the act of the 24th February, 1857.
3. But we do not assent to the doctrine that while the
right of dower of married women remains inchoate it is
under the absolute control of the legislature.
On the contrary, we think that the better opinion and
reason are that the concurrence of marriage and seisin vests in
the wife such a right in the lands of her husband as cannot
be impaired by subsequent legislation.
Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, pages 890-4, edition of 1868.

RANDALL V. KREIGER.

Oct. 1874.]

Argument in support of the purchaser's right.

It is laid down in Lawrence v. Miller,* and we think upon
abundant reason and authority, that the law of dower which
existed at the time of the marriage and seisin of the husband,
is the law of the contract which the husband and wife entered into by their marriage.
Mr. H. J. Horn, contra:
The ground on which the case is rested by the court below is a sound one. This is settled by numerous autborities,t and is the especial law for this court, in -one of whose
decisions, Watson v. Mereer,. it is said in terms:
"The decided weight of authority is in favor of the doctrine
that the right to dower may at any time before the husband's
death, be enlarged, abridged, or entirely taken away."
But the case need not be rested solely on that ground.
There are other grounds independent of it, and like it conclusive.
1. The deed having been one with warranty, and the appellant being the sole legatee and devisee under the will of
her husband, and having claimed under it, she cannot in
equity be allowed to maintain what is in effect a suit against'
the estate of her husband, since if she recover her dower
his warranty is thereby broken, and his estate liable on the
covenants in the husband's deed.
The only effect of a recovery by the appellant in this suit
would be to subject the respbndent to the burden of instituting a suit in another State to compel the appellant to
restore the value of what she might obtain herein, which
would result in injustice and circuity of action.
2. The appellant being provided for in her husband's will,
2 Com-tock, 250-252; and see Johnson v. Vandyke, 6 McLean, 423,
440-443; 4 Kent, 35, 36, 50 (marginal).
f Underwood v. Lilly, 10 Sergeant & Rawle, 97; Barnett v. Bareti, 15
Id 72; Tate v. Stooltzfoos, 16 Id. 55; Chestnut v. Shane, 16 Ohio, 599;
Matthewson v. Spencer, 3 Sneed, 513; Rainey v Gordon, 6 Humphreys, 345;
N o v. Ewing, 9 Indiana, 37; Franz v. Harrow, 13 Id. 507; Galbraith v.
Gray, 20 Id. 290; Lucas v Sawyer, 17 Iowa, 517; Moore v. City of New
York, 4 Selden, 110; Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380.
$ 8 Peters, 88.
VOL. XXIII.

10

RANDALL V. KREIGER.

[Su-p. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and having accepted the provisions thereof by receiving
$50,000 thereunder, has elected to take the provisions so
made in preference to dower.*
3. The appellant being a non-resident could not have
dower in land of which her husband did not die seized.t
4. The statutes in force in Minnesota in 1849, the time
when the letter of attorney in question was executed, removed all disability from a feme covert in relation to releasing her dower. She was rendered competent alone, without
joining her husband, to release her dower "in like manner
as if she were sole."
[This point the learned counsel argued on citations of
statutes governing Wisconsin Territory, and which he sought
to show had been adopted in Minnesota.]
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no controversy between the parties as to the facts.
When the power of attorney was given there was no law
of Minnesota authorizing such an instrument to be executed
by husband or wife, or the attorney to convey under it.
The validity of the deed as respects Randall, the husband,
is not questioned, but its efficacy as to the widow, the appellant in this case, is denied. Her claim to dower is resisted
upon several grounds, and among them that the defect in
the deed was remedied by the curative act of 1857.
We have found it necessary to consider only the point
just stated.
It is not objected that the act of 1857, as regards its application to the present case, is in conflict with the constitution
of the State. We have carefully examined that instrument
and have found nothing bearing upon the subject.
* Section 18, chapter 49, p. 219, of Revised Statutes of Minnesota of 1851;
Section 18, chapter 48, p. 362, of the General Statutes of Minnesota, 1866;
Read v. Dickerman, 12 Pickering, 146, construing a statute in Massachusetts similar to the one above cited.
- Section 21, chapter 49, of the revision of 1851, p. 219; Section 21, of
chapter 48, of the revision of 1866, p. 362; Pratt v. Tefft, 14 Michigan, 191,
construing provisions the same with these in the law of Michigan.

Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. KREIGER.
Opinion of the court.

Nor was the act forbidden by the Constitution of the
United States.
There is nothing in that instrument which prohibits the
legislature of a State or Territory from exercising judicial
functions, nor from passing an act which divests rights vested
by law, provided its effect be not to impair the obligation of
a contract. Contracts are not impaired but confirmed by
curative statutes.*
Marriage is an institution founded upon mutual consent.
That consent is a contract, but it is one sui generis. Its peculiarities are very marked. It supersedes all other contracts between the parties, and with certain exceptions it is
inconsistent with the power to make any new ones. It may
be entered into by persons under the age of lawful majority.
It can be neither cancelled nor altered at the will of the parties upon any new consideration. The public will and policy
controls their will. An entire failure of the power to fulfil
by one of the parties, as in cases of permanent insanity,
does not release the other from the pre-existing obligation.
In view of the law it is still as binding as if the parties were
as they were when the marriage was entered into. Perhaps
the only element of a contract, in the ordinary acceptation
of the term, that exists is that the consent of the parties is
necessary to create the relation. It is the most important
transaction of life. The happiness of those who assume its
ties usually depends upon it more than upon anything else.
An eminent writer has said it is the basis of the entire fabric
of all civilized society.t
By the common law, where there was no ante-nuptial
contract, certain incidents belonged to the relation.
Among them -were the estate of tenant by the courtesy on
the part of the husband if issue was born alive and he survived the wife, and on her part dower if she survived the
husband. Dower by the common law was of three kinds:
Ad ostium ecclesix, Ev assesu palris, and that which in the
absence of the others the law prescribed. The two former
* Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380; Watson v. Mercer, 8 Id. 110.

t Story's Conflict of Laws,

109.

RANDALL V. KREIGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

were founded in contract. The latter was the creature of
the law. Dower Ad ostium eelesix and -Exassensu patis were
abolished in England by a statute of the 3d and 4th William
IV, cl. 105. The dower given by law is the only kind which
has since existed in England, and it is believed to be the only
-kind which ever obtained in this country.
During the life of the husband the right is a mere expectancy or possibility. In that condition of things, the lawmaking power may deal with it as may be deemed proper.
It is not a natural right. It is wholly given by law, and the
power that gave it may increase, diminish, or otherwise alter
it, or wholly take it away. It is upon the same footing with
the expectancy of heirs, apparent or presumptive, before
the death of the ancestor. Until that event occurs the law
of descent and distribution may be moulded according to
the will of the legislature.
Laws upon those subjects in such cases take effect at once,
in all respects as if they had preceded the birth of such persons then living. Upon the death of the husband and the
ancestor the rights of the widow and the heirs become fixed
and vested. Thereafter their titles respectively rest upon
the same foundation, and are protected by the same sanctions as other rights of property.*
The pover of a legislature under the circumstances of
this case to pass laws giving validity to past deeds which
were before ineffectual is well settled.t
In Watson v. Mercer,t the title to the premises in controversy was originally in Margaret Mercer, the wife of James
Mercer. For the purpose of transferring the title to her
husband, they conveyed to a third person, who immediately
conveyed to James Mercer. The deed of Mercer and wife
bore date of the 30th of May, 1785. It was fatally defective
* 2 Scribuer on Dower, pp. 5-8; Lawrencev. Miller, 1 Sandford's Supreme
Court, 516; Same Case, 2 Comstock, 245; Noel and wife v. Ewing et aL., 9
Indiana, 37; Lucas v. Sawyer, 17 Iowa, 517; White v. White, 5 Barbour,
474; Vartic v. Underwood and wife, 18 Id. 561.
- Sedwick on Statutory and Constitutional Law, 144, note; Cooley on
$ 8 Peters, 100.
Constitutional Limitations, 376.

Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. KREIGER.
Opinion of the court.

as to the wife in not having been acknowledged by her in
conformity with the provision of the statute of Pennsylvania
of 1770, touching the conveyance of real estate by feines
covert. She died without issue. James Mercer died leaving
children by a former marriage. After the death of both
parties, her heirs sued his heirs in ejectment for the premises and recovered. The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment. In 1826 the legislature passed an
act which cured the defective acknowledgment of Mary
Mercer, and gave the same validity to the deed as if it had
been well executed originally on her part. The heirs of
James Mercer thereupon sued her heirs and recovered back
the same premises. This judgment was also affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State, and the judgment of affirmance was affirmed by this court. This case is conclusive of
the one before us.*
To the objection that such laws violate vested rights of
property it has been forcibly answered that there can be no
vested right to do wrong. Claims contrary to justice and
equity cannot be regarded as of that character. Consent to
remedy the wrong is to be presumed. The only right taken
away is the right dishonestly to repudiate an honest contract
or conveyance to the injury of the other party. Even where
no remedy could be had in the courts the vested right is
usually unattended with the slightest equity.t
There is nothing in the record persuasive to any relaxation in favor of the appellant of the legal principles which,
as we have shown, apply with fatal effect to her case. The
curative act of 1857 has a strong natural equity at its root.
It did for her what she attempted to do, intended to do, and
doubtless believed she had done, and for doing which her
husband was fully paid.
* See also Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 388; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters,
627; Livingston v. Moore, 7 Id. 486; Kearney et al. v. Taylor et al., 15
Howard, 495; Chestnut v. Shane, 16 Ohio, 599; Goshorn v. Purcell, 11 Ohio

State, 641; Lessee of Watson v. Bailey, 1 Binney, 477; Gibson v. Hibbard,
13 Michigan, 215; Foster v. Essex Bank, 16 Massachusetts, 245; State v.

Newark, 3 Dutcher, 197.
-t Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 378.

STICKNEY V.

[Sup. Ct.

WILT.

Syllabus

The purchase-money for the lot became a part of his
estate, and the entire estate was given to her at his death.
Not satisfied with this she seeks to fasten her dower upon
the property in question.
The act accomplished what a court of equity, if called
upon, would have decreed promptly as to the husband, and
would have fhiled to decree as to the wife only from the
want of power. The unbending rule of law as to fenes
covert in such cases would have prevented it. The legislature thus did what right and justice demanded, and the act
strongly commends itself to the conscience and approbation
of the judicial mind.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

STICKNEY,

ASSIGNEE, V.

WILT.

1. A proceeding under the Bankrupt Act in which by petition in form, the
assignee sets forth articulately that A., B., C., &c., claim liens against
the bankrupt's estate, the validity of each of which liens he, the assignee, denies, and in which he prays that the parties setting up the liens
may be made parties, and be required to answer, each of them, all his
charges and allegations as made, and be compelled, each of them, to set
forth and state in their respective answers the particulars and facts
upon which their respective claims are based, and that on final hearing
all questions and rights of each and all the parties may be ascertained
and determined by the court, and that the petitioner be directed to sell
the estate and distribute the proceeds ; and in which the assignee prays
that he "may have such other and further relief in the premises, and
may be further directed in his duties as the nature of the case requires ;"
in which proceeding, the parties asserting the liens, answer in form, and
the assignee replies in form, is a "case in equity " within the eighth
section of the Bankrupt Act, which gives an appeal to the Circuit Court
in all cases in equity; and is not a case for the general superintendence
and jurisdiction by that court given in the second section of the act, in
cases where no provision for the supervision of the Circuit Court is
otherwise made.
2. The fact that a subpcona is not prayed for, does not change this view; the
defendants voluntarily appearing.
8. If such a case be taken into the Circuit Court under this general superintending jurisdiction given by the said second section, it is wrongly

