Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

181

Syllabus.

they do not apply to the vessel required to keep her course
after the wrongful approach of the steamer is so near that
the collision is inevitable, nor will an error committed by
the sail-vessel under such circumstances of peril, if she is
otherwise without fault, impair the right of the sail-vessel
to recover for the injuries occasioned by the collision, for
the plain reason that those who produced the peril and put
the sail-vessel in that situation are chargeable with the error
and must answer for the consequences.*
Subject to that exception the sail-vessel must keep her
course, but the case before the court, if any change was
made in the course of the schooner, falls within the exception, and it follows that the decree of the Circuit Court must
be reversed, with costs, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree in favor of the libellants for the whole
value of the schooner, her freight, and cargo.
DECREE REVERSED.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.
[BROWN V. GUILD.

SAME "0. SELBY.]

1. Five reissues were granted on a surrendered patent, granted originally
in 1853 to G. W. Brown, for improvements in corn-planting machines.
On two bills, one against Bergen & Sisson and the other against Selby
et al. for infringement, four of these reissues were sustained and one
declared void for want of novelty.
2. Out of five reissues granted on a surrender of a patent granted in 1855,
four were declared invalid for want of patentable novelty, and one reissue, No. 1095, was declared valid.
3. An invention described in an application for a patent filed in the Patent
Office is not of itself a bar to a subsequent patent therefor to another.
Such an application may have a bearing on the question of the defence
of prior invention or discovery, but will not of itself take such prior
invention or discovery out of the category of unsuccessful experiments.
4. The several reissues, Nos. 1036, 1038, and 1039, held to be good, as being
for things contained within the machines and apparatus described in
* Steamship Co. v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 383.

182

THE

CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

6.

6.

7.

8.
9.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.
16.

17.

the original patents, although not claimed therein. Any question of
fraud in obtaining these reissues is to be regarded as settled by the act
of the Commissioner of Patents in granting them.
Reissues Nos. 1036, 1038, and 1039 are not obnoxious to the objection
that they are for substantially the same combination, and therefore
not for distinct parts of the'original machine.
The use of the words I substantially as and for the purposes set forth,"
in a claim, throws it back to the specification, for qualification of
words otherwise general.
The claim of Reissue No. 1036 thus construed, held to be valid and to
be for two separate frames-one having two wheels, and the other two
runners.
The defendants held to have infringed it.
Reissue No. 1037 declared void for want of novelty.
Reissue No. 1038 held to cover the combination of two separate frartes,
one having two wheels and the other two runners, when they are combined together by a hinged joint.
The defendants held to have infringed this claim, although in one,
Selby's machine, the hinge is located at a different part of the machine; the office, purpose, operation, and effect being the same. A
change a little more or less backward or forward held not to change
the substantial identity.
A patentee by his claim a5 to what he regards as new, by necessary implication disclaims the rest as old, and such remaining parts are to
be regarded as old or common and public.
Claim 1 of Reissue 1039, if construed simply as claiming the placing of
the dropman on the machine, would probably be held void as claiming
a mere result irrespective of the means by which it is accomplished;
but if construed as claiming the accomplishment of the result by substantially the means described in the specification it is free from that
objection. Such claim should be construed in this limited mannbr if
possible in order to save the patent.
Claim 2 of Reissue No. 1039 embraces the combination consisting of one
frame, the runner-frame having the seat for the dropman, and another
frame, the wheel-frame, having a lifting lever fulcrumed to it. The
defendants held to have infringed this claim, although the levers used,
in themselves, were different in form and point of attachment from
the appellant's lever.
Reissues Nos. 1091, 1092, 1093, and 1094 declared void for want of sufficient invention to constitute patentable novelty.
The combination (in 1091) of a seat for a driver, on a machine which
ha4 a dropman's seat on it when a driver's seat had been used on a
similar machine before, but without a dropman's seat thereon, does not
constitute a patentable invention.
The Reissue 1095 explained, and the novelty of the combination for
effecting double dropping pointed out. Both the defendants held to
have infringed the claim of this reissue.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.
Statement of the case.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.
G. W. Brown filed two separate bills in equity in the
court below, against Bergen and Sisson, in the one case,
and against Selby and others in the other case, charging
them respectively with infringement of certain letters-patent
granted to him, Brown, for improvements in corn-planting
machines, being reissues of previous patents, and praying
for an account of profits, for injunctions, and for general
relief. The defendant in the first case filed an answer, and
two amended answers, setting up, in general, that the complainant was not the original and first inventor of the improvements patented to him, but that the same were previously known and used by various other persons named in
the answers, and that the reissued patents of the complainant were fraudulently obtained; and they denied that they
infringed the complainant's patents. The pleadings in the
other case were substantially the same. Much testimony
having been taken, the causes were heard together before
the Circuit Court, and the complainant's bills were severally
dismissed. The appeals were from the decrees dismissing
them. Bergen, one of the original defendants in the first
case, having died, the cause was revived in the name of his
executor, one Guild, who, with the other defendant, Sisson,
were the now appellees in that case.
The invention, as to which the controversy in the cases
arose, is one which is called "a check-row corn-plauter;"
an invention. intended to facilitate the planting of Indian
corn (maize) in the best way.
This sort of corn, as most persons have observed, is usually
planted in rows; rows from three feet ten inches to four
feet apart. It requires to be so planted in order that the
spaces between and all around the hillocks in which it is
planted may be ploughed, after the corn begins to grow; or
(to use the technical term) that the corn may be "cultivated."
For if weeds are allowed to grow about the corn they impair its strength and diminish its productiveness.
Prior to the time when "the check-row corn-planter" was

184

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup.

at.

Statement of the case.-The general subject.

devised, and while, of course, all planting was done by hand,
farmers used to secure the planting, properly, in rows, with
the grain at right distances from each other, in this way.
They made a series of transverse scratches or marks across
the field, as shown by the black lines a b in the design below.
FIG. 1.

a

c.---------- --------- --------- -------

----

--o--

--

---

-

-----------

Then, when they came to plant, they ploughed transversely, as shown by the dotted lines c d, and at the intersections e e of the furrow c d, with the scratched line a 6,
they dropped the corn. The corn therefore grew ini regular
rows, and could be "1cultivated" by means of a plough drawn
by a horse who wvent between the rows in both directions.
But this operation of drawing great numbers of lines and
ploughing in two directions across large fields, and of dropping the corn by hand at the intersections, was a slow and
laborious one, and one requiring great care in order to be
accurately done.
The object of the improvement under consideration in
these cases was to do this work-that is to say, to plant the
corn in the best way in hills at exact and proper distances
apart-dispensing with much of the former labor.
The first and principal question in the causes was, whether
the -complainant, Brown, was the original and first inventor

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER

PATENT.

Statement of the ease.-Brown's patent and reissues.

of the improvements claimed by and patented to him, or
whether he was anticipated therein by other persons named
in the answers of the defendants.
As set forth in the bill, the first patent obtained by the
complainant for one portion of his alleged invention and improvement, was granted to him on the 2d day of August,
but antedated the 2d day of February, 1853. This patent
was surrendered on the 16th day of February, 1858, and a
new patent was issued in lieu thereof, upon a corrected
specification. This reissued patent was also surrendered on
the 11th day of September, 1860, and in lieu thereof five
new patents were issued upon five several corrected specifications, which new patents were numbered respectively reissues 1036, 1037, 1038, 1039, 1040, each one being for a
distinct and separate part of the original invention, alleged
to have been made by the complainant.
On the 8th of May, 1855, a patent was granted to the
complainant for certain improvements on his corn-planter,
which patent was, on the 10th day of November, 1857,
surrendered, and a new patent was issued in lieu thereof
on a corrected specification. This last patent was also surrendered on the 11th day of December, 1860, and five new
patents were issued in lieu thereof on five amended specifications, each being for a distinct and separate part of
the improvements intended to be secured by the patent of
1855. The last-mentioned patents were respectively numbered reissues 1091, 1092, 1093, 1094, and 1095. Copies
of all the reissued patents of both series were annexed to
the bill. Upon the taking of proofs in the cause, copies of
the two original patents, and of the first reissues thereof, as
well as the reissued patents on which the bill was founded,
were put in evidence, together with full and detailed drawings and models of the complainant's original and improved
machines.
The defendants, in their answer and the several amendments thereof, referred to many machines, patents, and applications for patents which, as they alleged, embodied all
the improvements of the complainant's machine, and ante-

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Brown's original machines.

dated the same. These will be more particularly referred
to after the features of the complainant's machine have been
described.
The original machine, the patent for which was granted
to the complainant on the 2d day of August, 1853, and the
application for which patent was dated the 27th of September, 1852, is shown in perspective in Figure 2, and consisted
of the following parts:
Fil. 2.

1. A framework supported on two runners-the latter
being used for cutting a gash or furrow in the earth to
receive the seed; each runner having a cleft at the rear end
for allowing the seed to drop to the ground, and furnished
with a hopper above, containing oscillating horizontal valves
for dropping the seed at proper intervals into the gash or
furrow through a tube in the heel of the runner.
2. Another framework, following the first, and supported
on two wheels, or rollers, to follow the runners and press
the earth down upon the seed in the gash or furrow.
The relation of the runners A to the covering-wheel W
is shown at Figure 3, which is a side view of Brown's machine.
FIG. 3.

3. A free or jointed connection between the two frames,
allowing them to rise and fall independently of each other

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Brown's original machines.

in going over inequalities of surface. This jointed connection was formed by a bolt passing through the arm J, Figure
8, at the point I.
4. A system of levers resting on the axle of the wheels
under the rear frame, shown at L, Figure 3, and so applied
to the forward frame as to enable the driver to raise the
runners out of the ground for turning about or for any other
purpose, with a further arrangement for regulating the depth
of the furrow or gash made by the runner.
The complainant's machine was a hand-dropping machine, dnd it was so arranged that a man could be mounted
upon it so as to ride sidewise, and observe the lines or furrows which had been made across the field. Whenever the
runners passed on these lines the seed was dropped. This
was done by means of a connecting-rod between the seedvalves in the two hoppers, one end attached to each, with a
lever to move it backward and forward by the hand of the
dropper sitting crosswise on the frame, so that he could, by
such movement, drop the seed from both hoppers at the
same time at the intersection of the cross lines marked on
the field.
The machine is shown with the dropman placed in his
position in Figure 4, and the check-rows are seen extending
Fi. 4.

across the field. The machine was described with substantially these parts in the specifications and drawings attached
to the original patent of 1853, as well as the several reissues
1036, 1037, 1038, 1039, and 1040.

THE OORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Brown's improved machine.

The improved machine, as patented in 1855, had two additional features, or irfiprovements:
1. A vibrating valve, called a flipper-valve, in each seeddropping tube, which valve is composed of a long slender
slip of metal attached to a pivot in the middle, connected by
a small attachment to a slide-valve having two openings, so
that when the top is moved to one side of the tube the bottom moves to the other side. By one movement the seed
drops through the slide-valve into one side, and is detained
near the bottom till the next movement, when it is dropped
on the ground, and seed is admitted simultaneously through
the slide-valve into the other side. The two positions of the
flipper-valve, slide-valve, and lever are shown in Figures
5 and 6. The effect of this arrangement is that the seed
FIG. 5.

FIG. 6.

is near the bottom of the furrow when it is dropped, so
that it is immediately deposited in line with the check-row.
And the peculiarity of the apparatus is such that it requires
but one movement of the levers above to drop for a single
hill.
2. Another improvement was a high, long seat for the
driver, on the rear frame, located above the wheels lengthwise of the machine, so that by moving backward or forward on the seat, his weight will raise or depress the runners.
The only claims allowed by the Patent Office upon the
original application in the patent of 1853 were:
1st. "The oscillating horizontal wheels or distributors
(namely, the valves before referred to), in the bottoms of the
hoppers, having slots and holes of various sizes, in combination

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Brown's improved machine.

with the stationary caps and pins for the discharge of different
kinds and quantities of seeds, as set forth in the specification."
2d. "The arrangement of the covering rollers, mounted as
described, and performing the purpose of covering the seed,
elevating the cutters in turning round, and also in adjusting to
different depths, as set forth."
Other claims were applied for, but were disallowed.
The five reissues, or new patents, issued September 11th,
1860, in lieu of the original patent of August 2d, 1853, and
of its first reissue in 1858, were for a number of supposed
distinct inventions comprised in the machine, and each contained one or more separate claims. None of these distinct
inventions were claimed as distinct features in the original
patents, nor were they claimed as such in an intermediate
reissue granted in 1858, but they are shown distinctly in the
original drawings, and"were described in the specification
of the original patent.
The only claim allowed in the patent of May 8th, 1855,
for the improvements added to the machine, was as follows:
"In combination with the hoppers and their semi-rotating
plates d, the runners A with their valves f, and their adjustment
by means of the levers and cams, and the driver's weight for
the purpose of carrying and dropping seeds by each vibration
of the lever D, and to regulate the depth of the planting, as described."
By the reissue of December 11th, 1860, this patent was
subdivided into five new ones, each having one or more
separate claims for supposed distinct inventions which were
comprised in the drawings of the original patent, and in the
descriptive part thereof.
Upon the first question, that of novelty, the defendants
referred in argument to Cooke's well-known "drill," and
other like machines described in the Farmer'sLEncyclopcedia,
and to an old machine of Joab Moffatt; but the principal
prior machines relied upon by them as anticipating the invention found in Brown's patent of 1853 were the following:

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.-Anticipation.-Thomas, Todd.

1. The cottonseed-planter of Thomas, patented in 1848,
which the complainant contended was different from his
corn-planter. This machine is described in the opinion of
the court,* and illustrated at Figure 7.
FIG. 7.

2. Henry Todd's seed-planter, patented December 13th,
1848, which is also described in the opinion,t and illustrated
FIG. 8.

in Figure 8. The complainant contended that this was a
different machine.
4Infr'a,pp.

206, 207.

t Infra, pp. 207, 208.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

191

Statement of the case.-Anticipation.-Earle, Mumma, Remy & Kelly.

3. Earle's planting plough, patented in 1848. This, described in the opinion,* was an automatic corn-planter,
and, as argued by the complainant, was wholly unlike his
planter.
4. Mumma's'seed drill. This, also described in the opinion,t was, however, not strongly relied upon by the defendants.
5. Remy & Kelly's machine. This machine is described
by the court,t anid is illustrated in Figure 9. For this a
FIG. 9.

patent had been applied for in June, 1850, but the application was then rejected and withdrawn. An experimental
use of the machine was also proved.
Upon this condition of things, the question under this
fifth machine was much discussed, as to what position, as a
defence, a description of a machine contained in a prior rejected application occupied, and, if it was not a good defence
by itself, how far it might be considered in connection with
a prior experimental use in. establishing an anticipation of a
patented invention.
6. Three prior machines, of James Abbott, which were
produced by the defendants. These, the complainant contended, were unsuccessful experiments, if indeed they were
prior in date to his invention. The two principal of these
*Infra, p. 208.

t Infra, p. 208.

$Infra,pp. 209-211.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-irkman, Joab Brown.

machines are described by the court,* and illustrated in
Figures 10 and 11.
FIG. 10.

FIG. 11.

7. John Kirkman's unpatented machine. This was much
relied on by the defendants; but the complainant contended
that it was materially different from his corn-planter, in
having but a single frame, in which were both runners and
wheels, instead of two independent frames with runner and
wheels like his. It was also insisted that on the evidence it
was subsequent in date to his. It is described in the opinion
of the court,t and illustrated at Figure 12, on the next page.
8. Joab Brown's corn-planter, said to have been used in
1850 and 1853, and another corn-planter for which he applied for a patent in December, 1852, were also adduced.
The complainant contended that the machines of 1850 and
1853 were unsuccessful and abandoned experiments, and
that the machine for which the said Joab Brown applied
for a patent in 1852 was wholly unlike his, the complain* Infra, pp. 211, 212.

t Infra, pp. 212, 213.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Anticipation.-Joab Brown, Finn, Case.
FIG. 12.

ant's, machine. This last machine of Joab Brown is analyzed in the opinion,* and illustrated at Figure 13.
FIG. 13.

Besides these, the defendants set up and relied upon the
machine of Charles Finn and of Jarvis Case as containing
the double-dropping device, claimed by the appellant in
Reissue No. 1095.
The double-dropping devices in these two machines are
described and illustrated in the opinion of the court,t and
shown further on in Figures 23 and 24, page 200.
Upon the question of infringement there was much dis* Infra, pp. 214-216.
YOL. XXIII.

t Infra, pp. 233, 234.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.-Infringement.-Bergen, Selby.

cussion. The conclusion arrived at by the court, in declaring the complainant's reissued patents 1037 void for want
of novelty, and also the reissued patents Nos. 1091, 1092,
1093, and 1094 void, as not containing patentable novelty,
obviates the necessity of here referring to the infringement
of the several claims of those patents.
As to the infringement of the other claims, it was contended that the machine of the defendant Selby, and of the
defendant Bergen, infringed the claim of Reissue No. 1036.
That claim was in these words:
COLAIA 1036. Having thus fully described the nature and
object of my invention, what I claim under the patent is a seedplanting machine, constructed principally of framework, the
front part of which is supported on not less than two runners,
or shoes, with upward-inclining edges, and the rear part supported on not less than two wheels, the latter being arranged
to follow the former, substantially as and for the purpose set
forth."

The defendant Bergen's arrangement is shown, in side
view, in Figure 14, and was thus described in his patent:
FIG. 14.

"The body of the machine consists of a frame B, mounted on
runners, and a rear frame A, mounted on wheels, the two frames
being united by a flexible joint, so arranged that it can be rendered rigid under certain circumstances."
The complainant contended that as the machine had two
distinct frames, one frame resting on a pair of rollers, and
the other distinct frame resting on a pair of runners or
cutters, it was within this claim.
The defendants, besides insisting that this claim was an-

Oect. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Infringement.-Bergen, Selby.

ticipated by Kirkman's machine, also contended that the
Bergen machine did not infringe, inasmuch as the pivot or
hinge was different and differently located.
The machine made by the defendant Selby is shown in
Figure 15, and consisted of two distinct frames pivoted
FIG. 15.

together. One of these frames was supported on two runners and the other by two wheels.
The claim of the complainant, under Reissue 1038, was as
follows:
1038. Having thus fully described the nature and ob"CLAIr
ject of my invention, what I claim under this patent is, in combination with a seed-planting machine, constructed principally
of framework, with not less than two runners and not less than
two wheels, a hinge-joint between the point of the tongue and
the rear part of the machine, so that one part of the framework
may be raised, lowered, adjusted, or supported on the other
part, substantially as described."
The mode of attaching the front and rear frame in the
defendant Bergen's machine is shown in Figure 16, on the
next page, and was thus described in Bergen's patent:
"I construct my seed-planter in two parts, consisting of two
frames of equal width and suitable strength, coupled together.
. . . These frames are coupled together by a slotted joint at

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup..Ot.

Statement of the ease.-Infringement.-Bergen, Selby.

each side of the frame, to permit either frame to have a varying
vertical movement without changing the position of the seedtubes or varying the depth of the planting."
FiG.

16.

A peculiar hinge, shown at Figure 17, was employed by
Bergen, and the appellees contended that Brown was to be
limited to his peculiar hinge, and that Bergen's machine
had a different hinge.
FiG. 17.

The arrangement of Selby, the other defendant, is shown
in Figure 18., He also had two separate frames pivoted together, but the pivoting or hinging was effected by extend-.
ing the rear frame forward and pivoting the front end of
the runner to the projection of the rear frame. It was contended by the defendants that on this account, in the Selby
machine, the two frames, although hinged, were combined
together in a substantially different manner, and, therefore,

Oct. 1874.]

THE OORN-PLANTER PATENT.
Statement of the case.-Infringement.

that it was no infringement. The complainant insisted that
although the place of uniting the two frames together was
different in the two machines, and the hinges were peculiar,
FIG. 18.

yet the pivoting of these frames together caused the combined action to be exactly alike.
The claim of Reissue 1039 was in these words:
"CLAIM 1039. Having thus fully described the nature and
object of my invention, what I claim unaer this patent is in a
seed-planting machine, wherein the seed-dropping mechanism
is operated by hand or by an attendant, in contradistinction
from 'mechanical dropping;' the mounting of said attendant
upon the machine, in such a position that he may readily see
the previously made marks upon the ground, and operate the
dropping mechanism to conform thereto, substantially as herein
set forth."
The complainant urged that this was not for the mere put-

ting of a seat on the machine, but for so arranging the several
parts that a dropman could be located in a position to see
the marks on the ground, and work the seed-valves, and
that in both the Bergen and Selby machines the same arrangeinent of the several parts of the respective machines had
been made; that a man could be located there in a sitting
position and do his work.
The arrangement of Brown's seat is shown in Figure 19,
on the next page, and was between the two seed-boxes, and
so that he could sit sidewise astride and observe the marks.
The Bergen seat was, in like manner, located between the

TaE

ORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.-The dropman's seat.

two seed-hopper boxes, and so that the dropman could sit
astride of the seat and look sidewise across the field.
FIG. 19.

The arrangement for Selby's seat is shown in Figure 15,*
and was in the same position as Brown's."
It was contended by the complainant that as no one had
ever arranged the several parts of a corn-planter so that a
man could sit upon the machine in a position to watch the
marks on the ground and at the same time work the valves,
the manner of organizing these several parts, by which he
could sit there and work the valves, involved invention, and
this was not like the mere putting of a driver's seat on a
machine in positions where drivers' seats had been accustomed to be placed, for the mere purpose of driving the
machine.
The opinion of the court, as already stated, dispenses with
the necessity of reference to the question of infringement of
the second group of reissues, except Reissue No. 1095.
The claim of the reissue 1095 was in these words:
"CLAIM 1095. Having thus fully described my invention,
what I claim under this patent is, so combining with a lever,
by which both may be operated, a valve or slide in the seedhopper, and a valve in the seed-tube, as that a half-motion of
the lever by the operator, riding on the machine by which they
are operated, shall both open and close the seed passages at
regular periods, and pass measured quantities only, substantially as described."
* Supra, p. 195.

Oct. 1874.]I

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Double-dropping mechanism.

It was contended on behalf of the complainant that this
was a claim for a combination, as shown in Fig. 20, consistFIG. 20.

ing of a lever 1, a sliding valve in the bottom of the seedboxes having two openings, a and b,and a vibrating valve in
the seed-tube extending throughout the length of the seedtube, which valve, when vibrated in alternate directions
formed alternate passages in conjunction with the opposite
sides of the seed-tube, so that when vibrated in one direction
this seed-tube valve formed, with the side of the seed-tube, a
passage E, which, in connection with the opening b,in the
hopper-valve, caused the seed to descend into the seed-tube
and be retained at the bottom of the seed-tube. When the
lever was vibrated in the opposite direction, the valve in the
seed-tube moved into the position B1 (Figures 21 and 22),

VV

FIG. 21.

FIG. 22.

so as to open on one side a passage to the ground for the
seed previously deposited in the seed-tube, and at the same
time opened a passage for the seed through the seed-hopper
slide-valve into the seed-tube, on the opposite side of the
vibrating valve from that shown in the first position. The
mode of combining their several elements, namely, the lever,
the valve in the seed-hopper, and the valve in the s ed-tube,

[Sup..Ct.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.
.Statement of the case.-Case and Brown's dropper.

was substantially similar to that of the complainant. So
that the vibration of the slide-valve, at the bottom of the
seed-hopper, caused the tube-valve to vibrate in proper relation thereto.
Two devices were set up as anticipating Brown:
1st. That of Jarvis Case, whose device, in its two positions, is shown in Figures 23 and 24.
FIG. 23.

FIG. 24.

This machine was like Brown's, in that one muscular
effect did the work of opening and closing the hopper-valve
and seed-tube valve, but the seed-tube valve was not doubleacting, and a spring returned it to its place, and the operator
had to overcome the force of this spring.
2d. Finn's machine, which is shown in Figures 25 and 26.
FIG. 25.

FI.

26.

In this last-mentioned machine the seed-tube valve and
hopper-valve were each only single-acting, and two motions
of the arm of the operator were required in consequence for
each deposit of seed. It was contended that Brown's machine differed from Finn's and Case's, in containing a lever
in combination with a double-passage hopper-valve and a
vibrating valve extending through the seed-tube, which

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

201

Argument for the appellant.

vibrating valve -%,as double-acting, in the sense of forming,
with the opposite walls of the seed-tube, alternate passages
on each side of the vibrating valve, with each half-motion
of the operator's arm, thereby saving much labor.
The'Bergen dropper and the Selby dropper agreed with
Browu's, in having each a slide-hopper-valve having two
passages, a double-acting vibrating seed-tube valve located
within and extending the length of the seed-tube, which
vibrating valve formed alternate seed passages for the grain
to the ground, at each half-motion of the operator's arm.
The Selby dropper had a lever in combination with these
parts, and in the Bergen dropper a handle was substituted
for a lever in this combination.
As already stated, the court below dismissed the bill of
the complainant, and the present appeals were taken to such
action.
Mr. George Harding, for the appellant, contended that the
Brown Corn-planter was composed of two separate frames;
one supported on not less than two wheels, and the other on
not less than two runners. That by reason of this fundamental organization, it followed1st. That the wheels should follow and cover in the seed.
2d. That a hinge connection could be made between the
two frames so as to permit conformity to the unevenness of
the ground.
3d. That a dropman's seat could be carried on the machine.
4th. That a lever could be fulcrumed on the rear or wheelframe and attached to the front or runner frame, whereby
the front runner-frame could be elevated to turn corners, &c.
These several features, or rather the several arrangements
of mechanism producing them, were made the subjects of
several distinct reissues, Nos. 1036, 1038, 1039.
The following points, among others, were made by the appellant:
The reissuing of patents, in several distinct reissues instead of one reissue, is a matter within the discretion only

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

of the Commissioner of Patents. This p6int was decided
by this court in Bennet v. Fowler.*
The several features or devices claimed in the reissues of
the original patents, although not claimed in the original
patent, were described therein, and the rule was thas laid
down in Seymour v. Osbornet by this court:
"Power is unquestionably conferred upon the commissioner to
allow the specification to be amended if the patent is inoperative
or invalid, and in that event to issue the patent in proper form;
and he may, doubtless, under that authority, allow the patentee
to redescribe his invention, and to include in the description and
claims of the patent, not only what was well described before,
but whatever else was suggested or substantially indicated in the
specification or drawings which properly belonged to the invention
as actually made and perfected."
Under this decision it is only necessary for the appellant
to show that the subject matter of each claim of the several
reissues is set out or exhibited in the drawings and description of the original patent, and it is for the court to compare the original and reissued patents to ascertain that fact.
As to the legality of claims in the form contained in reissues 1039, 1091, and 1092, and as to the construction of
the claims of the reissues generally, the counsel referred to
Seymour v. Osborne,t Roberts v. Dickeyj Seymour v. McCormick,§ McCormick v. Talcolt.11
As to what is required in a prior invention to defeat a
patent, and a's to prior public use, to Whitely v. Swayne, Agawarn (ompany v. Jordan,**Seymour v. Osborne,tt Washburn v.
Gould.11
As to the certainty required in establishing the nature of
an alleged prior invention, and in fixing its date, to Woodv.
Cleveland Rolling iUll Company,§§ Parham v. Buttonhole Company,Jj1 Hayden v. Sqffollc Manufacturing Company. f
8 Wallace, 445; and see Pennsylvania Salt TManufacturing Co. v. Gugenheim, 3 Fisher, 423; also Battin v. Taggert, 17 Howard, 80.
4 Fisher, 532.
19 Howard, 96. [] 20 1b. 402.
j 11 Wallace, 516.
ft 11 Id. 552.
$1: 3 Story, 122.
7 Wallace, 685.
: lb. 583.
lb. 98.
4 Fisher, 559.
Ib. 468.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PAITENT.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation.-Date of Brown's invention.

As to modifications of prior devices to convert them into
the patented improvement, to Wood v. Cleveland Rolling Mill
Company.*
As to what constitutes infringement and the doctrine of
equivalents as applicable thereto, to Seymour v. Osborne.t
Messrs. S. S. Fisher, S. B. Goolcins, and . E. Roberts,
contra, arguedThat the appellant's reissued patents were void, because
professing to be improvements in seed-planters they did not
clearly set forth in what the improvement consisted, nor
distinguish what was new from what was old.
That the claims of the several reissues were not for separate and distinct parts of the machine or invention. ,
That the reissued patents were not for the same invention
which was claimed in the original patent.
That the application of Remy & Kelly, filed in the Patent
Office, was a full anticipation of Brown's reissued patents
1038 and 1039, and defeated them.
That the other machines and patents adduced as prior to
Brown, together, fully anticipated him upon every material
thing contained in his reissued patents.
That the first claims of the reissued patent No. 1039, and
of the several reissues of the patent of 1855, especially 1095,
were for a result, and therefore not patentable.1
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A proper decision of the questions in these causes renders
it necessary, in the first place, to ascertain, as near as may
be, the actual date of Brown's alleged invention or inventions, such as and whatever they are. His original application for a patent was sworn to on the 27th of September,
1852. But it appears from his own testimony, which does
not seem to be discredited, but rather corroborated by
others, that he was making experiments in 1850, on a mat" 11 Wallace, 516.
* 4 Fisher, 559.
Sickles v. Falls Co., 2 Fisher, 202; Sangster v. Miller, lb. 563; Carr v.
Rice, 1 Id. 325.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation.-Date of Brown's invention.

chine which formed the nucleus of his completed invention.
He further says that in January or February, 1851, he made
a machine which he describes as follows:
"It had two runners and two wheels, two cross-bars and nosepieces, two braces, dropper's seat, and a tongue. The wheels
were hung through the seed-boxes by arms. There were arms
running back from the seed-b6xes, which the wheels run in,
coupled through the seed-boxes with a bolt. I had a loop running down each side of the wheel that went on to the axles on
the wheels, and worked a couple of short levers fastened on
this loop running forward under the forepart of the machine,
and runntng back far enough to put a cross-piece on behind. I
am a poor hand at describing it. The seed.slide passed through
the hoppers, running from one to the other, and the lever operated it with the hand, with a person located on the machine
crosswise, so that he could see the marks plain on the ground."
Further evidence was given by him descriptive of the machine, and showing its substantial identity with the machine
as it stood when the patent was granted.
This, however, was only a model. But it had all the
main characteristics of the perfected machine, except that
the circular valves were not contained in it, the seed being
dropped from the bottom of the hopper by the movement
of a straight slide. He further testified that in 1852 he sent
that model by his brother to Washington, and that it was
very nearly the same as the model filed in the Patent Office,.
a copy of which was shown to the witness, and is an exhibit
in the cause. He further states that in the same year he
made, after the plan of the model, a machine of one-half the
usual size, but large enough to work with, and that he
planted three or four acres of corn with it in May, 1851.
He says it worked well. In September of the same year,
after harvest, he invited several persons to come and see it
operate, giving their names. Several of these witnesses
were called and fully corroborated his testimony. Early in
1852 he commenced constructing ten machines, but completed but one of them that spring. With this one, and the
half-sized machine before mentioned, he planted over twenty

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLA19TER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation.-Date of Brown's invention.

acres of corn, namely, sixteen for himself and eight for
Allen Brown. At this time, he says, he introduced into
these machines the circular valves, or dropping plates, in
place of the slides, tbus completing the machine as it stood
when he applied for his patent and made the model now before us, which was during the same season. The following
spring, 1853, before corn-planting time, he had completed a
dozen machines containing all his improvements, and sold
them to various persons. Some of them, he says, planted
as much as three hundred acres of corn. These machines,
he says, contain the high seat and flipper-valve, which were
the subject of the patent dated May 8th, 1855.
The appellees have endeavored (but we think unsuccessfully) to discredit the statements and testimony of Brown,
especially as to the existence of rollers for covering the seed
in the model and small-sized machine made in the early
part of 1851. He is corroborated on this point by his
nephew, V. R. Brown, and others; and nothing but negative testimony is adduced to the contrary.
We think it clear that his machine (except the seat and
the flipper-valve) was substantially invented in the beginning
of 1851, and that in April or May of that year he had constructed and used a small working corn-planter, containing
all the material parts of his machine as it was when patented,
except the circular valve in the hopper, which was added as
an improvement on the straight slide in the spring of 1852.
We will next proceed to inquire what machines belonging
to the same general class had been invented prior to this
period, in order to show the state of the art at that time.
It cannot be seriously contended that Cooke's drill, and
other machines of the kind, described in the Farmer's Encyclopedia, bear any resemblance to the specific features of
Brown's corn-planter. The furrows are made by coulters
fixed in beams, and the grain is covered by harrows following the drills. The latter are hollow tubes which are supplied with the seed grain by a revolving cylinder having
little cups, or cavities, in its surface, which become filled as
they revolve in the bottom of the hopper.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Moffatt, Hornsby, Thomas.

It is hardly necessary to consume time in reference to the
alleged invention of Joab Moffatt, in or about the year 1834,
models of which, made from the supposed- recollection of
witnesses, have been presented to the court. Moffatt himself was placed on the stand, and swears that he has no
recollection of having ever invented such a machine. And
it is a little singular, if he did invent such a perfect machine
as the models represent, approaching so closely in every particular to Brown's corn-planter, that it should have gone
into total disuse and oblivion. The general aspect of the
evidence relating to this supposed machine, and some remarkable individual features which it exhibits, are sufficient
to justify us in throwing it entirely out of the case.
An English patent, obtained by one Hornsby in 1840, was
introduced; but the mechanism described therein has very
slight resemblance to the corn-planter. It consists of a hollow wheel, with angular compartments and doors in the circumference to receive seed and manure from a hopper, and
deposit them on the ground by the revolution of the wheel.
This wheel is situated in rear of a coulter running in the
ground, and does not touch the ground itself, but is supported on the frame of the machine, which in turn is supported by large driving wheels on the outside of the frame.
The coulter and deposit wheel are located in the inside of
the frame. The inventor, however, observes that more than
one coulter and deposit wheel may be used. No method
is described for covering the seed or pressing it into the
ground. The side view of the coulter exhibited in the drawing bears some resemblance to the runner in Brown's machine; but we have no other description of it, or of the
manner of its operation.
Thomas's cottonseed-planter, patented in 1841, is next
adduced.* It consists of a long bed-piece of plank, supported
by two wheels, one on each side, and having a sort of keel
underneath, running along the middle, for making a crease
or furrow in the ground, and keeping the machine in a
* See a drawing of it, supra, p. 190, Fig. 7.

Oct. 1s74.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

207

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Thomas, Todd.

direct course. In the middle of the bed-piece, over the axle
of the wheels, is an aperture to allow a seed-roller affixed to
the axle to revolve, having alternate ridges and seed-holes.
Over this is a hopper, which holds the seed and communicates it to the seed-roller, by whose revolution the seed is
dropped into the furrow. A loose flap is hinged to the rear
end of the bed-piece, and drags ,along on the ground, for
covering the seed with earth. The keel in this machine bears
some resemblance to the runner of the corn-planter. This
patent requires no further observation. It exhibits a semblance only of one or two elements of Brown's machine.
The next machine in order of time is Henry Todd's, of
Oxford, New Hampshire, patented December 15th, 1843.*
It is thus described by the witness, Hale: "The main portion of the machine consisted of a plank or surface-board,
three or fbur feet long, one foot wide, and tapered to a point
in front. The seed-box was fastened to said plank. The
seed was distributed by cups upon a belt, upon the principle
of a flour elevator; the motion was communicated by band
from a roller at the rear of the machine, said roller also serving to press the earth over the planted corn. A cutter was
fastened to the bottom of said plank, for opening a drill for
dropping the seed, and a couple of converging wings fastened to the rear and bottom of said plank for covering the
seed. The cutter before mentioned had an upward incline
in front, and at the front was thin and sharp, spreading out
at its rear end." The machine was managed much like a
plough, having two handles. The roller in the rear was
connected with the front part of the machine by two arms,
one on each side, in which were situated the bearings of its
axle, and the forward ends'of which were, by pivots or bolts,
attached to supports, so that the roller could rise and fall
independently of the surface-board or platform of the machine. It resembled Brown's machine in having a cutter
(or runner) for making a furrow, in dropping the seed
through a cleft at the rear of the cutter, in having a roller
* See a drawing of it, supra, p. 190, Fig. 8.

TiE

CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Todd, Earle, Mumma.

to pfiess the earth upon the seed, and in having a free connection between said roller and the machine. It differs from
it in having but one cutter (or runner) and one roller; in
having a pair of winglike scrapers behind the runner to
cover the seed with earth; an automatic feeding apparatus
incapable of dropping the seed in check or cross-rows; and
having no levers, and nothing but the plough-handles to lift
the cutters out of the ground.
Hale was the only witness examined on the subject of this
machine. He says he helped Todd make six of them, and
that they were used, and worked satisfactorily, in or about
1844. This being all that is heard of this machine in the
cause, it is probable that its use was discontinued, and that
it shared the fate of a thousand other devices which approach .the point of final perfection and success, but do
not reach it. The differences between this machine and
Brown's are just those differences which rendered the latter
a success, and a valuable acquisition to the agriculture of
the country.
Earle's planting plough, patented in 1848, may be dismissed even more summarily than Todd's machine. It
operated automatically in depositing the seed, and was not
adapted to check-row planting; the furrow was opened by
a plough furnished with a double mould-board; and the
seeds were covered by means of scrapers attached to a diagonal position behind the seeding apparatus. It had but
one frame, and the seed was deposited by means of a drum,
having cavities in its surface, revolving in the bottom of
the hopper, and discharging the seed into a tube behind the
plough.
Mumma's patent for a seed-drill, granted in 1849, was
also put in evidence; but it describes only a grain-drill, devised to secure a more equal distribution of seed in the drills
or furrows in ascending or descending hills, &c. "To the
hindpart of the frame a small trunk is jointed, with a long
]ever attached to it, by which the whole seeding apparatus
is raised from the ground when it is transported from place
to place." This device of the truck or jack and lever for

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the eourt.-Anticipation, Remy & Kelly.

prying up the machine when being turned or transferred
from one place to another, bears some resemblance to
Brown's method of raising the front frame of his machine
by the levers resting on the drums or wheels. The patent
is probably introduced to show this resemblance. It is so
slight, however, that it can have no serious effect in the
cause.
The machine of Remy & Kelly comes next.* They applied
for a patent in June, 1860, but withdrew the application in
August, 1850; for what cause does not appear. We have
before us a copy of the application and accompanying drawings and models of the machine, and the examination of
Remy and one Burgess in reference thereto. The machine
consisted of a front, middle, and rear frames, or parts, the
former being mounted by two seed-boxes or hoppers, and
being furnished below with two drill-teeth, which cut or
scratched the usual small furrow in the ground, and through
which the seed was deposited in the earth. Small rollers
with cavities in their surfaces were made to revolve in the
bottom of the seed-boxes, and thus carried oat and deposited
the seed in the drill-teeth in the usual manner of drills.t
The drill-teeth were followed by a transverse row of upright
harrow-teeth for covering the grain. These harrow-teeth
were inserted in a cross-bar framed into two long levers
which were attached to the forepart of the front frame by a
loose joint. This apparatus constituted the middle frame.
The rear frame was also attached to the front frame by a
loose joint, by means of side bars, extending forward and
connected thereto by bolts or pins, and was supported on a
transverse roller consisting of four wheels or bulkheads, and
iron bars connecting them together, making a sort of rolling
crate, which rested on the ground, supported the driver's
seat, and by means of bands and pulleys gave a revolving
motion to the seed-rollers before mentioned. An iron crank
within the driver's reach, and fitted in bearings on the rear
See a drawing of it, supra, p. 191, Fig. 9.
t These rollers were shown only in the model.
the drawing on page 191.
VOL. XXIII.

14

They do not appear in

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. CO.,

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Remy & Kelly.

frame, enabled him to pry up the cross-bar holding the barrow-teeth, and with it the rear end of the front frame with
the drill-teeth. This operation, as the tongue was fast and
rested on the horses, raised the cross-bar and the rear end
of the front frame so as to lift the drill-teeth and harrowteeth out of the ground. In this respect it produced, by
means somewhat different, a result similar to the lifting of
the front frame and runners by means of the levers acting
on the fulcrum of the wheels in Brown's machine. Only
one machine, however, was ever made, and this was made
merely for an experiment, in Brookville, Indiana, in the year
1849. It did not contain the pulley-strap for turning the
seed-rollers, which the application and model exhibit as part
of the invention. Remy, in trying the machine, walked
alongside of it, and, with a crank, gave the seed-rollers an
oscillating motion with his hand, Burgess driving. In this
way they planted five acres, which Remy says were planted
even and cultivated both ways. But the machine was never
used again and was afterwards broken up, and no other was
ever made. Remy made many other corn-planting machines
on a different principle, but he said there was no demand in
that region for a machine of this kind.
The appellees contend that this was an anticipation of
several material parts of Brown's machine. But it is obvious that it had not the runners nor the covering rollers,
nor was it adapted to planting in check-rows. As presented
to the Patent Office in 1850, and in the models exhibited to
the court, it was planned for an automatic drill-planter.
The experiment made in 1849, when Remy worked it by
hand, was a mere experiment, which was never repeated.
It may have presented one or two ideas in advance of other
machines, but it can hardly be said to anticipate the machine which we have described as Brown's. Were it not
for the application for a patent it would justly be regarded
as an abandoned experiment, incapable of being set up
against any other claim. Can the fact that such an application was made and afterwards volumtarily withdrawn, and
never renewed, make any difference? We think not. Had

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, James Abbott.

a patent been actually granted to Remy & Kelly, it would
have been different. The case would then have come directly within the seventh section of the act of 1836, which
makes a "patent" or a "description in a printed publication" of the invention claimed, a bar to a further patent
therefor. But a mere application for a patent is not mentioned as such a bar. It can only have a bearing on the
question of prior invention or discovery. If upon the whole
of the evidence it appears that the alleged prior invention or
discovery was only an experiment and was never perfected
or brought into actual use, but was abandoned and never
revived by the alleged inventor, the mere fact of having
unsuccessfully applied for a patent therefor, cannot take the
case out of the category of unsuccessful experiments.
The next machine which-we will examine is that of James
Abbott, which is strenuously claimed as an anticipation of
the complainant's machine, or of material parts thereof.
Abbott resided in Brimfield, Peoria County, Illinois. Models
of his machine are in evidence.* No public description of it
is produced. No patent was ever applied for by Abbott.
He made his first machine in 1846, having one frame and
two coulters. The seed was dropped behind the coulters,
and the wheels of the machine passed over it. The coulters
would clog, and he soon abandoned the machine. In 1848
he made another and put it in operation.t Instead of coulters he now used runners, something in the form of a sled
runner, with wings behind to widen the furrow and make a
place for dropping the seed. One of the runners was produced on the trial. It was made of wood and shod with
iron. The machine had but one frame, and only one wheel,
which was in the middle between the runners. On each
side of the wheel were cams to operate L levers, which
worked into the bottom of the seed-boxes and dropped the
corn behind the runners. The seed was covered by scrapers
or wings which followed the runners. Behind the wheel
* See a drawing of it, supra, p. 192, Fig. 10.

j See a drawing of it, 1b., Fig. 11.

212

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Kirkman.

and runners there was a platform on which the driver stood,
and by stepping backward or forward he could slightly elevate or depress the runners. This machine was automatic,
a mere drill, and had nothing but the runner in common
with Brown's machine.
Abbott then says:
"The next machine which I constructed was, according to
the best of my recollection, in the spring of 1852, certainly not
later than 1853."
He then proceeds to describe the machine. It had but
one frame, and whilst it exhibited some of the same parts
which are found in Brown's machine, yet it is obviously a
different machine from Brown's, and intended as an automatic drill instead of a check-row planter. But as, in our
judgment, the weight of the evidence (of which considerable
was taken) is that it was constructed subsequently to Brown's,
it is unnecessary to give it further consideration.
Another machine much relied on by the appellees was
that of Kirkman, of Peoria County, Illinois, a farmer, but
formerly a millwright and engineer.* He lived in the same
neighborhood as Abbott, and-the latter, in his evidence, says
that after he had made a drawing of his last machine (above
referred to), Kirkman was at his house and took a rough
sketch of the drawing, and soon after made a machine nearly
like it, in which he had broad iron wheels. The character
of Kirkman's machine is very explicitly shown, exact models
of it and one of the actual runners being produced. It was
composed of a single frame standing on two runners in front,
and two wheels following the runners in the rear. The seed
was placed in boxes or hoppers over the rear end of the runners, and was let down to the furrow through a tube inclosed
in the rear of the runners by means of an automatic device
operated by gearing connected with the wheels. Between
the wheels was a platform on which the driver sat or stood.
By stepping backward or forward on this platform, and
changing the position as to the bearing on the axle of the
* See the drawing of it, supra, p. 193, Fig. 12.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTEIR PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Kirkman's 2d (Wrigley's) machine.

wheels, the machine could be tipped up or down in front so
as to raise or depress the runners. This action was facilitated by the tongue being freely attached by a bolt between
the hounds so as to admit of a hinged motion. A cross-bar
screwed to the top of the hounds above and the front crossbar of the machine below the tongue limited the movement
thus produced, and also regulated the depth of furrow. In
the machine as first constructed a seat was rigged in the
rear of the platform for the driver, by moving on which,
backward and forward, the same tipping process could be
produced. This was afterwards abandoned.
It will thts be seen, that Kirkman's machine had some
of the prominent features of Brown's. It differed from it in
not being a check-row planter, and not planting in hills but
in rows, and acting automatically simply as a drill, and having but a single frame.
Considerable evidence, much of it apparently conflicting,
was adduced as to the time when Kirkman's machine, or
rather several machines (for he built three at different times),
were constructed. [The court here stated and examined
this testimony, as to date, and continued.]
A review of the entire evidence on the subject leads us to
the conclusion that Kirkman's second machine, called the
Wrigley machine, was made in the early part of 1850; that
he tried it that spring unsuccessfully; that he then laid it
by, and did not attempt to use it again until the spring of
1852, after he had made a material alteration in it-which
alteration was made after the summer of 1851-and not
completed, as it would seem from the evidence of Kingsley,
until the spring of 1852. This would make the machine of
Kirkman about contemporary with that of Brown's second
machine, which he completed and operated in the spring of
1852; but would bring it, as a completed machine, subsequent to the half-sized machine which Brown completed
and operated in the spring of 1851, and publicly exhibited
in September of that year.
The machine referred to by Abbott, as having been made
by Kirkman by the aid of drawings furnished by him, was

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.-

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Joab Brown.

most probably the third machine made by Kirkman, in
1856, which is the only one made by him having iron
wheels.
The last machines relied on as antedating the appellant's
are those of Joab Brown, also of Peoria County, Illinois.*
According to his testimony, he was experimenting on the
subject in 1849, 1850, and 1851. In 1849 he made a machine with one runner placed under a plank. It bore no
resemblance to the appellant's machine except as to the
runner, and it did not work satisfactorily. In the spring of
1850 he made a second machine, having two runners and
two wheels running behind them, to cover the seed, and a
third wheel, larger than the others, situated forward in the
middle, for the purpose of working the apparatus for dropping the seed. It was intended as a check-row corn-planter,
and was tried for that purpose, but failed; and what was
planted with it was planted only in single rows. It was
afterwards abandoned. As Brown says, "It became common stock in my lumber yard." In the same year, 1850,
Joab Brown made another machine, or, as his son says, two
of them, with two runners each; but they had no wheels
running behind the runners to cover the corn. They had
an iron shaft running through the hoppers, with an apparatus for taking up ahd dropping the seed; and this shaft had
a wheel at either end, outside of the machine, for giving it
a revolving motion. This machine bad a seat for the driver,
but only one frame, and the tongue was bolted fast to that,
so that there was no means. of tilting the runners out of the
ground. Joab Brown says that he altered this machine, in
the spring of 1851, by changing the seeding apparatus. He
removed the shaft and substituted lever-bars with slides entering the hoppers, and an upright lever extending above
the seat, for working the bars. He thus placed a dropper
as well as the driver on the seat. In 1853 he placed the
wheels so as to run behind the runners. As thus finally
altered it bore some resemblance to the appellant's machine,
* See a drawing of the principal one, the last, supra,p. 193, Fig. 13.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Joab Brown.

in certain particulars. It is true, it had but a single frame,
with no hinged joint, and could not be tilted out of the
ground; the driver and dropper had to dismount in order
to turn around; nevertheless it had a dropping device
worked by hand by an attendant who dropped the seed in
check-rows, and had a seat for both driver and dropper, and
had runners and wheels running behind them to cover the
seed. It was not thus completed, however, until 1853, long
after the construction of appellant's machine. In the spring
of 1851 Joab Brown'made two other machines. One was a
two-rowed machine with a single frame, having two runners, followed by two rollers; but, as Joab Brown himself
says, working antomatically "as a drill-planting machine."
"We left off the lever entirely," he says, "and depended oi
the wheels to do their own dropping." His son says that
it was also arranged to be worked by a hand-lever by an
attendant on the machine. A model was put in evidence,
which, as the son says, represents substantially this machine,
but according to Joab Brown's own testimony, this model
represents the machine which was altered in 1853. Its features are substantially as before stated. Affected by this
degree of uncertainty as to character and date, it must be
received with caution, even on those points on which it presents resemblances to the appellant's machine. Joab Brown
constructed another machine in the spring of 1851, which
presents, as he considered, the final and most perfect form
of his inventions. It consisted of a single frame, with three
runners and no wheels; a seat on the machine for the driver
and dropper, and an apparatus worked by a hand-lever for
dropping the seed in check-rows. A model of it was given
in evidence. Joab Brown applied for a patent for this
machine December 31st, 1852, but subsequently withdrew
the same. He says he conceived the idea of the machine
in the early part of the spring of 1851, and completed it
about the 1st of May, and used it for planting corn, planting about two hundred acres that spring. There is some
evidence that this machine was made at an earlier date; but
the weight of evidence agrees with this testimony of Joab

THE

CORIN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Anticipation, Joab Brown, :Farley, Finn, Case.

Brown. Its likeness and unlikeness to the appellant's machine are apparent from the above description. The apparatus for covering the seed consisted of ihan-shaped flange
or tail projecting behind the runner. One of the persons
who used it says that he had to follow behind to cover the
seed, some of which would remain uncovered where the
ground was uneven. Only the single machine above mentioned was made until 1853, when Joab Brown says he had
about forty of them made, and sold thein to various parties.
In a letter to the Patent Office, of August 5th, 1853, urging
his application for a patent, he refers to this machine as
being the crowning result of seven years' experiments. He
evidently regarded his other machines as experiments, or at
least as secondary in importance and usefulness to the last
machine.
A machine of one Farley, invented in January or February, 1853, was introduced in the case for the purpose of
showing that Brown's improvement of placing the driver on
the machine, which formed one of the subjects of his second
patent, had been anticipated. There was a long platform
on Earle's machine, the front part resting on and fixed to
the runners, the rear resting on the axle of covering wheels
following the runners. The driver rode on this platform,
and by stepping forward he could press the runners deeper
into the gound, and by stepping back he could raise them
out of the ground, using the wheels as a fulcrum. The
bearing of this machine on some of the reissued patents will
be noted hereafter.
On the subject of the flipper valve (so called), the appellees have introduced two machines, one by Charles Finn,
for which he applied for a patent in April, 1852, but which
application was rejected; and the other by Jarvis Gase, for
which he applied for a patent December 9th, 1853.
These devices will be examined hereafter, when we come
to consider the claim for the flipper valve as contained in
the reissued patent No. 1095 (see infra, page 233).
We have thus gone over and explained, as well hs the

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Claim for runner, bad.

subject will admit, the various machines and inventions
which constitute the history of the special art under consideration, up to the time that Brown's machine was produced.
In the light of this review we are to determine the extent
and character of his various patents and claims, and how
far they are valid or void.
It is very obvious, at a glance, that the claim of reissue
No. 1037, which is for the construction of a shoe or runner
for seed-planting machines generally, cannot be sustained.
That device was used long before Brown made his machine.
Without adverting to Thomas's cottonseed-planter, it was
contained in Todd's patent in 1843, and was used by James
Abbott in 1848, by Kirkman in 1850, and probably by Joab
Brown in the same year and the year before. There is
nothing in the particular form and shape of the appellant's
runner which is sufficiently diverse from others that preceded it, to entitle it to the merit of an invention.
Most of the other claims are more complicated, and require more careful consideration to understand their fair
scope, in view of what had been accomplished before. It
may be remarked in passing that, in our view, the several
reissues are for things contained within the machines and
apparatus described in the original patents; but whether
they were anticipated by prior inventions, or are void for
any other reason applicable to patents and claims generally,
is still open. The question of fraud in obtaining these reissues must be regarded as settled by the decision of the
Commissioner of Patents.
The first patent in the series of reissues is No. 1036, by
which is claimed as the invention of the appellant a "seedplanting machine, constructed principally of framework, the
front part of which is supported on not less than two runners
or shoes, with upward-inclining edges, and the rear part
supported on not less than two wheels, the latter being arranged to follow the former, substantially as and for the
purpose set fbrth."
The machine is so constructed that an additional pair of
wheels may be attached to it for the purpose of dropping

THE

CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Olaim of 1036 construed.

the seed automatically where the nature of the soil is such
as to render this method admissible in check-row planting.
But with that aspect of the machine we are not at present
concerned, except as it affects the general description of the
machine as a whole. The specification describes the manner
of its construction and operation for both automatic*planting and hand planting. It is in its latter aspect that we
shall principally examine it.
The last clause of the above claim, "substantially as and
for the purpose setforth," throws us back to the specification
for a qualification of the claim, and the several elements of
which the combination is composed. The thing patented
is not only, first, a seed-planting machine, made principally
-of framework; but, secondly, it is composed of two distinct
parts; thirdly, the front part is supported on two or more
runners with upward-inclining edges; fourthly, the rear
part is supported on two or more wheels, arranged to follow
the respective runners; and each and all of these parts are
to be thus constructed and combined "substantially as and
for the purpose set forth." That is to say, the object and
purpose of the- machine as a seed-planting machine is explained to be to plant corn in check-rows, so that it may be
cultivated both ways, and its construction is adapted to that
end. The devices used for effecting this purpose, both automatically and by hand, are described in the specification, but
they are claimed ii separate patents, and only affect the one
in question as they modify and affect the general structure
of the machine. Again, the object and the purpose of constructing the machine of framework in two distinct parts,
supported separately, one by the runners and the other by
the wheels, is expressed to be "so that the rollers may rise
and fall without disturbing the runners, or so that the
runners may yield or move independently of the rollers."
The particular manner of connecting the parts, although described in the specification, is the subject of a separate
patent. Again, the object and purpose of the runners and
wheels or rollers, the latter arranged to follow the former,
is set forth, the former to make a furrow for the seed, the

06.1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Claim of 1036 not anticipated.

latter to "close up and press the earth down over the seeds."
The adaptation of the machine, and the several parts mentioned, to these several objects and purposes, is thus made
a part of the combination of elements called for and made
requisite in the claim under consideration.
The claim thus limited is considerably narrowed in its
operation. It is substantially for a combination of the material parts of the entire machine, and no one can be said
to infringe it wh does not use the entire combination.
The first question to settle is, whether, as thus limited and
restricted, the patent is valid, or whether the invention, as
thus patented, was anticipated by prior inventions.
It is obvious that we may lay out of the question all seeddrills. They were not constructed for the specific purpose
for which this machine was constructed, namely, to plant
corn in check-rows, and had not the apparatus adapted to
such a purpose. The plough-shaped drill of Todd, though
it had a cutter under the front part and roller drawn behind
for covering the grain, was only a step in the right direction.
It was a mere drill, planting in single rows, and not adapted
to plant in check-rows; and it was handled and operated in
an entirely different manner from Brown's.
Earle's, Mumma's, and Remy & Kelly's inventions may
also be dismissed without observation. The description of
them heretofore given shows that they were mere drills,
that they had no covering-wheels, and were not constructed
for, or adapted to, the purpose for which Brown's machine
was made. Besides, as before seen, the machine of Remy
& Kelly was a mere experimental one, abandoned by the
inventors. We may also lay out of view Abbott's drill,
constructed in 1848, the only one that can by possibility be
brought into the case. That had no covering-wheels, had
but one part or frame, and was not a check-row planter.
Kirkman's machine also had but a single frame or part;
was a mere drill, not planting in check-rows, nor even in
hills. Besides, as a machine, it was incomplete and unfinished until the alteration which was made in it in 1852, when
it was first rendered capable of practical use.

TnE OORN-PLANTER

PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Claim of 1036, valid.

It is urged by the appellees that all those parts of Kirkman's machine which were completed in 1850, and not subsequently altered, should be considered as perfected, although the machine, as a whole, was not perfect, and did
not subserve the expectation of the inventor until the alterations were made in the seeding apparatus in 1852. It is
undoubtedly true that a subsequent inventor could not claim
as his original and first invention the separate parts of which
Kirkman's machine consisted, and which worked satisfactorily after the machine was perfected. This would prevent
the appellant from 'claiming as his invention the several
parts of which ]Kirkman's machine consisted; but it would
not prevent him from claiming such new combination of
those parts with devices of his own as would result in a useful and satisfactory machine adapted to the purposes of its
construction.
The machines of Joab Brown which are more or less
relied on, were all composed of single frames entirely rigid.
The machine with one runner, constructed in 1849, was a
failure, and is not pretended to have been at all like the
appellant's. The machine with two rollers and one large
wheel, constructed in 1850, was automatic, could only plant
in rows, so as to be worked one way, and failed entirely as
a check-row planter. The other machine or machines, constructed in 1850, had rollers, but these did not follow the
runners until altered in 1853, and were not used for covering the corn, but for turning a shaft in the hoppers by which
the seed was dropped. This is clearly proven and is shown
by their thickness, which was little over an inch. They
were abandoned for the three-rowed machine without rollers,
which was built in 1851, and for which Joab Brown applied
for a patent in December, 1852. It is apparent that none of
these machines anticipated the appellant's machine as containing the particulars combined in the claim of the reissued
patent NSo. 1036.
This patent, therefore, construed and limited in the manner before stated, we hold to be valid.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER

PATENT.

221

Opinion of the court.-Reissue 1036 infringed by Bergen and Selby.

The next question is whether, as thus construed, the
patent is infringed by the defendants. It needs but a glance
at the defendant Bergen's machine, a large model of which
is produced in court, to see that it has all the essential characteristics of the appellant's machine.* It is a seed-planting
machine, made principally of framework, composed of two
distinct parts, the front part supported on two runners, or
shoes, with upward-inclining edges, and the rear part supported on two wheels, the latter being arranged to follow
the former, and the whole and each part constructed and
put together for the purpose and substantially in the manner
as is done in Brown's machine, and according to his specification. The only pretence on which it can be claimed to
be different, is that the "framework" of which it is constructed is niot the kind of framework described by Brown
in his specification, namely, "without gearing, without
spoked wheels, and other expensive fixtures, and resembling
a drag or sled more than it does a carriage or wagon in its
main or general construction." By this description, Brown
was evidently attempting to show how simply and cheaply
the thing could be made, not that it was to be confined to
that specific form. It might as well be contended that he
intended to confine his invention to wood, and that a machine made of iron or other metal, though made in precisely
the same form, would not be an infringement, because it
would not have the same quality of cheapness and simplicity
which he describes. In fine, we do not understand Brown
as limiting his invention to this cheap form, but as showing
how cheaply and simply it would bear to be constructed.
This, we think, is the fair meaning of his language when
taken in connection with the whole specification. A literal
construction is not to be adopted where it would be repugnant to the manifest sense and reason of the instrument.
The machine of Selby, which is the subject of the suit of
Brown v. Selby and others, in the second case, has all the
* See a drawing of it, su2ra, p. 196, Fig. 16.

. THE

CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Reisue 1038 construed.

material features above specified as contained in Bergen's.*
We have no hesitation in saying that both machines are infringements of the appellant's patent.
The next claim to be considered is that of reissue 1038.
The appellant describes the nature of the invention sought
to be secured by that patent as follows:
"The nature of this part of my invention consists in combining with a seed-planting machine constructed principally of
framework, and with not less than two runners and two wheels,
a hinged-joint between the point of the tongue and the rear
pai:t of the machine (or between what I term its ground supports), so that one part may, by means of said hinge-joint, be
raised, lowered, adjusted, or supported on the other part for
purposes herein mentioned; meaning by ' one part' and 'the
other part' the part in advance and the part in rear of said
hinge-joint."
The claim adopts nearly the same language, and is in the
following terms:
"What I claim under this patent is, in combination with a
seed-planting machine, constructed principally of framework,
with not less than two runners and not less than two wheels, a
hinged-joint between the point of the tongue and the rear part

of the machixie, so that one part of the framework may be
raised, lowered, adjusted, or supported on the other part, substantially as described."

Understanding this claim as applying and confining to a
seed-planting machine, consisting of two separate parts, with
runners under one part and rollers or wheels under the
other, we do not find in any of the machines produced to
us this particular feature of the hinged-joint in combination
with the elements referred to. Kirkman's came the nearest
to it, if we should designate as a hinged-joint the free connection of his tongue with his machine, which was made by
a common bolt between hounds, like those of a wagon.
But his machine lacked the elements of the two distinct parts
See a drawing of Selby's machine, supra,p. 197, Fig. 18..

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Abandoned experiment no anticipation.

or frames, which are essential in Brown's, and are implied
in the claim of this patent. The hinged-joint as an element
in the combination with which it is connected, and of which
it forms a part, is useful and valuable. Without it the machine would lack a very material ingredient of its efficiency
and usefulness. The device of connecting and combining
it with the two integral parts of the machine, and thus connecting and combining those parts so as to produce a useful
effect, is one that may be properly denominated invention,
although the hinged-joint itself may have existed in other
machines which perhaps suggested its use in this. Indeed,
the hinged-joint, in one form or another, is an old device.
It is exhibited in the reaches of a common wagon, whose
fore wheels and hind wheels, in passing over inequalities
and obstructions, rise and fall independently of each other.
But in the corn-planting machine it has two specific and useful effects, namely, in securing the freedom of the runner
fi'om needless disturbance from the rear part of the machine
as it pursues its path along the surface, making a furrow of
uniform depth, and in enabling the attendant to raise the
part containing the runners out of the ground with ease by
means of a lever resting on the other part.
The appellees insist that this patent attempts to secure an
old device merely applied to a new use, and that the supposed new use is analogous to that which the same device
subserved in the machine of Remy & Kelly. But we have
seen that the machine of Remy & Kelly was a mere experiment, abandoned by the inventors. And the device in question is not claimed as an original invention, nor as an improvement; it is only patented in combination with other
material elements of the machine to which it is attached as a
part. As an element in that combination alone is it claimed.
The combination expressed in the claim, viewed as an entirety, and in reference to its purp6ses and uses, is new, and
produces a new and useful result. And it is no objection to
the validity of a patent for such a combination that some of
the elements of which it is composed are not new.
It is objected to several of the patents under consideration

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-New and old parts pointed out by claim.

that they do not state what parts of the machine patented
are new and what parts are old, and that they are therefore
void. There is nothing in the patent law which, in terms,
requires the patentee to do this. The language of the act
of 1836, under which these patents were drawn, is that before
any inventor shall receive a patent for his invention or discovery he shall deliver a description thereof, and of the manner and process of making, constructing, using, and compounding the same, in such full, clear, and exact terms as to
enable a person skilled in the art to reproduce it; and the
act directs that the inventor shall "particularly specify and
point out the part, improvement, or combination which he
claims as his own invention or discovery." This, of course,
involves an elimination of what he claims as new from what
he admits to be old. But what can be a more explicit declaration of what is new and what is old than the summary of
the patentee's claim at the close of the specification, if that
is made in clear and distinct terms, or in terms so clear and
distinct as to be fairly understood. It implies that all the
rest is old, or, if not old, that the applicant does not claim
it so far as that patent is concerned. If the patentee by his
specification, including the summary claim at its close,
points out and distinguishes what he claims as his own invention, it is all that is required. That, if we can find it
without difficulty or embarrassment, is what he claims as
new; the rest he impliedly, if he does not expressly, disclaims
as old. No particular form of words is necessary if the
meaning is clear.
These observations apply equally to patents for combinations and patents for improvements. Where a patentee,
after describing a machine, claims as his invention a certain
combination of elements, or a certain device, or part of the
machine, this is an implied declaration, as conclusive, so far
as that patent is concerned, as if it were expressed, that the
specific combination or thing claimed is the only part which
the patentee regards as new. True, he or some other person may have a distinct patent for the portions not covered
by this; but that will speak for itself. So far as the patent

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement of reissue 1039.

in question is concerned, the remaining parts are old or common and public.
The patents under consideration expressly declare, for the
most part, what the patentee claims; generally referring, it
is true, to the specification as embodying the substantial form
of the invention. Such a reference is proper if it does not
introduce confusion and uncertainty, and is often necessary
for restraining the too great generality, or enlarging the
literal narrowness of the claim.
These remarks apply to reissue 1038, which we are now
considering. We regard it as sufficiently explicit; and we
think the patent is valid.
The next inquiry is whether this patent is infringed by the
appellees. It is apparent on inspection of the models before
referred to that they exhibit every requirement of the patent.
They clearly have, "iii combination with a seed-planting
machine, constructed principally of framework," and consisting of two separate parts, with two runners under one part
and two wheels under the other, a hinged-joint between the
point of the tongue and the rear of the machine, so that one
part of the framework may be raised, lowered, adjusted, or
supported on the other part, substantially as described in
Brown's specification. In Selby's machine, it is true, the
hinge-joint is not located at the same point (the seed-boxes)
as in Brown's machine, but is at the front point or toe of the
runner. This is not a substantial difference. The office,
purpose, operation, and effect are the same as in Brown's
machine, and a change a little more or less backward or forward does not change the substantial identity of the thing.
The same remark applies to the location of the hinge-joint
in Bergen's machine, which is at the rear part of the front
frame.
We do not see how it can be seriously contended that
either of the machines is not an infringement of this patent.
Reissue 1039 contains two claims, as follows:
"What I claim under this patent is a seed-planting machine,
wherein the seed-dropping mechanism is operated by hand or
VOL. XXIII.

15

226

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Infringement of 1039.

by an attendant, in contradistinction from mechanical dropping,' the mounting of said attendant upon the machine, in such
a position that he may readily see the previously made marks
upon the ground, and operate the dropping mechanism to conform thereto, substantially as herein set forth.
"I also claim, in combination with a seed-planting machine,
composed substantially of framework, and upon which the person who works the seed-slides or valves sits or stands, a lever
or its equivalent, by which a driver or second attendant may
raise or lower that part of the framework that carries the
attendant and the seeding devices, and thus ease the machine
in passing over intervening obstacles or in turning around, substantially as described."
The first of these claims, if construed simply as claiming
the placing of the seed-dropper on the machine, would probably be void, as claiming a mere result, irrespective of the
means by which it is accomplished. But if construed as
claiming the accomplishment of the result by substantially
the means described in the specification, it is free from that
objection; and we ought to give a favorable construction, so
as to sustain the patent if it can fairly be done. By reading
the claim in connection with.the final qualifying clause, thus,
"the mounting of said attendant upon the machine, &c.,
substantially as herein set forth," the fair construction would
seem to include the means and manner of placing him upon
the machine. This view is corroborated by reference to the
body of the specification. "To enable others skilled in the
art," says the patentee, "to make and use this invention, I
will proceed-to describe the same, with reference to the dravings." He then gives a detailed description of the seat or
platform and its relation to the other parts, and the mode of
occupying and using the same. Construing the claim in
this manner, is it then a valid claim?
The only device of a similar character at all competing
with it in the matter of time, was that used by Joab Brown,
in his machines constructed or altered in the spring of 1851,
the same spring in which the appellant's machine was made.
Which was first made, it is impossible for us from the evi-

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Nos. 1036, 1038 and 1039 different.

dence to tell. Joab Brown, as well as the applicant, applied
for a patent for one of his machines having the arrangement
of a seat for the dropper. A patent was granted to the
appellant, and none was granted to Joab Brown. The Patent
Office subsequently amended the appellant's patent so as to
include a claim for this very thing in question. Under these
circumstances, in the absence of conclusive evidence to the
contrary, the presumption is in favor of the appellant. The
burden of proof is on the party who sets up the objection
of "prior use" against the patent.
The second claim is for a combination, embracing, as one
of its elements, the arrangement or seat for the dropper last
described; and if that was new, this combination must also
be new. And, indeed, we shall look in vain in any previous
machine for the lever here described in the combination
with which it is associated. Standing by itself, the lever
as well as the hinged-joint was exhibited in the experimental machine of Remy & Kelly. But as, in our view, that
machine was never brought into successful operation until
after Brown's invention was completed, we do not regard
the fact referred to as seriously affecting the question. The
particular combination described by the patent under consideration is new, and the claim is valid.
This is the proper place, however, to notice an objection
made against the three patents conjointly, namely: reissues
1036, 1038, and 1039. It is contended that they are for
substantially the same combination. We do not think that
this is the fact. We regard the reissue 1036 as a patent for
the corn-planting machine in outline, comprising its most
essential elements, namely: constructed principally of framework "substantially as and for the purpose set forth" in the
specification; containing the two frames or parts, loosely or
freely connected; one supported by the runners, the other
by the wheels following them, each having its distinct purpose as indicated; and the seeding apparatus being arranged
for planting in check-rows, whether automatically or by hand,
the method of each being shown in the specification. This
patent does not call for a hinged-joint with its particular

THE OORN-PLA1NTER PATENT.
Opinion of the court -Infringement

[Sup. Ct.

as to No. 1039.

appliances, or for a particular arrangement of seat or location for the dropper. Reissue 1038 is for a different combination, including the separate parts or frames, the runners, the wheels, and lastly the hinged-joint so arranged
that one part of the framework may be raised and lowered
on the other part. Reissue 1089 claims, first, a seat or
platform for the dropper, on the machine, so that he may
watch the cross-rows and plant by them; secondly, in addition thereto, the particular device of the lever, by which the
driver may raise or lower the framework that carries the
dropper.
This view of the relative objects of the three patents, as
we think, shows that they are not obnoxious to the objection
raised.
Having already examined the question of infringement
as it respects reissues 1086 and 1038, it remains to inquire
whether the appellants have infringed reissue 1039. Of this
there can be no doubt. In both of their machines the dropper is mounted on the machine on a seat or platform arranged
for that purpose, so as to observe the cross-rows, and drop
by them; and in both, levers are used (not precisely in the
form of Brown's, but equivalent thereto, and substantially
the same), by which the driver may raise or lower that part
of the framework that carries the dropper and the seeding
devices. In Bergen's machine, this lever is the rear frame
itself, which is hinged to the rear part of the seeding-frame,
and is operated by the driver by tilting it back and forward
by his own weight.
It is unnecessary to examine reissue 1040, as there is no
pretence that the appellees have infringed that patent.
The second group of reissues is next to be considered.
The first, iNo. 1091, after describing the entire machine
as finally perfected by Brown, prior to the issue of his second
patent, May 8th, 1855, has the following claims:
"First. In combination with a seed-planting machine that is
operated by hand, the placing of both the driver and the person who operates the seed-slides or valves, upon the machine,
in such position as that each may attend to his particular duty

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Reissue 1091 anticipated and void.

without interfering with that of the other, substantially as described.
"11 also claim, in combination with a seed-planting machine,
that is operated by hand, and upon which the driver and the
person who works the seed-slides or valves sit or stand, the so
locating of said seats or stands, as that the weight of one of
the persons may be used to counterbalance or overbalance the
weight of the other, for the purpose of more readily raising or
lowering the seeding apparatus, substantially as and for the
purpose described."
These claims are analogous to those of reissue 1039, and
the first is anticipated by the machines of Joab Brown, constructed and altered in the spring of 1851. It is not pretended that the appellant placed both attendants on his
machines until the spring of 1853, when he placed the driver's
seat, as well as the dropper's, on the twelve machines which
he manufactured and sold at that time.
The second claim is for the relative location of the seats
for the driver and operator, such that one of them may overbalance the weight of the other, and thus more readily raise
or lower the seeding apparatus. The claim is made only in
reference to machines operated by hand, on which both
driver and operator sit or stand. The seats themselves can
be of little consequence in this combination. The relative
location of the attendants is the material thing.
The process of tilting the frame of a seed-planter on the
wheels as a fulcrum, by shifting the weight of the driver
standing or sitting thereon, was exhibited in Kirkman's
machine, in the spring of 1852, and in Farley's model, made
in January, and publicly deposited in the Patent Office in
February, 1853.
The appellant does not fix the date of his alleged improvemen t earlier than the 20th of April, 1853, it being first introduced into the twelve machines built in that year. He was
anticipated, therefore, by Kirkman and Farley, so fhr as their
machines were identical with his. They do not come within
the literal terms of his claim which refers the improvement
only to machines operated by hand, and on which the oper-

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the coart.-Reissue 1092 no patentable subject-matter.

ator is carried. Kirkman and Farley had no operator, and,
of course, had none on their machines. Was this difference
material? The device was not altered by Brown substantially, in form, operation, or purpose. The only difference
was the presence of the dropper on the machine, making a
greater weight to be raised than existed before, and applying
it to a check-row corn-planter. It seems to us that it was
simply the application of an old device to a new use.
We are of opinion, therefore, that reissue 1091 is void.
The claim of reissue 1092 is as follows:
"What I claim under this patent is: In combination with a
seed-planting machine, operated by hand, and having its seeding
devices forward of the centre of the wheels, and forward of the
driver's seat and a hinged connection, the locating of the seat
in such relation to a line drawn through the centres of the
wheels or ground-supports, as that the occupant of said seat
may, by moving himself, or throwing his weight forward or
backward on his seat, without the necessity of rising, walking,
or standing over or near the seeding devices, force the seeding
apparatus into, or raise it from, the ground, substantially as
described."
After a careful consideration of this claim, we are brought
to the conclusion that the subject of it is not patentable.
Prior inventions having placed the driver on the machine,
and having constructed the platform' in such manner that his
movement backward or forward would raise or lower the
seeding apparatus, and the seat itself not being claimed as
new, it can hardly be contended that the proper location of
the seat for effecting the same object, required the exercise
of inventive power.
The next patent, reissue 1093, after describing the machine
as before, with its runners and front frame, its wheels and
rear frame, its seat for the driver over the wheels, and contrivance for raising and lowering the front frame, its seat for
the dropper over the runners, its hinged-joint, &c., concludes
as follows:
"There are two points in this machine that have unvarying
positions or heights with regard to the ground, viz. : the point

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Reissue 1093 void.

of the tongue, as it6 height is defined by horses' necks, to which

it is attached, and they standing of course upon the ground,

and the journals or axle of the covering or supporting wheels
F F, as they roll on the ground, and between these fixed points,
the hinged connection between the front and rear part of the
machine, is made so as to admit of raising or lowering the seeding devices.
"Having thus fully described the nature and object of this
part of my invention, what I claim under this patent is, in combination with a seed-planting machine that has a hinged or
yielding joint between its fixed points of support, and with its
seeding devices between said points, the so connecting of the
parts between said fixed points of support as that that portion
of the machine carrying the seeding devices may be raised up
out of the ground by the attendant riding on the machine, and
be carried by the tongue or horses' necks, and the supporting
wheels, substantially as and for the purpose described."
The precise thing claimed here, afier defining the combination of which it is to form a part, is, "the so connecting of
the parts" as to produce the result mentioned, "substantially
as and for the purpose described." If this means to include
any and ebery connection of the parts which will produce the
result" substantially as described" (which result is to enable
the attendant, riding on the machine, to raise that portion
of the machine carrying the seeding devices out of the ground
so as to be carried on the horses' necks and the wheels), then
the claim was anticipated by Kirkman, for the connection
of the parts in his machine enabled the attendant, riding on
the machine, to raise the front part which carries the seeding apparatus, out of the ground, when it would be suspended
ol the horses' necks and the wheels; and he had a hinged
joint between the fixed points of support. The same might
be said of the machine of Remy & Kelly, if it were to be
taken into consideration in determining this question. But
if the claim is to be construed as limited to the mode of
connecting the parts in the appellant's machine (being a
hinged connection between the two frames, and, therefore,
diferent from Kirkman's machine), and to the means by
which the final result was accomplished, namely, by the

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.-Reissue 1094 no patentable subject-matter.

shifting of the driver's weight on the machine (and, therefore, different from Remy & Kelly's), then this objection
would be obviated. But thus modified, it would substantially
correspond with reissue 1038, being simply for a mode of
doing that, with the driver on the machine, which was done
before, under 1038, with the driver on the ground, employing only in addition the mode of operation used by K1irkman.
In other respects the two combinations would be precisely
the same.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this patent cannot be
sustained.
The next patent, reissue 1094, is for a matter too frivolous
to form the subject of invention. It is simply for a peg or
stop to prevent the rear part of the machine from tipping so
much as to dump the driver on to the ground. No mechanic
of any skill would construct a machine of the character
described without providing some such arrangement. This
patent is not sustained.
The latest patent of the series, reissue 1095, is for a peculiar valve in the tube through which the seed is dropped to
the ground, called the flipper valve. When the machine is
in motion, the time taken for the seed to drop from the hopper to the ground, supposing it to drop from a height of only
18 or 20 inches, would carry it forward more than a foot
after its discharge, and thus carry it beyond the cross-row.
It became important, therefore, to drop the seed from a point
near the ground, or from the bottom of the tube instead of
the hopper, at each movement of the lever by the operator.
To do this required two movements; one for dropping the
seed from the hopper into the tube; the other for dropping
it from thence to the ground. By the device described in
this patent, which was noticed at the commencement of this
opinion, both of these movements of the seed take place at
the same instant and by one movement of the hand; the
seed for one hill being dropped into the ground at the same
.time that the seed for the next hill is dropped into the tube.
The claim of the patent is in the following words:
"Having thus fully described my invention, what I claim

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Reissue 1095 not anticipated.

under this patent, is so combining with a lever, by which both
may be operated, a valve or slide in the seed-hopper and a
valve in the seed-tube, as that a half motion of the lever by the
operator riding on the machine, by which they are operated,
shall both open and close the seed passages at regular periods,
and pass measured quantities only, substantially as described."
A s before stated, the mode by which this was effected was
by placing in the seed-tube a long slender valve composed
of a slip of metal, suspended on a pivot in the middle, so
that when one end was pushed forward the other end would
be pushed backward. In this way each movement of the
upper extremity would let a charge of seed into the tube on
one side and keep it there, whilst the simultaneous movement of the lower extremity would discharge the previous
charge on the other side.
The appellees endeavored to show that this apparatus was
anticipated by the inventions of Charles Find and Jarvis
Case, before mentioned.* Finn says that he invented his
machine in the summer or fall of 1851. The seed-dropping apparatus consisted of a vibrating side or back to the
seed-tube, which required two movements, one backward
and the other forward, for dropping each hill of corn, alternately opening and closing the tube. It was operated by
levers in connection with the valves in the hoppers. But
each hill or check-row required one movement of the lever
to let the seed into the tube, and a reverse movement to let
it out. And this double movement was repeated at every
check-row. Whereas, by Brown's apparatus both results
were accomplished by a single movement; a forward movement effecting a dropping for one check-row and a backward movement effecting it for the next. It is evident that
although there wa a similarity between the two processes
they were essentially different. It may be that Brown's is
only an improvement on the process used by Finn. If this
be so, still it is only the improvement (that is, the machine
as he uses it) that he claims by his patent.
* See drawings of these, supra, p. 200, Figs. 23, 24, 25, and 26.

THE

CORNo-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Reissue 1095 infringed by Selby and Bergen.

The machine of Case, which he swears he constructed in
March, 1853, is still more unlike Brown's in form, though
less unlike in operation. It has two independent valves, one
in the hopper to let the seed into the tube, and one at the
bottom of the tube to let it out. These two valves are so
connected by a chain or string that both are opened at
once. A spring is arranged to shut them as soon as possible, so as to prevent the seed admitted above from escaping
below until the next movement of the lever. This apparatus,
it is true, requires but one movement of the hand for each
dropping, the spring performing the other. But the spring
has to be drawn by the force of the hand so as to have the
necessary recoil. The same strength has to be exerted by
the operator as if he made both movements with his hand.
It is evident that this device is also different from the appellant's. The two have similarities, but they are essentially
distinct machines.
But it is insisted that Brown, in 1860, admitted in a newspaper article that the process in question was old. We
have examined the article, and, according to our construction, his declaration amounted in substance to nothing more
than that the principle of the double drop was old (which
was probably true), and that Case's application of it was
old (which may or may not be true); but it does not contain, or amount to, an admission that his own peculiar process was old.
We think, therefore, that this patent must be sustained.
The last patent is clearly infringed by the Selby machine.
The flipper valve and mode of operating it are almost precisely the same.
In the case of the Bergen machine, it is contended that
no lever is used for moving the connecting rod backward
and forward between the hoppers. A fixed perpendicular
handle is used instead of a lever. The question is, whether
that is such an alteration as to change the character of the
combination. The object in view is to put into the hand of
the operator something by which he can move the connecting rod, and consequently open the valves, the instant he

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

comes to the cross-row. It is of no consequence in the
world whether the cross-bar moves in the same direction
with his hand or in the reverse direction. A lever working
on a pivot or fulcrum between the hand and the connecting rod would cause the latter to move in the reverse direction to that of the hand; a lever working on a pivot or fulcrum below or beyond the connecting rod, would cause the
latter to move with the hand; so would a lever or handle
firmly fix6d to the rod. The claim is for"a lever or its
equivalent," in combination with other things. Whilst in
most cases a mere handle is not the equivalent of a lever,
because not capable of performing the same functions, in
this case it is an equivalent, because it does perform precisely the same function in substantially the same way.
In our judgment both machines are an infringement of
the patent.
We have thus, with perhaps unnecessary detail, gone over
and considered the vazious questions and points raised in
these cases. The result is, that the reissued patents, numbered respectively 1036, 1038, and 1039, of the first series,
and 1095, of the second series, are sustained as good and
valid patents, and that the appellees are infringing the same.
:DECREES REVERSED,

and the causes

REMANDED,

to be pro-

ceeded in
ACCORDING TO LAW.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred Justices
MILLER and DAVIS, dissenting.
Applicants for a patent are required to file in the Patent
Office a written description of their invention and of the
manner and process of making, constructing, and using the
same, in such full, clear, concise, and exact terms as to enable
any person skilled in the art or science to which it appertains, or with which it is most nearly connected, to make,
construct, and use the same; and in the case of a machine
he must explain the principle thereof and the best mode in
which he has contemplated applying that principle, so as to
distinguish it from other inventions. Patents granted with-

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of Olifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

out a compliance with those conditions are invalid, as the
express requirement of the act of Congress is that every inventor or discoverer shall do so, before he shall receive a
patent for his invention or discovery.*
Letters-patent were granted to the complainant on the
second of August, 1853, to take effect from the second of
February prior to the date of the patent. Seed-planter is
the name of the invention given in the patent, but in the
introductory part. of the specification it is denominated
"new and useful improvements in seed-planters for planting
corn and smaller grains." Very minute description is given
of the machine and of the several devices of which the machine is composed, for the declared purpose of enabling
others skilled in the art to make and use the invention.
Suffice it to say, without entering into details, that of all the
numerous devices described as ingredients of the machine
not one of them is new, nor is it claimed that the patentee
either invented the machine or any one of the ingredients
of which it is composed. What he claims in that patent is
as follows: (1.) The oscillating horizontal wheels or distributors in the bottom of the hopper, having slots and tubes
of various sizes, in combination with the stationary caps and
pins for the discharge of different kinds and qualities of
seeds. (2.) He also claims the arrangement of the covering
rollers,. mounted as described, and performing the functions
of covering the seed, elevating the cutters in turning the
machine, and also in adjusting the cutters to different depths.
Tested by the descriptive portion of the specification the
better opinion is that the second claim is also for a combination, but in the view taken of the case it is unimportant
whether it be regarded as a method of accomplishing the
described result or as a combination of the described ingredients to effect the same end, as it is quite clear that the
patentee does not claim that he is the original and first inventor of any one of the several devices of which the entire
machine is composed. Beyond all doubt the invention con* 16 Stat. at Large, 201.

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

237

Opinion of Olifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

sisted of the two combinations described in the respective
claims, and it is equally certain that the letters-patent were
in all respects sufficient to secure the full enjoyment of the
patented machine to the patentee. Nevertheless the patentee surrendered the same, and on the sixteenth of February, 1858, the same was reissued to him with amended specification which contains only one claim. Instead of claiming
a combination of old ingredients, as in the original patent,
he claimed in the reissued patent a shoe for opening a furrow, which has a convex edge in front and a seeding-tube
in its rear end, so that it may cut through any grass, open
out a furrow, and hold it open until the seeds are deposited
in the same, substantially as set forth in the specification.
Like the original patent the reissued patent was in form
both operative and valid, but inasmuch as it was not sufficiently comprehensive to supersede all other improvements
the patentee surrendered it for a second time and caused the
original invention to be reissued in five parts, embracing
several claims, all of which except one are involved in the
present action.
Surrendered patents cease to be a cause of action from the
moment the surrender takes place, nor can the owner of the
patent recover, even for an infringement which preceded the
surrender, unless the claim for profits or damages had passed
into judgment before the surrender took place. Such a
patent, though inoperative as a cause of action, may be admitted as evidence to support or disprove an issue that the
reissued patent is not for the same invention as the original.
Reference may also be made to such patent, as to a repealed
statute, to aid in the construction of a reissued patent, if the
latter is ambiguous, but it ceases to be operative for any
other purpose just as much so as a repealed statute, and can
never have the effect to enlarge or diminish the operative
words of a reissued patent.
Patents are public grants, and every person claiming any
right under such an instrument must show that the right
claimed is secured by the instrument; nor can he be benefited by showing that the right claimed was secured by a

THE

CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Olifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

surrendered patent, unless the reissued patent also secures
the same.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is clear that
the rights of the complainant in this case depend solely upon
the last-mentioned reissued patents, which are the patents
mentioned in the bill of complaint, and which it is alleged
by the complainant that the respondents have infringed.
Defences of various kinds are set up by the respondents
to the allegations of the bill of complaint, as follows: (1.)
That the complainant is not the original and first inventor of
the improvements described in the said several patents mentioned in the bill of complaint. (2.) They deny that the
said new patents were issued in good faith, and they allege
that said reissued patents are not for the same invention as
that described and embodied either in the original patent or
in the prior reissues of the original patent. (3.) That the
five last-mentioned reissued letters-patent are severally invalid in law and void and of no effect, and that they do not
confer any such right or monopoly to the complainant as he
alleges and pretends to claim.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the original patent was a combination of old ingredients by which
the described result was effected; or, in other words, that
the patented invention consisted in a new combination of
the described ingredients, every one of which was proved
to be old. Old ingredients are not the proper subjects of
letters-patent in any other form than as a combination, for
the plain reason that nothing is the proper subject of a patent
which is not both new and useful.
Reissued patents must be for the same invention as the
original, and that condition is just as applicable to a second
reissue as to the first; nor is the second reissue relieved in
any respect from the full force of that condition in a case
where the invention in the reissue is divided into several
parts.
Undoubtedly a new and useful combination consisting of
old ingredients may be the proper subject of letters-patent
if the combination produces a new and useful result, but the

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

289

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

act of Congress does not authorize the patentee to surrender
such a patent and to reissue the same for the separate ingredients, for the plain reason that the ingredients are old,
and for the additional reason that a patent for a separate
ing"redient is not the same as the combination of several

ingredients.*
Authorities to support these propositions are unnecessary
as they are self-evident, nor is it necessary to do more than
to refer to the several claims of the several reissues under
consideration to show that every one of those reissues are
invalid, both for the reason that the alleged improvement is
old, and also for the reason that the invention embodied in
each of the reissued patents is different from the one secured
by the original patent. Even the court here admits that
each one of those reissues is "for a distinct and separate
part of the original invention alleged to have been made by
the complainant," full proof of which is exhibited in the
claims of the respective reissued patents.t They are as
follows:
1. NXfo. 1036.-Appended to that patent is a claim much
more comprehensive than is to be found in either of the four
other patents, but it is plainly not a claim for a combination,
nor one for the whole machine, as was admitted in argument by the complainant. What he there claims is a seedplanting machine constructed principally of framework, the
front part of which is supported on not less than two runners, or shoes, with upward inclining edges, and the rear
part is supported on not less than two wheels, the latter
being arranged to follow the former.
Evidently that claim is not intended to cover the whole
machine; nor would it benefit the complainant even if it
could receive that construction, as it is not pretended that
he was the original and first inventor of such a planting
machine, nor that the specification of the original patent
professed to describe such an original invention. Machines
of the kind have existed for a very long period before the
"*Gould v. :Rees, 15 W allace, 194.

tGill v. "Wells,22 Id. 1.

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

date of the complainant's patent, even for a period whereof
the memory of man runneth not to thp contrary.
2. No. 1037.-Nothing is claimed in this patent except
the construction of a shoe or runner for a seed-planting machine, with an upward inclining edge, with its point sufficiently raised so that it will climb up and over, or cut and
break through intervening obstacles without materially foreing the earth laterally at its front part, and widening towards
the rear end so as to open a furrow in which the seed to be
planted may be deposited, and long enough to furnish a
support to the framework of the machine. Explanations of
that patent are certainly unnecessary, as it is plain that the
claim is for distinct and separate ingredients of the combination embodied in the original patent.
3. No. 1038.-Under this patent the complainant claims a
hinged joint between the point of the tongue and the rear
part of the machine in combination with a seed-planting
machine, so that one part of the framework may be raised,
lowered, adjusted, and supported on the other part. Nor is
any argument necessary to show that the claim of the patent
is for one of the separate and distinct ingredients of the combination embodied in the original patent, all of which were
confessedly old.
4. No. 1039.-Two claims are made in this patent as follows: (1.) The seat for the attendant, or, in the language of
the claim, the mounting of the attendant upon the machine
or seed-planter, wherein the seed-dropping mechanism is
operated by hand, in such a position that he may readily see
the previously made marks upon the ground, and operate
the dropping mechanism to conform thereto. (2.) He also
claims a lever, in combination with a seed-planting machine,
or its equivalent, by which the driver or second attendant
may raise or lower that part of the framework that carries
the attendant and the seeding devices.
Manifestly the lever or its equivalent is the principal subject-matter of that claim, reference being made to certain
other parts of the seed-planter merely as a means of describing the functions to be performed by the lever, and the

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

results to be attained by its use; nor does it require any
argument to show that the lever is old, as it is matter of
common knowledge that it was well known long before the
original patent of the complainant was issued.
5. No. 1040.-Two claims are also made by the patentee
in this patent: (1.) He claims a pair of auxiliary wheels and
an axle, in combination with the seed-planting machine, carried mainly upon not less than two runners and two coverino-wheels, for the double-purpose of taking a portion of the
weight off from the runners and the other wheels, and for
affording means of readily converting the machine from a
hand-planter to an automatic seed-sower. (2.) He also
claims hanging the axle of the auxiliary wheels on hinged or
adjustable arms or levers, so that more or less of the machine
may be placed upon the auxiliary wheels.
All necessity for any remarks upon those claims is superseded by the admission that they are not infringed by the
respondents.
Four of the five reissues are included in the charge, and
the complainant also charges that the respondents have infringed five other reissued patents held by him, which also
secure to him the exclusive right to the respective improvements therein described, all of which appertain to the same
machine for planting corn and smaller grains.
Reference will first be made to the original patent from
which those several reissues are derived. Like the preceding reissued patents, these were all derived from a single
original patent, issued May 8th, 1855, as appears by the
record, which it is claimed is an improvement upon the prior
original patent.
Doubtless the patentee made some change in the original
machine, as appears by the descriptive portion of the specification; as for example, he enlarged the rollers, increased
the length of the side pieces, connected those pieces by cross
pieces, and constructed the frame in two parts, denominated
front and rear, placing the long seat for the driver on the
front end, in order that he may slide forward or back, to
tilt the machinery when necessary to deepen the furrow, or
VOL. xxIII.

16

THE OORN-PLANTER

PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

to raise the front of the shoes from the ground, as occasion
calls for such a movement; but he invented no new ingredient or device, nor did he ifitroduce any element into the
machine which was not previously well known, all of which
will sufficiently appear from the claim when compared with
the drawings, without reproducing the details of the specification annexed to the patent. It contains but a single specification in that regard, which, in substance and effect, is as
follows: What he claims is the runners, with their valves,
in combination with the hoppers and their plates, together
with the adjustment of the valves by means of levers and
cams, and the driver's weight, for the purpose of carrying
and dropping seeds by each vibration of the lever, and to
regulate the depth of the planting.
Tested by the description contained in the specification it
is not doubted that the patent was a valid one for the described combination, which, beyond all doubt, is composed
of all ingredients. Regarded as an invention for a combination it may be regarded as an improvement upon the
original invention described in the first-mentioned patent,
but it is quite clear that it contains no devices except such
as had long before been well known to mechanics.
Though operative and valid still it was not satisfactory to
the complainant, because not sufficiently effective to shut
out other improvements for planting seeds. Accordingly,
on the tenth of November, 1857, he surrendered the patent
and the same was, on the same day, reissued to him with a
single claim, as follows: He claims the locating the seat for
the driver in the rear of the supporting axle in combination
with the hinged frames or hinged joint, so that as the driver
moves forward or back, on his seat, the rear frame may act
as a lever for lowering or raising the seed part of the machine, and thus throw it into or out of the ground, as circumstances may require.
Probably it would be difficult to frame a claim which
would more exactly embody the true nature of the actual
improvement, but still it was not satisfactory to the complainant, and on the eleventh of December, 1860, he sur-

Oct. 1874.]

THE

CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of Clifford, Miler, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

rendered the patent, and the same was reissued to him in
five separate patents, as follows:
1. No. 1091.-Two claims are contained in this patent as
follows: (1.) The placing of both the driver and the person
who operates the seed-slides or valves, in such a position on
the seed-planter that each may attend to his particular duty
without interfering with that of the other. (2.) The so locating the seats or stands for those persons, in combination
with the machine, that the weight of one of the persons may
be used to counterbalance or overbalance the weight of the
other, for the purpose of more readily raising or lowering
the seeding apparatus.
2. No. 1092.-He claims in this patent the locating of
the seat in the machine in such relation to a line drawn
through the centre of the wheels or ground supports that
the occupant of the seat may, by moving himself or throwing his weight forward or backward on his seat, without the
necessity of rising, walking, or standing over or near the
seeding devices, force the seeding apparatus into or raise it
from the ground.
3. No. 1093.-His claim in this patent is the so connecting of the parts between the fixed points in the described
machine that the portion of it carrying the seeding devices
may be raised up out of the ground by the attendan~t riding.
on the machine and be'carried by the tongue or horses' necks
and the supporting wheels.
4. No. 1094.-Where he claims a lock-block or stop, in
combination with the machine, which prevents the rear part
of the frame from descending so low as to strike the ground
or inconvenience the occupant of the seat upon the rear portion of the frame.
5. No. 1095.-His claim in this patent is for a valve or
slide in the seed-hopper and a valve in the seed-tube, so
combining with a lever operating both that a half-motion of
the lever by the operator riding on the machine, shall open
and close the seed-passages at regular periods and pass only
the right quantities.
Most of these ten reissued patents are for a single ingre-

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

dient of the combinations described in the two original
patents, and every one of the others is for a separate and
distinct part of one or the other of those combinations; and
the rule of decision set up by the complainant is that he
may mass these several patents just as if the several ingredients were all described in one patent embracing a claim
for a combination of each and every of the respective ingredients included in these ten several patents. Such a theory,
in my judgment, is simply absurd, and it is certain that it
finds no support in any decided case nor in any treatise upon
the rules and practice in patent cases.
Argument to show that such is the theory of the present
suit is scarcely necessary, as it is plainly shown in that part
of the bill of complaint which alleges that the improvements
and inventions contained in those several letters-patent constitute separate parts of an entire machine for seed-planting,
and that they may be constructed for use and used in one
machine in that department of agriculture; and the complainant charges that the respondents have constructed
machines and used the same and vended the machines to
others to be used in imitation of all those improvements and
inventions except the improvement described in the reissued
patent No. 1040, which it is admitted is not infringed by the
respondents.
All the ingredients described in those ten reissued patents
are old, and it was admitted at the argunent that no one of
the patents contains a claim for a combination of the several
ingredients described in the said several reissued patents,
and that the case rests on the basis that the several claims
or some of them are valid though not amounting to a combination.
Valid patents may be granted for a new combination of
old ingredients, provided it appears that the new combination produces a new and useful result, but the invention in
such a case consists entirely in the new combination, and
any other party may, if he can, make a substantially different
combination of the same ingredients, or he may use any
number of the ingredients less than the whole, for the reason

Oct. 1874.]

THE CORN-PLANTER PATENT.

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

that the monopoly of the patent extends only to the combination and not to the ingredients separately considered.!
Patents may also be granted for a machine or for a separate and distinct device, but it cannot be held that such a
patent is valid unless it be proved that the patentee is the
original and first inventor of the thing patented.t
None of the separate devices patented in those reissued
patents are new, and it being conceded that no one of the
patents contains any such a combination as that embodied
in either of the original patents, it is clear in my judgment
that the decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed, unless the theory that these several patents can be massed and
be by judicial construction converted from patents for separate and distinct ingredients into one patent for a combination of all the ingredients described in the several patents
mentioned in the bill of complaint.
Courts of justice cannot accomplish such an object by construction nor in any other mode, for several reasons: (1.)
Because the province of construction is restricted to the
ascertainment of the meaning of the language employed in
the grant. (2.) Because the object can only be accomplished
by the surrender of these patents and by a reissue of the
original patent, which is a matter within the exclusive jurisdiction of the commissioner. (3.) Because each of these
patents is a sepaiate and distinct grant. (4.) Because the
court in construing such a grant is estricted to the language
employed by the granting power. (5.) Because several patents for several separate and distinct devices do not in law
amount to a patent for a combination, and, therefore, cannot
so be declared by a court of justice.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the judgment
given in this case; the argument having been had before
he was appointed. The case was held long under advisement, and the opinions were not given to the Reporter until
long after the judgment was rendered.
* Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 428; Prouty v. Ruggles, 16 Peters, 341.

-

Seymour v. Osborne, liWallace, 355.

