Oct. 1874.]

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

471

Syllabus.

The questions touching the service of the process can be
better tried at law than in equity. If it be desired to have
any rulings of the court below brought to this court for review, they can be better presented by bills of exception and
a writ of error than by depositions and other testimony and
an appeal in equity.
There is another important point, which we have njot
overlooked. It is whether the judgment of the Provisional
Court can be pronounced a nullity without the legal representative of Anderson, the deceased plaintiff, being before
the court as a party. As the first objection is a fatal one
we have not considered that question.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the case remanded with directions
TO

DISMISS THE BILL.

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS ET AL.
A company having coal-mines at a place on the Mississippi, eighty miles
above Cairo, agreed to deliver 150,000 tons of coal, the product of its
mines, to P. & S., at $3 a ton during the year 1870, in equal dUily proportions between the 15th of February and the 15th of December; that
is to say, 15,000 tons each month. There was no other market at the
place for the purchase of coal but that of the company itself. The contract contained a clause thus:
"If through no fault of the parties of the second part (P. & S.), the party of
the first part (the company) shall fail in any one month to deliver all or any part
of the quota of coal to which the parties of the second part may be entitled in
such month, the party of the first part shall pay to the parties of the second part,
as liquidated damages, twenty-five cents for each and every ton which it may
have so failed to deliver; oa instead thereof the parties of the second part may
elect to receive all or any part of the cal so in. default in the next succeedinnonth, in schic ase the quota whirlt. the party of ti first part would otherwise
bond to deliver underthis contr, ct, shall be incrased in suck. succeedv,en.
ham
hug snoath to the extent of the quantity in default."

Coal rose greatly in value, that is to say, rose from about $3 a ton to $9;
and without fiult of P. & S, the company did fail to deliver the quota
(15,000 tons) due in October; and P. & S. thereupon elected and gave
notice of the election to take the said quota in November. But the
company failed to deliver it then, and failed also to deliver the quota
(15,000 tons) due in November. -P. & S. then elected and gave notice

472

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

[Sup.

at.

Statement of the case.
of their election to take in December the quota due in November, as
also that due in October. No coal, however, was delivered at any time.
On suit by P. & S. against the company, for breach of contract, Held,
1st. That notwithstanding the clause in the contract about "liquidated
damages," P. & S. were entitled to the actual damages sustained by
them.
2d. That the measure of such damages (in view of the fact that there was
no market for the purchase of coal at the place of delivery but that of
* the company itself) was the price which P. & S. would have had to pay
for coal of the sort in the quantities in which they were entitled to receive it from the company under the contract, at the nearest available
market where it could have been obtained.
3d. That the cash value of similar coal, at Cairo, or at points below it on
the Mississippi River: after deducting the contract price of it, and the
cost and expenses of transporting it thither, was not a true measure of
value, and that it was error to allow such value tobe shown to the jury,
so long as any more direct method was within reach.
4th. That letters passing between the president of the company and the
local agent at the place where the coal was delivered, containing private instructions to such agent, were erroneously allowed to be read to
fix the measure of damages; the reasons and motives which the company or its officers had in not furnishing coal to the plaintiffs not having
been in issue.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Illinois; in which court Phillips & St. John, partners, sued
the Grand Tower Company-a mining, manufacturing, and
transportation corporation of Illinois-to recover damages
for breach of contract.
The declaration set forth that the company, on the 15th
of December, 1869, entered into a written contract with the
plaintiffs to deliver to them at the company's coal-dump, at
Grand Tower, in Jackson County, Illinois, on the Mississippi River, and about eighty miles above Cairo, on board
vessels to be provided by the plaintiffs, 150,000 tons of lump
and nut coal of the company's mines in the said county,
during each of the years 3870, 1871, and 1872, in equal daily
proportions, as near as might be, between the 15th of February and the 15th of December in each of said years. The
company also leased certain boats to the plaintiffs. The
Grand Tower Company had control of all the coal at Grand
Tower; and there was no market there for the purchase of
coal but that of the company. It was provided by the agree-

Oct. 1874.]

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

473

Statement of the case.

ment that Phillips & St. John should have the sale of all
coal produced by the said mines which should be sold at and
below Cairo, and that they should not sell any coal north of
Cairo. The price to be paid for the coal for the first year
was $3 per ton for lump, and $1.50 for nut. The price for
the other years was to be graduated by the proportionate
expense of mining. Phillips & St. John agreed, if not prevented by ice or low water, to furnish barges or suitable
vessels sufficient to receive the said coal in equal daily proportions, which barges and vessels the company agreed to
load without unnecessary delay. It was provided by the
ninth article of the agreement as follows, that is to say:
"It is further mutually agreed, that if for any other than the
unavoidable causes hereinbefore mentioned, and through no
fault of the said Phillips & St. John, the parties of the second
part, the said Grand Tower Company, party of the first part,
shall fail in any one month to deliver all or any part of the quota
of coal to which the parties of the second part may be entitled in
such month, the party of the first part shall pay to the parties
of the second part, as liquidated damages, twenty-five cents for each
and every ton which it may have sofailed to deliver; or insteadthereof,

the parties of the second part may elect to receive all or any
part of the coal so -in default in the next succeeding month, in
which case the quota which the party of the first part would otherwise
have been bound to deliver under this contract, shall be increased in
such succeeding month to the extent of the quantity in default."

It was on the part of this article above italicized that the
controversy between the parties principally turned.
The declaration alleged that the company, without any
of the grounds of excuse staied in the agreement, failed to
deliver the monthly quota of coal due in October, 1870, although the plaintiffs had barges ready to receive it; and that
the plaintiffs thereupon elected to take said quota for said
month, amounting to 15,000 tons, in the next succeeding
month, and gave notice to the defendant accordingly; but
that the defendant also, without any excuse, failed to deliver
the said quota in November, 1870, or the quota due for the
said month of November, or any part thereof, amounting in

474

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

all to 80,000 tons which they thus failed to deliver, and that
the defendant had never delivered the same. Damages were
assigned for loss of profits (the price of coal below Cairo
that autumn being, as alleged, $9 per ton), and for the expense of keeping their barges and towboats ready to receive
coal at Grand Tower.
Other counts were afterwards added, alleging a like election by the plaintiffs to take the quota for November during
the following month of December, and the quotas for both
October and lNovember during the said month of December,
and a failure to furnish the said quotas, amounting in all to
30,000 tons, with breaches as before.
Various pleas having been put in, the issues were whether
the plaintiffs had failed to furnish barges to receive the quotas
of coal due in October and November, and if so what damages the plaintifs sustained by the failure of the defendant
to furnish the coal; the question of damages being really
the principal question in the cause, no failure to furinish the
barges having been.shown, but the contrary.
The defendant insisted that by the agreement the damages
were liquidated at twenty-five cents per ton for all the coal
which it failed to deliver in accordance with the agreement.
The plaintiffs, on the contrary, contended that they had
the option either to take the liquidated damages accruing
on each month's deficiency, or to insist on having the coal
itself delivered to them in the following month; and that
when such election was made the refusal by the defendant
to deliver the coal entitled the plaintiffs to the actual damage
which they sustained by its non-delivery.
The defendant conceded that the plaintiffs had the option
referred to, but insisted that the plaintiffs, by electing to
receive the deficient coal in the following months, merely
postponed the time of its delivery, and increased the quota
of the said following month, which thereupon became subject, if not furnished, to the same rule of liquidated damages as before. If twenty-five cents per ton was all that the
defendant was liable for, the damages would have amounted
to only $7500, for the quotas of October and November. If

Oct. 1874.]

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

475

Statement of the case.-Oliphant's letters.

the exercise by the plaintiffs of their option to have the coal
itself entitled them to the actual damage which they sustained by its nonldelivery, it is evident, on comparing the
price which they were to give for the coal ($3) with that ($9)
which coal brought during the autumn of 1870, that their
damages might be much more than the sum mentioned.
The court took the plaintiffs' view of the subject, and decided that the plaintiffs were entitled to the actual damages
sustained by them by the non-delivery of the quotas of coal
for October and November.
The next inquiry, therefore, was as to the rule by which
those damages were to be ascertained. Oi this point the
plaintiffs offered evidence to show the prices of coal during
November and December, 1870, at all points on the Mississippi River, below Cairo even to .Vew Orleans.
The defendants objected to this, insisting that the price
at Grand Tower was the measure of damages if the twentyfive cents per ton were departed from.
The plaintiffs argued that this was a measure impossible
to be applied, the Grand Tower Company having a monopoly of the market at Grand Tower, and there being no mines
there but the company's own, the company thus making the
only market there then was, and refusing to sell.

The court received the evidence offered.
The plaintiffs also offered and were allowed to introduce
and read in evidence to the jury several letters from the
President of the Grand Tower Company, Mr. G. T. Oliphant, to the company's local agent, one Driggs, at Grand
Tower, the existence of which in his hands his testimony
disclosed. The following letters give an idea of the class:
[OLIPHANT To Daxces.]
9"NEWPORT, September 10th, 1870.
"MY DEAR SIR: I feel more than ever anxious to put an end
to the contract with Phillips & St. John. One difficulty in the
way is that they have possession of our river fleet. This, however, I suppose we could reach by a writ of replevin at any
time when the vessels are within our grasp.

476

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

[Sup.

at.

Statement of the case.-Oliphant's letters.

"The other obstacle is in the fact that they will undoubtedly
sue us for damages, if we decline to deliver them the coal. This
makes it important that we should, if possible, place them in the
wrong before we take the decisive step. But we canfot afford
to wait long, as they could hardly recover enough, in any event,
to hurt us as much as we could be hurt by the waste of our river
fleet and the embarrassment to our business which their action
necessarily involves.
"If they beat us, what damage could they show? The measure of damages would be only the difference between the contract price of our coal and what they might have to pay for
other coal of equal quality.
"I have written to Col. Allen on these points, and I wish you
would consult him fully and carefully. If I am right, I would
take prompt measures to get bold of our river property in their
possession; then notify them of our purpose not to deliver any
more coal to them. Having this in view, I would hold on to
any barges loaded for them this month without coming to an
actual rupture, and I would press the settlement of our joint
account with them, allowing them, under protest, of course, in
order to effect such settlement, more than you believe them entitled to. In other words, get all the money you can first, then
get the river stock, and when that is accomplished, throw them
overboard, and let them sue.
"Yours, truly,

"G. T.

OLIPHANT.

"". R. DRiGas."

[SAME TO SAME.]
"NEwPoRT, September 1st, 1870.
"Af DEAR SIR: We must put up the price of coal to transient

customers at Grand Tower to $41 per ton for lump and $2.80
for nut.
"Hurry up a settlement of some sort with Phillips & St. fohn,
and deliver them no more coal without my orders. I want to
get all I can out of them before the rupture.
"(Yours,

"G. T.
"H.

R. DRIGGS."

OLIPHANT.

Oct. 1874.]

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

477

Opinion of the court.-Actual damages given.

[SAME

TO SAME.]
"NEWPORT, September 30th, 1870.

"MY DEAR SIR: I have yours of the 9th instant. I note what
you say about the advance of prices on the river, which I suggested. I hope to be at Grand Tower this month. Phillips &
St. John's .account you may leave, though I see little to be
gained by delay. Contract or no contract, they will get no
more coal from us. The court may award damages, but Phillips & St. John will have to encounter a large expense of time
and trouble before they get them, and we had better pay the
full amount every month rather than go on as at present.
"Yours, truly,
"G. T. OLIPHANT.
"IH. R. DRIGoS."

The counsel for the company objected to the introduction
of these letters, because they contained nothing addressed
to Phillips & St. John, and did not tend to prove or disprove
the issue on trial, and were irrelevant and improper. But
the court admitted them.
The evidence being closed, the court charged the jury that
the true measure of damages was the cash value during those
months of the kind of coal mentioned at Cairo, or points
below it on the Mississippi River, after deducting the contract
price of the coal and the cost and expenses of transporting
it thither.
To this charge the defendant excepted.
The jury found damages to the amount of $200,000
(nearly $7 per ton for the alleged deficit of 30,000 tons),
and judgment having been given accordingly the defendant
brought the case here.
Messrs. T. G. Allen and W. M. .Evarts, for the company,
plaintiff in error; Mr. -H.S. Green, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below was of the opinion that the plaintiffs
were entitled to the actual damages sustained by them, by
the non-delivery of the quotas of coal for October and November, 1870.

478

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Actual damage; given.

The question whether this view was right or not depends
upon the true construction of the agreement made by the
parties, and we are of opinion that the view taken by the
court below on this point was correct. It is evident, from
an inspection of the contract, that the election given to the
plaintiffs to receive in the following month the coal which
they were entitled to receive and did not receive in a particular month, was a substitute for the liquidated damages
of twenty-five cents per ton. *With regard to that particular
amount of coal the rule of liquidated damages was at an
end. The agreement did not carry it forward to the following month. It imposed upon the defendant the obligation,
if the plaintiffs so elected, to furnish the coal itself instead
of paying the liquidated sum. If not so, what was the
option worth ? It amounted to nothing more than the right
of giving to the defendant another month to furnish the
coal. Surely they would have had that right without stipulating for it in this solemn way. Had not this option been
given to the plaintiffs the defendant would have had the
option either to furnish the coal or to pay the twenty-five
cents per ton for not furnishing it-a sum which they could
very well afford to pay upon a slight rise in the market
prices. It was eidently the very purpose of the option
given to the plaintiffs to avoid this oppressive result. They
could require the coal to be furnished at-all events, and, if
they elected to do this, it was the duty of the defendant to
furnish it. The contrary construction would make the stipulation worse than useless. The plaintiffs might continue to
exercise their election to receive the coal, month after month,
without avail, and, at the end, find themselves exactly at the
point they started from-forced to accept the twenty-five
cents per ton.
The law afords many analogies in accordance with the
views we have taken. Thus, by the common law, a gift of
property to several in common, and when either of them
dies a gift of his share to the survivors, does not subject that
share to further survivorship unless it is so expressly provided. So, a condition not to underlet without license does

Oct. 1874.]

GRAND TOWER COMPANY V. PHILLIPS.

479

Opinion of the court.-Measure of damages.

not extend to a sub-tenant.
be multiplied at will.

Instances of this kind might

But whilst we concur with the court below on this point,
which is the most important point in the cause, there are
certain assignments of error which seem to be well taken
and will require a reversal of the judgment. These relate
to the admission of evidence which may have affected, and
probably did seriously affect, the amount of the verdict.
In regard to the measure of damages, the plaintiffs were
allowed to show the prices of coal during November and
December, 1870, at all points on the Mississippi below Cairo
even to New Orleans. And the court charged.the jury
against the exceptions of the defendant, that the true measure of damages was the cash value during those months of
the kind of coal mentioned in the contract, at Cairo, or
points below it on the Mississippi River, after deducting the
contract price of the coal and the cost and expense of transporting it thither, and making due allowance for the risk
and hazard of such transportation. Now although it is
probable that the plaintiffs could have got the prices which
the evidence showed were obtained for coal at and below
Cairo, had their coal been furnished according to the agreement, yet the rule of law does not allow so wide a range of
inquiry, but regards the price at the place of delivery as the
normal standard by which to estimate the damage for nondelivery. It is alleged by the plaintiffs that this rule would
have been a futile one in their case, because no market for
the purchase of coal existed at Grand Tower, except that of
the defendant itself, which, by the very hypothesis of the
action, refused to deliver coal to the plaintiffs, and which
had the whole subject in its own control. This is certainly
a very forcible answer to the proposition to make the price
of coal at Grand Tower the only criterion. It is apparent
that the plaintiffs would be obliged to resort to some other
source of supply in order to obtain the coal which the defendaut ought to have furnished them. And it would not
be fair, under the circumstances of the case, to confine them

480

HEPBURN V. THE SCHOOL DIRECTORS.

[Sup.

at.

Syllabus.

to the prices at which the defendant chose to sell the coal
to other persons. The true rule would seem to be, to allow
the plaintiffs to show the price they would have had to pay
for coal in the quantities which they were entitled to receive
it under the contract, at the nearest available market where
it could have been obtained. The difference between such
price and the price stipulated for by their contract, with the
addition of the increased expense of transportation and hauling (if any), would be the true measure of damages. To this
is properly to be added the claim (if any) for keeping boats
and barges ready at Grand Tower for the receipt of coal.
But the prices of coal at New Orleans, at Natchez, and
other places of distribution and sale, although they might
afford a-basis for estimating the profits which the plaintiffs
might have made had the coal stipulated for been delivered
to them, cannot be adopted as a guide to the actual damage
sustained so long as any more direct method is within reach.
Another point in which the court erred in the course of
the trial, was in the admission of the letters of Oliphant, the
president of the Grand Tower Company, containing his private instructions to and correspondence with the local agent
at Grand Tower. This evidence was clearly inadmissible
under the issue, and should have been excluded. The particular reasons or motives which the company or its officers
may have had in not furnishing coal to the plaintiffs were
not in issue.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and
A

HEPBURN v.

THE

VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

SCHOOL DIRECTORS.

1. Under the act. of Congress of February 10th, 1868, enacting that the
legislature of each State may direct the manner of taxing all the shares
of National banks located within said State, subject to the restriction
that "the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other moneyed capitalin the hands of individual citizens of such State,"
and the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of March 31st, 1870, en-

