THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. or.

Syllabus.

long before the alleged invention under consideration, were
folded by laying upon the unfinished side of the same a
piece of tin having at one edge the required curve, which
enabled the manipulator to accomplish the same object by
pressing upward over such curve a part of the collar so as to
mark the line of the curve and crease the paper preparatory
to turning the collar over, which enabled -the laundress to
accomplish the same object as the means described in the
specification of the patent.
Support to the answer is also derived from the proofs that
linen collars had for years been turned over in a curved line
and for the very purpose described, which is to prevent
wrinkling and to afford space for the cravat.
Taken as a whole, the proofs in this regard are conclusive,
that the patentee is not the original and first inventor of the
patented improvement described in either of the claims of
his patent.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.*
THE AmPERICAN WooD-PAPER Co. v. THE FIBRE DISINTEGRATING CO.
THE FIBRE DISINTEGRATING Co. v. THE AmERIcAN WOOD-PAPtR CO.
1. A manufacture or a product of a process may be no novelty, and, therefore, unpatentable; while the process or agency by which it is produced
may be both new and useful.

2. In cases of chemical inventions, when the manufacture claimed as novel
is not a new composition of matter, but an extract obtained by the decomposition or disintegration of material substances, it is of no importance, in considering its patentability, to inquire from what it has been
extracted.
3. When the substance of two articles produced by different processes is the
same, and their uses are the same, they cannot be considered different
manufactures.
4. Paper pulp extracted from wood by chemical agencies alone, is not a different manuficture from paper pulp obtained from vegetable substances
by chemical and mechanical processes.
* This case was adjudged October Term, 1873.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Statement of the case.-History applicable to it.

5. The reissued patent No. 1448 granted to Ladd & Keen, April 7th 1863,
for a pulp suitable for the manufacture of paper made from wood or
other vegetable substances, is void for want of novelty.
6. The patent granted to Watt & Burgess, July 18th, 1864, was for a process
consisting of three stages for obtaining paper pulp from wood. The
reissue No. 1449 to Ladd & Keen, dated April 7th, 1863, is for a singlestage process. It is not, therefore, for the same invention. Hence, the
reissue is void.
7. Construction of the two boiler patents granted to Morris L. Keen, the
one dated S-ptember 13th, 1859, and the other June 16th, 1863. Both
held to be for combinations.
8. A construetion of the patent granted May 26th, 1857, to Marie Amed6e
Charles Mellier.
a. The patent covers the process claimed, when applied to wood as well as
when applied to straw.
b. The " internalpressur'e," as described in the specification, is to be ascertained by deducting from the pressure marked by the steam-gauge, the
weight of one atmosphere.

Onoss APPEALS from the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of New York.
The preceding case has treated somewhat of the manufacture of paper; though that case had reference chiefly to a
manufacture from rags, and by mechanical means. The
present case concerns the manufacture of paper; though
this case relates more to manufacture from wood, &c., and
by chemical agencies.
As most persons know, the materials out of which paper
is ma le, have to be reduced in the paper-mill, before the
paper is formed, into what is known as pulp. This pulp,
whether obtained from wood or other vegetable substances,
is a fibrous material, consisting of what is called in chemisAs such, in its natural state, it is comtry "cellulose."
bined with other substances called "intercellular matter,"
which must be removed to render the cellulose fit for being
mv,le into paper. It was well known before the year 1853
that the fibres of cotton or of flax were pure cellulose, and
that cellulose existed also iu straw and wood, but it had not,
so fari as is known, been extracted from wood by chemical
agencies alone, nor brought into a condition to be wrought
into paper without mechanical treatment. Even the fibres

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup: CL

Statement of the case.-History applicable to it.

of cotton and of flax, though pure cellulose, required disintegration in order to reduce them to a pulp suited to felt in
paper. This was usually effected by mechanical means-by
a rag-beating machine-but when thus effected a product
had been obtained adapted to the manufacture of paper, a
fibrous pulp, the same in kind and capable of the same use
°
as that obtained from straw or wood.
So a pulp had been produced from straw and some varieties of wood by various processes, many of them cumbrous,
and all of them perhaps much inferior to the process of
Watt & Burgess; two persons, a patent to whom, and certain reissues of it were under consideration in this case.
This is shown by numerous well-known patents, and was
admitted in this case.
So before the year 1853 the cellulose produced from straw,
wood, and other vegetable substances was not produced in
the first instance in a condition of purity, other than one approximate. But it was cellulose abundantly suitable for
making paper, and could be purified.
So again, prior to the year mentioned, and the patent of
Watt & Burgess, the cellulose produced was not in the first
instance of the proper consistency and dimensions, and with
fibre of the proper length for immediate felting. However,
by chemical and mechanical treatment, subsequently applied, it could be made so, and made so completely.
Finally. In no case and by no process prior to 1953 was
pulp produced ready for washing and bleaching by a single
operation. Successive operations, largely mechanical, were
used; the vegetable substances being however sometimes
boiled in alkalies, with or without pressure, and disintegration by mechanical means following.
This having been the previous state of the art, the American Wood-Paper Company being engaged, A.D. 1866, in
the manufacture of paper pulp and paper from wood, straw,
and other vegetable substances under different patents owned
by them, including two reissued patents of Watt & Burgess,
all of which different patents they alleged could be used
conjointly in their business, filed a bill in the court below to

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Statement of the case.-The defences.

restrain a company called the Fibre Disintegrating Company from what was alleged to be an infringement.
Tile defendant company made their paper principally from
bamboo; though it was alleged, and there was some evidence
to show, that they made it also from straw.
The following were the patents owned by the complainants:
I. Two reissued patents, numbered respectively 1448 and
1449, upon a patent originally granted on the 18th day of
July, 1854, and antedated the 19th day of August, 1853 (the
date of a patent which had been granted by the BEritish
government), to Charles Watt and Hugh Burgess, already
named, fir an improvement in the manufacture of paper
from wood, reissued (to Ladd & Keen) in the two reissued
patents numbered as above, on the 7th day of April, 1863;
one for an improv&d manufacture of paper and paper pulp
from wood, and the other for the paper and paper pulp, the
product of said process of manufacture.
IL A patent granted to Morris L. Keen on the 13th day
of September, 1859, for a new and useful improvement in
boilers for making paper pulp from wood.
A patent granted on the 16th day of June, 1863, to the
said Keen, fir an improvement in boilers for making paper
pulp.
III. A patent granted on the 26th day of May, 1857, antedated the 7th day of August, 1854, to Marie Amedee Charles
Mellier (a Frenchman), for an improvement in the manufacture of paper.
The defendant set up among other things,
1. Invylidity of the Watt &Burgess reissues on the ground,
as to No. 1448, that the invention claimed was old; and as
to No. 1449 on the same ground of want of novelty, and on
the additional ground, one more specially insisted on, that
the reissue was for a different invention from that patented;
and, therefore, by the terms of the Patent Act,* which required that the reissue should be for the "same invention"
* Revised Statutes of the United States,

4916.

TiH WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Watt & Burgess's original patent.

as the original patent, void. The alleged want of identity
consisted in the fact, as alleged, that the original patent described the production of paper pulp in a state ready for
washing and bleaching, by three successive stages of vork,
while the reissue described the production of it by a single
operation.
2. That the Keen patents were for combinations, and that
all parts had not been used. Accordingly that there was no
infringement.
3. Invalidity of the Mellier patent, on the ground of want
of novelty in the alleged invention.
Evidence was taken upon all the issues thus raised, and a
decree was made,
That the Watt & Burgess patents were void.
That the Keen patents were for combinations, and that
defendants were not infringers.
That the Mellier patent was valid, and that the defendants
were infringers of it.
Thereupon the complainants appealed from that part of
the decree which related to the Watt & Burgess and the
Keen patents, and the defendants from that part which sustained the bill as to the Mellier patent.
To enable the reader to understand perfectly the case, the
patents under consideration are all set out. This, with a few
remarks and some testimony, &c. interposed, it is hoped
will enable the reader, who has any general knowledge of
the art of papermaking, sufficiently to understand the case.
I.-THE WATT & BURGESS PATENTS.
1. ORIGINAL PATENT JULY 16TH, 1854.

ANTEDATED AUGUST 19TH, 1853.

Specification.
The wood or vegetable substances upon which it is intended
to operate by this process should first be reduced to very fine
shavings or cuttings, the finer the better. This may be done in
any suitable machine.
The shavings are then to be boiled in a solution of caustic
alkali, the strength of which, being dependent on the nature of
vegetable substances operated on, can only be learned by ex-

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Watt & Burgess's original patent.
perience. For deal or fir wood we find that a solution of alkali
of the strength indicated by twelve degrees of the English hydrometer answers very well. The length of time necessary for
this part of the process is somewhat dependent on the nature
of the vegetable substance to be treated.
We find boiling in a solution of caustic alkali under pressure
of considerable service.
We do not claim this operation as a part of our invention.
The shavings are then to be well washed and pressed; and
the washings may be saved and evaporated down, and burned
in a suitable furnace, when they are again available for the same
purpose.
The damp shavings are now to be exposed to the action of
chlorine, or the compounds of chlorine with oxygen, till on a
portion being placed in a dilute solution of caustic alkali the
vegetable substance falls into a dark pulpy mass. This part
of the process is conveniently effected by placing the damp shavings on racks or drawers about nine inches apart, one above
another, arranged in a chamber, and allowing the chlorine, or
the compounds of chlorine with oxygen, to enter the chamber
and fill it. Of the compounds of chlorine with oxygen, we prefer that known as protoxide of chlorine, or hypochlorous, or
chlorous acid, or euchlorine. If found more convenient, the
chlorine, or the compoundg of chlorine with oxygen, may be
used in aqueous solution instead of' the gaseous form.
As soon as the shavings have been sufficiently acted upon by
the gas, as may be ascertained by the method above described,
they may be removed and the hydrochloric acid, which is the
result of the above process, removed by washing, and the shavings well pressed. This should be done with as little water as
possible, as this acid may be saved and made use of for the reproduction of chlorine. The shavings are now to be placed in
a weak solution of caustic alkali, when they will fall into a pulpy
mass of dark brown color. This part of the process may be
expedited by exposing this mass to the action of a beater or
"engine," placed in a tank containing the solution of alkali.
The pulp thus obtained, as above described, having been freed
from the alkali by washing (which may be saved as before directed), may now be bleached by the usual process, or, as we
prefer, by chlorite or hypochlorite of soda or potash, liberating
the eblorous or hypochlorous acid by hydrochloric acid.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the.case.-Watt & Burgess's argument.

Having thus fully described the nature of our invention, and
shown how the same may be reduced 0to practice, we wish it to

be distinctly understood that we do not confine our claim to the
apparatus or utensils, or the manipulations herein named, as
they may be varied to suit the circumstances of the ease.
Claim.
But what we do claim as of our invention, and desire to secure
by letters-patent, is the pulping and disintegrating of shavings
of wood and other similar vegetable matter for making paper,
by treating them with caustic alkali, chlorine simple, or its
compounds with oxygen and alkali, in the order substantially
as described.
As has been already stated (supra, p. 569), one ground set
up by the defendants as a defence to the bill was, that the
original patent and the reissue No. 1449 were not for the
same invention ; the allegation of the defendants being that
the original patent was for the production of the pulp ready
for bleaching and washing by a single operation, whereas in
the reissue No. 1449 three distinct operations, following each
other in order of time, were adopted.
In support of this their view tlhe defendants showed that
in March, 1854, before the original patent was granted, but
while an application for it was pending, the Commissioner
of Patents wrote to *Watt & Burgess stating that there were
"at least forty other applications for patents, or patents on
record, for processes of treating vegetable fibre," and that
"in a large part of these alkali and chlorine or its compounds were used;" and requesting Watt & Burgess to
make "a clear and definite expression of what the novelty
in their devices was confined to, both in the specifying of
the nature of the invention and in setting forth the claim."
The defendants showed further that in reply Watt & Burgess, through their counsel, said:
"The invention relates to a series or combination of processes,
in the order in which they are stated, for treating shavings, &c., for
the purpose of reducing them from their crude state to a pulp,
ready to be made into paper. The several processes through

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Statement of the case.-Burgess's testimony.

-which the shavings pass, may be enumerated in the following
order, viz.:
"First. The shavings are boiled in a solution of caustic alkali,
until by the test of washing they have lost their woody taste
(for white pine shavings about three hours), when they are
-washed and pressed to rid them of the alkali.
"Second. They are then subjected to the action of chlorine, or
its compounds and oxygen, until by testing a portion in a dilute
solution of caustic alkali, it falls in-to a dark pulpy mass, when
it is again washed and pressed to remove the hydrochloric acid,
which is the result of this process.
"Third. The material is then subjected to a weak solution of
caustic alkali, when it falls into a pulpy mass of a dark-brown
color. It is then again washed to free it of the alkali, and may
be bleached by any of the known processes.
"The shavings must pass through these several processes, and
in the order stated, and this constitutes the invention. The processes taken separately will not produce the article, but their
sum will, and they are only claimed in their series, and not in
their individual capacities. It is admitted that alkali and ehlorine have been used in pulping vegetable matter. But it is not
known that alkali, chlorine, oxygen, and alkali, have been used
in the manner, and in the order, in which Messrs. Watt & Burgess use them. This order and series of processes is what, therefore, constitutes their invention, and what they suppose they
have embodied in their claim."
After some further discussion the patent, from which the
above specification is quoted, was granted.
The testimony of Burgess, one of the original patentees,
was taken by the complainants. He said:
"I began to make experiments on the preparation of pulp for
making paper from wood in 1851, with Air. Watt. On account
of his great age, making most of the experiments devolved on
me. . . . I produced a good pulp by boiling wood in caustic
alkali at a high pressure. I found that some woods required
much more alkali than others. I found that when intercellular
matter was not wholly removed by caustic alkali it could be decomposed by chlorine, or the hypochlorides, one answering the
purpose.as well as the other. I used, therefore, chlorine or
bleach-powder, preferably chlorine, since one of the products

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Slip. Ot.

Statement of the case.-Burgess's testimony.

attending the elimination of chlorine, namely, sulphate of soda,
had a marketable value in England. I found that to a certain
extent, and when desirable, I could substitute the employment
of caustic alkali for chlorine, the one for the other, but the
nature of the wood under treatment materially affected this
substitution. I found the greater quantity of intercellular tissue
was removed by the caustic alkali, the less chlorine or its compounds with oxygen -was required, and consequently the higher
the temperature and pressure, and the greater the strength of
the alkali employed the less of the intercellular tissue was left,
and consequently less chlorine or its compounds with oxygen
required; but if sufficient caustic alkali was employed at a
requisite temperature, chlorine was only necessary for bleaching purposes. A-s regards the cost, the chlorine process appeared to cost less than the free use of alkali, since one of the
products of its elimination is a marketable article in England,
and we calculated on the sale of the sulphate of soda as one of
the sources of profit in working the patent. In drawing up the
specification for a patent I therefore laid most stress on the
process that seemed to offer the greatest pecuniary advantage,
since the recovery of the soda-ash had not been practically tried
by us at this time, and we were in uncertainty as to the success
of such recovery. With a knowledge of the above facts, I was
desirous of embracing in my specification the modes of producing wood-pulps with caustic alkali, either with or without steam
pressure; supplementing when necessary the alkaline boiling,
with the subsequent treatment of chlorine or the hypoehlorides.
"I prepared a description of my invention-;-a provisional
specification-prior to my application for an English patent. I
here annex a copy of the specifications, both provisional and
final, of the English patent.
"The wood upon which it is intended to operate by this process should first be reduced to very fine shavings, the finer the
better; this may be done by any suitable machine.
"The shavings should then be boiled in caustic alkali of the
strength indicated by about 120 of the English hydrometer.
This process is much better performed under pressure, after the
wood has been boiled for about twenty-four hours, but we do
not confine ourselves to this time, as it varies with the nature
of the wood and amount of pressure, and it should be well
washed and squeezed to remove all the alkali.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Watt & Burgess's reissue 1448.

"It is then placed in a chamber furnished with racks about
nine inches apart, upon which the wood is placed and exposed
to the action of chlorine, or any of the compounds of chlorine
with oxygen, however obtained. The wood should be exposed
to the action of chlorine or its compounds with oxygen until it
assumes an orange color and falls into a pulpy mass on the addition of caustic alkali."
[Here followed a plan, stated to be a convenient and economical means of obtaining chlorine.]
"When the wood has been sufficiently acted upon by chlorine,
or its compounds with oxygen, it is to be removed from the
gasing-chamber, and the 11C1 with which it is saturated, which
is fbrmed by the action of the chlorine, is to be removed with
water and the wood pressed so as to remove as much of the
water and acid as possible. After all the acid has been removed
from the wood, it is to be placed in a suitable vessel, and a weak
solution of caustic alkali poured upon it so as to cover it, when
the wood falls into a pulpy mass of a dark-brown or almost
black color. . . . The pulp, after being well washed, has now to
be bleached. This may be done in the usual way, or we prefer
to add a certain quantity of chlorite of soda, called also hypochlorite, and liberating the hypochlorous acid by dry H11.
The quantity of chlorite of soda can only be learned by experience."
We now pass to2. RmissuE (1448) PRODUCT PATENT, APRIL 7TH, 1863.
The most important feature of this patent to be noted is
its claim; the matter of identity between the original and
reissue, not being a matter which need, in this No. 1448,
specially engage the reader's attention, that matter occurring
as one to be attended to chiefly in considering the original
and the reissue No. 1449.
Be it known that Charles Watt and Hugh Burgess did invent
a new and useful improvement in the manufacture of paperpulp, from wood and other vegetable substance.
Specification.
The wood or vegetable substance, from which it is intended

Tim

WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.-Watt & Burgess's reissue 1448.
to make the pulp, should be first reduced to fine shavings or
cuttings. This may be done in any suitable machine.
The shavings or cuttings of wood, or the vegetable substances,
are then to be boiled in a solution of caustic alkali, in a suitable
boiler, under pressure. The strength of the alkali is dependent
on the nature of the vegetable substance used and operated
upon. For non-resinous woods, a solution of alkali of the
strength indicated by 170 of the English hydrometer, or thereabouts, answers very well, and for deal, pine, or fir wood, or
other woods containing resinous matter, a strength of about 120
is sufficient, but varying with the nature of the vegetable substance being acted upon to a strength of about 100. The varied
nature of the vegetable substance, to be operated upon is such
that only general directions can be given for the strength of the
alkali or the degree of heat to be used, or the duration of the
operation. Boiling in a solution of caustic alkali, under pressure, is of essential importance.
By the words "under pressure" is meant a pressure at, near,
or above 3000 of Fahrenheit's scale, which is the ordinary pressure used; but a heat and corresponding pressure of from 3000
to 5000 may be used, according to the nature of the vegetable
substance to be treated, whether resinous or non-resinous, or
otherwise, and the time may be from four to twelve hours, according to the nature of the substance.
After the vegetable substance has been thus operated upon
by caustic alkali, under heat and pressure, for the requisite time,
as above described, it should be discharged, from the boiler,
while under pressure, into a tank or other reservoir with proper
safety-valves and pipes for the discharge of the steam, and
should be drawn as soon as the steam shall have escaped, into
open vats, where it 'can be operated upon in the next stage'of
the process, or it may be drawn directly into the vats from the
boiler.
The vats which receive the wood shavings or cuttings, or
other vegetable substances, being formed into pulp, should be
constructed with suitable means of drainage. The alkaline
solutions must then be removed from the pulp, either by perco.
lation and subsequent washing in the vats, or by pressure in
any convenient apparatus and subsequent washing. The mode
of percolation has generally been found sufficient. . . . The alkaline solutions having been removed by percolation and wash-

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Watt & Burgess's reissue 1449.

ing, or by pressure and washing, the wet mass of woody or vegetable pulp is now to be exposed to the action of chlorine, or
the compounds of chlorine with oxygen, for the purpose of
bleaching it and preparing it for the manufacture of white paper. Brown, colored, or unbleached paper, of a good quality,
can be produced from the pulp as soon as the alkaline solutions
are removed; but for the production of good white paper, it is
necessary to subject the pulp to the bleaching process. If the
material used be wood, or vegetable substance of a non-resinous
nature, the pulp may be bleached by subjecting it to the action
of chlorine in a gaseous form, or, which is preferable in this
case, in an aqueous solution, in any of the common and wellknown modes.
If the wood or vegetable substance be of a resinous nature,
the alkaline solutions should be removed by the mode above
described, and the pulpy mass should be exposed to the action
of chlorine, or its compounds with oxygen. This may be done
by placing the pulpy mass of woody or vegetable substance on
racks or drawers arranged in a chamber, and applying chlorine,
or its compounds with oxygen, in the gaseous form, which with
resinous substances is preferable to the aqueous solution, until
the mass is sufficiently acted upon. The mass must then be
again well washed and treated with a weak solution of caustic
alkali, warm preferred, which changes the red color to a darkbrown. The alkaline solution should then be removed by washing, and the resulting gray pulp may be bleached by any ordinary method of bleaching.
Claim.
What we claim, &c., as the invention of Charles Watt and
Hugh Burgess, as a new article of manufacture, is a pulp suitable for the manufacture of paper, made from wood or other
vegetable substances, by boiling the wood or other vegetable substance in an alkali under pressure, substantially as described.
We come, finally, in the Watt & Burgess patents, to

3. 1msSUE (1449)

PROCESS PATENT, APRIL 7TH,

1863.

In reading this reissue the reader will direct his attention
to the matter of how far it is for the same invention as the
original patent; that is to say, having in his mind how far that
37
VOL. MxIII.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.-Watt & Burgess's reissue 1449.

was for producing by a succession of operations-three operations perhaps-pulp in a state fit for washing and bleaching; he must now direct his attention to the matter whether
this reissue is for producing it by such a series or by a single
operation; whether, in short, the reissue is for the "same
invention" as the original patent.
Be it known that Charles Watt and Hugh Burgess, &c., did
invent, make, and apply to use, certain improvements in pulping
and disintegrating wood and other vegetable substances, &c.
Specification.
The wood or vegetable substances upon which it is intended
to operate by this process should first be reduced to shavings or
cuttings. This may be done in any suitable machine.
The shavings or cuttings of wood, or the vegetable substances,
are then to be boiled in a solution of caustic alkali, in a suitable
boiler, under pressure. The strength of the alkali is dependent
upon the nature of the vegetable substance used and operated
upon. For non-resinous woods, a solution of alkali of the strength
indicated by 170 of the English hydrometer, or thereabouts, answers very well, and for deal, pine, or fir wood, or other woods
containing resinous matter, a strength of about 120 is sufficient,
but varying with the nature of the vegetable substance being
acted upon to a strength of about 100. The varied nature of
the vegetable substance to be acted upon is such that only general directions can be given for the strength of the alkali, or the
degree of heat to be used, or the duration of the operation.
Boiling in a solution of caustic alkali under pressure is of essential importance. By the words "under pressure," is meant a
pressure at, near, or above 3000 of Fahrenheit's scale, whiqh is
the ordinary pressure used; but a heat and corresponding pressure of from 3001 to 5000 may be used, according to the nature
of the vegetable substance to be treated-whether resinous or
non-resinous, or otherwise-and the time may be from four to
twelve hours, according to the nature of the substance.
After the vegetable substance has been thus operated upon
by caustic alkali, under heat and pressure for the requisite time,
as above described, it should be discharged from the boiler, while
under pressure, into a tank or other reservoir, with proper safety

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1859.

valves and pipes fbr the discharge of the steam, and should be
drawn as soon as the steam shall have escaped, into open vats
where it can be operated upon in the next stage of the process,
or it may be drawn directly into the vats from the boiler. The
vats which receive the wood shavings or cuttings, or other vegetable substances being formed into pulp, should be constructed
with suitable means of drainage.
The alkaline solutions must then be removed from the pulp,
either by percolation and subsequent washing in the vats, or
by pressure in any convenient apparaius, and subsequent washing. The mode of percolation has generally been found sufficient. The alkaline solutions thus obtained may be saved and
evaporated down, and the residuum burned in a furnace suitably constructed, so as to prepare the alkaline substances for use
in a repetition of the same process.
The alkaline solution having been removed by percolation and
washing, or by pressure and washing, the wet mass of vegetable
or woody pulp is now to be exposed to the action of chlorine,
or the compounds of chlorine with oxygen, for the purpose of
bleaching it and preparing it for the manufacture of white paper. Brown, colored, or unbleached paper, of a good quality,
can be produced from the pulp as soon as the alkaline solutions
are removed; but for the production of good white paper it is
necessary to subject the pulp to the bleaching process.
If the material used be wood or vegetable substance of a nonresinous nature, the pulp may be bleached by subjecting it to
the action of chlorine in a gaseous form, or, which is preferable
in this case, in an aqueous solution, in any of the common and
well-known modes.
If the wood or vegetable substance be of a resinous nature,
the alkaline solution should be removed by the mode above described, and the pulpy mass should be exposed to the action of
chlorine or its compounds with oxygen. This may be done by
placing the pulpy mass of woody or vegetable substance on racks
or drawers arranged in a chamber, and applying chlorine, or its
compounds with oxygen in the gaseous form, which with resinous substances is preferable to the aqueous solution, until the
mass is sufficiently acted upon. The mass must then be again
well washed and treated with a weak solution of caustic alkali,
warm preferred, which changes the red color to a dark brown.
The alkaline solution should then be removed by washing, and

THE WOOD-PAPER

PATENT.

[Sup. ot..

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1859.

the resulting gray pulp may be bleached by any ordinary method
of bleaching.
Claim.
What we claim as the invention of Charles Watt and Hugh
Burgess is, first:
The process of treating wood or other vegetable substance,
by boiling it in alkali under pressure, as a process, or preparatory process, for making pulp for the manufacture of paper from
such woods or other vegetable substances substantially as described.
We also claim the process of treating resinous woods by boiling in an alkali under pressure, and treating the product with
chlorine and its compounds with oxygen, for miaking white pulp
for the manufacture of paper from such woods, substantially as
described.

So far as to the Watt and Burgess patents and their reissues. We now proceed toII.-KEEN'S BOILER PATENTS

The FIRST of these purported to be an invention of certain
"improvements in boilers for boiling wood or ligneous materials for making paper pulp, under pressure." The following was the
Specification.
Fig. 1, on page 581, represents a perspective view of said
boiler.
Fig. 2, on page 582, represents a vertical central section
through the same.
Mtfy invention relates to the construction of a boiler for boiling wood'and ligneous materials for making paper-pulp, in which
proper provision is made for keeping the stock covered by the
alkali or liquid used, and giving it motion, to insure the mass
being properly boiled throughout, and a discharge valve or cock,
by means of which the stock when sufficiently boiled is blown
out in a pulpy state.
To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe its construction and operation.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1863.
A represents a vertical cylindrical boiler, which is mounted
on supports, B, or on any other suitable frame. The upper part
of the boiler is made conical, and is provided with an expansionFio. 1.

chamber, 0, through the aperture of which the boiler is charged,
and which is closed by a cover, D, which is bolted steam-tight

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1863.
tO the same. The bottom of the boiler A, is made funnel-shaped,
and ends in the centre in the discharge-pipe, E, which is closed
by a piston or stop-cock, G. The latter is secured to the rod
H, and can be opened or closed by means of the hand-wheel F,
of tho rod H, which passes through the stuffing-box .I, and has
FiG. 2.

its lower bearing on the bracket a. K represents two stirrers,
the shafts of which run at their lower ends in the steps b, while
their upper ends pass through the stuffing-boxes L, and are
provided with pinions 31, which are driven by suitable gearing.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1863.
The shafts of the stirrers, K, are provided on one side only with
the horizontal stirring arms, which, when the boiler is to be
charged are turned towards the periphery of the boiler, and are
therefore not in the way of the material as it is thrown into the
boiler. d represents a perforated plate, which is secured to the
rod, N, and which rests on the brackets, g, of the expansionchamber, 0. It is intended to press the material down and to
keep it submerged in the fluid in which it is to be boiled. The
plate, d, is prevented from rising by the upper end of the rod, N,
being in contact with the lower face of the cover, D. 0 represents try-cocks, by which the material in the boiler can be tried,
to what degree of perfection the stock is worked.
The operation is as follows:
The boiler being charged with the proper solution of caustic
alkali or other suitable fluid, and with the material which is to
be reduced to pulp, the plate d is placed upon it, and the cover
G is screwed down tightly. The boiler A is then heated, either
by a direct fire or by any other heating apparatus, and the mass
in the boiler is boiled and stirred until thoroughly disintegrated.
During this process the steam arising from the fluid rises through
the perforated plate, d, and fills the expansion-chamber, 0, whence
it exerts a pressure upon the boiling mass in the boiler.
When the stock has been reduced to the desired perfection,
the stop-cock, G, is opened by means of the hand-wheel, E, and
the entire mass is blown by the pressure of the steam in the
expansion-chamber and boiler through the pipe, E, as a pulp,
into an open tank adjacent to the boiler, A. The expansionchamber, 0, may be provided with a pipe leading to a steamgauge, to indicate the pressure of steam in the boiler.
Claim.
Having thus described my invention, what I claim is a boiler
for boiling, under pressure, wood and ligneous materials for
making paper-pulp, constructed with an expansion-chamber,
stirrers, and discharge valve or cock, arranged for the purposes
and in the manner substantially as herein stated.
In regard to this patent, the main question seemed really
to be whether or not it was foi' a combination. The proofs
showed that the defendants had never employed two stirrers,
nor even one having arms upon one side alone, capable of

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Oft:

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1863.

being turned outwardly when the boiler was filled, so as not
to impede the filling or emptying of it. They used for some
time a single shaft provided with four blades, shaped like
those of a propeller; used, in other words, an ordinary
stirrer; but this they abandoned, they having found that
from its being under the expansion-chamber and under the
aperture for supply, it impeded the filling and emptying of
the boiler. This abandonment was about the time when the
bill in this case was filed. Messrs. Reuwick and other experts of the defendants testified that in their opinion the
contrivance of the defendants did not infringe this patent of
Keen. Dr. Rand, an expert in chemistry but not in me
chanics, who was called for another part of the case, but was
examined in this, gave it as his opinion that it did.
2. The SECOND of Keen's patents purported to be for "improvements in boilers for making paper-pulp," and contained the following
Specification.*
In boilers, where a perforated diaphragm is placed in the interior, and through which diaphragm the material out of which
the pulp is to be made is to be charged into the cylinder, it is
fbund that the material falling upon the diaphragm chokes up
its openings; and, moreover, gets above or on top of the liquid;
which it is the special object of the diaphragm to prevent. My
object and purpose is to prevent this difficulty; and I have
achieved it in a very simple manner. My invention consists in
connecting the man- or feed-hole in the shell of the boiler witl
the man- or feed-hole through the diaphragm, by a perforated
well or cylinder, so that the material can be charged through
said well into the boiler without falling upon or clogging the
perforated diaphragm.
To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe the same, by reference to the
drawings.

A, represents a boiler, which stands vertically in the furnace
or brickwork, and which, for strength and convenience, has
* The drawing on p. 585 represents the boiler in elevation, with a portion
of its upper part represented in section, to show the interior arrangement
thereof.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

585

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1863.
hemispherical ends, its body being cylindrical. This boiler is
suspended to the brickwork or foundation, by flanges, e, so that
FIG. 3.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Keen's patent, A.D. 1863.
it may expand or contract without loosening itself from the
foundation or its support.
In the interior of the boiler, near its upper end, there is placed
a perforated diaphragm, B, through the centre of which there
is an opening, c, c, and at the top or crown of the boiler there
is also a man- or feed-hole, or opening, a, a, and these two openings, a, c, are connected by a perforated well or cylinder, G, to
act as a guide for the material being charged into the boiler,
and to prevent it from falling upon the perforated diaphragm,
and thus not only choking its openings, but gettieg on top of
the liquid, which it is important to avoid as damaging to the
pulp.
The openings, a e, are respectively closed after the boiler
is charged, by the covers, b d, which may be secured in any of
the known ways of securing man-hole covers in steam-boilers.
Above the perforated diaphragm, B, there is an expansionchamber, I, into which the liquid contents of the boiler expand
when the fire is applied to the boiler, whilst the perforated diaphragm, B, keeps the crude material always submerged.
B, is a discharge-pipe at the bottom of the boiler, A; and F, a
stop or discharge valve, for blowing out the contents of the
boiler whilst under pressure, when said contents have been sufficiently boiled.
I C, is a steam-indicator, and D, a safety-valve, of any of the
common constructions; and instead of their being placed at the
top of the boiler, they may be brought down to any convenient
position or locality, near the attendant, so as to be readily observed by him.
The boiler may be heated by the direct application of fire, or
by any other convenient or known mode; but I prefer to use a
direct application of heat, and, for this purpose, use a fire car
or truck, H, on wheels, which is withdrawn when the boiler is
to be discharged, and replaced immediately after the boiler is
again refilled for service.
Claim.
Having thus fully described the nature, object, and purpose
of my invention, what I claim therein as new, and desire to
secure by letters-patent, is, first, a boiler provided with a perforated diaphragm and well, or their substantial equivalents,
arranged in the manner and for the purpose described.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the ease.-Mellier's patent, A.D. 1857.

I also claim, in combination with the boiler, the arrangement
of the discharge pipe and valve, for the purpose of blowing out
or discharging the contents of the'boiler under pressure, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
In regard to this patent, too, the main question seemed
really to be whether it was for a combination.
The proofs showed that the defendants did not use a perforated well connecting the feed-hole in the shell of the
boiler with a man-hole in its shell, but fed their boiler by
means of a feed-hole below the diaphragm, not through it.
III.-MELLIER'S PATENT, AUGUST

7TH,

1854.

This patent purported to be for an improvement in the
manufacture of paper.
Specification.
The invention has fdr its object a peculiar process for the
treating of straw and other vegetable fibrous materials requiring like treatment preparatory to the use of such fibres in the
manufacture of paper; and the improvement consists in subjecting straw or such other fibrous matcrials to a pressure of at
least seventy pounds on the square inch, when boiling such
fibrous matters in a solution of caustic alkali. For this purpose
the straw or fibrous matters are cut into short lengths, soaked
in warm water, and washed. They are then placed in a suitable
boiler; and I use for such purpose a rotary boiler, provided with
a coil or coils of steam-pipe for the purpose of heating the contents, and I prefer that the boiling should be carried on at a
temperature to produce at or above eighty pounds on the square
inch in the boiler where are the fibrous materials to be acted
upon. But so high a temperature is not absolutely necessary;
for I have found by experiment that it is essential that a temperature equivalent to seventy pounds on the square inch must
be employed. The quantity of alkali used is at the rate of
about sixteen per cent. of caustic soda or potash of the straw
or fibrous substance under process. The fibres may then be
bleached by the use of a comparatively small quantity of bleaching powder or chloride of lime.
To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe more fully the manner of using

588

TnE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the ease.-Wellier's patent, A.D. 1857.

the same. The straw or other fibrous material requiring a like
process to prepare the same for the paper manufacture, is first,
as heretofore, to be cut in h chaff-cutting or other machine into
short lengths, and to be freed from knots, dirt, and dust, and
then steeped for a few hours in hot water. The straw or fibrous
materials and a weak solution of caustic alkali are then to be
placed in a suitable close boiler, heated by steam, as hereafter
explained, and the heat is to be raised to such a degree as to
attain and maintain for a time, a pressure internally of the
boiler equal to or exceeding seventy pounds on the square inch,
that is, about'31 0 1 of Fahrenheit, by which means a considerable
saving of alkali, as well as time and fuel, results, as compared
with the means of using a hot solution of caustic alkali, as now
,practiced in preparing straw and other fibres for papermakers.
The boiler employed for the purpose, and the manner of heating
it by steam, may be varied. But first, it must have a rotary
motion, either on its long or on its small axis, by means which
are very well known; and secondly, I prefer not to send the
steam directly into the liquid in which the materials are immersed, but to pass it either in a jacket around the boiler or.
through a coil, or a system of steam pipes inside of it, so that
the steam does not mix with the caustic alkaline solution in the
middle portion of the boiler, but is -kept separate, and does not
therefore in condensing dilute the caustic alkaline solution used.
The plan of construction of the boiler I would recommend
would be, if the boiler is to rotate vertically or on its small axis,
as very well known, to cover it with a jacket so that the steam
could circulate from one end to the other between the two
plates, or rather, if it is to revolve horizontally or upon its long
axis, as is equally very well known, to fix near each end of the
boiler, and inside of it, a diaphragm or partition, which partitions are connected together by numerous tubes, which are
arranged in a circle near the outer circumference of each partition. By this arrangement the steam is introduced through
the hollow axis at one end of the boiler, and it passes through
the steam-pipes and thence into the compartment at the other
end of the boiler, where it and the condensed steam are conveyed away, as is understood, through the other hollow axis.
In adopting the plan of not sending directly the steam into the
boiler I found the three following advantages: 1st, not to dilute,
as I have already said, the alkaline solution; 2d, to avoid the

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Mellier's patent, A.D. 1857.
trouble of having sometimes the end of the steam-pipe in the
boiler choked with straw, and to prevent, in case that, by one
cause or another, the. pressure in the steam-boiler would fall
under the degree of the pressure in the straw-boiler, the priming
of the first by the second, viz., the absorption of straw and alkaline solution from the straw-boiler into the steam-boiler; 3d,
the greater facility of cooling the straw-boiler when the pressure
has been maintained for a sufficient length of time, by means of
turning off the steam at one end, letting it at the other end out
of the jacket, or of the coils or steam-pipes just described, and
passing through the same a stream of cold water, which at the
same time that it cools the mass furnishes a quantity of cold
water, which can be received in convenient vessels, and will be
found very useful for washing the straw or other fibrous materials after boiling.
By means of submitting the straw or similar fibrous materials
to a pressure of between seventy to eighty-four pounds on the
square inch inside of the boiler, I can reduce considerably the
proportion of alkali; and the solution which I prefer to use is
to be from two to three degrees of Baumd, or of a specific gravity
of from 1.013 to 1.020, and at the rate of about seventy gallons
of such solution to each cwt. of straw or other fibrous vegetable
matters requiring like treatment.
The boiler is to be filled with straw and alkaline solution and
then closed fluid and steam-tight. The boiler is made to revolve
slowly, say about one or two revolutions per minute, and the
steam is to be admitted. I find it desirable to keep up the heat
and pressure during about three hours after the pressure above
mentioned has been obtained, when the process of boiling is
complete. A steam-gauge properly fixed upon the boiler will
enable one to ascertain when the pressure has attained the required degree. When the apparatus and the fibres under process have been cooled by means hereinbefore mentioned, or
rather when the pressure has been reduced to nothing, I open
the man-hole of the boiler, empty the materials in suitable vessels, and wash them first with hot water, then with cold water,
until the liquor runs perfectly clear. I then steep the fibre for
about an hour in hot water, acidulated with a quantity of sulphuric acid, equal to about two per cent. of the weight of the
fibres under process, and finally the washing is completed with
cold water. The straw or fibre may then be bleached in the

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.-Mellier's patent, A.D. 1857.

ordinary manner, and it will be found to be accomplished by a
comparatively small quantity of chloride of lime.
Claims.
I do not claim the general use of caustic alkaline solutions,
nor the employment generally of a close boiler for boiling straw
or other vegetable fibrous substances.
But what I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is the use of a solution of caustic soda (Na 0) in a
compartment of a rotary vessel, separate from that which contains the steam-heat, substantially as described.
I also claim the within-described process for bleaclfing straw,
consisting in boiling it in a solution of pure caustic soda (Na 0)
from 2' to 3' Baum6, at a temperature not less than 3100 Fahrenheit, after it has been soaked and cleaned, and before submitting it to the action of a solution of chloride of lime from 10
to 1W, substantially as described.
It was the second of these claims that the defendants were
charged with infringing.
On the whole case, therefore, to recapitulate and explain,
the alleged infringement of the Mellier patent and of the
reissue No. 1449, consisted in the use by the defendants of
bamboo, disintegrated by a peculiar process, in the manufacture of paper-pulp, by boiling it in a caustic alkaline solution under a pressure not exceeding sixty pounds, and at a
temperature corresponding thereto; and as to the reissue
No. 1448, in the use of the pulp so produced.
The apparatus whose use by the defendants was alleged
to infringe the Keen boiler patents of 1859 and 1863, was a
boiler for the same purposes as those claimed in those
patents, and exhibiting the same combination of parts as
the patent of 1859, except the peculiar stirrers, and the same
combination as the patent of 1863, except the diaphragm;
nor were any equivalent devices used in the place of these
elements.
One great difficulty in regard to the patent to Mellier
was, saying what inven'tion it was that was patented; and
different courts bad given to the pate'Ut different construetions.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Statement of the case.-Mellier's patent, A.D. 1867.

In the court below the invention covered by this patent
was construed to be a process for the production of pulp
from wood, &c., by a simple chemical operation, and upon
this singleness of the operation and the consdquent economy
of time and material the novelty and utility of the invention were sustained. The description of his process by the
patentee was so construed by the court, upon reference to
the French system of reckoning pressure, as to fix the
minimum temperature specified at a point below that which
the defendants had reached in their use of the process. The
claim was declared to include vegetable substances besides
those similar to straw, and of such a class as to comprise
bamboo, and the preparatory process used by defendants
for the disintegration of the material, it was held, did not
affect their liability for the use of a final process which
was substantially the same as that claimed in the Mellier
patent.
In the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania Mr. Justice Cadwalader expressed his idea of Mellier's invention thus:
"Mellier would appear to have been the first person who discovered that the tempefature and strength of the solution and
the duration of the boiling could in practice be so graduated
and adjusted as to produce the pulp at one operation."
But in Buchanan v. Howland,* when the same patent was
presented for construction, the Circuit Court for the Nortbern District of !NewYork (Hall, J.) thus stated the principle
of the discovery:
"The real discovery of Mellier, the main idea, the spirit or
principle of his invention, was that the known effects of a solution of pure caustic soda, which had been previously advantageously used for boiling straw and other fibrous materials of similar character and texture, in open vesssels, in which the heat
could be raised only to 2120 Fahrenheit, might by the use of a
much higher degree of heat, not less than 3100 Fahrenheit, be
advantageously and greatly increased; while the lessening of
* 2 Fisher, 359; concurred in by Woodruff, J.; American Wood-paper
Company v. The Glen's Falls Paper Company, 8 Blatchford, 516.

592

TiiE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Mellier's patent, A.D. 1867.

the time the fibre was subjected to the action of the caustic
alkaline solution, and the use of the weaker solution, which
could thus be advantageously used, would be less injurious to
the fibre as well as more economical in its use and application.
This was the discovery or principle to be developed and practically applied, and he embodied that principle and arranged and
described the means of its practical application, for the purposes
specified, in the mode and manner particularly described in this
specification. This mode, he says, he prefers, and he recommends a particular construction of the boiler as proper to be
used in the practical application of the leading idea and principle
of his invention. lBut, aware that inferior forms may be devised
by any mechanic, and that superior forms and modes of construction and application may be devised after the use of his
process has become familiar, he very wisely makes his second
claim broad enough to cover his actual discovery and invention,
irrespective of the particular form or construction of the vessel
in which the boiling process might be carried on."
Assuming this construction, which accorded in essential
parts with the construction of the court below, to be correct,
and assuming also the patent to be valid, there 'remained
the question of infringement of this Mellier patent.
On this point it appeared that the defendants chiefly used
bamboo (which they disintegrated by blowing through a steam
gun), as their chief material for making pulp, straw being
perhaps used also sometimes; and it appeared that while
using a caustic alkaline solution of the general strength of
from two and a half to three degrees Baumei, they occasionally-though only occasionally-used an external pressure, as measured by the gauge, of from forty to sixty
pounds.; the latter being equal to an internal pressure of
nearly seventy-five pounds, or a temperature of above 310'.
On the whole case, the court below held, as already stated,
p. 5701. That the reissues, N'os. 1448 and 1449, of the Watt &
Burgess patents, were void: the first as claiming what was
not new; the second as being for a different invention from
the original.
2. That there was no infringement of the Keen boiler

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Watt & Burgess reissue 1448.

patents, both the patents being for combinations, and all
parts of the combinations not being used in the alleged infringement of either patent.
3. That the Mellier patent was to be construed in the way
already stated as the one in which the court below construed it, and that so construed it had been infringed.
An injunction was accordingly awarded.
.4'. 11 A. Tenkes, for the American Wood-Paper Company;
M,'. B. TV. Russell, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Though the two reissued patents (Nos. 1448 and 1449*)
were granted on the same day and to the same patentees, and
though they are both substitutes for the one original patent
granted July 18th, 1854, antedated August 19th, 1853, they
are to be carefully distinguished one from the other. The
first (No. i448) is a patent for a product or a manufacture,
and not for any process by which the product may be obtained. The second (No. 1449) is for a process and not for
its product. It is quite obvious that a manufacture, or a
product of a process, may be no novelty, while, at the same
time, the process or agency by which it is produced may
be both new and useful-a great improvement on any previously known process, and, therefore, patentable as such.
And it is equally clear, in cases of chemical inventions, that
when, as in the present case, the manufacture claimed as
novel is not a new composition of matter, but an extract obtained by the decomposition or disintegration of material
substances, it cannot be of importance from what it has been

extracted.
There are many things well known and valuable in medicine or in the arts which may be extracted from divers substances. But the extract is the same, no matter from what
it has been taken. A process to obtain it from a subject from
which it has never beeu taken may be the creature of inven* Supra, pp. 575 and 580.-REP.
VOL. xxr r.

38

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Watt & Burgess reissue 1448.

tion, but the thing itself when obtained cannot be called a new

manufacture. It may have been in existence and in common
use before the new means of obtaining it was invented, and
possibly before it was known that it could be extracted from
the subject to which the new process is applied. Thus, if
one should discover a mode or contrive a process by which
prussic acid could be obtained from a subject in which it is
not now known to exist, he might have a patent for his process, but not for prussic acid. If,then, the Watt & Burgess
patent for a product is sustainable it must be because the
product claimed, namely, "a pulp suitable for the manufacture of paper, made from wood or other vegetable substances," was unknown prior to their alleged invention.
But we think it is shown satisfactorily that it had been produced and used in the manufacture of paper long before
1853, the year in which the original patent of Watt & Burgess was dated.
It is insisted, however, that the paper-pulp which had been
produced before the invention of Watt & Burgess was not
pure cellulose, that it was only approximately pure, and from
this it is argued that the pure article obtained from wood
by their process is a different and new product, or manufacture. Whether a slight difference in the degree of purity
of an article produced by several processes justifies denominating the products different manufactures, so that different
patents may be obtained for each, may well be doubted, and
it is not necessary to decide. The product of the complainants' patent is a pulp suitable for the manufacture of paper,
and, confessedly, to make white paper it requires bleaching.
The pulp which had been obtained by others from rags in
large quantities, and from straw, wood, and other vegetable
substances to a lesser extent, was undeniably also cellulose,
suitable for manufacturing paper, and, so far as appears,
equally suitable. The substance of the products, therefore,
was the same, and so were their uses. The design and the
end of their production was the same, no matter how or
from what they were produced.
It is freely admitted that the patent of an originator of a

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Watt & Burgess reissue 1448.

complete and successful invention cannot be avoided by
proof of any number of incomplete and imperfect experiments made by others at an earlier date. This is true,
though the experimenters may have had the idea of the invention, and may have made partially successful efforts to
embody it in a practical form. And though this doctrine
has been more frequently asserted when patents for machines have been under consideration, we see no reason why
it should not be applied in cases arising upon patents for
chemical products. But the doctrine has no applicability to
the present case. What had been done before the Watt &
Burgess invention was more than partially successful experimenting. A product or a manufacture had been obtained
and had been used in the arts, a manufacture which was the
samein kind and in substance, and fitted for the same uses
as the article of which the complainants now claim a monopoly. That this manufacture may have been the product
of one or more different processes is, as we have said, quite
immaterial in considering the question whether it is the
same as that produced by the complainants.
It has been, however, argued that the product of the complainants' process and the product claimed as a new manufacture is cellulose, of the proper consistency and dimensions,
and with a fibre of a proper length for immediate felting
into paper, while the cellulose obtained from rags or wood,
or other vegetable substances, by other processes than that
of the Watt & Burgess patent, had a longer fibre, and required, in addition to chemical agency, mechanical treatment to prepare it for use in paper making. Hence, it is
inferred the product is a different one, that it is properly
denominated a new manufacture, and that it was patentable
as such.
This argument rests upon a comparison of the finished
product of the complainants with an article in an intermediate stage, and while undergoing treatment preparatory to
its completion. It may be quite true that at some stage of
its preparation the paper-pulp made and used before 1853
was not of the proper consistency for paper making, or that

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Watt & Burgess reissue 1449.

its fibre was too long, and that it required additional manipulatiou to fit it for use. But when it had received that
treatment, its fibres were reduced to the proper length, and
it became capable of all the uses to which it is claimed the
product of the complainants is adapted. It is with the finished article that the comparison must be made, and, being
thus made, we are of opinion that no substantial difference
is discoverable.
It may be that if the cellulose which had been produced
prior to 1853, of such form and with such properties that it
could be at once felted into paper, had been only a chemical
preparation in the laboratory or museum of scientific men,
and had not been introduced to the public, the Watt & Burgess product might have been patented as a new manufacture. Such appears to be the doctrine asserted in some
English cases, and particularly in Young v. Fernie.* In that
case, Vice-Chancellor Stuart remarked upon a distinction
between the discoveries of a merely scientific chemist, and
of a practical manufacturer who invents the means of producing in abundance, suitable for economical and commercial purposes, that which previously existed as a beautiful
item in the cabinets of men of science. "What the law
looks to," said he, "is the inventor and discoverer who finds
out and introduces a manufacture which supplies the market
for useful and economical purposes with an article which
was previously little more than the ornament of a museum."
But this is no such case. Paper-pulp obtained from various
vegetable substances was in common use before the original
patent was granted to Watt & Burgess, and whatever may
be said of their process for obtaining it, the product was in
no sense new. The reissued patent, No. 1448, is, therefore,
void for want of novelty in the manufacture patented.
The reissue, 1449, is for a process to obtain pulp from
wood or other vegetable substances for the manufacture of
paper. It consists in boiling the wood under pressure in a
* 10 Law Times Reports, 861.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

Opinion of the court.-Watt & Burgess reissue 1449.

solution of caustic alkali, with such an adjustment of the
strength of the solution, of the pressure, and of the time of
boiling as to produce the pulp ready for washing and bleaching at a single operation. It is in the main, if not entirely,
a chemical process, and it differs from all processes for obtaining paper-pulp known before 1853, when the original
patent to Watt & Burgess was dated, in this particular,-that
it produces the pulp ready for bleaching or for use in a single
operation. In all processes prior to that date, successive
operations were necessary in order to obtain a pulp fitted for
use in making paper. These were in part mechanical, sometimes wholly so. In some cases the vegetable substances
bad been boiled in alkalies in open or closed boilers, under
pressure, or without pressure. To this treatment, disintegration by mechanical means was added, and in no case had
a suitable pulp been produced by chemical agency and in a
single stage of treatment. It must then be admitted that
the process described in this reissue was unknown before
1853, and if then invented by Watt & Burgess, it was patentable to them. Whether it was in fact patented to them
is another question. It is, we think, fairly established by
the testimony of Hugh Burgess, one of the original patentees, that in 1851 or 1852, he produced a good pulp by boiling wood in a caustic alkali at a high pressure. The witness
does not, however, state that this production was the result
of a single process. His description of his experiments, as
given in his testimony, is very significant.* What he there
swears to does not look at all like the production of pulp by a
single operation, nor does it intimate any discovery of a process by which it could be effected. Such an idea seems not
then to have been in the mind of the inventor. And when
the schedule to the English patent, dated August, 1853, was
prepared, it described a process, consisting of several stages.
In that wood shavings were first boiled in caustic alkali of
the strength indicated by about twelve of the English hydrometer. This process, the specification stated, was much
*

See supra, pp. 573-575.-REP.

.598

THE WooD-PAPE.R PATEN.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.-Watt & Burgess reissue 1449.

better performed under pressure, and after the wood had
been boiled about twenty-four hours it was to be well washed
and squeezed to remove the alkali. The wood was then
placed upon racks in a chamber and exposed to the action
of chlorine, or any of the compounds of chlorine with oxygen. When sufficiently acted upon by the chlorine it was
to be removed and washed, and then subjected to the action
of a weak solution of caustic alkali. Only then, after these
successive stages, was a pulp produced ready for bleaching.
The specification of this patent is the same as that of the
first American patent, dated July 18th, 1854, but antedated
August 19th, 1853, to correspond with the English one. If
it contains the germ of the process described and claimed
in the reissue 1449, it is too evident to admit of doubt there
was then in the mind of the patentees no finished conception of such a process. What they contemplated was a
series of manipulations. Boiling under pressure, though
preferred, was not stated to be essential. No graduation of
the strength of the alkali was described. No degree of
pressure was named, and no variation of the time of treatment. These are all-important to the production of pulp in
one operation.
Undeniably three successive stages of operation were described in the specification, three distinct processes, not employed contemporaneously, but following each other in order
of time. And this succession in the order mentioned was
considered by the patentees as essential, in fact it was claimed
as their invention. In support of their application for the
original American patent it was argued on their behalf that
"their invention relates to a series or combination of processes, in the order in which they are stated, for treating
shavings, &c."* The several processes and their order was
then stated. An "order and series of processes" is what,
according to the statement made in support of their application, "constituted their invention, and what they supposed
they had embodied in their claim." And the claim of the
* See the argument quoted, supra, pp.

672, 573.-REP.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Keen, A.D., 1859.

patent was for the treatment of wood shavings by chemical
agencies "in the order substantially as described." How,
then, is it possible to maintain that a process to obtain pulp
by chemical action in a single operatiou had been invented
by the patentees when their first patent was granted? And
what is of more importance, how is it possible to hold that
such an invention was patented to them? We find no satisfactory evidence that the idea of a single-stage process was
ever conceived by Watt & Burgess until after a patent disclosing it was granted to Marie Amedee Charles Mellier on
the 26th day of May, 1857. This was before the surrender of
their original patent, and before the reissue. And if Watt
& Burgess had not invented the single-stage process, when
their original patent was granted, the reissue 1449 is for a
diffirent invention from that described or referred to in the
original patent; and such is the testimony of the experts
who have been examined in this case. But the testimony
of the experts is not needed. It appears on the face of the
reissue that it is for a different invention, for the reissue is
attempted to be sustained only on the ground that it is for
a single-stage process. Both the reissues, therefore, we
think, are void.
We proceed next to consider the two boiler patents granted
to MorrisL. Keen. The first of these, dated September 13th,
1859,* is fbr a boiler for boiling under pressure wood and
ligneous materials for making paper-pulp, constructed with
an expansion-chamber, stirrers, and discharge valve or cock,
arranged for the purpose and in the manner substantially
as stated in the specification. Such was the chim of the
patentee. The invention claimed is, therefore, a combinatiofi, in a specified manner, of an expansion-chamber, stirrers
of a peculiar construction, and a discharge valve in a boiler,
and the purposes avowed are to keep the stock boiled covered with the liquid used, to give it motion in order to insure its being properly boiled throughout, and to blow it
* Spra, pp. 580-583.-REP.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of th6 court.-Keen, A.D. 1859.

out in a pulpy state when it has been sufficiently boiled.
In the arrangerent of the constituents of the combination
for the accomplishment of these purposes, the expansion,
chamber is provided with an aperture through which the
boiler is charged. The stirrers are two in number, the
shafts of which are placed vertically toward the sides of the
boilers, and provided with arms on one side only, in order
that they may be turned toward the periphery of the boiler
when it is to be charged, so as not to be in the way of the
material thrown in. That the stirrers constructed and arranged substantially as described were a material part of the
combination is certain, and we think it has not been proved
that they were used by the defendants. It is true that the
extent of the use, if there was any, is immaterial. A single
instance of using the combination would have amounted to
infringement, and would have entitled the complainants to
a decree. But the defendants never employed two stirrers,
nor even one constructed with arms only on one side, capable
of being turned outward when the boiler was charged, so as
not to be in the way of the charge or an impediment to the
discharge. The novelty in the arrangement, so far as it relates to the stirrers, is in their construction and location,
with a view to remedy this difficulty. There is evidence
that the defendants did for a time use an ordinary stirrer, a
single shaft in the centre of the boiler, provided with four
blades, in form like the blades of a propeller. Arranged as
it was, directly under the expansion-chamber, and under the
supply aperture, it was, of course, an obstruction to the material with which the boiler was charged, and to the discharge of the pulp, and hence its use was abandoned either
before or soon after this bill was filed. Regarding, as we
must, the Keen patent as being for a combination of the devices mentioned, constructed and arranged as described in
the specification, and for the purposes avowed, we think it
must be held that the device employed by the defendants
cannot be considered substantially the same as the peculiarly
constructed and located stirrers of the patent. We think it
evident that the novelty and usefulness of the Keen com-

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Keen, A.D. 1863.

bination, so far as it relates to the stirrers, is in their construction and location, so as to avoid the obstruction to filling and discharging the boiler, which was caused by the use
of such an agitator as the defendants employed. We cannot,
therefore, hold that this paLent has been infringed by the
defendants. They have not used all the constituents of the
combination, nor employed any equivalent device which produces, or is calculated to produce, the same effects. It is
true a witness for the complainants, not a mechanical expert,
has testified that the boilers used in the factory of the defendants are substantially the same as those described and
patented by Keen, and are operated and treated substantially
in the same way. This was, no doubt, the opinion of the
witness, but he has stated no facts that justify such an
opinion. He has not undertaken to say that the central
propeller of the defendants is substantially the same in operation or effect as the stirrers of the Keen patent. And all
the mechanical experts who have been examined are of
opinion that the defendants' boiler does not infringe either
of the Keen boiler patents.
We are also of opinion that there has been no encroachmeut upon the second boiler patent, dated June 16th, 1863.*
In that there are two claims. Tile first is "a boiler provided
with a perforated diaphragm and well, or their substantial
equivalents, arranged in the manner and for the purpose
described" (in the specification). The second is, "in combination with the- boiler, the arrangement of the dischargepipe and valve, for the purpose of blowing out or discharging the contents of the boiler under pressure, substantially
as and for the.purpose set forth" (in the specification). The
invention relates to boilers in the interior of which a perthrated diaphragm is placed, and through which diaphragm
the nmaterial for paper-pulp manufacture is to be charged
into the cylinder. Its design is to prevent the falling of the
material upon the diaphragm and choking its openings, and
the means devised for achieving this are connecting the feed* Supra, pp. 584-587.-Rnr.

602

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Keen, A.D. 1863.

hole in the shell of the boiler with a man- or feed-hole
through the diaphragm by a perforated well, or cylinder, so
that the material can be charged through the well into the
boiler without falling upon or clogging the diaphragm. As
the defendants have not used a perforated well connecting a
feed-hole in the shell with a man-hole in the diaphragm of
the boiler, they are certainly guilty of no infringement of
the first claim in this patent. They feed their boiler by
means of a feed-hole below the diaphragm, not through it.
Surely this is not a substantial equivalent for a cylindrical
well from the top of the boiler through the diaphragm.
Surely the patent was not intended to be for every possible
means of supplying the boiler without clogging the interstices or perforations of the diaphragm. Had it been it
would be void. But it is not for a result however obtained,
it is for a mode of attaining a useful result. In such a case
as this it cannot be maintained that because the result is
the same the devices for obtaining it are not substantially
different.
It is argued, however, that the defendants have infringed
upon the second claim of the patent, and they undoubtedly
have if the mode of charging the boiler, and the devices by
which the charging is accomplished, have no relation to the
asserted invention. If it be true that the second claim means
nothing more than the assertion of an exclusive right to discharge any boiler in the mode described in the specification,
very clearly the defendants are trespassers. But is that the
true construction of the claim ? We think not. It is not
the arrangement of the discharge-pipe and valve that the
patentee claims, but it is those devices in combination with
the boiler particularly described in the specification, namely,
a boiler containing near its upper end a perforated diaphragm, with an opening in its centre, and having a well
connecting that opening with the feed-hole in the shell of
the boiler. It may be quite true that the well and the mode
of charging the boiler have no effect upon the mode of discharge, yet the claim is for a combination, of which the well
is a part. Its language admits of no other construction.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Mellier's patent.

Hence the defendants, not having used the well, they have
not used the combination.
These considerations lead to the conclusion that the appeal of The American Wood-Paper Company cannot be sustained.
It remains to inquire whether the Mellier patent* is a
valid one, and whether the defendants have been guilty of
infringing it. Both these inquiries the Circuit Court answered in the affirmative, and consequently awarded an
injunction against the defendants. It is from this part of
the decree they have appealed.
The difficulty of this part of the case lies in determining
what was the invention of Mellier-the invention patented.
The second claim of the p)atent (which is the only one asserted to have been infringed) is, to say the least of it, obscure. It is avowedly for a process, and a process described
in the preceding specification. But what that process is
which the patent describes, wherein consists its novelty and
usefulness, it is not easy to define. And it is not surprising
that though no less than three Circuit Courts have been
called upon to construe the patent, a construction somewhat
diferent has been given in each case.
In the court below the principle of the Mellier discovery
was held to be this, namely, that the effect of a solution of
pure caustic soda upon straw and such other fibrous materials could be increased by the use of it under pressure, at
a temperature of not less than about 310' Fahrenheit, so
as to result in the production of the nearly pure fibre without resort to any other chemical process, thereby saving
both alkali and time. In the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania
the discovery was, by one of the judges, understood to be
that the temperature and strength of the caustic alkali so;
lution, and the duration of the boiling could in practice be
so graduated and adjusted as to produce the pulp at one
operation. This construction of the specification was, in
* Supra, pp. 587-590.

TiE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Meltier's patent.

effect, holding the invention to be substantially the same
as that in the Watt & Burgess reissue No. 1449, already
considered.
But in Buchanan v. Howland,* when the patent was presented for construction in the Northern District of New
York, the principle of the discovery was held to be that the
known effects of a solution of pure caustic soda, which had
been previously used for boiling straw and other fibrous materials of a similar character and texture, in open vessels, in
which the heat could be raised only to 2120 Fahrenheit,
might, by the use of a much higher degree of heat, not less
than 310', be advantageously and greatly increased, while
at the same time the reduction or the materials to paperpulp would be more economical, inasmuch as it dispensed
with the large quantities of alkali which hlad been previously
employed. This resembles the construction adopted in the
court below, though not exactly the same. And such, we
think, is the true construction of the specification, and the
process described is, we think, an attempted embodiment of
this principle. Undoubtedly the patentee in framing his
process made use of known agents. The use of caustic
alkali in reducing vegetable substances to paper-pulp was
no novelty. Neither was boiling under pressure. But a
process combining those things with a certain specified
arrangement of the strength and quality of the alkaline solution, and a defined regulation of the heat and pressure, may
well have been patentable if it had no other novel result
than the production or paper-pulp more economically. In
the cpecification the improvement claimed is declared to
consist "iin subjecting straw or other fibrous materials to a
pressure of at least sevenJty pounds on the square inch when
boiling such fibrous matters in a solution of caustic alkali."
Theni follows a description of the mode in which the improvement is effbeted, in which not only is the minimum of
pressure or heat described, but the strength of caustic alkali
used is approximately defined. The heat is specified by
* 2 Fisher, 341.

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Mellier's patent.

stating it as equivalent to at least seventy pounds on the
square inch, internal pressure, on the boiler, and the strength
of the alkali used is described as from two to three degrees
of )3aum6, or of a specific gravity of from 1.013 to 1.020.
These are to be used together in a boiler where a steam
gauge will render it possible to ascertain when the pressure
has attained the required degree. A certain strength of
alkaline solution, and a degree of heat, indicated by a minimum pressure, are essential elements in the process. The
precise proportion of alkali used is not specified, but it is
described as about sixteen per cent., that is, sixteen pounds
to one hundred of the fibrous substance under process. The
heat is described as that which is equivalent to at least
seventy pounds internal pressure on the boiler, or, as the
patentee says, equivalent to 3100 Fahrenheit. Quite evidently by using the phrase "internal pressure," the patentee
intended artificial pressure alone, that produced by the application of beat, and the measure of the heat. If so, the
pressure, as measured by the steam-gauge, instead of being
seventy pounds, is the weight of one atmosphere (14.) less,
or 55-,3 pounds. This was the opinion of the court below,
and in that opinion we concur. That the patentee so understood it is manifest from the fact that he defined seventy
pounds internal pressure on the boiler as being equal to
about 3100 of Fahrenheit. It is much more than equal to
that temperature if the pressure is marked by the steamgauge, unless the weight of the atmosphere be deducted.
But if from it be deducted the weight of one atmosphere,
the remainder (55i%) 'approximately corresponds with the
temperature named. Sixty pounds pressure exceeds 3100
Fahrenheit, even with distilled water, and still more with an
alkaline solution. It is, then, altogether probable the French
tables of steam-pressures, recognized throughout the scientific world, were in the patentee's mind. They start from a
vacuum at zero, and make ordinary atmospheric pressure
1 4 -J. pounds, whereas safety valves and manometer gauges
in this country are always graduated so as to express the
pressure in pounds, exclusive of that of the atmosphere.

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.-Mellier's patent.

Mellier was a Frenclhman and probably familiar with the
French tables.
Understanding the terms used in the specification thus,
the elements of the process claimed are, 1st, the use of a
solution of pure caustic soda (natrium and oxygen), from
two to three degrees lBaumb strong; and, 2d, boiling the
materials to which the process is applied in the solution
raised to a temperature of not less .than 310' Fahrenheit,
which, of course, implies the use of a close boiler. The
preparation of the materials for the process is no part of it,
nor is the subsequent washing and bleaching.
The claim, it is true, in referring to the material to be
treated, mentions only straw, but the object of the claim
was to secure a monopoly of the process, not to enumerate
the materials to which it might be applied. They had
already been described in the specification, and there was
no necessity for mentiouing any of them in the claim. It is
true the patent cannot be extended beyond the claim. That
bounds the patentee's right. But the claim in this case
covers the whole process invented, and the complainants
seek no enlargement of the process. Certainly the claim
of the process ought not to be regarded as excluding all
other substances than the one mentioned. As already noticed, the specification avows the object of the invention to
be a process for treating straw and other vegetable fibrous materials requiringlike treatment preparatory to the use of suehfibres
in the manufacture of paper. The subject to be treated is
fibrous materials of it vegetable nature. And it may well
be doubted, in view of this general declaration of the object,
whether there is anything that limits the scope of the invention to a process of treating straw and other like materials.
The language of the patent is not "straw and other like
vegetable nmaterials." The specification speaks of " straw
or such other fibrous matters," of "straw or fibrous matters," of "straw or fibrous substance," "straw or other
fibrous material," and it uses other similar forms of expression, but all of them clearly referring to fibrous materials
requiring treatment like that required by straw for the pro-

Oct. 1874.]

THE WOOD-PAPER PATENT.
Opinion of the court.-Mellier's patent.

duction of paper-pulp. It would, therefore, in our opinion,
be too narrow a construction of the patent to hold that it is
for a process applicable only to straw or other similar vegetable substances, and not applicable to vegetable substances
generally requiring like treatment for the uses mentioned.
It remains only to inquire whether the defendants have
infringed upon the complainants' rights as thus defined, for
no sufficient reason has been given to justify our holding
the patent void. This part of the case presents real difficulty. If there has been any infringement it was very
slight. Admitting that bamboo, which is the subject principally used by the defendants (though there is some evidence that straw was also used), is one of the vegetable
fibrous materials to which the complainants have an exclusive right to apply their process, does the evidence show
that the process has been applied? Certainly it has not,
unless in boiling bamboo or straw the minimum degree of
heat and pressure specified in the patent has been employed
by the defendants in their treatment of vegetable substances.
The evidence upon this subject is that while using an alkaline solution of less than 3 degrees Baum6 the defendants
have sometimes used an external pressure, as measured by
the gauge, of from forty to sixty pounds, the latter being
equivalent to an internal pressure of nearly seventy-five
pounds, or a temperature above 3100. This may have been,
and it probably was, only occasionally, but it was, nevertheless, an invasion of the monopoly. In regard to the strength
of the solution of caustic alkali employed, there is evidence
that the general strength was from two and a half to three
degrees Baum6.
Upon the whole, therefore, we have come to the same
conclusions as those reached by the court below.
DECREE AFFIRMED:

court.

each party to pay his own costs in this

