Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE C0. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

85

Syllabus.

precaution began to the moment when every opportunity
to avoid the danger ceased.
Precautions must be seasonable in order to be effectual,
and if they are not so and a collision ensues in consequence
of the delay, it is no defence to allege and prove that nothing
could be done at the moment to prevent the disaster, or to
allege and prove that the necessity for precautionary measures was not perceived until it was too late to render them
availing. Inability to avoid a collision usually exists at the
moment it occurs, but it is generally an easy matter, as in
this case, to trace the cause to sote antecedent omission of
duty on the part of one or both of the colliding, vessels.
Plainly both were in fault in this case in that they continued
to advance under headway in a dark night, when those in
charge of them knew that there was imminent danger that
they would collide. Both vessels having been in fault the
rule is that the damages should be divided between the offending vessels.
DECREE REVERSED, with costs in this
is REMANDED

court, and the cause

with directions to divide the daniages found in

the District Court, together with the costs in both of the
subordinate courts.
REVERSAL AND REMAND ACCORDINGLY.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

A., of San Francisco, aged twenty-six, applied, on the 5th of June, 1867, to
the agent there of a New York life insurance company to insure his

life, the money to be payable "1at forty-five, or death," and the policy
to take effect from date of the application. The agent acknowledged
the receipt of $99.30 as the first quarterly premium, with a proviso
that "said application shall be accepted by the company; but should

the same be declined or rejected by said company, then the full amount
paid by A. will be returned to the applicant on the production of this
receipt." In fact A. did not pay any money at this time, but only
gave a promissory note for the $99.30, which note he never, at any
time, paid.

86

INSURANCE CO. V. YOiNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Upon the trial, the court below (to which the case was submitted without the intervention of a jury, under the act of March 3d, 1865, which
enacts that the court may, by agreement of parties, find the facts, and
that the finding shall have " the same effect us the finding of a jury"),
found, as a fact, that the company 11accepted" the application and sent
a policy to its agent; " but that the policy did not in terms agree with
the memorandum as to date and time of payment." The policy sent
made the quarterly payment $96.60 (a difference in A 's favor), and
the policy was antedated so as to run from the 5th day of April, 1867;
a day which the policy showed was the applicant's birthday. This
variation was of course against his interest. Accompanying the policy
sent to the agent were two receipts for premiums, executed by the company in New York, one as of the 5th of April, 1867, and the other as of
the 5th of July, 1867, under which receipt was a 4iNotice to policyholders," that unless premiums were paid on or before the day they became due, the policy was forfeited and void; that agents were not authorized to make, alter, or discharge contracts, &lwaive forfeitures;
that payments of premiums to agents were not valid unless receipts
were given, signed in New York by the officers of the company, the
local agents to countersign them as evidence of payment; and that all
premiums were payable in New York. The policy and these receipts
reached the agent at San Francisco on the 2d of August, having been
executed in New York, probably twenty-three to thirty days before.
The agent countersigned them, and on the 8th (six days after receiving
it) wrote to A., then absent from home, informing him that his policy
had arrived, and asking whether he would have it sent to him or held
subject to his order. It did not appear whether A. received or did not
receive the letter. On the 21st of August he was shot (becoming at
once insensible), and died on the 20th of September. Held, that owing
to the change of terms in the policy from those contemplated by A.,
the applicant, the acceptance by the company was a qualified acceptance
which A. was not bound to accept; that there having been no evidence
that he did accept it the company was not bound.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California,
in which court the administrator of McPherson Young, of
San Francisco, sued the Mutual Life Insurance Company
of New York (a company incorporated by the State of New
York but having a general agent, one HI. S. Homans, at
San Francisco, and an office there for the transaction of life
insurance business) to recover $5000, which the administrator alleged had been'insured by the said company on the life
of his decedent and not paid.
The case was submitted to the court under the act of

Oct. 1874.]

INsuRANcE Co. v. YoUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

87

Statement of the case.

March 3d, 1865, without the intervention of a jury. This
act enacts that parties may submit issues' of fact in civil
cases in this way; that the finding of the facts by the court
may be general or special, "and shall have the same efflct
as the verdict of ajury." And it adds that "when the finding .is special the review may extend to the determination
of the sufficiency of the facts to support the judgment."
The case, as found by the court was thus:
On the 5th of Tune, 1867, the said McPherson Young made
application to the said Homans, general agent as aforesaid,
for all insurance of .5000 on his life, and thereupon entered
into a contract with Hiomans, as such general agent, in these
words:
YORK.
"Received, San Francisco, June 5th, 1867, from McPherson
Young, of San Francisco, California, $99.30, being the first
quarter-annual premium on his application for a policy of insurance of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New,York, for
the sum of $5000 on the life of said Young, payable at forty-five
or death, and premiums paid up in full in ten years; said policy
of insurance to take effect and be in force from and after the date
hereof, provided that said applicationshall be accepted by the said
company; but should the same be declined or rejected by said
company, then the fall amount hereby paid will be returned to
said applicant upon the production of this receipt.
"For the Mutual Life Insurance Company,
" H. S. HoMANs,
"THE MUTUAL

rIFEINSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW

General Agent for the Pacifi- Coast."'

The finding of the court proceeded:
"The application of the said Young was transmitted to the
said company,'and was by them accepted; and a policy was made
out, signed, sealed, and transmitted to the general agent, who
received the same about the 2d of August, 1867. But the policy
did not in terms agree with the memorandum as to date and time of
payment."

The $99.30 mentioned in this receipt were not paid in
money; Young simply gave his note for the amount, pay-

88

INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG's ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

able to Ilomans, personally, at sixty days, which note was
never paid.
By the terms of the receipt, as the reader will have noted,
the policy contracted for was to take effect and be in force
from the date of the receipt, that is to say, from the 51h of
June, 1867. The quarterly payments would thus, of course,
have been to be made on the 5th of September and the 5th
of December, 1867, and on the 5th of March and the 5th of
June, 1868, and so on till the ten years had expired or death
had supervened. The quarterly payments, too, were to be
$99.30.
The policy as issued differed from that contemplated by
the receipt, in these particulars:
1st. It bore date the 51h of April, 1867, and instead of
being made to take effect fiom the 5th of June, was made to
take effect from the said preceding 5th of Apri l .
2d. The quarterly payments were to be $96.60 instead of
$99.30.
3d. The days of payment during the ten years were to be
the 6th (lays of April, July, October, and January, instead
of the 5th days of June, September, December, and March.
The policy, in which Young's age was stated to be twentysix years, witnessed that "in consideration of the representations made and of the sum of $96.60, to them daly paid
by McPherson Young, and of the quarter-annual payment of
a like amount on or betbre the 6th days of April, July, October, and January, in every year during the continuance of
the policy, the company agreed to pay the said amount of
$5000 to the said McPherson Young or his assigns, on the
6th of April, 1886, when the above-named person, whose life is
hereby insured, shall have attained the age of fory-five years; or,
should he die previous to attaining that age, in sixty days
after the notice and proof of his death, to his executors, administrators, or assigns; the balance of the year's premium,
if any, being first deducted therefrom."
The policy contained a provision, that"If the said premiums shall not be paid on or before the days
above mentioned for the payment thereof. . . . then in every such

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE

0. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

89

Statement of the case.

case the company shall not be liable for the payment of the sum
assured, or any part thereof, and this policy shall cease and determine."
At the date of these transactions, the time reqnired to go
from New York to San Francisco-there being then no
overland route-was from twenty-three to thirty days.
The policy after being executed was transmitted by the
company in New York to lornans at San Francisco, where
it arrived on the 2d of August, 1867. With the policy were
transmitted and received two receipts for premiums, assuried to be due April 6th, 1867, and July 6th, 1867, signed
by one W. Stewart, secretary of the company in New
York; one of them, the one for the April premium, will
show the form. It was thus:
"THE

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
"BROADWAY AND LinERTY STREET, NEW YORK,
"April 6th, 1867.

"Received from McPherson Young $96.60 for the quarterannual premium on policy No. 65,733, due the 6th of April, 1867.
For terms of mutual agreement, see application and policy.
"WILLIAM

"Countersigned

at

STEWART,
"Secretary.

"H. S. HO MANS,
"Agent."

On this receipt, as on that for the July premium, was
affixed, on the 2d of August, 1867, by the agent, Homans,
a cancelled revenue stamp, and the receipts were countersigned by Romans, as indicated in the copy of the one above
given.
To both the receipts was annexed a document, thus:
"NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.

"The agreement is mutual (see applicationand policy); that
unless the premium is paid on or befbre the day it becomes due
the policy is forfeited and void. Agents are not authorized to
make, alter, or discharge contracts or waivO forfeitures. Payments of premiums to agents are not valid unless receipts be
given signed by the president, secretary, cashier, or actuary.

90

INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG's ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
When receipts are sent to agents for delivery, such agents shall
countersign the same as evidence of payment to them. All premiums
are due and payable at the office in New York. For the convenience of the assured they may be made to an agent, but only
upon the production of the receipt above specified.
"F. S. WINSTON.
',.President."

On the 8th of August, 1867, that is to say, six days after
the policy was received by the agent, Hornans, he wrote to
Young, addressing him at Vallejo, California, as follows:
"SAN FRtANCISCO, August 8th, 1867.
"McPHERSON YOUNG, ESQ.,
"1Vallejo, California.
"DEAR Si: Your policy of insurance with the Mutual Life
Insurance Company has arrived. Please infbrm me whether I
shall send it to you at Vallejo, or if you will call and get it
when you are in the city.
"]11. S. HOMANS,
"General Agent."
The case, as found, continued:

:' But whether said note was delivered to or received by said

Young, or when forwarded, and in what manner, does not appear
from the evidence. N o notice of the acceptance of said application, or of the issue and arrival of the said policy is shown to
have been delivered to or received by said Young, nor was any
demand made upon him for further payment, nor any receipt
or notice requiring payment presented to him."
Young was shot at Vallejo on the 21st of August, 1867 ;*
and removed on the next day to an hospital in San Francisco,
where he died on the 20th of September following; having,
from the time that he was shot, been physically and mentally
unable to attend to any business. After his death, the agent
wrote "Cancel; dead," on the policy, and sent it with the
two receipts of April 6th and July 6th for premium, attached to the policy and uncancelled, and the note for $99.30,
* The shooting was stated, in the opinion of the court below, to have
been accidental.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

91

Statement of the case.

which Young had given to the agent June 5th, 1867, to the
office in New York, where the officers, on the 21st of October, cancelled the policy by tearing off the seal and cutting
out the name of the president. The note for the $99.30
remained in the company's hands unpaid, but was never
surrendered or offered to be surrendered to Young. The
word "cancelled" was written across its face in lead, but by
whom did not appear. No subsequent premium was ever
demanded by the company or' paid.
Administration having been granted on the estate of
Young, the administrator sued the company.
The declaration alleged that on the 5th of June,A.D. 1867,
the company caused to be made a policy of assurance, purporting that, in the consideration of $99.30, then paid, being
the first quarterly annual premium for the sum of $5000 of
the life of McPherson Young, payable at forty-five or death,
and his promise and undertaling to continue to pay thereafter
to the said company, the defendant, like quarterly payments
of $99.30 during the term of ten years thereafter, if he
should so long live, they did assure, and agree, to and with
the said McPherson, that they would pay unto him, upon
his attaining the age of forty-five years, or to his executors,
administrators, or assigns, in case he should die before attaining that age, the sum of $5000. And that the said
McPherson, in all things, performed the agreement, and all
the conditions and promises which by the terms of the said
policy were by him to be performed.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and also two
special pleas:
1st. That the policy was issued and delivered to the deceased on the 61h of April, 1867; that the premium therein
agreed to be paid was not paid, and had never been paid;
and that by the rules of the company, of which the decedent
had full knowledge, this non-payment operated as a forfeiture.
2d. That another premium, the second, came due July
6th, 1867, that this had not been paid, and that the nonpayment operated as a forfeiture, &c., all as before.

92

INSURANCE Co. v. YouNG's ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the insurance company.

The court below gave judgment against the company, and
the company now brought the case here.
31r. W. D. Davidge, for the company, plaintiff in error:
I. Thefinding qf the court does not sustain the contract set out
in the declaration, and upon which issue was joined.
The court found no such remarkable contract as is alleged
in the declaration; a contract whereby a party is insured in
the sum of $5000, in consideration of $99.80 paid, and his
pronise to make similar quarterly payments; nor indeed is
there any contract of insurance at all found.
The court did find that the application was accepted ; and
if such acceptance, accompanied, as it was, by the act of
transmitting a policy different from that applied for, constituted in law an absolute, instead of a qualified acceptance,
then there was found a contract to insure. But a contract
to insure is not a contract of insurance. Still less is a contract to insure in consideration of the payment of quarterly
premiums of $99.30 for ten years. a contract of insurance, in
consideration of the payment of the first quarterly premium
of $99.80, and the promise of the assured to make other similar quarterly payments during the ten years.
The question presented is not one of mere variance. It
is not that the policy declared on was misdescribed, but that
the finding shows there never was any policy at all; and,
more than this, the declaration alleges a policy with conditions, and avers that such conditions were performed by the
assured. The finding does not show what were the conditions, nor that they were performed; and even if it be assumed that a contract to insure, specially found, would sustain an averment of a policy of insurance, still the allegation
that there were conditions, and that they were performed,
would have to be found, otherwise the plaintiff would be
absolved from performance of the conditions.
It is admitted that, upon a contract to insure, the assured
has a remedy by action at law, as well as by bill in equity,*
*

Commercial Mutual Marine Insurance Company v. Union Marine In-

surance Company, 19 Howard, 318, 323.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

93

Argument for the insurance company.

but it is maintained that, in such action, the plainitiff must
show the conditions or the policy contracted for, and that
the loss claimed would be recoverable under them. He
must give the same evidence of compliance with such conditions as if the action was founded on the policy itself, and
is not to be discharged from them, because he is suing upon
a contract to issue a policy instead of the policy.

II. The finding does not show any liability on the part of the
company.
1. If the acceptance of the application and transmission
of the policy be taken together, they show, as was doubtless
the case, a qualified acceptance of the proposal to insure.
The only overt act found is the transmission of the policy;
and the acceptance of a proposal consists in some overt act
intended to signify to the other party such acceptance. The
overt act may be by words spoken, or mailing a letter, or
otherwise, but, whatever the form, until such act there is
no aggregatio mentiurn.*
Here the overt act was not, in essential particulars, in
accordance with the terms of the offer. The policy differed
to the disadvantage of Young from the application in respect of date, from which the policy was to take effect, and
the time .for making payment of premium. Instead of
making the policy begin June 5th, 1867, it made it begin
two months earlier, so a second premium came due two
months before the time that Young proposed. The loss to
the applicant by this change is obvious, and needs no comment. The policy was not then an unqualified assent to the
terms of the application. The minds or the parties did not
meet, and there was no contract, and indeed none is found
by the court below. Certainly Young was not bound to
accept the policy. The company could not, after tender of
it, have maintained an action to recover the amount of the
note, but he had a complete defence in the fact that the
policy differed substantially from the application, and the
'ITayloe

v. Merchants' Fire Insurance Company, 9 Howard, 390; Hallock v. The Commercial Insurance Company, 2 Dutcher, 268; leiman v.
Phonix Insurance Company, 17 Minnesota, 153.

94

INSURANCE

O. v. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the insurance company.

magnitude and effect of that difference were matters for him
to decide.*
If he was not bound, neither was the company.
2. If the acceptance found be dislocated from the overt
act, without which iii some shape there can be no assent to
a proposal, how then stands the case?
The terms of the application are not found. It is only by
inference that the conclusion is reached that they were the
terms mentioned in the receipt. But the case is that of a
special verdict, and in a special verdict the court can intend
nothing. It is the province of the jury, or the court discharging the office of the jury, to draw inferences. Neither
the court below as a tribunal of law, nor this court can draw
them. But waiving this objection it is apparent that the
subject-matter of thb application was a policy of insurance,
and the law would presume a policy on the usual conditions.
But what were these conditions? The finding is silent.
That there were conditions is admitted by the declaration.
But what were they ?
Waiving too this difficulty, let it be inferred that the
policy found by the court contained the usual conditions,
as doubtless it did. What then ? Why then the policy to
which the applicant was entitled under the contract assumed
to have been made contained the condition that the policy
should cease and determine in the event of non-payment of
premiums. By the very contract assumed then it was a condition, that the regular quarterly annual premiums should
be punctually paid, and those premiums were payable on
the 5th days of June, September, December, and March.
Were the premims of the 5th of June and 5th of September paid? Plainly not. For the first, the note was given
but never paid. As to the September premium, no further
attention was paid to it by the applicant than if the assumed
contract had never been made.
If the assumed contract ever existed, it arose when the
application was accepted. It matters not whether the appli* Eliason v. Henshaw, 4 Wheaton, 225.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

95

Argument for the assured.-An absolute acceptance made by the insurers.

cant knew of the acceptance or not. He knew of his offer,
and that such offer would, upon acceptance, ripen into a
contract, and that such contract must devolve upon him
certain obligations. He is presumed to have known the
law and the character of the policy for which lie had applied.
The applicant then failed to pay the note given in anticipation of the first premium, and also the second premium.
The fact of non-payment of the first note is established by
the finding.
Even if there was no default in the payment of the first
premium, there certainly was in that due the 5th of September.
The condition as to payment of premium in both the assumed contract and that evidenced by the policy is the same.
This condition is plainly a (ondition precedent. The payment of the premium is explicitly declared to be indispensable to the continuance of the contract, or, in other words,
such payment is a condition precedent.

In Ruse v. Mutual Life Insurance Conipany,* the provision
of the policy, as to the payment of premiums during the
continuance of the policy, was almost identical with that in
the present case. It was held that such a provision created
a condition precedent, without performance of which the
plaintiff could not recover, and to the same effect is the later

case of Howell v. The Knickerbocker Life insurance Company,t
where perfbrmance was rendered impossible by the act of
God; the assured intending to pay the premium but being

prevented by an attack of apoplexy two hours before the
policy expired. But we need not cite cases to prove settled
law.
Messrs. Jenrl Beard and William Todd Otto, contra:
The questions to be decided arise upon a case found by
the court below; a case in the exact nature and with the
exact effect of a special verdict: where, as the opposing
counsel say, this court cannot draw inferences.
* 23 Noew York, 516.

t" 44 Id. 276.

96

INSURANCE

0. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the assured.-An absolute acceptance made by the insurers.

This finding or special verdict-the case-shows:
1. That on the 5th June, 1867, Hornans, agent of the New
York company, received from Young his note of $99.30, as
the first quarterly premium on an application by Young to
the company for a policy for $5000 on his own life, payable
at forty-five or death, and premiums paid up in full for ten
years; and that it was then agreed between Young and the
agent of the company that such a policy, from the company,
should take effect and be in force from the said 5th of June,
provided that the application should be accepted by the company; but that if it should be declined or rejected by the
company then that the note should be returned.
The case shows with equal distinctness, and by an express
finding,
2. That the application of the said Young was transmitted
to the said company and was not declined nor rejected, but
that it was by them "accepted," and that a policy in response to the application was made out, signed, sealed, and
transmitted to the general agent, who received it, and informed Young that it was awaiting him.
The finding that the application was "accepted" by the
company is a finding of a fact. There is nothing to show
that an acceptance is found by the court because a policy
was trans4mitted for the applicant. To infer an acceptance
from that cause would be to make a conclusion of law, and
not to find a fact; which alone, in this part of the case, it was
the court's duty to find. There was doubtless evidence, independent of the transmission of the policy, to show an acceptance.
Now, in point of fact, it cannot be doubted that the company meant the policy sent to be, not a rejection of the
proposition made, and another proposition; nor, in truth, a
qualified acceptance of anything, but to be a substantial compliance with the proposition; a compliance more favorable,
if anything, to the applicant than would have been a literal
compliance. For though the policy sent did difflr in dates
and premiums from the offer made, the result of the difference was practically small, and might prove a gain to Young.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE

0. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

97

Argument for the assured.-The absolute acceptance made, not kept.

So far as the amount of premium offered was concerned,
Young was plainly a gainer. He offered $99.80. The company took $96.60. The agent had doubtless miscalculated
the value of the life. Ee asked more than the company's
rates required. Had Young paid for ten years, which at the
age of twenty-six it seemed probable that he would do, the
difference would have been $108, pure gain to him. Then,
on the other side, the company made the risk begin two
months before Young did. The reason is obvious; for the
policy shows that Young's birthday was the 5th of April,
and the payment became due on his arriving at the age of
forty-five; and doubtless in order to facilitate calculation
that day was taken. The change caused Young to pay twothirds of $96.30, that is to say, $64.20 more than he offered.
So that as undoubtedly the company hoped that Young
would live for the whole ten years during which premium
was to be paid, and as of course Young expected to do the
same, we have a case where on both sides the policy was
meant to be in substance what was asked for. Indeed, in a
certain result, that is to say, if Young died on a certain day,
the result might be exactly the same as would have been a
literal compliance.
The opposing counsel, however, consider that the offer
made by Young was in fact and form and substance rejected, as one that the company's interest required it to
reject; and that a new proposition, one more favorable to its
own interest, was offered; and, so far as the company was
concerned, accepted in advance. They treat the differences
between the proposition and the policy as wide-substantial-and for the sake of the argument we shall now in what
we have to say so regard them.
We set out then on the assumption-one which there is
then no evading or avoiding-that the company did, as
matter of fact, "accept," Young's proposition, as made.
Opposing counsel speak of a "quaizfied acceptance" as the
acceptance which was made. But this is their language;
not the language of the finding. It says that "the applicaVOL. XXIII.

7

98

INSURANCE CO.

V.

YOUNG'S ADMINrSTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the assured.-The absolute acceptance made, not kept.

tion of the said Young was accepted." And again it speaks
of an acceptance simply, when it says, "No notice of the
acceptance of said application was given." An "acceptance" simply, is an acceptance unqualified; and an acceptance unqualified is an acceptance absolute; an acceptance
pure and simple. After this finding of an absolute acceptance, and the signing, sealing, and transmission of a policy,
the finding continues: "But the policy did not, in terms,
agree with the memorandum as to date and time of payment;" and the differences are stated.
We have then the case of an application to the agent for
a policy of a certain date and time of payment, and a contract to furnish such a policy, provided the application is
accepted, and an acceptance absolute of the proposition.
But instead of the transmission of a policy according to the
application which has been accepted-that is to say, one
with the proper dates, we have the transmission of one with
other dates, dates not according to the proposition which
has been accepted, that is to say, one with improper dates.
Now what, in law, is the effect of such a transaction? The
same exactly as exists in the case of a statute enacting that
such and such things shall be, with a proviso repugnant
to the nature of the enactment. Such a proviso is simply
insensible and void.
If A. offer to sell to B. a house for $10,000, the offer being
perfectly explicit, with leave to B. to accept, or to decline,
or reject within ten days, and B. within the ten days says,
"I do not decline your offer, nor reject it; I accept it;" and
with this absolute acceptance he send B. $9750, can any
man say that the making of this is a "qualified acceptance,"
or a refusal to accept what is offered, and the making of a
new proposition to treat on a different basis? Could not B.
keep the $9750 and sue for the balance? The case before
us is after the finding of an acceptance absolute, in essence,
that case. And it is unimportant in what way you vary the
figures, so long as you assume that there have been-what
is here found as part of the case-that the offer made was
"accepted."

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE Co. v. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

99

Argument for the assured.-Forfeiture for non-payment waived.

This "pinch," the opposing counsel perceive and admit
when they say :*
"The court did find that the application was accepted, and
if such acceptance, accompanied as it was by the act of transmitting a policy different from that applied for, constituted in
law an absolute instead of a qualified acceptance, then there
was found a contract to insure."
And then they go on a technical ground, shown by themselves, it may be added, not to be true as respects a right to
sue, that a contract to insure is not a contract of insurance.
Then, if our position as to the effect of sending an improper policy after the proposition of Young had been "accepted," is right, we have the case, confessed by opposing
counsel to ex:ist, of a contract to insure according to the application; and an admission also "that upon a contract to
insure, the assured has a remedy by action at law, as well as
by bill in equity."
The only difficulty set up on the other side is "that in
such action the plaintiff must show the conditions of the
policy contracted for, and that the loss claimed would be
recoverable under them ;" and that here two payments were
due, which were conditions precedent to the policy taking
effect, and that those two payments or the second one has
not been -made.
Let us concede this as a general proposition, to be true.
But it is equally true that such prepayment may be waived.
And the question now is, has it in the case before us, been
waived ?
We assert that it has been.
It is elementary law that forfeitures are not favored, and
that provisions for forfeiture must be strictly construed. The
authorities also hold that these principles are applicable to
forfeitures in insurance policies; that the provisions for forfeiture are inserted for the benefit of the companies and may
be waived by them; and that courts will find a waiver upon
slight evidence.t
* Supra, p. 92.

t See among many cases, Ripley v. Ahna Insurance Company, 29 Bar-

100

INSURANCE Co. v. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the assured.-Forfeiture for non-payment waived.

Now, let us see how the company itself applied these principles to the facts of this case.
The company asserts by its special pleas that the policy
was issued and delivered to the defendant April 6th, 1867;
that the first premium was not then paid; and that the
second premium fell due July 6th, 1867, and was not paid.
The policy bears date April 5th, and the receipts prepared
by the company correspond with this date. The company,
therefore, regarded the second quarter's premium as due
July 6th, and acted upon that idea, although the application
was made, and the first memorandum, receipt, and contract
given on June 5th. The promissory note given for the
first quarter's premium being payable without grace, fell
due August 4th. It will be seen that the condition of the
policy imposing a forfeiture, required payment to be made
"at the office of the company in the city of Ne York, or to
agents when they produce receipts signed by the president or secretary, unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing." There
is no evidence in this case of its having been otherwise
agreed in writing. It does not appear that the policy was
received at the San Francisco office before the 2d of August.
At or about the 6th of July the policy must have been in
the defendant's office in New York, which would give
twenty-seven days to August 2d, to make the passage to San
Francisco. The defendant knew at the time of dispatching
the policy that the second instalment of premium had not
been paid at the office in Neew York. It also knew that it
could not be paid to its agents in San Francisco in accordance
with the terms of the contract, so as to be obligatory upon
defendant, for the reason that the only receipt duly signed as
specified in the policy authorizing the payment to its agents
was attached to the policy, and would not reach San Franbour, 557; Goit v. National Protection Insurance Company, 25 Id. 189;
Baker v. Union Life Insurance Company, 6 Robertson, 394; Boehen v. Williamsburg Insurance Company, 35 New York, 131; Bouton v. American
Mutual Life Insurance Company, 25 Connecticut, 542; IPino v. Merchants',
&c, Insurance Company, 19 Louisiana Annual, 214; Insurance Company
v. Webster, 6 Wallace, 129.

Oct. 1874.] INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR. 101
Argument for the assured.-Forfeiture for non-payment waived.

cisco till the month of August, a month after it was due.
The defendant did not expect payment at its office in New
York city, or it would not have sent its receipts to its agent
to enable him to receive payment. The defendant, then, by
its officers in New York transmitted the policy and receipts
with knowledge that payments had not and would not be
made at the office in New York, and that it could not be made
elsewhere in the mode required by the terms of the contract
for a mouth after due. Yet the policy was sent with an intent that it should be delivered, and payment received by
its agent in San Francisco, although it knew that there must
necessarily be a forfeiture upon the strict letter of the contract. Also, after the receipt of the policy at San Francisco,
on the 2d of August, nearly a month after the second instalment fell due, according to the terms of the policy, the defendant's agent, necessarily knowing that payment had not
been made, stamped and countersigned the receipt, ready
for delivery upon payment, thereby treating the agrepneent
as still in force. Again, on the 8th of August, four days
after the note given for the first quarter's premium fell due,
and after default in payment, and, necessarily with knowledge of non-payment of both the note and second instalment, the agent of the defendant addressed to Young the
note of the day just named, and set out, supra, p. 90.
This act, after the forfeiture, if any there was, had attached, recognizes the agreement as being still in force.
The letter does not even demand payment, or refer to the
fact of non-payment, or fix any time when the insured should
call for the policy, or make payment. It simply informs
him that his policy has arrived, and asks whether it should
be sent to him at Vallejo, or whether he would call and get
it, when in the city, implying that it would be at his option
to have it sent to him at once, or wait his convenience till
he should come to the city and be able to call for it. The
defendant manifested no haste or anxiety upon the subject,
for the policy was on hand from the 2d to the 8th of August
at least before the notice to Young was even written, and it
does not appear when it was sent. It does not appear that

102

INSURANCE C0. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the assured.-The insurers estopped.

this, or any other notice, reached him. No other act of the
company is shown inconsistent -with this action, or tending
to show an intention to insist upon a forfeiture till after the
death of Young, when the policy was cancelled October 31st;
payment of the loss having before been refused.
It could hardly have been expected that Young would
call to make the second payment until informed whether the
risk had been accepted, especially as there was ample time
between June 5th, when the application was made, and the
5th of September, the time when the next. payment would
have fallen due, had the date of the policy agreed with the
date of the application, and the preliminary memorandum
of agreement given to him by defendant's agent in San
Francisco. It was, doubtless, supposed that notice of acceptance or rejection would be given before the note for the
first quarter's premium would fall due. But however this
may be, the several acts of the defendant, and all its acts,
and the acts of its officers in relation to the matter, which
were performed subsequent to the accruing of the forfeiture,
if any accrued, treat the agreement for insurance as still in
force. They, affirmatively, indicate an intention, not to insist upon a forfeiture, and had the accident and death not
occurred, there can be no doubt, from the facts found, that
even as late as the death of Young, the premium would
have been received and the policy delivered. We submit
that upon the case as found there was a waiver of any forfeitures which had accrued, and that under the circumstances,
after the death of the assured, it was too late, for the first
time, to insist upon the forfeiture.
In conclusion, and reverting here to an earlier point of
the argument, we may say that the counsel of the other side
in arguing that the company in sending the policy which
they did, only declined the proposition which -r. Young
made, and simply proposed a new one to him, are forced to
assume that the company committed an impropriety towards
Mr. Young and a departure from the usual, proper, decorous, and therefore the legal modes of doing business. The

Oct. 1874.] INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

103

Argument for the assured.-The insurers estopped.

company was perfectly free to accept or to decline the propo-

sition made to them.

If they meant to decline it and to

propose a new proposition, their duty was to do this by a
proper and customary sort of communication; and not to

make out a new policy such as their interests but not Mr.
Young's dictated, and then, however much against his interest, and only because it was in advancement of their ozon, force
it down on him under penalty perhaps of his being harassed
soon afterwards by a lawsuit for premiums, as upon an implied acceptance by him, unless he could show that, at his
own cost and charges, he at once pitched their unasked for
and undesirable policy back into their face. Decency requires that any insurance company which thus seeks to force
men into its purposes, against their own, should be held to
have said, "Our policy sent is so favorable to us and so little
favorable to you that we are willing to be bound, till we
hear affirmatively from you that you do not accept; not expecting to hold you till we hear positively that you do."
In such a case the company takes the risk of death occurring before an affirmative reply is received; and if death
does occur, the company is concluded.
We are not here asserting that a "contract" in the strict
legal sense of that word can be made, unless the party assured have heard of what is offered and have assented to it.
But whether any "contract" can or cannot be made without
his doing so is not the question. The question is whether
an insurance company which in the eager pursuit of its own
interests, and in the disregard of other people's, so far departs from the customary, becoming, and proper modes of
doing business, as to decline, in the way which it is here
asserted that this company did decline, a proposition made
to it, and to make, in the way, which it is here asserted that
this company did make, a new proposition which it *wished
to have accepted,-whether a company so acting cannot be
estopped from asserting, in its own interests and against the
interest of its customers, that it did not make such a contract ? And whether when, by the death of the party, that
is to say, when by the act of God, it has been caught in its

104 INSURANCE 00. V. YOUNG's ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.-For the insurers.

own supersubtle contrivances, and the administrator of the
decedent comes into court with the company's own policy in
his hand, "signed, sealed, and transmitted to their general
agent," who had written to the party that it awaited his
order-whether in such a case, a court may not hold "Melior
est conditio possidentis," or, if the judicial dignity could ever
properly translate the venerable maxims of the law into
phrase not quite perhaps becoming the dignity of the ermine,
say: "You have been rightly served."
We have, of course, in these remarks been going on the
assumption of the other side, that the differences between
the policy sent and the proposition made were regarded by
the company as important. As we have already said, the
policy sent was meant to be a substantial compliance with
the proposition made by Young, and in truth was so, and
certain to be accepted by him.
.eply:
1. The finding shows that Young's proposition was "accepted," not that it was "accepted absolutely." Admitting
that by itself a finding that the proposition was "accepted"
might mean that it was accepted absolutely, the finding of
the acceptance is here not by itself. The same paragraph
which states that the proposition was accepted and that a
policy was sent, states also that the policy did not agree
with the memorandum as to date and time of payment, and
shows wherein the two things differed. This means plainly
that the company accepted the life, but not the exact risk
offered; in other words, that it accepted the proposition
qualifiedly.
2. All the acts relied on as showing a waiver relate-it
may be remarked-to the policy which actually issued, and
not to the contract alleged to result from the acceptance of
the application.
But, passing by this.
To constitute a waiver there must be a valid agreement
not to insist on performance of a condition precedent, or
such acts as work an estoppel, from having influenced the

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE CO. V. YOUNG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

105

Opinion of the court.-Agreement unilateral.

conduct of the party whose duty it was to perform the condition.
There was here no agreement; and such a thing as a
waiver without the party bound to perform being influenced
by the acts of waiver relied on, or being even cognizant of
them, is without foundation in principle or precedent.*
Even if the acts relied on would constitute a waiver it
would be merely of the article of time, and not of the payment of the premium during the continuance of the policy.
In no possible view of the case did the company consent
to take the premium after the contract had been extinguished by death. Such a thing would simply abrogate any
contract of insurance. Here there was no tender during
the life of the party assured, nor, indeed, at any time.
4. No waiver is found by the finding, and any waiver is
matter of fact.
5. It may be true that the manner in which the company
declined the proposition made, and in which it offered a
new proposition, was not the most formal that could be conceived. But we are inquiring not into forms, but into substance. The question is, "was the sending of the policy
substantially the qualified acceptance of the proposition
offered?" We submit that it was. The qualification proposed may have been the least possible. It was in fact but
very slight. Still, Young could say, "My proposition has
not been accepted. I decline the one offered; I care not
whether it be better or worse; it is not the same as that
made."
Mr. Justice S WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented for our determination is whether
the findings warrant the judgment. The facts found lie
within a narrow compass.
* Greenfield v. Massachusetts Life Insurance Co., 47 New York, 430;
Trask v. State Fire and Marine Insurance Co., 29 Pennsylvania State, 198;
Ripley v. . tna Insurance Co., 30 New York, 136, 164; Baker v. Union
Life Insurance Co., relied on by the opposing counsel, was reversed by the
Court of Appeals, 43 New York, 283, 290.

106 INSURANCE 0o. v. YOUNG'S

ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Agreement unilateral.

Several objections, some of them technical, have been
taken by the counsel for the plaintiff in error to the judgment rendered. We shall'confine our remarks to one of
them. It is fundamental, aad goes to the right, justice, and
law of the case. The receipt of the 5th of June was the
initial step of the parties. It reserved the absolute right to
the company to accept or reject the proposition which it
contained.

There was a necessary implication, that if it

were accepted the response and acceptance were to be by a
policy, in conformity with the terms specified in the receipt
as far as they extended, and beyond that, in the usual form
of such instruments as issued by the company. But it was
clearly within the power of the company, under the condition
expressed, wholly to reject the application, without giving
any reason; or to accept the proposition with such modifications of the terms specified, and of the usual conditions of
such policies, as it might see fit to prescribe. The entire
subject was both affirmatively and negatively within its
choice and discretion. The acceptance was a qualified one,
and there was none other.
It was by a policy departing from the terms specified in
the receipt in the particulars before mentioned but containing as to the conditions imposed otherwise, nothing beyond
what was usual in such cases. At this stage of the business,
the company was not bound according to the receipt, because it had not agreed to a part of the terms specified, and
those terms were material and of the essence of the proposition. Clearly the company never did agree to those terms.
What it would have done if the applicant had refused, as
heormight have done, to take the policy it is not material
to consider. It is enough that the company did not so
agree.
This court has no power to make such an agreement for
it. The indispensable element of the consent of one of the
parties is shown not to have existed. The contrary appears
by the policy transmitted to the agent. The consent of the
applicant appears, but that alone is unavailing. That fact,
in any sound legal view of the case, is as if it were not. In

Oct. 1874.] INSURANCE 00. V. YOUNG'S

ADMINISTRATOR.

107

Opinion of the court.-Offer not accepted.

the analysis of the case the receipt, for the reasons stated,
must be laid out of view.
This brings us to the examination of the controversy as
respects the policy of insurance. Here the position of the
parties is reversed. The applicant assented to the proposition contained in the receipt, but the company did not. The
company assented to the policy, but the applicant never did.
The mutual assent, the meeting of the minds of both parties,
is wanting. Such assent is vital to the existence of a contract. Without it there is none, and there can be none.
In this case it is not established by any direct proof, and
there is none from which it can be inferred. This is not
controverted. If it be alleged there was fault on the part
of the agent, for which the company is responsible, in not
communicating promptly and fully with the applicant upon
the arrival of the policy, there are several answers to the
imputation. Such fault, viewed in any light, cannot be taken
as the legal equivalent of the assent of the applicant to the
terms of the policy. But no such fault is shown. The applicant knew that the company was not bound, and would
not be bound until it chose to become so, and that it had
the right to do what it did. It was his duty to keep up the
necessary communication with the agent by calling upon
him when the answer from the office in New York might
have been expected to arrive, and if he intended to be absent, by giving the agent his address during his absence,
and taking from him a promise to communicate the result
as soon as the reply was received.
It does not appear that he took any step whatever in this
way. Neither he nor his personal representative, therefore,
had any reason to complain. If he had received notice of
the proposition made through the policy it would have been
at his option to give or refuse his assent. He was certainly
in nowise bound until such assent was given. Until then,
there could be no contract on his part, and if there was none
on his part, there could be none on the part of the company.
The obligation in such cases is correlative. If there is none
on one side there is none on the other. The requisite

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

assent must be the work of the parties themselves. The
law cannot supply it for them. That is a function wholly
beyond the sphere of judicial authority. As the applicant
was never bound, the company was never bound. The
policy was, therefore, no more a contract than the receipt.
Both had the same fatal defect, the want of the assent of
one of the parties.
Even where the parties supposed they had agreed and it
turned out there was a misunderstanding as to a material
point, the requisite mutual assent as to that point being
wanting, it was held that neither was bound.*
The deceased paid nothing. The contest is an effort on
that side to gather where he had not sown. The law involved is expressed by the phrase "it takes two to make a
bargain."
In this view of the case, irrespective of the other considerations which have been urged upon our attention, we hold
that the facts found do not warrant the conclusion reached.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case

REMANDED,

with direc-

tions to enter a judgment
IN FAVOR OF THE PLAINTIFF IN ERROR.

SECOMBE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. When the question is whether, under the constitution and laws of a particular State, a company professing to be a corporation, is legally so, this
court will receive as conclusive of the question, the decision of the highest
court of the State deciding, in a case identical in principle, in favor of
the corporate existence.
2. The taking of private property in order that a railroad may be made, belongs to the class of things which in proper cases are to be regarded as
public necessities.
* Baldwin & Forbes v. Mildeberger, 2 Hall, 176, a case at law; Coles v.
Browne, 10 Paige, 526, a case in equity; see also Calverley v. Williams, 1
Vesey, Jr., 210, and Crane v. Partland, 9 Michigan, 493

