W
Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN

V.'UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

they must have found the negative as to both. We have
proceeded upon the assumption that this finding was correct. We have no power to review it in this proceeding.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded to the Cir-

cuit Court with directions to award a venire de novo, and
proceed
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.
Surveyors of ports performing the duties of collectors of the customs in
ports other than those ports enumerated in the fifth section of the act
of May 7th, 1822 (3 Stat. at Large, 693), that is to say of ports other
than Boston, New York, :Philadelphia, Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, and New Orleans, are entitled to a salary of but $5000 a year, even
though the ports in which such surveyors may be performing the duties
of collectors had no existence on May 7th, 1822, and, like the port of
St. Louis, were not created till 1831. The system of classes, established
for salary purposes by the above-mentioned act of 1822, extends to surveyors doing collectors' duty in ports subsequently created.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri.
Donovan was surveyor of the port of St. Louis, "performing the duties of collector," from January, 1860, to May,
1861. In the settlement of his accounts with the government he retained $6000 per year as his official compensation,
claiming that sum as his legal allowance. The Treasury
Department'was willing to allow him $5000, but no more.
And to get the $1000 in dispute the United States sued him
on his official boid.
The question was: Are surveyors of ports, "performing
the duties of collectors," under the act of 1831, entitled to
the compensation of $6000 per year? The issue presented
turned upon the right construction of certain statutes.
In the early history of the custom-house laws the collectors, naval officers, and surveyors received their compen-

DONOVAN V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Cf-

Statement of the case.

sation from fees earned by them, which were provided for
by the various statutes on the subject. As the business of
the country increased the aggregate of these fees came to
be so large that Congress saw fit to limit the compensation
of these various officers, as derived from those fees. The
first of these limitations, now in force, was that of the act
of May 7th, 1822. This law was a limitation upon existing
rights. Without it the officers named would, of course, have
received compensation much larger than the sums named.
The statutes bearing on the case were thus:
By ailact of May 7th, 1822, it was thus enacted :*
"SECTION 9. Whenever the emoluments of any collector of customs of eithcr of the ports of Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, or New Orleans, shall exceed
$4000, or the emoluments of any naval officer of either of said
ports shall exceed $3000, or the emoluments of any surveyor of
either of said ports shall exceed $2500 in any one year, after
deducting the necessary expenses incident to his office in the
same year, the excess shall in every such case be paid into the
treasury for the use of the United States.
"SECTION 10. Whenever the emoluments of any other collectors
of the customs shall exceed $3000, or the emoluments of any
other naval officer shall exceed $2500, or the emoluments of any
other surveyor shall exceed $2000 in any one year, after deducting therefrom the necessary expenses incident to his office in
the same year, the excess shall in every such case be paid into
the treasury for the use of the United States."
"SEcTION 11. The preceding provisions shall not extend to
fines, penalties, or forfeitures, or to the distribution thereof."

At the time of this enactment, St. Louis, of which Donovan was the surveyor, &c., was not "a port."
By an act of March 2d, 1831, "allowing the duties on
foreign merchandise imported into Pittsburg, Wheeling,
Cincinnati, Louisville, St. Louis, Nashville, and Natchez to
be secured and paid at those places," and making St, Louis
a port, a change is in some respects made in former laws.
3 Stat. at Large, 693.

Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

This act makes St. Louis and other places ports, which
they were not before. By this law, as will be seen by reference to it, when any merchant in St. Louis imports goods
he deposits with the surveyor a schedule of such goods, with
an estimate of their cost. Upon this the surveyor makes an
estimate of the amount of duties accruing, and the importer
gives bond, approved by the surveyor, to pay these duties.
The surveyor then sends to the collector at New Orleans a
copy of this bond and schedule.
The importer then enters the goods at New Orleans, and
the collector then certifies to the surveyor at St. Louis the
amount of duties, and delivers the goods to the importer to
be shipped to St. Louis. Upon reaching their destination,
the surveyor having informed himself of the correctness of
the entire proceeding, gives a permit for the landing of the
goods.
These duties are, to some extent, in the nature of those
performed in other ports by a collector.
The act enacts :*
"SECTION 5. That where surveyors are not already appointed
in any of the places mentioned, a suitable person shall be appointed for such places; and on all such surveyors, whether
appointed or to be appointed, shall devolve the duties prescribed
by this act, in addition to the customary duties performed by that
officer in other places; and the surveyor at each of said places
shall . . . receive, in addition to his customary fees, an annual
salary of $350."
This act first anywhere made surveyors perform the duties
in any respect like those of collectors.
Next came an act of March 3d, 1841, thus: t
"SEOTN 5. In addition to the account now required to be
rendered by every collector of customs, naval officer, and surveyor of ports, every such collector, naval officer, and surveyor
shall, each and every year hereafter, render a quarter-yearly
account under oath to the Secretary of the Treasury of all sums
of money by each of them respectively received or collected for
t 5 Id. 421

* 4 Stat. at Large, 480.

VOL. XXIII.

25

DONOVAN V. TNITED STATES.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.
fines, penalties, or forfeitures; . . . or for rent and storage of
goods, wares, or merchandise, which may be stored in the public
storehouses, and for which rent is paid beyond the rents paid
by the collector or other such officer; and if from such accounting it shall appear that the money received in any one year by
any collector, naval officer, or surveyor, on account and for
rents and storage aforesaid, and for fees and emoluments, shall
in the aggregate exceed the sum of $2000, such excess shall be
paid by the said collector, naval officer, or surveyor, as the case
may be, into the treasury of the United States; and no such
collector shall, on any pretence whatever, hereafter receive,
hold, or retain for himself, in the aggregate, more than $6000
per year, including all commissions for duties and all fees for
storage, or fees or emoluments, or any other commissions or
salaries which are now allowed and limited by law. Nor shall
such naval officer on any pretence whatever, in the aggregate,
receive, hold, or retain for himself, hereafter, more than $5000
per year, including all commissions on duties, and all fees for
storage, or fees or emoluments, or any other commissions or
salaries which are now allowed and limited by law. Nor shall
such surveyor, in the aggregate, receive, hold, or retain for
himself, hereafter, more than $4500 per year, including all commissions, or fees, or emoluments, or any other commissions or
salaries which are now allowed and limited by law."
Then followed an act of March 3d, 1857, thus:*
"SECTIoN 8. The provisions of the act approved the 3d day
of March, 1841, which established and limited the compensation
of collectors of customs, shall be construed to apply to surveyors
performing or having performed the duties of collectors of the customs, who shall be entitled to the same compensation as is
allowed to collectors for like services in the settlement of their
accounts."

It was admitted as~part of the case that after the passage
of it all surveyors doing duty as collectors at the port of St.
Louis have claimed $6000 as the maximum of their compensation, from all sources under the law.
Finally came an act of June 8th, 1872, in terms nearly
identical with the one just quoted: t
* 11 Stat. at Large, 221.

t 17 Id. 336.

Oct. 1874.]

D ONOVAN

V.

UNITED STATES.

887

Statement of the case.

"The provisions of the fifth section of the act approved March
3d, 1841, which established and limited the compensation of
collectors of customs, shall be amended and shall be construed to
apply to all surveyors of customs ports performing or having
performed the duties of collectors of customs, who shall be entitled to receive the same compensation as is allowed to collectors by said act of March 3d, 1841, for like services in the
settlement of their accounts with the treasury: Provided that
the fees, commissions, and emoluments prescribed by law, and
collected by them, shall amount to such maximum allowance."
Over all came the Revised Statutes of the United States,
whose purpose was not to make any new law, but to embody
existing statutes. These enact:
"SEcTIoN 2688. No collector or surveyor performing the duties
of collector shall, on any pretence whatsoever, receive, hold, or
retain for himself, in the aggregate, more than $6000 per
annum."

The question on the whole case-fact and statutes-thus
was, whether surveyors now, A.D. 1860-61, doing collectors'
duty, were to be paid with reference to the classesinto which,
for the purposes of salary, collectors, surveyors, and naval
officers seemed to be divided by the early act of 1822; to wit:
1st. The class doing duty at Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, and New Orleans,
who received the higher salaries.
2d. All others who received a lower one.
The government asserted that the system of classes, established by this act, extended to surveyors doing collectors' duty,
though such a class of surveyors did not then exist, but was
first constituted by the act of 1831.
Donovan, the surveyor at St. Louis doing collectors' duty,
denied this, asserting that all surveyors doing collectors' duty
were entitled to the pay of the highest class of collectors;
in other words, though he admitted that if he had been collector at St. Louis he could have had but $5000, he asserted
that as surveyor, doing in addition a collector's duty, he was
entitled, under the acts of 1857 and 1872, to $6000.

DoNovAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup-. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The ground of his position was that the act of 1822 applied to the two classes of ports existing at that date; that
is to say, to ports which had both collectors and surveyors,
each performing their respective duties, though in some
ports enumerated, the duties of both were greater than in
other ports not enumerated; that by the law of 1831, a third
class of ports was created; that is to say, ports where the
surveyor performed all the dnties which in the two former
classes the surveyor performed, and performed, in addition,
the duties which in those ports were performed by the collector; ports, in other words, where double duty or more
than double duty was performed by the surveyor; that this
double duty entitled the party to an augmented compensation, and that this compensation was meant to be given by
the act of 1857, and had always been claimed under it ly
surveyors doing collectors' duty; that the treasury making
some difficulty, the act of 1872 had been passed making the
right more clear, and that finally the Revised Statutes had
put a legislative interpretation on the matter which removed
all doubt, if doubt existed.
The Circuit Court (Dillon, J.) thus said:
"The provision of the act of June 8th, 1872-under which
compensation is claimed by Donovan, upon the basis of $6000
per year instead of $5000-is that the compensation of such an
officer shall be the same as that given to collectors by the fifth
section of the act of March 3d,1841, not to exceed, however, the
maximum amount therein allowed. In 1859, in the case of
Tnited States v. Walker,* the Supreme Court of the United
States construed the above-mentioned act of 1841, in connection with the previous acts in pari materia, and decided that
as respects compensation there were two classes of collectors,
viz., 1st. Collectors of the seven pdrts enumerated in the ninth
section of the act of May 7th, 1822, whose total compensation
from all sources might equal, but could not exceed, $6000 in a
year; and 2d, all other collectors, i. e., collectors of the nonenumerated ports, whose aggregate compensation could not exceed the sum of $5000 in any one year. I am unable to discover
* 22 Howard, 299.

Oct. o1874.]

O ONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.
Argument in support of the surveyor's claim.

in the act of 1872 satisfactory evidence that it was thereby intended to abrogate, in favor of surveyors performing the duties
of collectors, this established distinction between what is termed
the enumerated and unenumerated ports.
"The act of 1841, as authoritatively construed, limited the
aggregate compensation of a collector of one of the enumerated
ports at $6000, and of a collector of any other port at $5000;
but, while it did provide for the compensation of surveyor, it
did not provide a specific compensation for a surveyor who,
under the act of 1831, performed the duties of a collector of
customs.
"This was sought to be remedied by the act of March 3d, 1857,
but as its phraseology was not clear, and as complaints were
made that it was illiberally restricted by the accounting officers
of the Treasury Department to the surveyors of the principal
ports, under the ninth section of the act of 1822,* the act of
1872, upon which the plaintiffs in error rely, was passed.
"This last-named act places ' all surveyors of customs ports
performing the duties of collectors' upon the footing, as respects
compensation, of collectors under the act of March 3d, 1841, for
like services.
"St. Louis being a non-enumerated port, the maximum allowance to a collector can, in no event, exceed $5000, and this sum
is, in my judgment, the limit of compensation to which the surveyor of the port of St. Louis is entitled."
Judgment was accordingly given for the Uhited States,
and the other side brought the case here.
Messrs. B. F. Boyes and D. I
error:

Wright, for the plaintiff in

The act of May 7th, 1822, has given rise to the phrases,
ports. The
"enumerated" ports and "non-enumerated"
places named in the ninth section are called "enumerated"
ports, while all others are called "non-enumerated" ports.
It is this distinction, erroneously applied, as we conceive it
to have been, that has occasioned all the difficulty in this
case.
* Congressional Globe, 2d session, 48d Congress, part 4, p. 8409.

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the surveyor's claim.

No distinction of this kind is in terms created in the
statute itself; that is to say, the phrase "enumerated," or
"non-enumerated," is not made use of as applicable to ports
themselves, as though it was the intention of Congress to
create such a classification, as that it should run through all
time forever thereafter. The word "ports" is used in the
ninth section. It is not used in the tenth section. The
tenth section simply speaks of various classes of officers by
name: collectors, naval officers, and surveyors.
The limitation in the tenth section, as applied to collectors,
for instance, applies to such collectors as were performing
the duties known to the law at that time, and to such other
collectors and surveyors as subsequently performed those
same duties. It certainly could not be meant to apply to a
new class of officers, then unknown, who were afterward
created by law to do other things than collectors and surveyors then did, although they might be called by the name,
collectors and surveyors.
This law was meant to cover all ports in existence at the
date of its passage, May 7th, 1822. But why should it be
construed to apply to ports not then in existence, but which
were afterward created, with new duties, and new and distinct compensation ?
In Hall v. Slate,* :Ranney, J., referring to a case in this
court,t says:
"A well-settled rule of construction here comes to our aid,
which is, that 'a statute referring to, or affecting persons,
places, or things, is limited in its operation to persons, places,
or things as they existed at the time the statute was passed.'"
The enacting power knew what ports existed at the date
of the passage of the act of 1822. It knew what the duties
performed by the then officers were; but the Congress of
1822 could not be supposed to know what, might take place
in the distant future. The affairs of the country might so
change as that new ports would be required. The duties of
* 20 Ohio, 16.

tUnited States v. Paul, 6 Peters, 141.

Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.
Argument in support of the surveyor's claim.

these new ports might be more onerous than those of any
mentioned in the ninth section. Would it, then, be fair to
limit the collectors of such new ports to a compensation inferior to that of those who do less work?
The next act is that of March 2d, 1831, which makes St.
Louis for the first time a port, and imposes upon its surveyor
what in fact were the duties, resembling in some respects
those of a collector.
Thus, by this act, duties were imposed upon the surveyor
of the port of St. Louis which had never been imposed before. Up to this time St. Louis was not a port at all. The
surveyor of that place, iftthere was one appointed, discharged
his duties, whatever they were, for which he received certain
fees for each thing performed.
It is evident that it would not be just for Congress to impose upon a man new duties without paying him therefor.
Therefore it is that, in the fifth section of the act of 1831,
Congress provides that for these additional services the surveyor so performing the duties of collector shalt have a salary of $350, in addition to his customary fees.
If before 1831 the surveyor at St. Louis received $2000,
after 1831 he would be entitled to $2350, which shows that
the limitation of $2000, in the act of 1822, as to surveyors,
aloes not apply to the surveyors of the act of 1831, who performed the duties of collectors as well.
The next law is that of March 3d, 1841. Prior to this
law collectors had rented warehouses in which they stored
goods as they were imported. They charged the importers
storage. Soon the storage charged far exceeded the rent
paid for warehouses, and the collectors received and kept
large sums of money in the transaction. To prevent this
abuse, the law of 1841 undertook to say that collectors
should get no more than $2000 profit out of the warehouse
business.
This act is also an act of limitation. It limits the amount
which collectors may have from rent and storage to $2000.
It further limits the maximum compensation of those col-

DoNoVAN v. 'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the surveyor's claim.

lectors to $6000, as this c'ourt has said in United States v.
Walker.*
The act of March 3d, 1857, enacts that the provisions of
the fifth section of the act of 1841 "shall apply to surveyors
performing, or having performed, the duties of collectors of
the customs; who shall be entitled to the'same compensation
as is allowed to collectors for like services, in the settlement
of their accounts."
It was supposed by the surveyor at St. Louis, that under
this act, he "having performed the duties of collector," was
entitled to $6000 per year, the new maximum allowed collectors under the act of 1841.
But as the law of 1857 was not thus construed by the
Treasury Department, the law of 1872 was passed. Now,
what was the mischief that this law was intended to remedy ?
The case shows "that since the act of March 3d, 1857, surveyors performing the duties of collectors have claimed the
sum of $6000 as the maximum of their compensation from
all sources, under the law." • This claim has always been
refused by the department, and this suit is to establish it.
It was this refusal of the department to allow the $6000,
under the law of 1857, that was sought to be remedied by
the act of 1872.
This act purports to amend the act of 1841, and to apply
it to "surveyors performing the duties of collectors." Suppose we make the necessary amendment in point of fact.
The act of 1841 then reads thus:
"And no such collector, or surveyor performing the duties of
collector, shall, on any pretence whatever, hereafter receive,
hold, or retain for himself, in the aggregate, more than $6000
per year."
Does that not mean that he may retain $6000? Remembering that the fees, &c., of the surveyor, to which he was
previously entitled by law, were much more than $6000, is
he not now entitled to that sum?
It will be observed that in fixing the compensation of sur* 22 Howard, 299.

Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.
Argument in support of the surveyor's claim.

veyors performing the duties of collectors, no reference is
had in the law to the compensation of other surveyors; but
by the law of 1872 they are to have the compensation of
collectors, as fixed or limited by the fifth section of the law
of 1841. The only compensation there fixed for collectors
is $6000, and so, as we have already said, the Supreme Court
has decided in Uhited Slates v. Walker. The maximum compensation of any other surveyor is $4500, and it is conceded
by the department, and decided below in the case at bar,
that surveyors performing the duties of collectors are to
have at least $5000, which is $500 more than the surveyor
of an enumerated port receives. This much being conceded,
we think the conclusion inevitably follows that the compensation is $6000, and not $5000.
But again. Clearly the law of 1872 was enacted for some
purpose or other. Unless the law of 1872 does give the surveyors "performing the duties of collectors" $6000 per year,
it means absolutely nothing. The claim persistently made
by them, subsequent to the act of 1857, was for $6000. This
claim has been as persistently rejected. Certainly the law
of 1872 intended to give them some advantage of some kind
or other, which they did not have before. This advantage
was to be in the matter of compensation, for the act of 1872
relates to nothing other than compensation.
What does the act of 1872 say? The law of 1841 "shall
be amended." Why "amended?" Because it does not accomplish its object now. The result it arrives at, under the
application of the law of 1857, is not satisfactory. That result is $5000. This not being satisfactory, the law must be
changed and "amended." If $5000 was satisfactory to Congress, no change of existing laws, under the construction
given, was needed.
This view is sustained by section 2688 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States,* which are but declaratory of
statutes existing when they were passed, i. e., A.D. 1874;
for, as lately said by this court,t "it was the declared pur* Page 307.

f Smyth v. Fiske, supra, 882.

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. or.

Argument against the surveyor's claim.

pose of Congress to collate all the statutes as they were at
that date, and not to make any change in their provisions."
The idea that upon the question of compensation there
are but two classes of officers-those belonging to enumerated and those to non-enumerated ports-is a wrong one.
Abundant legislation by Congress shows this. Repeated
laws have given to different officers, collectors and surveyors, salaries, in addition to that which they would have
received if this classification alone existed.*
There is nothing in United States v. Walker rightly understood that militates against our position, though, upon this
authority, the case below was decided against us.
Walker was collector of the port of Mobile, which was a
port long prior to 1822. He claimed $6000, under the law
of 1841, and his claim was disallowed, as it should have
been, because, by the law of 1822, his compensation was
limited to $3000, allowed a collector of a non-enumerated
port, and by the act of 1841 he had $2000 from rent and
storage. Walker made no claim under the act of 1831, as we
do. No questions arising on that act could arise, nor were
any considered by the court. The act of 1831 is not mentioned nor alluded to in the case from beginning to end.
How could any rights under that act be determined? Courts
decide upon what is before them, not upon what is not.
In our judgment, we are sustained by the Walker case in
the views we entertain.
Mr. G. B. Williams, Attorney- General,and Mr. S. . Phillips,
Solicitor-General,contra:
The case turns mainly upon the meaning of the fifth section of the act of 1841.
* Compensation by special act is given as follows: MkIay 26th, 1824, to
collector of Nantucket, $250 per annum ; June 30th, 1830, Natchez, Mississippi, collector, $500 per annum; June 80th, 1834, Newark, New Jersey,
collector, $250 per annum and fees; July 7th, 1838 ( 9 and 10), Vicksburg
collector, $500 per annum; December 31st, 1845, Galveston collector, fees,
&c., not to exceed $2000; 1848, Astoria collector, $1000 and fees; June 2d,
1862 (Q2), San Francisco collector, $6000; besides others.

Oct. 1874.]

DONOvAN v. UNITED STATES.

895

Argument against the surveyor's claim.

This act refers to and confirms the allowances to collectors, naval officers, and surveyors in the act of 1822, sections
nine and ten, and therefore, by the maxim verba relata inesse
videntur, is to be read as if containing those sections; its
main purpose being to amend the eleventh section of such
former act, which allowed to collectors, &c., the whole of
what they might receive as fees upon fines, forfeitures, &c.
It therefore, by confirmation and by original enactment
together, provides for two classes of collectors; &c., the one
being entitled to salaries of $4000, out of fees upon duties,
&c., in addition to $2000 out of fees upon fines, &c.; the
other being entitled to salaries of $3000, out of duties, &c.,
in addition to $2000 out of fines. After effecting this, it
proceeds to enact, by way of excluding any other official
receipt, that under no pretence shall collectors, &c., receive
more than $6000, &c.
* It seems plain that this last clause is only a summary, as
it were, of the effect of the former words of the section as to
the first class of collectors, &c., and cannot be construed as
meaning that all collectors, &c., should have salaries of
$6000, &c. It leaves the second class to the operation of the
greater restrictions of preceding provisions. The act of
1841 is a restraining, not an enlarging statute, and is to be
construed accordingly.
If the statute of 1841 recognizes, and in effect provides
for two classes of collectors, then the acts of 1857 and of
1872, which refer surveyors doing collectors' duty to the
compensation provided in that statute for "collectors," recognizes and provides for similar (i. e., two) classes of such
surveyors, and, reddendo singula singulis, refers such of these
as may act at New York, &c., to the $6000 aggregate, those
at other ports to that of $5000.
We are not concerned to explain why the act of 1872 was
passed when that of 1857 was already upon the statute-book.
If the construction placed by the plaintiff upon the act of
1841 be correct, then the act of 1857 secures the claim made
by him in the present action as completely as does that of
1872. If our construction of the act of 1841 be correct, the

DONOVAN v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument against the surveyor's claim.

act of 1872 does not countervail its effect more than that of
1857. Both acts refer themselves for explanation to the act
of 1841.
As for the argument derived from the Revised Statutes, it
has no force whatever. It is no part of the business of the
legislative department to make declarations for past cases
about statutes which it has made, in other words, to expound
for such cases the statutes of the country. That is a matter
for this court alone, and the court would exhibit a sense of
weakness to invoke the aid of such argument. It might as
well inquire of each legislator individually what he had
meant in voting for the act.
Our construction of the acts in pari materia as to this subject, is recommended as leading to a result corresponding
to that policy of Congress which has drawn a line between
certain collectors, &c., and others. If there be such a policy,
why should not a construction maintaining it as to surveyors doing collectors' duty be referred to one which disregards it?
Again, if it were the purpose of Congress to give to
officers like Donovan $6000 per annum out of such fees as
they might receive, it would have been more natural and
simple to express that design in other and fewer words
than were adopted in the act of 1872.
Obscure expressions in acts intended by their promoters
to give a larger compensation for services, which at such
time are ended, than previous provisions had allowed, will
not receive a construction to forward that design. For as regards such services the promoters are upon one side of the
counter and the interests of the public are upon the other.
The inclination is always contra proferentem, i. e., as applied
here, against special legislation.
The construction placed by the plaintiff upon the act of
1872 abolishes all distinction between collectors, as well as
between surveyors doing collectors' duty. Both classes of
officers or neither are, by the act of 1872, to have $6000 in
all cases. More than this, both officers, or*neither, are to
receive $6000 in case any department of their fee-producing

Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN

V.

UNITED STATES.

897

Opinion of the court.

services amounts to so much ; whereas the act of 1841 seems
plainly to recognize that, in order to make up such $6000,
one branch of such services must produce at least $4000, another at least $2000.
The act of 1822 applies to ports afterwards established as
well as to those then existing. This is a rule of statutory
construction almost universal. Statutes affecting "men"
operate as well upon those born after as upon those then
living; as those affecting "crimes" apply to crimes afterwards created; as a statute referring non-enumerated articles, for the duty payable upon them, to a duty laid upon
like " enumerated" articles, applies as well to enumerations
in later statutes; as a statute inflicting penalties in respect
of articles "prohibited," applies as well to articles prohibited
by later statutes; so here, when the act of 1822 speaks of
"other collectors," &c., it means all other, whether then existing or afterwards to be created.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Officers of the customs derive their compensation chiefly
from certain enumerated fees, commissions, and allowances,
to which is added, for the benefit of the collector of the port,
a prescribed sum, called salary, which is very much less than
the compensation to which the officer is entitled. Provision
for such fees, commissions, and allowances, were first made
by the act of the thirty-first of July, 1789, which also allowed
to collectors certain proportions of fines, penalties, and forfeitures.t
Changes have been made in the rates of fees, commissions,
and allowances for such purposes at dififient periods to graduate the compensation of such officers to the nature and extent of the services imposed; but the theory and outline of
the system have been preserved since the first acts were
passed levying import and tonnage duties. Examples of
such changes are found in the act of the eighteenth of FebAttorney-General v. Saggers, 1 Price, 189; Stuart v. Maxwell, 16 Howard, 150; United States v. Holliday, 3 Wallace, 407.
t 1 Stat. at Large, 64.

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ruary, 1793, for enrolling and licensing ships and vessels,
and in the act of second of MNrch, 1799, to regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage, and in the act
usually called the Compensation Act, passed on the same
dav.*
Regulations of a permanent character were made by those
several acts that certain fees and commissions should be
paid to the collectors of the customs, together with a certain
proportion of the sums paid to them for fines, penalties, and
forfeitures collected from persons found guilty of violating
the penal prohibitions of the revenue laws. Such fees, commissions, and allowances it was provided should be paid to
the respective collectors, and the requirement was that they
should keep an accurate account of the same and of all expenses for rent, fuel, stationery, and clerk-hire, and that they
should annually transmit such accounts to the Comptroller
of the Treasury, but they were allowed by those laws to
retain the whole amount of the emoluments derived from
those sources beyond the expenses of the office, without any
limitation whatever. Expenses for rent, fuel, stationery,
and clerk-hire were to be deducted from th gross receipts,
but they were allowed to retain the whole of the net balance
as official emoluments for their services.
Business revived and importations increased, and with
such increase the compensation of the collectors at certain
ports became excessive, which called for new legislation;
and by the act of thirtieth of April, 1802, Congress prescribed a maximum rate of compensation without making
any reduction of the fees or commissions required to be paid
to the collectors, but the provisions of the act did not extend
to fines, penalties, and forfeitures.t
By that act it was provided that whenever the annual
emoluments of any collector, after deducting the expenses
incident to the office, amount to more than five thousand
dollars, the surplus shall be accounted for and paid into the
treasury.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 171, 816, 695, 706.

t 2 Id. 172.

Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

Twenty years' experience under that act showed that it
needed revision, as it applied without any discrimination
whatever as well to the large ports where the principal importations were made as to those of comparatively little importance. Collection districts were accordingly divided by
the act of the seventh May, 1822, into two classes, usually
denominated the enumerated and the non-enumerated
ports.*
Under the provisions of that act the emoluments of collectors of the enumerated ports might reach the sum of four
thousand dollars, but the ninth section of the act provided
that whenever the emoluments of the office shall exceed
that sum, in any one year, the collector, after deducting the
necessary expenses incident to his office, shall pay the excess
into the treasury for the use of the United States. But the
maximum rate of compensation allowed to collectors of the
non-enumerated ports under the provisions of that act, from
all the sources of emolument therein recognized and prescribed, is three thousand dollars, and the tenth section of
the act contains a provision similar to that found in the
ninth section, requiring the collector of the non-enumerated
ports to account for, and pay the excess, beyond the amount
allowed as the maximum rate of compensation, into the
public treasury.t
Collectors under those provisions may receive the maximum rate of their offices if the office, after deducting the
necessary expenses incident to the same, produces that
amount from all the sources of emolument recognized and
prescribed by the laws in operation. No one can receive
more than the maximum rate and his lawful claim may be
much less, according to the amount of business transacted
in the office.1
From that time until the passage of the act of the third
of March, 1841, the laws providing for compensation of
collectors remained without material change. Every such
t Hoyt v. United States, 10 Howard, 135.
United States v. Macdonald, 2 Clifford, 281.

* 3 Stat. at Large, 693.

DoNoVAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

officer is required by the fifth section of that act to include
in his quarter-yearly account, among other things, all sums
received by him for rent and storage of goods, wares, and
merchandise stored in the public storehouses for which a
rent is collected beyond what is paid for the game by such
officer. Moneys received from that source, it is contended,
may be retained by a collector of a non-enumerated port
sufficient to make his annual compensation six thousand
dollars, the claim being that the maximum limit prescribed
to the non-enumerated ports is repealed by the subsequent
legislation, but this court held otherwise and decided that
the collector under that act could in no case retain more
than tw6 thousand dollars, and that he was bound to pay
the excess beyond that amount, into the treasury as part
and parcel of the public money.*
Consequently the conclusion was that the compensation
of a collector of one of the enumerated ports may be six
thousand dollars, but the compensation allowed to the collector of one of the non-enumerated ports cannot exceed
five thousand dollars, according to the amount of fees and
commissions collected and the amount received from rent
and storage. Officers of the kind may receive the maximum
rate of their office allowed by the prior law from the sources
of emolument recognized and prescribed by that act, provided the office, after deducting the necessary expenses incident to the same, -yields that amount from those sources;
and in addition thereto he is entitled to whatever sum or
sums he may receive from rent and storage, provided the
amount does not exceed two thousand dollars, but the excess beyond that sum and the excess, if any, beyond the
maximum rate of his office as fixed under the prior law, he
is required to pay into the treasury as part and parcel of the
public money.t
Attempt was subsequently made by the United States to
limit the operations of the Storage Act, as a source of compensation to collectors, to such storage only as is received
* United States v. Walker, 22 Howard, 313.

t 1b.

Oct. 1874.]

DONOVAN

V.

UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

for stores leased by the Treasury Department, for which rents
are paid by the importers of goods beyond the rent paid on
behalf of the United States, but the court refused to adopt
that narrow construction, and held that all sums received for
storage, whether the goods imported were deposited in the
public stores or the "other stores" named in the acts of
Congress, are required to be included in the quarter-yearly
account of the collector, which he is directed to render
to the Secretary of the Treasury, and that the yearly
aggregate of such sums constitute the basis of computation
in ascertaining what amount, if anything, the collector is
entitled to receive as compensation from that source of
emolument, and what amount, if anything, he is required
to pay over from that source, as excess beyond the two
thousand dollars, into the public treasury.*
None of these propositions are controverted by the defendant, nor does he contend that any of those provisions have
been superseded by any express repeal, but he insists that
surveyors performing the duties of collectors, under the fifth
section of the act of the second of March, 1831, are entitled
to the same compensation as'the collectors of the enumerated
ports.
Merchandise imported from a foreign port and consigned
to merchants at St. Louis was required, if the importation
was subject to custom duties, to be entered at the customhouse in New Orleans in the same manner as required in
case of the entry of goods imported for consumption, and
the officers of the customs at that port are required to proceed to assess the custom duties in the same way as if the
merchandise had been destined for sale or consumption in
that market.
Payment of the duties, however, is not required to be
made at that port, but the importer is required to give a
bond, called a transportation bond, conditioned that the
packages described in the invoice shall, within a specified
* United States v. Macdonald, 5 Wallace, 656; Same case, 2 Clifford, 283;
Clark v. Peasely, Circuit Court, Massachusetts District, October Term, 1862.
VOL. XXIII.

26

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Gt.

Opinion of the court.

time, be delivered to the surveyor and acting collector of
the port of St. Louis. Due notice of the proceedings is then
given by the collector of the port where the duties were
ascertained and assessed to the acting collector of the port
to which the merchandise is destined. Such proceedings
being had, the vessel may proceed on her voyage, and when
she arrives at the port of destination the packages are placed
in the custody of the acting collector of that port, who receives the duties, giving notice of that fact to the collector
of the p6rt where they were ascertained and assessed, and
the collector of the latter port is authorized to cancel the
transportation bond given by the importer.*
Compensation was claimed by the defendant at the rate
of six thousand dollars per annum, and it is admitted that
he retained that amount of the moneys collected by him
in pursuance of that claim, two thousand dollars of which
accrued from rent and storage, and the other four thousand dollars accrued from fees, commissions, and allowances recognized and prescribed by the prior Compensation
Act.t
Four thousand dollars may be received as compensation
under that act by the collector of each of the seven ports
named in the ninth section of that act, and the provisions
of a more recent act give the same compensation to the collector of the port of Portland, Maine, but the tenth section
of the said Compensation Act provides that whenever the
emoluments of any other collector of the customs shall exceed three thousand dollars, after deducting therefrom the
necessary expenses incident to his office, in the same year,
the excess shall in every such case be paid into the treasury
for the use of the United States.1
St. Louis is not one of the enumerated ports, but the defendant insists that the act of the second of March, 1831,
which devolved upon the surveyor of that port the duties
of collector, designated a third class of ports, and that the
* 4 Stat. at Large, 482; Belcher v. Linn, 24 Howard, 516.

t 3 Stat. at Large, 895.

$ 3 Id. 695; 18 Id. 46.

Oct. 1874.] ,

DoNoVAN

V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

maximum compensation of such a collector is six thousand
dollars. Nothing is contained in the act to support any such
theory or to afford the slightest evidence that Congress intended anything of the kind. Instead of that the act provides that the surveyor charged with such duties shall receive, in addition to his customary fees, an annual salary
of three hundred and fifty dollars, which is utterly inconsistent with the theory that he is entitled by virtue of that
act to the shme compensation as the collector of one of the
enumerated ports.
Confirmation of that view is also derived from the further
provision of the same section, that no salary arising under
the act shall commence until the act shall take effect and
merchandise shall be imported under its authority. Prior
to that time the customary fees of the surveyor of that port
accruing under the Compensation Act of the seventh of
May, 1822, could not exceed two thousand dollars, and it is
not pretended that he could retain to his own use more than
two thousand dollars from rent and storage.
Apply those suggestion§ to the case before the court and
it is clear that the compensation of the defendant, if regarded merely as a surveyor, could not exceed four thousand three hundred and fifty dollars, even if it be admitted
that the sum called salary is an addition to the four thousand
dollars to be derived from the other sources of emolument
and not merely an addition to the basis of calculation in
computing the maximum to be derived from fees, commissions, and allowances, as provided in the tenth section of
the Compensation Act.
Small sums called salary have always been allowed to
collectors and to the surveyors of certain ports, but such
allowances have uniformly been included in the basis of
calculation as part of the receipts from fees, commissions,
and allowances in computing the maximum compensation
of the officers interested. Surveyors of ports, where the
officer. is charged with the duties of collectors, now stand
upon a different footing, as the act of the third of March,
1857, provides that such surveyors shall be entitled to the

DONOVAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

same compensation as is allowed to collectors for like services, in the settlement of their accounts.*
Grant that and still it is contended by the defendant that
the maximum compensation of all collectors, except those
of the enumerated ports, as provided in the tenth section
of the Compensation Act, is repealed by the act requiring
collectors to include all sums received for rent and storage
in their quarter-yearly accounts. Much discussion of that
topic, however, is unnecessary, as the question has been
twice determined adversely to the defendant by the unanimous decisions of this court.t
Such a collector cannot receive, under any circumstances,
more than five thousand dollars, not even if the office earns
a greater amount, and he may be obliged t& accept much
less in ease the office does not earn three thousand dollars
net from fees, commissions, and allowances, or in case the
amount received from rent and storage falls short of two
thousand dollars.
Effort is also made in argument to derive support to the
proposition that the limitation cnntained in the tenth section of the Compensation Act is repealed, from the act which
provides that the compensation of such a surveyor shall be
the same as is allowed to collectors for like services, but it
will be sufficient to say in response to that suggestion that
the court is of the opinion that the proposition is destitute
of any foundation whatever.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the defendant that
the act of the eighth of June, 1872, entitles him, as the administrator of the intestate, to retain to the use of the estate
of the decedent a rate of compensation equal to six thousand
dollars per annum, but the court is entirely of a different
opinion.1
Stripped of certain redundant words, the body of the act
is exactly the same as section eighth in the prior act.§ Both
* 11 Stat. at Large, 221.
t United States v. Walker, 22 Howard, 314; United States v,. Macdonald,
5 Wallace, 655.
11 Id. 229.
$ 17 Stat. at Large, 336.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SWASEY.

405

Syllabus.

acts provide that such a surveyor "shall be entitled to the
same compensation as is allowed to collectors for like services," and neither contains a word which is repugnant to
the tenth section of the Compensation Act.*
Nor is the proviso in the latter act inconsistent with the
prior limitation, as the maximum allowance to such a Collector is three thousand dollars from fees and commissions
and two thousand dollars from rent and storage.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD

OMPANY V. SWASEY.

1. A decree of foreclosure and sale is not "1final" in the sense which allows
an appeal from it so long as the amount due upon the debt must be determined, and the property to be sold ascertained and defined.
2. Hence, a decree is not "final" in such sense, where the court by an interlocutory order declares that certain shares in a railroad held by a
State, are pledged for the payment of certain interest-bearing bonds of
the State and the interest on them; and that the plaintiff and others
whom he represents, as holders of such bonds, are entitled to have their
respective proportions of the stock, or so much thereof as may be necessary, sold in order to pay the interest which is due to them; and orders
a master to take an account of such unpaid interest and of what will
be due by a day named, and also of the proportion of stock that may be
equitably applicable to the payment of said interest found due to each
plaintiff, and make report to the court. And orders further that unless
by a day named it be made to appear to the court that the State has
levied and provided for the collection of a tax sufficient to pay, or have
otherwise secured the payment of, its arrears of interest, then so much
of the stock of the State in the road, apportioned to the plaintiff and
those he represents as may be necessary to pay off and discharge said
arrears of interest, shall be sold to the highest bidder for cash. And
after giving directions as to the manner in which a sale is to be made,
at the end of all adds: " And this cause is /eldfor further directions."
3. This is but an interlocutory order announcing the opinion which the
court has formed as to the rights of the parties, and the principles of
the decree it would finally render, leaving the entry of the final decree
in form to be made when the amount due has been ascertained and an
apportionment of the stock made.
* 3 Stat. at Large, 695.

