Oct. 1874.]

THOMAS & Co. V. WOOLDRIDGE.

283

Syllabus.

affect the merits of the case. It is filled with matter showing Ambler to have been drunk, vicious, negligent, and in
contempt of the court, in the progress of the case. In short,
if his cause was to be tried on his nmerils instead of the merits
of his case, it shows enough, as the original record did, to
defeat it.
All this is only .in aid of the theory on which Whipple
has rested his case and lost it, namely, that because Ambler
was a very bad man, a drunkard, and a convicted felon, that
he, his trustee and partner, could take to himself all the
benefit of Ambler's skill and labor, disregard his double relation as trustee and partner, and violate every principle
which governs these confidential relations.
The only error of fact pointed out in the opinion of the
court, which is sustained by the record, is that Ambler, instead of leaving Washington about the 20th of August, the
date of the successful experiment, did not leave the city
until September the 1st, a difference wholly without influence on the points decided.
We remain of the opinion that the decree of this court
was right, and the petition for rehearing is
DENIED.

THOMAS & Co. v.

WOOLDRIDGE.

1. The court will not, generally speaking, refuse to hear a motion to dismiss,
before the term to which, in regular order, the recora ought to be returned, if the record be printed and the rules of court about motions of
that sort have been complied with by the party making the motion.
2. Though a failure of the party making a motion to dismiss, to send a copy
of his brief to the counsel of the other side within the time required by
the amendment made at December Term, 1871, to Rule 6, would entitle
such counsel of the other side to ask to postpone the hearing in order to
give time for further preparation, yet if he have himself before the hearing filed a full argument upon the merits of the motion, the failure of
his opposing coumel to have complied with the amendment to the rule
-would hardly warrant an objection that the notice of the motion was
insufficient.

THOMAS & CO. V.

WOOLDRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. A motion to dismiss an appeal in equity may properly be made by one of
several appellees, he being the only one who has any interest in the suit,
and the only one who filed an answer below.
4. An appeal will not lie from a decree dissolving an injunction unless
there be a dismissal of the bill.
ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of Mississippi. The case was thus:
In May, 1874, Wooldridge, of Kentucky, got a judgment
in the Circuit Court just named, against Thomas & Co., of
Mississippi, for $4800.
In June following, one Hedric, of Louisiana, a creditor of
Wooldridge, attached in a State court of Mississippi, the
judgment which Wooldridge had thus got, and summoned
Thomas & Co. as garnishees. Notwithstanding this, the
attorney of Wooldridge issued a ft. fa. against Thomas &
Co., and the marshal was proceeding to levy and make sale
of their property to satisfy it. They informed him of the
attachment, and that they had been summoned as garnishees, and remonstrated against the levy. To this the
marshal replied that his own fees in the suit of Wooldridge
against them, and the fees of Wooldridge's attorney would
take precedence of any lien made by the attachment.
Thomas & Co. accordingly paid the marshal his own fees
and those of the attorney, and a credit to this extent was
entered on the ft. fa.
However, the attorney soon afterwards issued an aliasfi.fa.
for the balance.
Hereupon Thomas & Co. filed a bill against Wooldridge,
the attorney, and the marshal, in the Circuit Court, where the
judgment had been got against them, praying an injunction
against all the parties just mentioned from any further attempt to collect the judgment got by Wooldridge, until the
proceedings in attachment had been disposed of; the bill
stating that, the attorney was made defendant "by reason
of his being attorney of the said Wooldridge, and not by
reason of any persbnal interest of his own in the matters set
forth in the bill." The bill prayed process against Wooldridge, the attorney, and the marshal, and that Wooldridge,

Oct. 1874.]

THoMAS & C0. V. WOOLDRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

as "the real party in interest," might be required to answer,
and that he, the attorney, and marshal should be enjoined
from proceeding until, as already said, the result of the proceedings in attachment should be seen.
The bill also prayed that if the complainants should be
adjudged to pay the judgment-debt under the proceedings
in attachment, Wooldridge might be perpetually enjoined
from its collection.
Upon the filing of the bill an interlocutory injunction was
allowed. An answer by Wooldridge, but not by either the
attorney or marshal, and replication to the answer were
afterwards filed and testimony was taken. On 1st December,
1874, Wooldridge moved to dissolve the injunction upon bill
and answer filed, and on the same day the following order
was made in the cause:
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the bill and answer
filed, and the motion of the defendants to dissolve the injunction
heretofore granted herein, and after hearing the argument of
counsel, and being fully advised of and concerning the matters
and things in the pleadings mentioned, the court doth order,
adjudge, and decree, that the said injunction be, and is hereby dissolved, and that the complainants pay the costs of this proceeding."
Upon the petition of the complainants an appeal from
this order was allowed oil the 28th December, 1874, "1to
supersede the order of dissolution and reinstate the injunction."
Bond was filed on the same day to perfect the appeal.
This appeal having been allowed during the present term
of this court, the appellants had by the general practice of
the court until the next term to file the record here. Not
waiting for the appellants to file the record, the appellee
caused it to be done on the 9th February, 1875, and on the
same day filed this motion to dismiss the appeal, on the
ground that the order appealed from was not a final decree.
On the 25th February the appellants were served, at Vicksburg, Mississippi, with notice for the hearing of the motion
on the 22d of March, but the notice was not accompanied

THOMAS & CO. V. WOOLDRIDGE.a

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the motion.

by a copy of the brief or argument to be submitted. The
record had been printed.
An amendment to Rule 6, adopted at the December Term,
1871, orders that"All motions to dismiss appeals and writs of error (except
motions to docket and dismiss under the ninth rule), must be
submitted in the first instance in printed briefs or arguments.
If the court desires further argument on the subject, it will be
ordered in connection with the hearing on the merits.
"The party moving to dismiss shall serve notice of the motion, with a copy of his brief or argument, on the counsel for
the plaintiff in error or appellant, of record, at least three weeks
before the time for submitting the motion," &c.
However, in the present case, the appellants, before the
day fixed for the hearing of the motion, filed a brief of six
pages, going into the merits of the motion.
The record had been printed.
Mr.Joseph Casey, in support of the motion:
The decree below is not the subject of an appeal.
This court has decided, in lMoses v. The M71ayor, and previously, that an appeal does not lie from an interlocutory
decree. dissolving an injunction,* or refusing one.t
In Thompson v. Dean,t it is held that no decree is final
which does not dispose of the whole case.
Mr. A. P. Pitman, contra:
This motion is made on the sole ground that there was no
such final judgment in the court below as to sanction an
appeal here. But*
1. Will this court entertain the motion at all before the
* Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch, 51; Moses v. The Mayor, 15 Wallace, 387.
t Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 Wheaton, 448; United States v. Clarke, 9 Peters,
168.
1 7 Wallace, 342; and see Railroad v. Bradleys, Ib. 577; Stovall v. Bank,
10 Id. 583; 'Wells v. McGregor, 13 Id. 188; Insurance Co. v. Barton, Ib.
603; St. Clair Co. v. Lovingston, 18 Id. 628.

Oct. 1874.]

TnOMAS & Co. v. WOOLDRIDGE.
Argument against the jurisdiction.

return day of the record ? Certainly its general practice is
not to entertain motions to dismiss before such time.
2. If it will thus entertain the motion, is service of a
copy of the motion, unaccompanied by any brief or argument, upon the attorney of record in the Circuit Court, sufficient notice under the sixth rule, and the amendments to
it made at December Term, 1871?
3. A reference to the notice served will show that all the
parties defendant to the case in the lower court are not
parties to this proceeding to dismiss. The marshal and
attorney have received no notice, though they were parties
defendant to the bill. The notice of the present motion was
given to Wooldridge alone. Is it not necessary that the
former two parties should join in this motion, equally so as
if they prayed an appeal or writ of error?*
4. Finally, and as to the main point. Was not the decree
of the court below, dissolving the injunction, such a judgment as could be appealed from to this court?
Where injunction is the sole equity of the bill and the
only relief sought, an order of dissolution is such a final
order as can be appealed from. This is the view taken by
the Supreme Court of Illinois.t
And this court have indicated a similar view.1
If Moses v. The Mayor,ยง have a contrary aspect, that case
is distinguishable friom this one. That case was an appeal
from the judgment of a State Supreme Court revising and
remanding the cause to the inferior State court. This is an
appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court finally disposing
of the merits of controversy. The motion to dissolve was
upon an answer which raised only a question of law. Nothing thus remained to be done except formally to dismiss the
case for want of equity.
Williams v. Bank of the United States, 11 Wheaton, 414.

t

Titus v. Mabee, 25 Illinois, 257.
: Thompson v. Dean, 7 Wallace, 342; Railroad Co. v. Bradley, lb. 575;
Stoval v. Bank, 10 Id. 583.
15 Wallace, 387.

THOMAS & CO. V. WOOLDRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is first objected that this motion cannot be entertained
now because the appellants had until the next term to file
the record. In .Ex parte Bussell,* we decided that "unless
some unforeseen inconvenience should arise from the practice, we would not refuse to bear a motion to dismiss before
the term in which, in regular order, the record ought to be
returned," if the record was actually brought here and
printed. We think now, as we did then, that such a practice will "be likely to prevent great delays and expense and
further the ends of justice."
It is next objected that the notice of the motion is insufficient, because it was not accompanied by a copy of the
brief or argument to be used in its support, as required by
the amendment to Rule 6, adopted at the December Term,
1871. This might have been a good cause for postponing
the hearing to give time for further preparation, if application therefor had been made. Instead of that a full argument has been filed upon the merits of the motion. No
more could be done if the hearing should be now postponed.
Under these circumstances we are inclined to treat the filing
of the argument as a waiver of the notice required by the
rule.
It is next objected that all the parties defendant in the
lower court are not parties to this motion to dismiss. The
motion is made by the appellees and is signed by the attorney of the only defendant in the court below who had any
real interest in the litigation, and the only one who filed an
answer.
This brings us to the merits of the motion. We have
many times decided that an appeal will not lie from a decree
dissolving an injunction without dismissing the bill.t
In this case the bill was not dismissed. It may have been
the intention of the court to dispose of the whole case by the
* 13 Wallace, 671.

t Young v. Grundy, 6 Oranch, 51; McCollum v. Eager, 2 Howard, 61;
Hiriart v. Ballon, 9 Peters, 167; Moses v. The Mayor, 15 Wallace, 390.

Oct. 1874.]

SANDUSKY V.

NATIONAL BANK.

289

Statement of the case.

entry as made, but that intention is certainly not expressed.
A motion was made to dissolve the injunction upon the bill
and answer filed. It does not appear that the case was
heard except upon this motion, and there is nothing in the
record to show that it will not be still within the power of
the Circuit Court upon the dismissal of the appeal to grant
the complainants all the relief they ask. The case is still
open on its merits. It is only the interlocutory order that
has been disposed of.
APPEAL DISMISSED.

SANDUSKY V. NATIONAL BANK.
A petition addressed to the District Court "in bankruptcy sitting," Dy a
person who has been decreed an involuntary bankrupt, "for a review
of the record of the said proceedings in bankruptcy, and that the decree
declaring the petitioner a bankrupt be set aside and vacated, and the
petition of the petitioning creditor be dismissed and the petitioner's
estate be restored to him ; and for such other and further relief in the
premises as may be equitable and just"-the orders and notices and
every proceeding in the matter being entitled as in the original proceeding "1in bankruptcy"-is but a petition filed in the original proceedings in bankruptcy; and is not a bill in equity to impeach the
adjudication for fraud. It cannot be separated from the original proceedings and taken into the Circuit Court by appeal as a case in equity
under the eighth section of the Bankrupt Act. If any action by the
Circuit Court is wanted by the person decreed a bankrupt, he must obtain it under the second section of the Bankrupt Act, which gives a
general supervisory jurisdiction to that court over the proceedings of
the District Court, except where special provision is otherwise made.
No special provision is made in such a case for review by the Circuit
Court. From any decision by the Circuit Court, acting in its general
supervisory jurisdiction conferred by the second section, no appeal or
writ of error lies to this court.

ON motion by Mr. W. T'. Otto, to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Illinois; the case being thus:
By the Bankrupt Act it is thus in effect enacted:
"SECTION

1. That the several District Courts be . . . courts

VOL. XXXII.

19

