STICKNEY V.

[Sup. Ct.

WILT.

Syllabus

The purchase-money for the lot became a part of his
estate, and the entire estate was given to her at his death.
Not satisfied with this she seeks to fasten her dower upon
the property in question.
The act accomplished what a court of equity, if called
upon, would have decreed promptly as to the husband, and
would have fhiled to decree as to the wife only from the
want of power. The unbending rule of law as to fenes
covert in such cases would have prevented it. The legislature thus did what right and justice demanded, and the act
strongly commends itself to the conscience and approbation
of the judicial mind.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

STICKNEY,

ASSIGNEE, V.

WILT.

1. A proceeding under the Bankrupt Act in which by petition in form, the
assignee sets forth articulately that A., B., C., &c., claim liens against
the bankrupt's estate, the validity of each of which liens he, the assignee, denies, and in which he prays that the parties setting up the liens
may be made parties, and be required to answer, each of them, all his
charges and allegations as made, and be compelled, each of them, to set
forth and state in their respective answers the particulars and facts
upon which their respective claims are based, and that on final hearing
all questions and rights of each and all the parties may be ascertained
and determined by the court, and that the petitioner be directed to sell
the estate and distribute the proceeds ; and in which the assignee prays
that he "may have such other and further relief in the premises, and
may be further directed in his duties as the nature of the case requires ;"
in which proceeding, the parties asserting the liens, answer in form, and
the assignee replies in form, is a "case in equity " within the eighth
section of the Bankrupt Act, which gives an appeal to the Circuit Court
in all cases in equity; and is not a case for the general superintendence
and jurisdiction by that court given in the second section of the act, in
cases where no provision for the supervision of the Circuit Court is
otherwise made.
2. The fact that a subpcona is not prayed for, does not change this view; the
defendants voluntarily appearing.
8. If such a case be taken into the Circuit Court under this general superintending jurisdiction given by the said second section, it is wrongly

Oct. 1874.]

STICKNEY V. WILT.
Statement of the case.

taken. No jurisdiction exists there so to review the case. And no appeal lies to this court from the action of the Circuit Court made under
such circumstances, to hear and determine the merits.
4. Where a case has been so taken, and the decision reversing the decree of
the District Court is in favor of the party taking it, this court will reverse the judgment or decree of the court below, and remand the suit
with directions to dismiss it.
5. But in the present case, where, owing to the lapse of time, the party who
had the decision of the Circuit Court (reversing that of the District
Court) against him, would be prevented from having, as matter of right,
a review of the case by the Circuit Court on an appeal properly taken.
under the eighth section, this court thought it fitting to suggest that
perhaps, on a proper application, the District Court would grant a review of the decree thut it had rendered, which review, if granted, would
lay the foundation, in case of an adverse decision, as before upon the
merits, for an appeal in proper form to the Circuit Court.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Ohio; the case being thus:
By the Bankrupt Act it is thus in effect enacted:
"SECTION 1. That the several District Courts be . .. courts of
bankruptcy, and shall have original jurisdiction in their respective districts in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy....
And the jurisdiction shall extend to all eases and controversies

arising between the bankrupt and any creditor who shall claim
any debt or demand under the bankruptcy, to the collection of
all the assets of the bankrupt; to the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens and other specific claims thereon; to the adjustment of the various priorities and conflicting interests of

all parties; and to the marshalling and disposition of the different funds and assets, so as to secure the rights of all parties, and
due distribution, &c.
"SEcTIo.' 2. That the several Circuit Courts... within and

for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall be
pending, shall have a general superintendence and-jurisdictionof
all cases and questions arising under this act; and except-where
special provision is otherwise made, may, upon bill, petition, or
other proper process, of any party aggrieved, hear and determine the case [as] a court of equity.
"The powers and jurisdiction hereby granted may be exercised either by said court or by any justice thereof in term time
or vacation.

STICKNFY V. WILT.[

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Said Circuit Courts shall also have concurrent jurisdiction
with the District Courts of the same district of all suits at law
or in equity which may be brought by the assignee in bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest, or by
such person against such .assignee touching any property or
rights of property of said bankrupt, transferable to or vested in
such assignee.
" SECTIO N 8. That appeals may be taken from the District to

the Circuit Courts in all eases in equity, and writs of error may
be allowed to said Circuit Courts from said District Courts in
cases at law, &c., when the debt or damages claimed amount to
more than $500; and any supposed creditor whose claim is
wholly or in part rejected, or an assignee who is dissatisfied with
the allowance of a claim, may appeal from the decision of the
District Court to the Circuit Court; but no appeal shall be"
allowed unless it is claimed and notice given, &c., within ten days
after the entry of the decree or decision appealed from. No-ap_
peal shall be allowed unless the appellant shall give bond in
manner now required by law.
"SECTION 9. That in cases arising under this act no appeal or

writ of error shall be allowed in any case from the Circuit Court
to the Supreme Court of the United States, unless the matter
in dispute in such case shall exceed $2000."
In this state of statutor law, one Vandeveer having been
decreed a bankrupt, in the District Court for the Northern
District of Ohio, a ce'rtain Stickney, his assignee, filed a petition against him, Huss, Wilt, Paine, Adams, and two
others, to determine whether certain claims set up as liens
upon the bankrupt's estate were liens.
The petition set forth the decree of bankruptcy against
Vandeveer. It then alleged :
1st. That at the time thereof he owned a tract of land
which he had bought from Mrs. Adams, and that she set up
a vendor's lien upon it; which lien the assignee alleged had
no existence.
2d. That another tract which he owned purported to be
incumbered by a mortgage to Paine to secure a note of
$4000, but that no debt was due to Paine, and that the mort-age had no legal validity as against him the assignee.

Oct. 1874.]

STIOCKNEY V.

WILT.

Statement of the case.

8d. That he had given a note and mortgage to one Huss
for $4000, which note and mortgage were never delivered to
Huss, but were recorded by Vandeveer, at about the time
of their execution, without the solicitation or knowledge of
Huss, and that they were void.
4th. That the petitioner had been advised that one Wilt
also claimed some kind of lien upon the said lands, but how
or by means of what mortgage or otherwise the petitioner
was not advised, but denied that any such lien or liens were
so held or existed in favor of any person or persons whoulsoever.
The petition prayed"That the parties above named, and each of them may be
made parties defbndant to this petition ; that they and each of
them be required to answer all and singular the charges and
allegations afbresaid, and be alko compelled to set forth and state
in their respective answers hereto, each, the particulars and facts
upon which any claim is made or based by such defendant or
defendants; and that, on the final hearing hereof, all questions
and rights of each and all the said parties may be ascertained
and determined by this court, and that, by the order and judgment of this court, the petitioner be directed to sell the said
lands and distribute the proceeds accordingly.
"And that the petitioner may have such other and further
relief in the premises and may be further directed in his duties,
as the nature of the case requires."
The petition did not pray for subpoena or other process.
Mr. and Mrs. Adams, as also Paine, waived it, however,
and appeared. Wilt also appeared and answered.
Referring to the note and mortgage mentioned in the bill
as given to Huss, and admitting their execution and record,
Wilt alleged in his answer, that lie, Wilt, afterwards became
surety for Vandeveer, for $3260, and that in consideration
of such suretyship, Vandeveer delivered the said note and
mortgage to him, and that he had paid over $2000 on account of such suretyship.
The assignee replied, denying that Vandeveer delivered
the mortgage to Huss, and that Wilt had become surety, and

STICKNEY V. WILT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the appellant.

denying payment by him, and all debt to him by Vanderveer, &c.
Upon the hearing of these issues, the District Court held,
that the mortgage never took effect, and decreed accordingly in favor of the assignee in bankruptcy.
Wilt thereupon filed his petition in the Circuit Court of
the district for a review and revision of this decree, under
the first clause of the above-quoted section of the Bankrupt
law, which gives to the Circuit Court a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases arising under the act.*
He set up the same case in the Circuit Court which he had
made in the District Court, and prayed a reversal, &c.
Without answeiing this petition, the assignee filed a plea
to the jurisdiction of the court.
Upon the petition and plea the cause was heard, the petition sustained, and relief decreed as prayed for; that is to
say, the lien claimed by Wilt was decided to be a good one.
The assignee hereupon appealed to this court as if thereto
authorized by the act of Congress, allowing appeals iii cases
of equity and maritime jurisdiction,t which act enacts that
from " all final decrees rendered in any Circuit Court in any
cases of equity or admiralty jurisdiction, an appeal, where
the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall .exceed the
sum or value of $2000, shall be allowed to the Supreme
Court of the United States, and that upon such appeal a
transcript of the libel, bill, answer, depositions, and all other
proceedings, of what sort whatsoever, shall be transmitted to the
said court." The record in the case, as sent here, contained
sufficient extracts from the record to understand the case,
but did not comply literally with the act just quoted. This
defect, however, was not alluded to at the bar.
Mr. A. G. Biddle, for the appellant:
1. The first and second sections of the Bankrupt Act
seem to contemplate that as between the assignee, creditors,
and- others, questions may arise not falling strictly within
* See supra, pp. 151, 152.

t- 2 Star. at Large, 244i.

Oct. 1874.]

STICKNEY V). W ILT.

155'

Argument in favor of the appellee.

the scope of an action at law or a "case in equity." For
such cases they provide for a summary proceeding on application to the District Court, and in this class of cases the
aggrieved party may have the case reviewed in the Circuit
Court, "upon bill, petition, or other proper process."
That the instances where this review may be had are limited to this class is apparent, for this action can alone be
had in cases not otherwise specially provided for; and "all
suits at law or in equity" are specially provided for by the
third clause of section two.
Clearly, the subject-matter of the proceeding in this case
was one of purely equitable jurisdiction. The case was a
"case in equity" such as is contemplated in section eight.
An appeal to the Circuit Court from the decree of the District Court lay under section eight. But the decree of the
District Court remaining unappealed from is conclusive.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed for want
of jurisdiction in it to review the case otherwise than on
appeal. The decree of the District Court will then stand;
with a right to take an appeal under the eighth section, if
the time of appeal has not passed.
This question is within Smith v. Mason.*
"Ur. G. -E.Seney, contra:
The first question is as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, but that is not, as the opposite counsel assume, the
only question. There remains the question of the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the appeal, even if the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction.
The argument made against the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court rests upon the assumption that this is a case in equity,
and therefore that the proceeding is by bill in chancery.
But the proceeding was nothing more than an ancillary
petition, in the ordinary form, for the purpose of obtaining
an order for the sale of the bankrupt's estate. The adjustment of the liens is only incidental to the main object of the
* 14 Wallace, 419.

STICKNEY V.

WILT.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in favor of the appellee.

petition, and preliminary to making the order of sale. The
petition is like the petition of an administrator for an order
to sell the decedent's lands for the payment of debts. Such
a proceeding always involves the power to adjust and determine liens before ordering a sale. In the adjustment
and determination of these liens, frequently important and
difficult questions, involving legal and equitable principles,
arise. Yet such a proceeding is not a case in equity.
The petitioner, the assignee in bankruptcy, as well as the
District Court, treated the matter as a summary proceeding
and not as a case in equity.. No writ of subpoena was asked
for, nor did one issue; nor was objection made by the court
or the parties that the proceeding should be by bill in chancery, and not summarily upon petition.
The District Court has exclusive original jurisdiction of a
proceeding asking for the sale of a bankrupt's estate, and
the adjustment of the liens upon it, and no jurisdiction can
be acquired by the Circuit Court on appeal.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this class of cases
is conferred by that part of section two which gives to that
court a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases
and questions arising under the act, and authorizes it to
hear and determine the case as a court of equity, upon the
bill, petition, or other process of the party aggrieved.
This construction is held in Morgan v. Thornhill,* where
the supervisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Court under section two extends to the decree of the Distrit Court, adjudging the Bank of Louisiana a bankrupt, ordering a surrender
of its property, and enjoining perpetually the State commissioners from the exercise of their functions under the laws
of the State of Louisiana.
It is held again, in Ball v. Allen,t in a case of conflicting
interests and disputed priorities between the individual and
partnership creditors of a bankrupt.
It is held again, in Mead v. Taompson,$ where this court
decided that when a petition to the Circuit Couit to re-ex-* 11 Wallace, 65.

t 12 Id. 453.

$ 15 Id. 635.

Oct. 1874.]

STICKNEY V. WILT.
Argument in favor of the appellee.

amine a decree of the District Court in bankruptcy prays
the court to "review" and reverse that decree, and "to grant
such further order and relief as may seem just," the jurisdiction invoked must be regarded as the supervisory jurisdiction which is allowed to Circuit Courts acting as courts
of equity, by the second section of the :Baukrupt Act.
It is held yet again, in Marshall v. Knox,* where it was
decided that under section two of the Bankrupt Act the revisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Court extends to the orders
of the District Court, made in proceedings commenced by
the assignee of a bankrupt, to recover property from a sheriff,
who held it under legal process.
The principle established by these adjudications gave to
the Circuit Court, in the case at bar, jurisdiction under section two to review the order of the District Court, adjusting
the liens upon and directing a sale of the bankrupt's estate.
The counsel on the other side suppose that the question
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this case is within
the rule of Smith v. Mason. In that case the question was
whether an assignee in bankruptcy, who claimed a fund as
the property of his bankrupt which was held and claimed
absolutely by a third party, under a triinsfer made before the
adjudication in bankruptcy, must proceed against such party
summarily under section one of the Bankrupt Act, or by
suit at law or in equity, under the third clause of section
two.
The court held that inasmuch as the absolute title to the
fund was the subject-matter of teicontroversy, the case was
that of "an assignee in bankruptcy against a person who
made an adverse claim to property transferable to or vested
in the assignee," under the third clause of section two, of
which the Circuit Court had concurrent jurisdiction with
the District Court, and that the proceeding in such case
must be as that clause expressly requires, a suit at law or
in equity.
The case above mentioned, and others which may arise
* 16 Wallace, 552.

STICKNEY V.

WILT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under the third clause of section two, are to be distinguished
from proceedings under the first section, which, like the one
at bar, are within the exclusive original jurisdiction of the
District Court, and which invoke only the powers of that
court in ordering the sale of a bankrupt's laud and in ascertaining and adjusting the conflicting claims of lienholders.
2. There remains now another question, and that is as to
the jurisdiction of this court, assuming that the Circuit Court
had a right to exercise supervisory jurisdiction.
We deny thisjurisdiction and assert that the appeal should
be dismissed.
It will be conceded as of course that if the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction no appeal lies from its jitdgment.
But even if the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, under the
second section of the Bankrupt Act, then on the authority
of the cases already cited,* no appeal lies o the Supreme
Court.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Two principal objections are taken to the proceedings, as
tending to show that this court has no jurisdiction to hear
and determine the case under the powers conferred by the
Bankrupt Act:
1st. Because the original pleading in the District Court is
a suit in equity, commenced under the third clause of the
second section of the Bankrupt Act, which could only be
removed into the Circuit Court by appeal, as provided in
the eighth section of that act.
2d. Because an appeal will not lie from the Circuit Court
to this court, from the decree of the Circuit Court rendered
in a petition of review, filed under the supervisory jurisdiction conferred upon the Circuit Courts by the first clause of
the second section of the said Bankrupt Act.
1. Concurrent jurisdiction with the.Circuit Courts is con* ,Korgan v. Thornhill, 11 Wallace, 65; Hall v. Allen, 12 Id. 452; Mead
v. Thompson, 15 Id. 551.

Oct. 1874.]

STICKNEY

V.

WILT.

Opinion of the court.

ferred upon the District Courts of all suits at law or in
equity, which may or shall be brought by the assignee in
bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest,
or by such person against such assignee, touchintl any property or rights of property of such assignee, transferred to or
vested in such assignee, by virtue of the fourteenth section
of the act providing for such transfers.
Rights of property were claimed in these lands by the
appellee, and the suit in this case was commenced in the
District Court contesting that claim, which is plainly a subject-matter cognizable under that provision; nor is it any
argument against that theory that the first pleading in the
District Court is, in form, a petition, as suits at law and in
equity, in many jurisdictions, are commenced in that form
of pl6ading. Beyond all doubt the petition contains every
requisite of a good bill in equity, whether the pleading is
tested by the statement of the cause of action, or by the
charging part of the bill, or by the prayer for relief, and if
it be suggested that it contains no prayer for process, the
answer to the objection is a plain one, to wit, that three of
the parties respondent appeared and waived the issuing and
service of process, and that the appellee voluntarily appeared
and filed an answer.
Nor is it any valid objection to that view that the Circuit
Court, under the supervisory clause of the second section,
may, in certain cases, proceed by bill, petition, or other
proper process, as the power conferred by that clause does
not extend to any case or question "otherwise provided
for," by any special provision, especially as it is clear that
cases arising under the third clause of that section, where
the debt or damages claimed amount to more than five hundred dollars, may be appealed from the District Court to the
Circuit Court for the same district.*
Special provision, therefore, is made for the removal of
such a case into the Circuit Court, and inasmuch as the case
is made the subject of such special provision, it follows, be0

* 14 Stat. at Large, 520.

STICKNEY V. WILT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

yond peradventure, that it does not fall within the supervisory jurisdiction conferred upon the Circuit Courts by the
said first clause of the second section.
2. Much discussion of the second question is unnecessary,
as the justices of this court are unanimously of the opinion
that the question is settled in the negative by the prior decisions of this court.*
Even a slight examination of that case will be sufficient
to convince any inquirer that the question under consideration was directly presented for decision in that case, and it
is equally certain, in the judgment of the court, that it was
expressly decided without any qualification whatever. At-tempts have since been made to indhce the court to give its
sanction to certain alleged exceptions to the rule, but the
court has in every such case refused to countenance any
such theory.t
Controversies, in order that they may be cognizable in
the Circuit or District Court, under the third clallse of the
second section of that act, must have respect to some property or rights of property of the bankrupt transferable to, or
vested in such assignee, and the suit, whether it be a suit at
law or in equity, must be in the name of one of the two parties described in that clause and against the other, no matter
whether they are citizens of tie same State or not, as-the
jurisdiction is conferred by the Bankrupt Act and depends
upon the conditions therein prescribed.
Final judgments and decrees in such cases rendered in
the Circuit Court, if the matter in dispute exceeds the sum
or value of two thousand dollars, may be removed into the
Supreme Court for re-examination, as provided in the
twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act.1
Such judgments and decrees, however, in order that they
may be re-examinable in this court, must be final judgments
v. Thornhill, 11 Wallace, 72.
j Hall v. Allen, 12 Wallace, 452; Smith v. Mason, 14 Id. 419; Marshall
v. Knox, 16 Id. 556 ; Knight v. Oheney, 5 National Bankrupt Register, 309;
Insurance Co. v. Comstock, 16 Wallace, 258; Coit v. Robinson, 19 Id. 274.
1 1 Stat. at Large, 84.
*Morgan

Oct. 1874.]

STIOKNEY

V.

WILT.

Opinion of the court.

or decrees, rendered in term time, as contradistinguished
from mere interlocutory judgments or decrees or orders
which may be entered at chambers, or if entered in court
are still subject to revision before the final disposition of the
cause.
Prior to the passage of the Bankrupt Act the District
Courts possessed no equity jurisdiction whatever, but it is
undoubtedly true that those courts do now possess concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Courts in the cases specified
in the third clause of the second section of that act, and that
final decrees rendered by those courts in such cases, where
the debt or damages claimed amount to more than five hundred dollars, may be removed by appeal into the Circuit
Court for re-examination. Doubt upon that subject cannot
be entertained, and it is equally certain that a final decree
rendered in the Circuit Court in such a case, whether originally brought there, or removed there by appeal from the
District Court, may be removed by appeal into this court
for re-examination, provided the appeal is perfected as required in the acts of Congress allowing appeals in cases of
equity and of admiralty and maritime j urisdiction. " Nothing
of the kind was done in this case, as appears by the record.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the
proceeding to revise the decree of the District Court was instituted and prosecuted throughout under the first clause of
the second section of the Bankrupt Act, which confers upon
the Circuit Courts merely a supervisory power over the proceedinogs of the District Courts in bankruptcy, and which
the Circuit Courts may exercise in term time or vacation,
and the provision is that the jurisdiction shall extend to
questions, as well as cases, arising under the Bankrupt Act,

except where provision is otherwise made. Special provisiou is otherwise made for appeals in cases like the one
before the court, and it necessarily follows that the case is
not one falling within the power conferred upon the Circuit
Courts by the first clause of the second section of that act.
2 Stat. at Large, 244; 1 Id. 84.
VOL. XXIII.

11

STICKNEY V.

WILT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Where both the Circuit Court and this court are without
jurisdiction it is in general irregular to make any order or
decree in the. case, except to dismiss the suit, but that rule
does not apply to a case where the Circuit Court renders a
judgment or decree in favor of the party instituting the suit,
but in such a case the court here will reverse the judgment
or decree in the court below, and remand the cause with directions to dismiss the suit.
Unless the practice were as explained great injustice would
be done in all cases where the judgment or decree is in favor
of the plaintiff or petitioner, as he would obtain the full
benefit of a judgment or decree rendered in his favor by a
court which had no jurisdiction to hear and determine the
controversy.*
Want of jurisdiction to hear and determline the merits in
such a case does not show that this court may not correct
the erroneous judgment or decree of the Circuit Court, but
if the Circuit Court is also without jurisdiction this court
cannot direct a new trial or a new hearing, as it may do in
a case where the want of jurisdiction in this court is occasioned by a mistrial in the court below, which has led to an
erroneous removal of the cause from the Circuit Court into
this court, as by appeal instead of a writ of error, or by a
writ of error, when it should have been by appeal.t
Cases wrongly brought up, it may be admitted, should, as
a general rule, be dismissed by the appellate tribunal, but a
necessary exception exists to that rule where the consequence
of a decree of dismissal will be to give full effect to an irregular and erroneous decree of the subordinate court in a case
where the decree is entered without jurisdiction, and in violation of any legal or constitutional right. Rules of practice are established to promote the ends of justice, and where
it appears that a given rule will have the opposite effect,
appellate courts are inclined to regard the case as one of an
exceptional character. Such courts, where there is no de* United States, Lyon et al. v. Huckabee, 16 Wallace, 435.

t Morris's Cotton, 8 Wallace, 512; Mail Company v. Flanders, 12 Id. 135.

Oct. 1874.]

STICKNEY

V. WILT.

163

Opinion of the court.

fect in bringing up a cause, usually affirm or reverse the
judgment or decree of the subordinate court, but cases occasionally arise in which the proceedings in the lower court
are so irregular that a mere affirmance or reversal upon the
merits would work very great injustice, and in such cases it
is competent for the appellate court to reverse the judgment
or decree in question and to remand the cause with such
directions, if it be practicable, as will do justice to both
parties. Instances of the kind are numerous in the decisions of this court, nor is there much difficulty in accomplishing the end in view in a case where the subordinate
court has jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and the right
to a new appeal or writ of error is not barred by lapse of
time.*
Difficulties of the kind frequently occur in cases of seizures, as the District Courts have often failed to distinguish
between seizures on land and seizures on navigable waters,
sometimes trying the latter as a common-law action, and
sometimes trying the former as an instance cause. Mistakes
of the kind have also been made in libels of information filed
under the confiscation acts passed by Congress. Errors of
the kind, when they have seasonably come to the knowledge of this court, have uniformly been corrected, as far as
it is in the power of this court to afford a remedy. Serious
embarrassment often arises in such cases where it appears
that the subordinate court is also without jurisdiction, but
that difficulty does not prevent this court from assuming jurisdiction, on appeal, for the purpose of reversing the judgment or decree rendered in such subordinate court, in order
to vacate the same, when rendered or passed without authority of law.
Where the court below has no jurisdiction of the case in
anyfor7m of proceeding, the regular course, if the judgment
or decree is for the defendant or respondent, is to direct the
" Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheaton, 415; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard, 441; Carrington v. Pratt, 18 Id. 63; Prentice v. Zane, 8 Id. 484; Montgomery v. Anderson, 21 Id. 388; 31ordecai v. Lindsay, 19 Id. 200.

STICKNEY V. WILT.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

cause to be dismissed, but if the judgment or decree is for
the plaintiff or petitioner, as in this case, the court here will
reverse the judgment or decree and remand the cause with
proper directions, which in the case supposed must be to
dismiss the writ, libel, or petition, as the subordinate court
cannot properly hear and determine the matter in controversy.*
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is quite clear
that the decree of the Circuit Court rendered under the petition of review, must be reversed, and inasmuch as the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction of the subject-matter in that
form of proceeding, and that it is now too late to take an
appeal from the District Court to the Circuit Court, the
cause must be remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.
Unable to refer the appellee to any legal remedy as matter
of right, under the present pleadings, it seems to be proper,
in the judgment of the whole court, to suggest that it may
be that the District Court will grant a review of the decree
rendered in that court, if a proper application is presented
for that purpose, which would lay the foundation, if it be
granted, in case of an adverse decision upon the merits of
the case, for a regular appeal to the Circuit Court.
DECREE REVERSED without costs, and the cause REMANDED
with directions to dismiss the petition
FOR

WANT OF JURISDICTION.

* Insurance Company v. United States, 6 Wallace, 760; Armstrong's
Foundry, 6 Id. 769; United States v. Hart, 6 Id. 772; The Caroline, 7
Cranch, 600; The Sarah, 8 Wlheaton, 894.

