THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.
The act of May 22d, 1846, enacting that "in all computations at the customhouse, the franc of France... shall be estimated at eighteen cents and six
mills," is repealed by the act of Mlarch 3d, 1873, "to establish the custom-house value of the sovereign or pound sterling of Great Britain,
and to fix the par of exchange," the first section of which act enacts :
"SECTION 1. That the value of foreign coin, as expressed in the money of
account of the United States, shall be that of the pure metal of such coin or
standard value, and the values of the standard coins in circulation ofthe various
nations of the world shall be estimated annually by the Director of the Mint,
and proclaimed on the 1st day of January by the Secretary of the Treasury."
"SECTION 3. Thatall acts and parts of actsinconsistent with these provisions
be, and the same are hereby, repealed."

Held, accordingly, that the Director of the Mint having estimated the
value of the franc of France at nineteen cents and three mills, and the
Secretary of the Treasury having on the 1st of January, 1864, proclaimed it as of that value accordingly, goods invoiced in French francs
and entered in a custom-house here in March of that year, were to be
charged at the new valuation of the franc.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
Richards sued Arthur, collector of the port of NTew York,
at law in the court below, to recover an alleged excess of
duties on imported goods exacted by the defendant and paid
by the plaintiff under protest. Judgment was given in
favor of the plaintiff, and to reverse this judgment this
writ of error was brought.
The case was thus:
On the 16th day of March, 1874, the plaintiff, Richards,
entered at the custom-house an invoice of all-wool dressgoods imported f'om France, the value of which was invoiced in francs of the currency of France. By an act of
Congress passed May 22d, 1846,* it was enacted thlat "in all
computations at the custom-house, the frianc of France . .
shall be estimated at eighteen cents six mills." At this
rate of estimation of the Frezch franc in money of account
ERROR

* 9 Stat. at. Large, p. 14,

1.

Oct. 1874.]

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.
Statement of the case.

of the United States, the dutiable value of these goods
was less than twenty cents per square yard, and under the
then existing tariff, subject to an ad valorem duty of thirtyfive per cent., and an additional duty of six cents per square
yard. The phintiff contended that this act of May 22d,
1846, fixed the value of the franc, and accordingly that he
was chargeable only at the rate of eighteen cents six mills
for each franc.
On the other hand the defendant relied on the act passed
March 3d, 1873, entitled "An act to establish the customhouse value of the sovereign or pound sterling of Great Britain,
and to flx the par of exchange;"* by which it was enacted
as follows:
"SECTION 1. That the value of foreign coin, as expressed in
the money of account of the United States, shall be that of the
pure metal of such coin of standard value, and the values of the
standard coins in circulation of the various nations of the world
shall be estimated annually by the Director of the Mint, and
proclaimed on the 1st day of January by the Secretary of the
Treasury.
"SECTION 2. That in all payments by or to the treasury,
whether made here or in foreign countries, when it becomes
necessary to compute the value of the sovereign or pound ster.
ling, it shall be deemed equal to $4.86 and 6 mills, and the same
rule shall be applied in appraising merchandise imported, when
the value is by the invoice in sovereigns or pounds sterling, and
in the construction of contracts payable in sovereigns or pounds
sterling; and this valuation shall be the par of exchange between Great Britain and the United States"; and all contracts
made after the 1st day of January, 1874, based on an assumed
par of exchange with Great Britain, of fifty-four pence to the
dollar, or $4.444 to the sovereign or pound sterling, shall be null
and void.
" SECTION 3. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with
these provisions be, and the same are hereby, repealed."

Under this act the superintendent of the mint prepared
two tables, one showing the standard value of foreign coins
- 17 Stat. at Large, 602.

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and moneys of account, according to the amount of pure
metal contained therein, as provided in the first clause of
the first section; and the other, showing the weight, fineness, and value of certain foreign coins in actual circulation,
as assayed at the mint, exhibiting a slight diminution of the
values contained in the first table. The Secretary of the
Treasury, by a circular letter addressed to the collectors of
the customs, declared that the values contained in the first
of these tables would be used in the computation of customs
duties from and after the 1st of January, 1874. This made
the value of the franc nineteen cents and three-mills, which
carried the dutiable value of the plaintiffs' goods above
twenty cents per square yard, and subjected them, in consequence, to an ad valorem duty of forty per cent., and an additional duty of eight cents per square yard. The collector
required the plaintiff to pay duties in accordance with the
latter valuation. This he did under protest, and now brought,
as already said, this suit to get back the value.
The question thus was whether the effect of the first and
third sections of the above-quoted act of 1873 was to repeal
the act of 1846, and to substitute in all computations at the
custom-house for the valuation of foreign coins, which had'
been previously prescribed by statute, the valuation according to standard value, annually estimated by the Director of
the Mint and proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
It was asserted by the importer in the argument and not
denied by the government, that the effect of the construction sought to be established by the government, would be
materially to increase the amount of duties imposed by the
ad valorem tarif, where the rate was upon a sliding scale in
proportion to the value of the article. The duty was raised
upon one class of articles eighteen per cent.; upon another
class twenty-five per cent.; upon other classes still more
highly; and the aggregate result would be to increase the
amount of duties annually millions of dollars.
The opinion of the court below was that the first section
of the act of March 3d, 1873, and the act of May 22d, 184G,
did not cover the same subject; and that the latter act was

Oct. 1874.]

THE COLLECTOR V. R ICHARDS.

249

Statement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.

not repealed; and accordingly that in fixing the dutiable value
of the goods under consideration, the old value of 18.6 cents
fixed by the act of 1846 should have been given to the fr'anc,
and not the new value of nineteen cents and three mills
given to it by the act of 1873.
The document presents so curious and interesting a history, and the facts which it collates show how much more
difficult than from the language of the two statutes alone,
might be imagined, was the question to be solved by this
court, that the Reporter deems it worthy of preservation in
this place.
The court below said:
"It is apparent, from an examination of the second section
of the act of 1873, that the intention of Congress was to make
a complete change for all commercial purposes in the valuation
of the pound sterling. In addition to the provision 'that in all
payments by or to the treasury, whether made here or in foreign '
countries,' the value of the sovereign shall be deemed equal
to $4.86 and 6- mills; it is also expressly declared that 'the
same rule shall be applied in appraising merchandise imported

when the value is, by the invoice, in sovereigns or pounds sterling. Apt, appropriate, and definite language was here used to
declare the radical change effected by the section and indicated
by the title of the bill. The position of the defendant is, that
the same change is wrought, in regard to the value of all other
foreign coins of the various nations of the world, by the general
provision of the first section-' the value of foreign coin, as expressed in the money of account of the United States, shall be
that of the pure metal of such coin of standard value.'
"It was not denied upon the trial that the effect of this construction of the first section would be to materially increase the
amount of duties imposed by the ad valorem tariff, where the
rate is upon a sliding scale in proportion to the value of the
article. Such a change, in regard to the pound sterling, was
unmistakably intended and made by the second section of the
act in question. If the same purpose existed in regard to other
coins, why was not the intent expressed in similar decisive
terms? The entirely different phraseology of the two sections
of the act suggests the conclusion that the object of each section was not the same.

[Sup. Ct.

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

Statement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.
"In considering the question more closely, it is apparent that
if the act of MAay 22d, 1846, and the other statutes which provide for the valuation of foreign coins in custom-house computations are repealed by the first and third sections of the act of
March 3d, 1873, such repeal is by implication only.
"The rule in regard to repeals by implication is laid down in
United States v. Tynen,* as follows: ' It is a familiar doctrine
that repeals by implication are not favored. When there are
two acts on the same subject, the rule is to give effect to both,
if possible. But if the two are repugnant in any of their provisions, the latter act, without any repealing clause, operates to
the extent of the repugnancy as a repeal of the first, and even
where two acts are not in express terms repugnant, yet, if the
latter covers the whole subject of the first, and embraces new
provisions plainly showing, that it was intended as a substitute
for the first act, it will operate as a repeal of that act.' And in
Henderson's Tobacco~t Air. Justice Strong, in reasserting the rule,
adds: It must be observed that the doctrine asserts no more
than that the former statute is repealed so far as the provisions
of the subsequent statute are repugnant to it, or so far as the
latter statute, making new provisions, is plainly intended as a
substitute for it.'
"In order, then, to ascertain whether the act of 1873 is a repeal'by implication of the previous acts, upon the subject of the
valuation for custom-house purposes, of foreign coins other than
the pound sterling, an examination of the legislation of Congress
in regard to foreign coins becomes necessary. Such examination discloses the fact, that from the earliest history of the government to a comparatively recent period, three classes of laws
in regard to foreign coins have existed, each class having a distinct and separate object.
"The first class embraces those laws which were passed to
fix the rate at which foreign denominations of money are to be
computed in American money at the custom-house, for the purpose of ascotaining the dutiable value of imported merchandise. Congress commenced as early as 1789 the system of collecting a revenue by means of duties upon imported goods, the
duties to be computed upon the values of the goods in currency
of the United States.. Foreign invoices stated the values in the
* 11 Wallace, 92.

t- 11 Id. 652.

Oct. 1874.]

THE COLLEOTOR V. RICHARDS.

Statement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.
currency of the respective countries from which the goods were
imported, and it of course became necessary to transmute these
values thus stated into the currency of this country. Hence
the eighteenth section of the act of July 31st, 1789, which was
an act to regulate the collection of duties upon imported goods,
provided 'that all foreign coins and currencies shall be estimated
according to the following rates: each pound sterling of Great
Britain at four dollars forty-lbur cents; each livre tournois of
France at eighteen cents and a half.' . . . Similar legislation
was had in the acts of August 14th, 1790, of March 2d, 1799, and
in various years thereafter, including the act of May 22d, 1846,
until the second section of the act of March 3d, 1873, which as has
been said, specifically provides that the valuation therein given
to the sovereign shall be applied to the valuations stated in the
invoices at the custom-house. The statutes of this class are
those of July 31st, 1789, see. 18;* August 4th, 1790, sec. 40;t
March 2d, 1799, see. 61;j March 3d, 1501, sees. 1, 2;§ July 27th,
1842, sees. 1, 2,11 March 3d, 1843 ; May 22d, 1846 ;** March 2d,
1861 ;ft March 3d, 1873, see. 2.11 Each of the various acts in this
class either referred in direct terms to the valuation of foreign
coins for custom-house purposes, or are parts of general statutes
imposing duties upon foreign goods, and obviously relate exclusively to the appraisal of merchandise when the value is by the
invoice in foreign coin. For examp.e, the act of July 27th,
1842,§§ provides that in all payments by or to the treasury, when
it becomes necessary to compute the value of the pound sterling, it shall be deemed equal to $4.84, 'and the same rule shall
be applied to appraising merchandise imported when the value is
by the invoice in pounds sterling.' The language dsed in other
statutes is of the following kind: ' In all computations of the
value of foreign moneys of accounts at the custom-house of the
United States;' 'in the computation of duties;' ' in computation
at the custom-house.' Congress thus adopted an exact, welldefined, and uniform system for the ascertainment at the custom-house of the dutiable value of foreign goods, which system,
as will be seen, has, always materially differed from the system
of valuation placed upon foreign coins for the payment of debts.
I1 Stat. at Large, 41.
2 Id. 121.
•: 9 id. 14.
6 Id. 496.

f lb. 167.
115 Id 496.
it 12 Id. 207.

lb. 673.
Ilb. 625.
Id. 602.

$1 17

[Sup. ot.

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

Statement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.
In the infancy of the government, and until recently, foreign
coin was in common circulation in this country. The duties
under the revenue acts were payable in gold and silver coin, and
hence it became necessary to establish the rates at which coin
of other countries should be received in payment of debts to the
government, and also as legal tender in payment of debts to
individuals. Statutes establishing these rates constitute the
second class of legislation on the subject of foreign coinage.
Thus the thirtieth section of the act of July 31st, 1789, the same
act from which I have heretofore cited, provided that 'the
duties and fees to be collected by virtue of this act shall be received in gold and silver coin only, at the following rates, that
is to say, the gold coins of France, England, Spain, and Portugal, and all other gold of equal fineness, at eighty-nine cents for
every pennyweight.' The eighteenth section had provided that
all foreign coins and currencies shall be estimated (for customhouse computations) according to a different rate. This section
prescribed the rate at which coin shall be received in payment
of duties the amount of which was ascertained by the aid of
the eighteenth section. So the act of February 9th, 1793,* provided the rates at which foreign coins should be received as legal
tender 'for the payment of all debts-and demands;' and a series
of statutes of the same character was passed, fromtime to time,
until the act of February 21st, 1857.t But it was never supposed that this class of acts, passed for the purpose of establishing the value of foreign coin, when used in payment to the government or between individuals, had any relation to the firstmentioned class. The second series was enacted for a different
object and purpose. For example, when Congress provided, by
act of March 3d, 1843,1 that the gold coins of Great Britain
should be receivable by weight for the payment of all debts and
demands at prescribed rates, such act evidently did not repeal
the law of the previous year, by which the pound sterling was
estimated for custom-house purposes.
"The second series of statutes existed until the act of February 21st, 1857,§ the third section of which act repealed ' all fbrner acts authorizing the currency of foreign gold or silver coins,
and declaring the same a legal tender in payment for debts.'
The same section also provided that 'it shall be the duty of the
* 1 Stat. at Large, 300.

t 11 Id. 163.

$ 5 Id. 607.

11 Id. 163.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

253

COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS,

Statement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.

Director of the Mint to cause assays to be made from time to
time of such foreign coins as may be known to our commerce,
to determine their average weight, fineness, and value, and to
embrace in his annual report a statement of the results thereof.'
This provision was in continuation of the third series of laws
which had been passed on the subject of foreign coinage, whereby the mint was made the instrument for estimating the value
of foreign coins.
"Perhaps the germ of this class of legislation may be found
in the last clause of the act of February 9th, 1793,* the act
which established the rates at which foreign coins should be
received as legal tender, and which clause provided that 'no
foreign coin, that may have been or shall be issued subsequent
to the 1st day of January, 1792, shall be a tender as aforesaid
until samples thereof shall have been found by assay, at the
mint of the United States, to be conformable to the respective
standards required, and proclamation thereof shall have been
made by the President of the United States.' This provision
simply had reference to the rate at which coins-the value of
which was then unknown to Congress-should be received in
payment of debts; but Congress thereafter provided, in the act
of April 10th, 1806,t as follows: 'And it shall be the duty of
the Secretary of the Treasury to eause assays of the foreign
gold and silver coins made current by this act to be had at the
mint of the United States at least once in every year, and to
make report of the result thereof to Congress, for the purpose
of enabling them to make such alterations in this act as may become requisite from the real standard value of such foreign coins.
And it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to
cause assays of the foreign gold and silver coins of the description made current by this act, which shall issue subsequently to
the passage of this act, and shall circulate in the United States,
at the mint aforesaid, at least once in every year, and to make
report of the result thereof to Congress, for the purpose of enabling Congress to make such coins current, if they shall deem
the same to be proper, at their real standard value.'
"With the clauses of the act of 1806, just quoted, the third
class of legislation in regard to coinage definitely commenced.
This provision, passed for the purpose of furnishing information
* 1 Stat. at Large, 300.

t 2 Id. 374.

254

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.

to Congress, by the aid of which proper alterations might be
made in existing rates at which coins shall be received in payment of debts, continued until the act of February 21st, 1857,
supplemented by similar acts of April 29th, 1816, June 25th,
1834, and March 3d, 1843. The act of February.21st, 1857, repealed all acts relating to the use of foreign coin as a legal tender, but continued the requirement upon the Director of the
Mint to cause assays of foreign coins, to determine their average
weight, fineness, and value, and to report annually to Congress
the result of such assays. The object of this provision was not
to ascertain the rates at which foreign coin should pass current
in the country, for the use of foreign coin as currency ceased
upon the passage of this statute, but it was obviously for the
purpose of furnishing official information to Congress and to the
various departments of government, so that their payments in
foreign coin could be regulated, and to the public, so that courts
and individuals should have accurate knowledge of the rate at
which foreign coin should properly be estimated in our own
currency. These provisions of the acts of 1806 and of 1857,
continued until the act of March 3d, 1873, were annually complied with by the Director of the Mint, and, with the first class
of laws, constituted, after 1857, the only two existing series of
statutes on the subject of foreign coin.
"-The question now is, whether the first section of the act of
1873 is a repeal of the first class of laws, and of the entire system of valuation of foreign coins for custom-house purposes, or
is the establishment of a new principle for the valuation of
foreign coins for other purposes, and an instruction to the Director of the Mint to make such new estimate in addition to, or
in alteration of, the system of assays which had previously been
the means of information which Congress and the public possessed in regard to the value of foreign coins.
"I cannot think that Congress intended in the first clause of
the section to repeal the exact and uniform system of customhouse valuations which had existed since the year 1798, and to
substitute therefor an entirely new system, by which the valuation of foreign coins was to be annually estimated and annually
proclaimed. If Congress had intended such a change, it seems
to me that they would have used apt and appropriate language,
by which their intent would have been rendered obvious. Such
language was within the reach of the draughtsmen, and it was

Oct. 1874.]

THE COLLECTOR

V.

RICHARDS.

255

Statement of the ense.-Opinion of the court below.

used in the second section. It is true that the language of the
section in question is positive and broad, 'That the value of
foreign coin as expressed in the money-account of the United
States, shall be that of the pure metal of such coin of standard
value,' but from the history of the legislation in regard to the
subject of foreign coins, the intent and object of the laws seems
to me to have been a modification of the third series of laws
rather than of the first. Theretofore, the sole method of estimating values had been by assay of the coins in circulation;
the Director of the Mint annually ascertained the average
weight and fineness of the actual coin, and communicated the
result to Congress. The valuation which these results placed
upon foreign coins-the valuation known to the public, recognized by individuals, and by the departments of the government-I'the valuation of foreign coin, as expressed in the
money-account of the United States,' was, prior to the act of
1873, the average value of such coin in circulation as determined by annual assays. Congress now establishes a new rule
by which the Director of the Mint is to be guided, and declares
that the valuation which the government deems to be based
upon a correct principle is the valuation of the ideal rather than
the actual coin, and that thereafter the value shall be deemed
that of the pure metal of such coins of standard value; and in
order that Congress and the public shall have the knowledge of
the valuations thus placed upon foreign coins, that the Director
of the Mint shall annually estimate, and the Secretary of the
Treasury annually proclaim, the result of the estimate.
"The former plan was to ascertain values by assays of the
coin in use. That valuation was the official valuation furnished
to Congress and the public. A new method and system of valuation is now prescribed to be made by the Director of the Mint,
to wit, that the value of foreign coin expressed in money of account of the United States shall be that of the pure metal of
such coin, and that the new rule shall be annually reduced to
practice, and its results communicated by the Secretary of the
Treasury for the benefit of the public. It may well be that
Congress intended to impose upon the various departments the
duty of making payments and of regulating their accounts with
officers of the government abroad in accordance with the new
rule. This official valuation annually proclaimed may be the
one by which courts should estimate the value of coins men-

THE COLLECTOR V.

RICHARDS.

[Sup. at.

S. atement of the case.-Opinion of the court below.
tioned in contracts which are the subject of litigation. I do not
think that it was intended to be the standard of values in a department of business for which a special series of acts has always
made provision, and in which a special system of valuation has
always existed different from the valuation imposed upon foreign coins when used as a legal tender. The intent to repeal
that series of acts does not plainly appear.
"It may be argued that the first section of the act under con.
sideration is analogous to the provision contained in the sixtyfirst section of the act of March 2d, 1799, 'Provided, That it
shall be lawful for the President of the United States to cause
to be established fit and proper regulations for estimating the
duties on goods, wares, and merchandise imported into the
United States in respect to which the original cost shall be exhibited in a depreciated currency, issued and circulated under
the authority of any foreign government.' It is to be observed
that the proviso of the act of 1799 had reference exclusively to
the manner in which a confessedly depreciated currency issued
under authority of any foreign government should be estimated,
and was limited to such exceptional case. But, not to dwell
upon this suggestion, the object of this proviso was upon its face
avowedly for the purpose of' estimating the duties on goods imported into the United States.' The question here is whether
the first section had any such object in view; whether the object was not to.tally different. Because the act of 1799 specifically conferred upon the President the duty of establishing regulations for estimating the duties on goods in respect to which
the cost shall be exhibited in a depreciated currency, it does not
follow that the act of 1873 conferred upon the Secretary of the
Treasury power to proclaim annually the value at which all
goods shall be estimated when such power has not been conferred in terms.
"My conclusion is that the first section of the act of March
3d, 1873, and the act of May 22d, 1846, do not cover or embrace
the same subject, and that the former section was not intended
as a substitute for the act of 1846, and kindred statutes, but was
intended for other and different purposes than those which are
specified in the class of statutes of which the act of 1846 is a
part. I am, therefore, of opinion that the act of May 22d, 1846,
is not repealed, and consequently, in determining the dutiable
value of the several importations mentioned in the agreed state-

Oct. 1874.]

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the court.

ment of facts, the franc should have been estimated at 18 .6.
cents."
Judgment was accordingly entered for the plaintiffs, and
from that judgment the case was now brought by the government hers.
Mr. G. .E. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. . Bill,
for the United States; Messrs. W. A. .Evartsand Sidney Webster, Contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below decided that the case was to be governed
by the act of 1846, and that the act of 1873 did not cover or
embrace it. The correctness of this decision is now before
us for review.
Of course the act last in date must prevail if it covers the
case. Its language is, therefore, to be carefully examined.
The important words of the first section are as follows:
"The value of foreign coin, as expressed in the money of
account of the United States, shall be that of the pure metal
of such coin of standard value."
The plain meaning of this language is, that the value of
foreign coins, in United States money, shall be measured by
the amount of pure metal contained therein when of standard
value; that is, when of tlhe weight and fineness required by
the laws and regulations of the country where they are produced. This value having been duly ascertained and publisbed by the superintendent of the mint and the Secretary
of the Treasury, becomes the rule in the cases and for the
purposes to which, according to the fair meaning of the act,
it is to be applied. In what cases and to what purposes it
is to be applied is not expressed by the statute, but is to be
gathered from its general terms, from the context, and from
an examination of other statutes passed in pari materid. The
government contends that it is to be applied in all cases
where the estimation of the value of foreign moneys of account is required by law; and that its principal and perhaps
most important purpose is the very one in question, namely,
VOL. XXIII.

17

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

the estimation of the invoice values of imported goods
chargeable with ad valorem duties.
This would seem to be, primn fade, the correct construction of the act. The second section proceeds, at once, without any inquiry of the Director of the Mint, or any further
investigation of the subject, to adopt this very method of
computing the value of the sovereign or pound sterling, the
most important foreign coin with which the financial operations of this country are concerned, and to direct that such
computation shall be applied to the valuation of invoices of
imported goods, and to other specified cases in which the
value of the pound sterling is necessary to be ascertained.
The value of the sovereign or pound sterling, fixed by this
section is four dollars, eighty-six cents, six and a half mills.
This is precisely its standard value computed in reference to
the amount of pure metal contained in it when of standard
value according to the mint regulations of England, and
estimating that metal according to the amount contained in
the United States dollar. Although the sovereign, or pound
sterling, as a coin has only existed since the year 1817, the
amount of pure gold contained in the pound sterling (estimating the guinea at twenty-one shillings) has been 113.001
grains ever since the year 1717; and as the United States
dollar contains 23.22 grains of pure metal, it only requires
a process of simple division to show that the value of the
sovereign is precisely what the second section of the act determines it to be. -This intrinsic value of the pound sterling,
as represented by the gold coins of England, was a matter
of such public notoriety as to need no extraneous inquiry on
the subject. It was the public law of the British empire
during the period of our own colonial history, of which all
our courts were required to take judicial notice; and its
continuance to the present time is a public fact as well
established as any other act of the British government. In
addition to this, the Finance Committee of the Senate, in
reporting the act of 1873, stated the value of the pound sterling, computed in the manner referred to, as an ascertained
fact. There were also other reasons, if any were needed,

Oct. 1874.]

THE COLLECTOR V. RICMARDS.
Opinion of the court.

having respect to the fictitious par of exchange so long persisted in by the bankers of both countries, which made it
expedient for Congress itself to fix the value of the pound
sterling. But the material fact in this inquiry is, that it
fixed that value on precisely the same principle which it is
claimed by the government is laid down in th first section
for ascertaining the value of all other foreign coins, and
specified the purposes to which such valuation should be
applied, amongst which is that of computing the value of
invoices of imported goods. And it seems to us clear that
the two sections have, in this regard, substantially the same
objects in view; that it was the object of the first section to
establish a method of computing the value of other foreign
coins, similar to that employed in the second section in computing the value of the sovereign, and to apply such computation in the same cases and for the same purposes. Otherwise there would exist two differing methods of computing
the values of foreign coins, and two differing rules for esti-

mating the values of goods imported from different countries,
giving a different value to goods imported from one country
from that given to goods of the same cost imported from
another country.
And it seems to us (although that is a matter of legislative cognizance) that the statute adopts the true method of
computing the value of foreign money. The basis of our
dollar of account (when not affected by the exceptional condition of legal-tender notes) is the standard gold dollar of
25.8 grains, containing one-tenth alloy. The actual coinage
in circulation may be slightly diminished in value by abrasion, and this may have some effect on the dollar of account.
But the same thing is true in other countries as the assays
at the mint have shown; and the true method of comparing
their money of account with ours, when both are based on
actual coin, is to compare the standard coins of the two
countries in a perfect state, and to ascertain the actual
amount of pure metal in each. This is the result at which
Congress seems to have arrived, and, as we think, wisely.
In making the comparison of the moneys of different

THE COLLECTOR V. RICHARDS.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

countries their gold coins, if they have such, are employed
for the purpose; gold having become the general medium
of international exchange, whilst silver is regarded more as
a domestic coin, and is usually made a legal tender for only
limited amounts. This practice, together with the rejection
of the alloy from the estimate, is in accordance with the
rules laid down on the subject by the most enlightened
economists.
Computed in the manner required by the law, the value
of the franc is ascertainedeto be nineteen cents and three
mills, as contended for by the government. This is the result of thezexaminatiou and estimate made by the Director
of the Mint and announced by the Secretary of the Treasury.
But the defendants in error insist that an examination of
prior statutes on the subject of coins and their valuation,
demonstrates that the act of 1873 was not intended to fix
the value of the franc or of other foreign coins for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of invoices of imported
goods, but for the purpose of giving general information on
the subject, or of estimating the value of contracts in legal
proceedings, or for some other purpose.
We have carefully examined the statutes for the purpose
of ascertaining the soundness of this suggestion, but have
failed to see anything in the legislation on the subject requiring us to adopt it. It is true that some of the laws have
bad for object simply the valuation of'foreign coins for the
use of the custom-house in computing the amount of invoices; others have fixed the value of such coins when receivable in payment of public dues, or when used as legal
tenders in the payment of debts; and others have bad still
other purposes and objects. But how this general fact can
affect the express mandatory terms of the act of 1873, we
fail to perceive. Those terms are that the value of foreign
coin, as expressed in the money of account of the United
States, shall be that of the pure metal of such coin of standard
value. This simple and sensible rule abrogates previous
regulations on the subject. It is inconsistent with theim,
and the third section of the act expressly repeals all acts and

Oct. 1874.]

MASON V.

GRAHAM.

Syllabus.

parts of acts inconsistent with its provisions.

No resort to

a repeal by implication is necessary.
Of course the act of 1873 does not make foreign coins receivable in cases where they were not receivable before;
but where they are receivable, or where their value is material to be known, the rule for ascertaining that value is
clearly laid down and determined by the law. It is true it
does not itself fix the values of foreign coins except in a
single instance where special reasons require it; and it is
doubtful whether the attempt to do so would have been as
judicious as the method adopted. Those values are now to
be carefully ascertained and publicly announced by the
proper officers of the government. This method will insure
the greatest accuracy, and will be attended with many public benefits. It is just, both to the government and the importer, because it is founded on truth; and it will be a great
convenience to all persons who have any transactions in
which the value of foreign money is in any way involved.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the record remitted, with direc-

tions to the Circuit Court to award
A

VENIRE DE NOVO.

MASON v. GRAHAM.
1. The patent of E. H. Graham, of October 16th, 1860, reissued May 28th,
1867, for "picker staff motion in looms," has no relation to the mere form
of a journal-bearing arm, nor does it consist in arranging a journalbearing arm in a slot in the rocker. It embraces every combination of
a rocker with a bed and loose journal-bearing arms, arranged so as to
produce the result described in the specification as effected by the combination.
2. Inasmuch as the defendant (who was alleged to infringe this invention
of Graham) employed a combination of a rocker with a bed by loose
journals projecting on each side the picker-staff, and the combination
was effected by means of a journal-bearing arm, it was held, to be unimportant that the form of his journal-bearing arm was unlike that of
the complainant's, or that its mode of attachment was different, so long
as it performed the same function in substantially the same way.

