THE

TREMOLO PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The witnesses were then scattered and gone. Most of them
doubtless were difficult if not impossible to be found. As
the contractor was silent when he should have spoken, he
cannot be permitted to speak at the later period, in the
altered condition of things, which then existed, as regards
the other party. He must be held to have waived any exception which he might have taken at the proper time, and
to have been, when the payments were made, finally concluded.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded, with direc-

tions
To

DISMISS THE PETITION.

Mr. Justice FIELD dissented.

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
TREMAINE V. HITCHCOCK & CO.

HITCHCOCK & Co. v. TREMAINE.

1. An amendment which changed the character of a hill, allowed even after
final decree, the circumstances being peculiar and the cause having been,
in fact, tried exactly as it would have been if the bill had originally
been in the amended form.
2. The defendants, venders of organs generally, and selling sometimes organs
having a patented invention consisting of a combination of what was
called a "tremolo attachment," with the organ; and selling sometimes'
organs without the attachment, were decreed guilty, in their sales of
organs with the attachment, of infringing the complainant's patent.
Held,
i. That in the ascertainment of profits made by them from sales of the
organs with the tremolo attachment, it was proper to let them prove the
general expenses of their business in effecting sales of organs generally,
and deduct a ratable proportion from the profits made by the tremolo
attachment.
ii. That the master in the present case, for the particulars of which the
reader must see the statement of the case (infra, page 520), had ascertained on right principles the general expenses.

ON cross appeals from the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York.

Oct. 1874.]

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
Statement of the case.

Hitchcock & Co., owners by assignment of a patent to one
Carpenter, which had been twice reissued to themselves,
filed a bill in the court below against Tremaine and others,
vendors of organs generally and other musical instruments,
to enjoin their sale of what was known as a "tremolo attachment," an appendage sometimes made to organs; the purpose of which is to make a tremolo or vibratory note, preserving at the same time, as far as possible, its smoothness,
fulness, and power.
This tremolo attachment was no necessary part of an organ; but, as its name declared, an "attachment;" an optional
device, used or not used at pleasure.
The defendants, who, as already said, were venders of
organs generally, and who bought different sorts of organs
from the different makers of them, had and sold organs with
the attachment (buying them from persons not licensed), and
organs without the attachment. For those containing the
attachment they paid an additional price, and they sold them
also for more than those which did not have the attachment.
The defendants answered the bill, and the case having
been heard, and they decreed guilty of infringement, itwas
referred to a master to take an account of profits, the order
of reference directing"That he permit the defendants to prove the general expenses
of their business incurred alike to effect the sale of all goods
(i. e., not specifically incurred in reference to any particular
class or kind), said general expenses to be apportioned by the
master, and a part of the same, bearing the same proportion to
the whole that the gross sum received from sales of the infringement bears to the gross sum received by the defendants from all
sales in their said business, to be added to the expense of the
infringing tremolos, and allowed to the defendants."
In taking this account, the master did accordingly allow
the defendants to prove the general expenses of their business incurred in effecting the sales of all musical instruments, and deduct a ratable proportion from the profits
made by the sale of tremolo attachments. To explain, he
reported thus:

TiE

[Sup. Ct.

TREMOLO.PATENT.

Statement of the case.

"1st. That the gross sum received by the defendants from all
sales in their said business, during the period specified, was
$91,165.32.
"2d. That the gross sum received by the defendants from sales
of the infringement was $3913.96.
"3d. That the general expenses of their business incurred
alike to effect the sales of all goods was $16,868.93.
"4th. That the proportion of such general expenses applicable to the tremolo, pursuant to said order, is $729.22.
"5th. That if said proportionable part of the expenses be
added to the expense of the tremolo, or deducted from the profits
previously reported, to wit, $1238.48, the profit derived by the
defendants from the infringing tremolo will amount to the sum
of 8509.26."
No detailed statement of general expenses was offered before the master on the part of the defendants, nor did they
prove specific items of general expense, except the items of
rent, salaries, freight, and cartage, advertising, insurance,
gas, and fuel. They made a general statement, however,
and introduced their books in cross-examination. lBoth parties submitted analyses of these books. The master adopted
the figures of the defendants' analysis except, where he considered them at variance with the previous sworn testimony,
and he allowed as general expenses certain sums and items,
including:
.
. ...
Stationery and printing..
Telegraphing.. ........
.
.239
Office furniture and fixtures,
Expressage, .........
Labor, ..........
.
And disallowed eight various large items.

.

$1405 28
47 78
35
28 12
79 30

The complainants excepted:
1st. To the deduction from the profits made on the sale
of the tremolo attachments of a ratable proportion of the
general expenses of the defendants' business.
2d. To the way in which the master ascertained the general expenses.
The court, however, confirmed the master's report, and a
decree was entered accordingly.

Oct. 1874.]

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
Statement of the case.

Soon after this was done, it was discovered that the case
had been tried on issues not made in the pleadings; that
the complainants in taking their proofs had put in evidence
a reissue different from and later than the one which they
had set out in their bill as the ground for their complaint,
and that the bill had never in any way been amended.
As to this new matter now brought up after decree made,
the case was thus:
The bill set forth that a patent for the "attachment" had
been granted on the 27th day of June, 1865, to one Carpenter; that subsequently he assigned the letters-patent to the
complainants; that on the 18th day of May, 1869, they surrendered the patent, and obtained a reissue to themselves
(No. 3444). and that the defendants had been guilty of infringing their rights under the patent.
To the complaint thus exhibited the defendants answered,
admitting the grant of the letters to Carpenter, but denying
all knowledge as to the truth of the allegations that Carpenter had at any time assigned his interest to the complainants,
or to any one or more of them; and, therefore, denying that
the complainants had any interest in the said letters-patent
or to the "reissues " of the same as set forth in the bill of
complaint. The answer further averred that Carpenter was
not the original inventor of the tremolo attachment, but
that it was known and was in use before his alleged invention was made. It denied that the defendants had infringed
upon the rights and privileges granted by the patent dated
June 27th, 1865, "or by ANY of the reissues of the same."
To this answer a general replication was put in and the
parties went to trial, when the complainants gave in evidence, without objection, reissued letters-patent No. 3665,
dated October 5th, 1869, which had been granted on the
surrender of the first reissue No. 3444. This second reissue
was not set out in the bill, but it was obvious enough that
both parties supposed it was, through all the progress of the
trial. As already said, the answer denied infringement, not
of the single reissue mentioned in the bill, but of any of
the reissues. No other reissue than No. 3665 was put in

THE

TREMOLO PATENT.

[Sup. of.

Argument for the complainants.

evidence. The decretal order to account mentioned it in
terms. The evidence taken by the master under the order
of reference related only to attachments sold by the defendants after the second reissue was granted. In the exceptions taken by them to the master's report no intimation was
made that the rights of the complainants under the reissue
No. 3665 were not on trial, and not even when the final de:
cree was made was it suggested that the parties had been
trying the case on an issue not made by the pleadings.
After the final decree had been made, the complainants
applied to have the bill of complaint amended by inserting
in it a declaration on the reissued letters-patent which were
decreed to -be valid, and the court below made an order containing a recitation of alleged facts to authorize the order
amending the bill as prayed for.
There was no allegation that the bill of complaint ever
contained the allegation as to reissue No. 3665, prior to the
judgment. The motion and the order were not made "to
conformn the bill to the proofs."
Both parties appealed; the complainants because of the
confirmation of the report in the face of their two exceptions
to it; the defendants because of the amendment allowed in
the bill after a final decree made.
r'. F. H. Betts, for the complainants below:
1. Nro part of the general expenses are justly allowable to the
defendants.
The method of computation of profits was erroneous. It
forgot that the patent is not for the tremolo itself, but for
the combination of the organ and tremolo.
If an extra price is received for the combination, without
any additional expense being incurred, the whole of that
extra price is obtained by the addition of the combination.
It does not avail the defendants to charge a portion of
their general expenses against the tremolo, one member of
the combination, for in so doing they take off the exact
amount from the other member, the organ. The profit on
the whole combination is still equal to the exact amount by

Oct. 1874.]

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
Argument for the complainants.

which the extra price received by reason of the making of
the addition exceeds the amount received for the organ
alone. This, for example, is expressed in figures thus:
Cost of organ, $100; received for organ, $200. Cost of
tremolo, $12.50; received for tremolo, $25. Amount of
general expenses apportioned to each organ, $50; no additional amount incurred by reason of tremolo.
If all, $50 is charged against organ alone. Profit on tremolo alone is $12.50. If $45 is charged on organ and $5 on
tremolo, we still have $12.50 as the profit received for the
combination; i. e., $7.50 on tremolo itself and $5 on organ,
by reason of adding tremolo,
The same result follows from any apportionment.
Any other rule than this would enable an infringer to add
patented devices to his instrument, charge extra prices for
them, and thereby increase his profit on his instruments by
the exact amount of the proportion of his general expenses
that his sales of the infringing device bear to his general
business. In other words, the more he infringes the more
of the general expenses he diverts from the main instrument,
and thereby the more profits be makes without being accountable for it.
The true rule is, if the infringing devices are an integral
part of the whole instrument, without which it is incapable
of use and for which a single charge is made, then in determining profits on a part of the organization general expenses
are to be apportioned according to cost, or by some other
equitable rule.
But when the infringing device is an optional one, used or
not, at pleasure, and an extra price is charged and received
for it when used, the true profit made is the extra sum received for the addition, only such expenses being allowed as
are incurred by reason of the addition.
It way be urged that as the tremolos induced the sale of
organs, and as the sale of organs involved expense, therefore the tremolo must bear its proportion of such expense.
This is a plausible position, but in this case the sales of
organs produced a profit beyond the profit of the tremolo.

THE TREMOLO PATENT.

[Sup. C .

Argument for the complainants.

t

Every sale of an organ which was induced by the presence
of a tremolo, instead of creating an expense which lessened
that part of the profit measured by the difference between
the cost and sale price of the tremolo, not only wholly paid
such expense, but added additional profit for the organ. If
it be the fact, as it doubtless was, that the presence of the
tremolo combination increased the sales of organs, so far
from the tremolo combination being charged with anything
on that account, it ought to be credited, not only with the
difference between its cost and sale price, but also with the
additional net profit on the whole instrument whose sale
was thereby effected.*
If it would have been impossible to have sold any organs
without the tremolo, the whole net profit would have been
properly credited to the tremolo.
If half the sales were due to the tremolo combination, to
the tremolo is due the profit caused by its own extra price
plus one-half of the balance of net profit on the whole instrument, and if the addition of the combination produced no
effects, yet still in fairness it ought to be credited with its
own extra profit, and not charged with any part of expenses
it contributed nothing to incur.
The contingency of the presence of the tremolo having
retarded sales is not supposable in this case; but if it were,
it should still be credited with its own profit and charged
with any loss on sales of the whole instrument.
2. " The master erred in that he has allowed as part of the
expenses of business, to be apportioned as general expenses, and
has credited a part thereof to the defendants, against the said infringement, the following items:
"11st. Stationery andprinting,
2d. Telegraphing,
3d. Oficefurniture and fixtures,
4th. Expenses, .28
5th. Labor,

.

$1405 28
47 28
239 35
12
79 30

"Whereas he ought not to have credited the defendants, or taken
v. Seymour, 3 Blatchford, 225; Seymour v. McCormick, 19
*McCormick
Howard, 96; Whitney v. Mowry, 4 Fisher, 145; Carter v. Baker, Ib. 404.

Oct. 1874.]

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
Argument for the complainants.

into the account any portion of said sums, because said defendants
did not prove what part, ifany, of said expenses were allowable
under the order of reference."
If a proportion of the general expenses are to be deducted,
then the defendants must bring themselves within the order,
and, in regard to that order, the following things are to be
noted:
1. A division of expenses is to be made into "general"
and "particular."
The "general" expenses being those incurred for all
goods alike, such as rent, clerk hire, general advertising,
&c., the particular expenses being those caused by certain
particular goods, and not by reason of selling all the goods,
such as cartage on particular instruments, commission of
particular sales, &c.
2. The burden of distinguishing between these two
classes is upon the defendants. To them alone were the
facts known, and it was just and proper that they, and iot
the complainants, should be required to prove them.
The defendants, by the order, were to be "permitted" to
prove their "general" expenses, as distinguished from the
particular ones. Unless they showed, therefore, what their
"general" expenses were as distinguished from "particular',
ones, the master had nothing to do but to report as before.
The defendants show generally that they had incurred
certain items of expense, i. e., stationery, printing, telegraphing, expressage, labor, &c.
Now, each and all of these items may be items of general
expense, or they may be particular expense, or they may be
part one and part the other.
The defendants have failed to show what part of these
expenses is "general" and what part "particular;" they
have failed to do this, and therefore the items should be
disallowed.
3. The amendment even after final decree was properly made.
It is perfectly plain from the statement of the case that
all parties, complainants, defendants, and court proceeded
upon an assumption that the bill was founded on the re-

THE TfEMOLO

PATENT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendants.

issue No. 8365. To defeat a suit in such a case would be
acting quite too technically.
Mr. B. E. Valentine, contra:
If the complainants showed a title to the reissue on which
the bill was founded, it would be worth while to consider
the two exceptions which they make to the master's report;
and to show, as we easily could, that the master's report was
made on right principles, and the deductions allowed by him
in our favor rightly allowed. But the complainants show
no title at all under the reissue No. 3444, on which they
base their bill. It had been surrendered. The surrender is
a solemn declaration that that reissue was void. It has not
been and could not be put in evidence. On the other hand,
an issue which has been put in evidence is not relied on in
the bill, nor indeed so much as referred to in it. A final
decree is made on the unproduced, non-existent, and void
reissue set forth in the bill, and after final decree the bill is
amended so as to let in the proofs. Such an amendment is
in the face of all rules and all practice in equity.
It was not an amendment of mere form, but was an amendment of substance, inasmuch as a separate and distinct subject-matter of litigation was introduced.
No matter what the amendment sought, inasmuch as it
was sought after replication, the complainants were not at
liberty to amend except on affidavits reciting, among other
things, that "the matter of the proposed amendment could
not with reasonable diligence have been introduced sooner
into the bill."*
In the absence of special rules, it is well-settled law that a
bill in equity cannot be amended after the cause is set down
for hearing, in any other respect than by making parties.t
In this cause the amendment was not asked for until after
judgment, and the defendants were deprived of the absolute
tight which they had to file an amended answer or plea.1
"t Goodwin v. Goodwin, 3 Atkyns, 370.
" Equity Rule 29.
: Equity Rule No. 46; and see Walden v. Bodley, 14 Peters, 160; Snead
v. MeCoull, 12 Howard, 422.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

TREMOLO PATENT.

Opinion of the court.

Even if it were urged that the defendants did litigate the
patent No. 3665 on its merits, and were not prejudiced by
the amendment, the answer is that the record shows no such
state of facts. All the proofs taken by the defendants applied to the reissue No. 3444.
The defendants were not required to object to the introduction of reissue No. 3665. By their answer they required
the plaintiffs to prove their title to reissue No. 3444, and
when the plaintiffs put in evidence the reissue No. 3665, it
proved the defendants' case for them, because it recited on
its face that reissue No. 3444 had been surrendered.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the order of the court directing that the
record be amended by inserting in the bill an averment of
the second reissue was properly made, under the circumstances of the case, though made after the final decree. For
practically the rights of the complainants under the second
reissue, and the defendants' infringement thereof were in
issue under the answer and the replication. The amendment deprived the defendants of no rights which they had
not enjoyed during all the progress of the trial. It may
well be denominated only an amendment of form, because
it introduced no other cause of action than that which had
been tried. It is true that an amendment which changes
the character of the bill ought not generally to be allowed
after a case has been set for a hearing, and still less after it
has been heard. The reason is that the answer may become
inapplicable if such an amendment be permitted. But in
this case the defendants were not prejudiced. They had
every advantage they could have had, if the bill had originally averred the second reissue. The case is undoubtedly
anomalous, but we think justice would not be subserved by
denying to the Circuit Court the power to order such an
amendment as was made, after the cause was tried precisely
as it must have been tried if the bill had originally contained
the averment inserted by the amendment.
We come then to the errors assigned by the complainants.

THE TREMOLO PATENT.

-[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

They relate to the estimate of profits reported by the master
and confirmed by the court. The defendants were vendors
of musical instruments, including organs and melodeons,
which they purchased from the manufacturers. Some of
these instruments contained the tremolo attachment, and
others did not. For those containing such attachments they
paid an additional price and they sold them also for an increased price. In the ascertainment of the profits made by
them from the sales, they were allowed to prove the general
expenses of their business incurred in effecting the sales of
all musical instruments, and deduct a ratable proportion
from the profits made by the sale of tremolo attachments.
It is of this allowance the complainants now complAin. It
is said the patent infriged was not for the tremolo itself,
but for the combination of the organ and tremolo, and it is
argued that if the defendants obtained an extra price for the
organ combined with the tremolo without incurring any additional expense, the whole of that extra price was obtained
from the addition of the combination. And it is further insisted that the true rule in cases like the present is that if
the infringing device is an integral part of the whole instrument, without which it is incapable of use, and for which a
single charge is made, then in ascertaining profits on a part
of the organization general expenses are to be apportioned
according to the cost, or by some other equitable rule. But
when the infringing device is an optional one, use~d or not at
pleasure, and an extra price is charged and received for it
when used, the true profit made is the extra sum received
for the addition, deducting only such expenses as are incurred by reason of the addition. We think such a rule,
even if it may sometimes be just, is inapplicable to the present case. We cannot see why the general expenses incurred
by the defendants in carrying on their business, such expenses as store rent, clerk hire, fuel, gas, porterage, &c., do
not concern one part of their business as much as another.
It may be said that the selling a tremolo attachment did not
add to their expenses, and therefore that no part of those
expenses should be deducted from the price obtained for

Oct. 1874.]

THE TREMOLO PATENT.
Opinion of the court.

such an attachment. This is, however, but a partial view.
The store rent, the clerk hire, &c., may, it is true, have been
the same, if fhat single attachment had never been bought
or sold. So it is true that the general expenses of their business would have been the same, if instead of buying and
selling one hundred organs, they had bought and sold only
ninety-nine. But will it be contended that because buying
and selling an additional organ involved no increase of the
general expenses, the price obtained for that organ above
the price paid was all profit? Oati any part of the whole
number sold be singled out as justly chargeable with all the
expenses of the business? Assuredly no. The organ with
a tremolo attachment is a single piece of mechanism, though
composed of many parts. It was bought and sold as a whole
by the defendants. It may be said the general expenses of
the business would have been the same if any one of these
parts had been absent from the instrument sold. It; therefore, in estimating profits, every part is not chargeable with
a proportionate share of the expenses, no part can be. But
such a result would be an injustice that no one would defend.
We think it very plain, therefore, that there was no error in
the rule adopted for the ascertainment of the profits made
by the defendants out of their infringement of the complainants' patent.
We think also the master's report, confirmed by the court,
was correct in its ascertainment of the general expenses.
At least there is nothing before us to show that it did not
conform to the second decretal order. The defendants submitted analyses of their books, from which it is to be presumed the master distinguished general from particular expenses.
It follows that neither the appeal of the defendants nor
the cross appeal of the complainants can be sustained.
DECREE AFFIRMED;

the appellants.
VOL.

XXIII.

the costs of each appeal to be paid by

