Oct. 1874.]

SLACK v. TUCKER & Co.
Syllabus.

the dividends thereafter declared during the year 1870 shall
be subject to the tax of two and a half per cent.
The ambiguous terms of the statute prevent the possibility
of a satisfactory solution of the question presented. We are
inclined to adopt the construction practically placed upon it
by the administrative department of the government, which
is this:'that effect is to be given to the words " hereafter
declared," by holding that they cover all the dividends and
additions of the year 1870, after the passage of the act; and
that the words "levied and collected during the year 1871"
relate to the time when the tax is to be enforced rather than
as a limitation to the tax itself. Congress may have assumed
that the dividends after August would not be declared until
the end of the year should be nearly reached, and that they
would be properly levied and collected in the year following.
The statute hereinbefore quoted, showing that the tax upon
individual incomes is to be levied and collected in the year
following the period for which they are imposed by the
statute, is an illustration of what these words may mean.
The words in question do not necessarily limit the kind of
property to be taxed or the period of time for which the tax
is laid. The tax cannot be levied or collected until 1871,
but it may be imposed upon all dividends, additions, or payments of interest made or declared after the passage of the
act of July 17th, 1870.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

Dissenting, Justices DAVIS, STRONG, and BRADLEY.

SLACK V. TUCKER & Co.
1. Under the seventy-ninth section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, as

amended by the act of July 13th, 1836 (14 Statutes at Large), persons
who sell goods in their own name, at their own store, on commission,

and have possession of the goods as soon as the sales are made, and who
deliver or send them off to their customers-such sales being to an ex21
VOL. XXlI.

SLACK v. TUcKsR & Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Statutory enactments.
tent exceeding $25,000 per annum-are to be taxed as 4 wholesale dealers" not less than persons who sell to that amount on their own account.
2. The fact that the manufacturers of the goods paid the five per cent. known
as the "manufacturers' tax" does not change the case.
8. Persons selling goods in the way stated in the first paragraph above, are
not "commercial brokers" within the fourteenth clause of the said section. Such brokers are those persons who, as brokers merely, negotiate
sales or purchases for others, and not in their own names nor on their
own account.

EpitoR to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
Tucker & Co., partners, sued, in the said court, Slack,
collector of internal revenue in the city of Boston, to recover
the amount of certain taxes paid by them under protest, and
which they alleged to have been illegally assessed. The
court, having tried the cause without a jury, held the tax
illegal and a recovery was had. This writ of error was
brought by the collector to reverse the judgment.
The tax was assessed against Tucker & Co. as "wholesale
dealers" under the seventy-ninth section of the Internal
Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864, as amended by the act of
July 13th, 1866.*
It was agreed, on the trial, that if upon the facts the court
should decide that the plaintiffs were not liable to the tax as
"wholesale dealers," but were liable to a tax of one-half the
amount as "commercial brokers" under the fourteenth
clause of the seventy-ninth section, and under the ninetyninth section as amended, judgment should be rendered in
their favor for half the amount claimed and interest, subject
to the defendant's exceptions.
The statutory provisions referred to, and on the construction of which the case principally depended, were expressed
in the following terms:
1st. As to wholesale dealers, the seventy-ninth section, as
amended, enacted thus:
"Wholesale dealers, whose annual sales do not exceed $50,000,
shall pay $50; and if their annual sales exceed $50,000, for every
* 14 Stat. at Large, 115.

Oct. 1874.]

SLACK v. TUCKER & Co.
Statement of the case.-Its facts.

additional

$1000 in excess of $50,000, they shall pay $1...

Every person shall be regarded as a wholesale dealer whose
business it is, for himself or on commission, to sell, or offer to
sell, any goods, wares, or merchandise of foreign or domestic
production, not including wines, spirits, or malt liquors, whose
annual sales exceed $25,000."
An exception was made in favor of manufacturers selling
their own goods, by section seventy-four, as amended by the
act of July 18th, 1866: *
"But nothing herein contained shall require a special tax for
. . . the sale by manufacturers or producers of their own goods,
wares, and merchandise, at the place of production or manufacture, and at their principal office or place of business, provided
6
no goods, wares, or merchandis shall be kept except as samples
at said office or place of business."
2d. As to commercial brokers, the fourteenth clause of
the seventy-ninth section, as amended in 1866, enacts as

follows: t
"Commercial brokers shall pay $20. Any person or firm
whose business it is, as a broker, to negotiate sales or purchases
of goods, wares, or merchandise, or to negotiate freights and
other business for the owners of vessels or for the shippers or
consignors or consignees of freight carried by vessels, shall be
regarded a commercial broker."
And section ninety-nine, as amended, provides :j
"And there shall be paid monthly on all sales by commercial
brokers of any goods, wares, or merchandise, a tax of one-twentieth of one per centum upon the amount of such sales."
Under these statutes the plaintiffs contended first, that
the sales made by them were made as mere agents of the
manufacturers at their principal office and place of business,
and therefore came under the exemption provided in section
seventy-four, above quoted; secondly, that, at most, they
were commercial brokers, and therefore liable for only onehalf the amount for which they were assessed.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 113.

t Ib. 117.

$Ib. 134.

SLACK v. TUCKER & Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.-Itz facts.

The facts on which they relied in support of these positions
sufficiently appeared from the bill of exceptions taken by the
collector on the trial of the cause. It was shown-the testiPony of the plaintiffs themselves showing this-that four
manufacturing corporations, two of them having their factories at Nashua, New Hampshire, and chartered by that
State, and two of them having their factories at Waltham
and Clinton, in Massachusetts, and chartered by the latter
State, and all manufacturing cotton goods, had the same
general office in Boston, where they held their meetings,
transacted their business, and kept their records, and where
they kept a common clerk and a common treasurer. The
latter was the chief executive officer, buying all the raw
material and making the other purchases for the corporations, taking care of their finances, and under the respective
boards (which consisted of substantially the same perso~is)
managing and controlling the affairs of the several corporations, their agents and servants.
Between these corporations respectively and the plaintiffs,
who were a mercantile firm, transacting business in Boston,
under the name of Tucker & Co., there were separate agreements, either in writing or by parol, that the plaintiffs should
'sell all the goods manufactured by each corporation, for a
fixed percentage on the amount of sales, and the course of
business of the plaintiffs under and in pursuance of these
agreements was as follows, that is to say: The plaintiffs had
a store in Boston, which they hired in their own names, and
for which they paid the rent, with clerks, bookkeepers, and
other servants whom they employed and paid. In this store
was a counting-room, in which their business was transacted,
and chambers where samples of goods manufactured by the
corporations were kept. No goods except sample-bales and
packages were there kept, unless occasionally some goods
which had been mis-sent, or for some reason had not been
accepted by a customer, found their way there.
The plainitiffs were known to be the agents of these corporations, to sell their goods, and they sold only the goods
of these corporations, and their course of business was as

Oct. 1874.]

SLACK V. TUCKER & CO.
Statement of the case.-Its facts.

follows: They were kept informed daily of what was manufactured at the several mills, and made sales to purchasers
as opportunity offered. They kept in their office a different
set of books for each of the corporations, and when a sale
of any of the goods of any of the corporations was effected,
an entry of the fact was made in the books of that corporation, and they informed the manufacturing agent at the mill
of such corporation (where all the goods were stored as they
were manufactured) to send such goods to the purchaser.
The goods were then packed at the mill, and directed to the
purchaser, and forwarded to Boston by rail, where a truckman, employed and paid by the plaintiffs, received them and
delivered them to the purchaser, if in Boston, or at the
steamboat landing or railroad station, if the goods were to
be sent elsewhere. The freight by rail, from the mill to
Boston, was paid by the plaintiffs, and was, with the expense
of truckage, charged by them to the respective corporations.
When sufficient time had elapsed after the sale for the delivery of the goods, the plaintiffs sent to the purchaser a bill
of the goods in their own names, separate bills being rendered for the goods of each corporation, and not as agents,
and in due course, when they were settled, receipted the
bills in their own Dames, and not as agents. When the bills
were paid in cash, the money was received by the plaintiffs
and deposited in bank in their own names; and if on any
given day money was received from sales of the goods of
the diffbrent corporations, such money was mingled together
and deposited by the plaintiffs in their own names. If the
bills were settled by notes, the notes were made payable
either to the order of the makers, and by them indorsed, or
to the order of the particular corporation whose goods were
sold. The plaintiffs did not put their names upon any such
notes, nor did they guarantee any of their sales. They delivered these notes from time to time to the treasurer, and
from time to time paid him money, and every month settled
their account with each corporation.
The plaintiffs had a branch house in New York, and an
agency in Philadelphia, and the sales in New York and

SLACK V.

TUCKER & 00.

•[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.-Its facts.

Philadelphia were reported to the Boston house, and deliveries and collections were made as to such sales in the
same manner as in sales at the Boston house. Such sales
were not included in their returns to the assessor at Boston,
and no part of the taxes which this action was brought to
recover was paid upon such sales at New York and Philadelphia.
It was proved also that the several corporations had
paid what is called the "manufaeturers' tax "-a tax of five
per cent.-upon all the goods that were sold by the plaintiffs.
Upon this evidence adduced by the plaintiffs, the defendant moved for judgment on the following grounds:
1st. Admitting all that was attempted to be proved, it
manifestly appeared that the plaiutiffs were wholesale dealers within the meaning of the law, and so liable to pay the
tax collected.
2d. That the sales made by the plaintiffs were not sales
made by the manufacturing corporations within the meaning of the law; and
3d. If the sales were made by the plaintiffs as agents of
the manufacturing corporations, within the meaning of the
law, they were not made at the place of manufacture, nor at
the principal office or place of business of the corporations,
but were made at the store of the plaintiffs.
The court overruled the motion and ordered judgment to
be entered for the plaintiffs for the full amount claimed.
This judgment was of course to be reversed if, upon the
evidence as disclosed, the defendants in error were either
wholesale dealers or commercial brokers within the act. In
the one case they could have recovered nothing, in the other
only one-half of what they did recover.
Iton the contrary they were neither "wholesale dealers,"
nor "commercial brokers," within the act; or if the sales
were sales made by the manufacturers at the place of production and at their principal office or place of businessno samples being kept there-the judgment would be to be
affirmed.

Oct. 1874.]

SLACK V. TUCKER &

CO.

Argument against the tax laid.

Mr. HI. 2. Eyde, in support of thejudgment below:
The judgment below should be affirmed. A corporation
can only act through agents, and the defendants were the
agents of the several corporations for selling their goods.
That they were such agents appears from their course of
dealing and from the admitted fact that "there were separate agreements, either in writing or by parol, that the defendantg should sell all the goods manufactured by each
corporation for a fixed percentage on the amount of sales."
The ownership or possession of the goods never passed from
the several corporations to the defendants. The transactions of each corporation were kept on separate books;
separate bills of the goods of each corporation when sold
were rendered; all expenses of transportation were paid by
the respective corporations; and all notes taken for the payment of goods sold were the property of each corporation,
and were delivered to its treasurer. The defendants "were
known to be the agents of these corporations to sell their
goods." An action could have been maintained by or
against the several corporations upon the contract of sale.
If the defendants were the agents of the respective corporations fbr selling their goods, were the goods sold at such
a place that no tax could be assessed upon the sales? It is
admitted that only samples were kept at the place of sale.
The defendants sold all the goods of each corporation;
none were sold at the place of production or manuficture.
The only place where their goods were sold was the place
where the defendants sold them. This place was, then; not
only their principal office or place of business for selling, but
it was their only office or place of business for that purpose.
The purpose of a corporation in manufacturing goods is
that it may sell them, and thereby make a profit.- The
goods are manufactured to sell, and, after they are manufactured, the principal business is to sell them. It is hmrdly
fair to suppose that Congress intended to distinguish between the relative importance of the duties of the treasurer
and selling agent of a corporation, but that the corporation
having paid the "manufacturers' tax," five per cent., upon

SLAOK V. TUCKR

& Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax laid.

its production, should be allowed to sell its own goods,
through its own agents, at the place of production, or at its
office or principal place of business for selling.
It may be argued that the defendants sold goods in Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, and that it does not appear which of the three was the principal place, or at which
place the largest amount was sold. But it can hardly be
supposed that Congress intended that, if a corporation manufactured goods in Maine, it should not have a right to sell
them through their own agents at a recognized place of
business in each of these cities upon the same terms; and
that if it had an office and agent for selling in Boston, it
could not have an additional office and agent fbr selling in
New York, without paying in the latter place a tax of one
dollar per thousand upon all its sales. In the present case,
the goods upon which the tax was collected were all sold in
Boston, and all sales passed through the books of the Boston
house, and their place of business was the principal one for
sales.
It is asserted by the government that if the defendants
were not required to pay the tax of one dollar per thousand
on all sales made by them as wholesale dealers, they were
liable to pay one-half of that amount as "commercial brokers." This we admit, provided that they were not exempt
as previously shown.
A wholesale dealer is a commission merchant who has
possession of goods and sells them, one "whose business it
is for himself or on commission to sell or offer for sale any
goods," &c.
A commercial broker is one "whose business it is, as the
a/ent of others, as a broker to negotiate sales or purchases of
goods," &c.
The defendants were never commission merchants; and
if they were not the selling agents they were only brokers,
negotiating sales for their principals, and should only have
been taxed as such. The distinction between a "wholesale
'dealer" and a "commercial broker" is as marked and distinct as it is between a commission merchant and a broker.

Oct. 1874.]

SLACK V. TUCKER & Co.
Opinion of the court.

.3'r. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and 3ir. *S.F. Phillips, Solicitor-General,contra, for the plainiffin error.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The general meaning of the act of Congress in the passages under consideration is sufficiently clear. Congress
evidently intended to tax as "wholesale dealers" as well
those who sold goods as commission merchants as those
who sold on their own account; always excepting manufacturers, selling at the place of manufacture, or by sample at
their principal office and place of business. The intention
is equally evident to tax as "commercial brokers" those
who, as brokers merely, negotiated sales or purchases for
others, aud not in their own names nor on their own account.
We are clearly of opinion that the evidence propounded
by the plaintiffs showed that the sales were not the sales of
the corporations madeby the plaintiffs as mere agents, much
less that they were made at the principal office or place of
business of the corporations. The latter had an office and
place of business of their own where their principal executive officer managed their executive and financial operations,
and to which any persons having business with the corporations would naturally go. On the contrary, the store of the
plaintiffs was their own store, hired and furnished by themselves. The clerks employed in it were their own clerks.
All the expenses were paid by themselves. The business
was carried on in their own names. The sales were made,
and the bills made out, in their names. The money arising
from the sales was paid to them and deposited to their account. They charged regular commissions on the sales. It
is true they sold by sample, and did not keep the goods in
their store; bat that did not make the sales any less their
own. Persons selling their own goods often do the same.
But, though they did not keep the goods at their store, and
though, as sales were made, the goods by their direction
were put up at the mill and directed to the purchasers, yet
they were sent to and received by the plaintiffs; who de-

SLACK v. TUCKER

& Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

livered the'm if the purchasers were in Boston, or shipped
them if the purchasers resided elsewhere. The goods passed
through their hands before the purchaser received them.
They came into their possession as soon as it was necessary
to enable then to fulfil their contracts of sale.
In our opinion, therefore, the plaintiffs were commission
merchants, and chargeable as such with the tax in question
as "wholesale dealers." The difference between a factor or
commission merchant and a broker is stated by all the books
to be this: a factor may buy and sell in'his own name, and
he has the goods in his possession; while a broker, as such,
cannot ordinarily buy or sell in his own name, and has no
possession of the goods sold.* The plaintiffs made the sales
themselves, in their own names, at their own store, and on
commission, and had possession of the goods as soon as the
sales were made, and delivered or shipped them to their
customers. This course of business clearly constituted them
commission merchants as contradistinguished from mere
brokers or agents.
The fact that the corporations paid the manufacturing tax
of five per cent. on the same goods is of no consequence at
all in deciding the case. The tax in question was not imposed upon the corporations, but upon the commission merchants, as a tax on their business. It would even have been
imposed on the corporations themselves if they had sold the
goods in any other manner than as provided in the seventyfourth section of the act, namely, at the place of manufacture, or, by sample, at their principal office and place of
business.
We are of opinion, therefore, that upon the evidence
adduced, the court ought to have given judgment for the
defendant instead of the plaintifs.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with directions to award
A

See Story on Sales,
and cases cited.

91; Story on Agency,

VENIRE DE NOVO.

34; 2 Kent, 622, note;

