RAY V.

NoRSEWORTHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

unless there is some statutory provision of the State of Arkansas which obviates this objection.
If necessary the bill can be amended in the court below.
DECREE REVERSED,

tions to proceed

and the cause

REMANDED

with direc-

IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

RAY V. NORSEWORTHY.
Although District Courts of the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, have
power to order a sale of the real estate of the bankrupt which he has
mortgaged, in such a way as to discharge it of all liens, and although
as a general thing, if they order a sale so that the purchaser shall take
a title so discharged the purchaser will have a title wholly unincumbered, yet to pass in this way an unincumbered title of property previously mortgaged, it is indispensable that the mortgagee have notice
of the purpose of the court to make such an order; or that in some
other way he have had the power to be heard, in order that he may
show why the sale should not have the effect of discharging his lien.
And if a sale be made without any notice to him, his mortgage is not
discharged.

to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
The case was thus:
The first section of the Bankrupt Act enacts:
ERROR

"That the several District Courts be and hereby are constituted courts of bankruptcy. .

.

. And the jurisdiction hereby

conferred shall extend to all cases and controversies arising between the bankrupt and any creditor or creditors who shall claim
any debt or demand under the bankruptcy; to the collection of
all the assets of the bankrupt; to the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens and other specific claims thereon; to the adjustment of the various priorities and conflicting interests of all
parties, and to the marshalling and disposition of the different
funds and assets, so as to secure the rights of all parties, and
due distribution of the assets among all the creditors."
The twentieth section enacts:
"When a creditor has a mortgage or pledge of real or personal

,Oct. 1874.]

OAY V. NORSEWORTHY.
Statement of the case.

property, or a lien thereon for securing the payment of a debt
owing to him from the bankrupt, he shall be admitted as a creditor
only for the balance of a debt after deducting the value of such
property, to be ascertained by agreement between him and the
assignee, or by a sale thereof, to be made in such manner as the
court shall direct."
With these provisions of the Bankrupt Act in force, W.
A. Parks owning a plantation in Louisiana, sold the same
to one Brigham, who, in consideration of the sale, gave his
note for $11,666.66 to Parks, and to secure the note gave
also what is called, in Louisiana, "a special mortgage with
vendor's privilege ;" a sort of security apparently like a common-law mortgage for purchase-money.
Parks sold for value this mortgage with its privileges to
one Norseworthy (the transfer being duly recorded), and
soon afterwards died. Brigham, the purchaser of the land,
was declared bankrupt, and his assignee, one Norton, filed
a petition in the District Court of the United States at New
Orleans, setting forth certain facts, though exactly what
facts-as the petition itself was not produced-did not appear. So far as might be inferred from a recital and order
hereinafter quoted, made upon the petition, it rather seemed
that the petition represented that Parks had owned the land
and sold it to Brigham, taking the mortgage, &c. ; that Brigham was now bankrupt, and *that he, Norton, was his assignee; that it was necessary to sell the land to pay the debts
of the bankrupt; and praying an order of sale and power to
apply the proceeds to paying, in discharge of special mortgages, to one J. D. Denegre, $7091; to Parks, $11,666.66;
and to one R. Nugent, $2044. Parks had, at this time, been
dead for more than a year, and his estate had been sold.
Denegre too was dead. Norseworthy lived in Texas, several
hundred miles from New Orleans. Whether the fact of his
interest in the mortgage originally owned by Parks was in
any way stated, or indeed whether his name was mentioned
in the petition in any way did not appear. But it appeared
that a notice of the sale, intended to be a notice to him, had
been sent through the mail by the assignee in bankruptcy,
VOL. XXIII.

9

IRAY

v.

NORSEWORTHY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

to a person supposed by the said assignee to be Norseworthy's attorney, and to represent him, but who, in fact, did
not represent him at all in any way. Neither did it appear
what rule was made or what return had been made by the
marshal.
Although, as above said, the petition itself was not produced, nor the rule, nor the marshal's return, the following
proceedings upon the petition in the court of bankruptcy
were produced:
"The petition and rule filed by the assignee, came up, Mr. H.
D. Stone, for the assignee; and it appearipg to the satisfaction of
the court that the service required by law has been duly made,
and that the facts set forth in the petition are true; it is ordered
that the prayer of the petition be granted and the rule be made
absolute; that the assignee be authorized to sell the bankrupt's
property following, to wit :"
[Here followed a description of the property mortgaged.]
"It is further ordered that said assignee be also authorized
to cancel all mortgages, liens, judgments, and incumbrances
resting on said property, and particularly those in favor of the
estate of J. D. Denegre for $7091, being a special mortgage; the
special mortgage and vendor's privilege in favor of W. A. Parks,
for $11,666.66, and the special one in favor of R. Nugent for $2044,
reserving to said parties and to all other persons in interest all
the rights in law to the proceeds according to their rank and
priority."
The assignee, in pursuance of the already-quoted order,
sold the land at public sale, and it came finally in the hands
of one IRay.
Norseworthy now sought, in one of the State courts of
Louisiana and by some of the proceedings usual in the civillaw practice, or in the code of the State just named, to subject the land to the payment of his mortgage for $11,666.66.
To establish his case, he produced his mortgage and
transfer.
The other side, to show a discharge of the mortgage, put
in evidence the recital and order of the District Court,
quoted just above, but did not produce or put in evidence

Oct. 1874.]

RAY V. NORSEWORTHY.
Argument against the discharge of the lien.

the petition on which the order and proceedings were had,
nor the rule, nor the marshal's return.
One of the issues in the court in which Ngorseworthy made
his proceeding was, whether orseworthy received a proper
notice or was legally made a party to the proceeding under
which the assignee attempted to sell the property free of his
mortgage.
That court held that he had not received a proper notice,
and that his rights were thus unaffected by the sale. The
Supreme Court of the State was of the same opinion, and
from its judgment made on that view the case was now here.
It was admitted in this court, on both sides, to be plain,
alike under the first and the twentieth sections above quoted
of the Bankrupt Act, that under proper proceedings-which,
of course, included a notice properly given to parties in interest-the District Court had authority to order the sale of
the property free of liens. So that the only questions in the
case were: 1st. Whether orseworthy was to be taken as
having received proper notice, and if not, 2d. Whether the
want of it was fatal to the discharge of his lien.
MD
essrs. Durant and -Horner,for the plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of Louisiana seeks to withdraw this
case from the operation of the admitted rule that the District Court sitting in bankruptcy has authority to order the
sale of the property in question free of prior incumbrances,
on the ground that the mortgage-creditor, Norseworthy, did
not receive proper notice, and was not legally made a party
to the proceedings resulting in the order to sell the property
in question free from his prior mortgage.
The answers to this are manifold:
1st. The fact that Nforseworthy was not a party to the
rule is not sufficiently proved, and on him was the burden
to adduce sufficient proof. The recital in the order of sale
is, "that it appears to the satisfaction of the court that the
service required by law has been duly made." If by law
Norseworthy was required to be served, it is here recited
that be was served, and duly served.

RAY V. N0RSEWORTHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the discharge of the lien.

2d. Assuming, however, that 'orseworthy was a stranger
to the proceedings in bankruptcy, he could not annul them
collalerally. The proceedings are in rem and all the world
are parties.
The only question before the State court, which could
legally be agitated, was the competency of the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
This competency cannot be denied. The decision of a court
of a peculiar and exclusive jurisdiction must be completely
binding upon the judgment of every other court in which
the same subject-matter comes incidentally in controversy.*
-Norseworthy's relief, therefore, was to be found in the
national court. A rule for a new trial, an appeal, an action
of nullity, &c., &c., even an application to the extended supervisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States,
under the national Bankrupt law; were all open to him
there, and vot elsewhere. In a more important case than this
it was decided that the State of Texas was bound to appeal
from an order of court directing a receiver to sue, and could
not contest his right to do so colialerally.t
3d. The discharge in bankruptcy freed Brigham from all
liability for the debt due Norseworthy. The debt was extinguished, and under Louisiana law all the concomitants
of it perished. There could be no hypothecary right remaining in Norseworthy after the sale of the property by
the bankrupt court and the final discharge of the bankrupt.
Messrs. . T. Merrick and G. W. Race, contra:
1. An issue was formed oil the question of fact whether
Norseworthy was rightly served, and was decided against
the plaintiff in error by both the inferior State court and by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
And it is this question of fact which is brought here by
the writ of error, and this court is requested to re-examine
* Gelston v.Hoyt, 3 Wheaton, 315.

t Davis v. Gray, 16 Wallace, 219.

Oct. 1874.]

RAY V. NTORSEWORTHY.
Argument in favor of the discharge of the lien.

the proofs and testimony and find the facts differently from
the courts having jurisdiction of them. This it will not do.
2. If the pedition had been put in evidence by the assignee
in bankruptcy, and it had appeared that Norseworthy was a
party named in it, there might be some value in the recital
subsequently made, that it appeared to the satisfaction of
the court that service had been made. But he puts in evidence the recital and the order made on the petition, but
withholds the petition itself, the rule, and the marshal's
return. The inference is irresistible that Norseworthy's
title nowhere appears in it. Of what worth then is the
recital? What is put in evidence, if it shows notice at all
and to anybody, -fails to show to whom the notice was. It
may be to any one man as well as to any other.
Parks was dead, and his property sold in 1868. It cannot, therefore', be pretended that Norseworthy could be
bound by any imaginary notice to Parks, who had by public
act sold the mortgage in his lifetime.
The proofs adduced on the trial in the lower court by
the plaintiff and passed upon by the District and Supreme
Courts show that instead of serving a summons, citation,
or notice on Norseworthy (the holder of the mortgage), the
notice was sent to a person who was not his attorney, nor
authorized to accept service for him.
This is not due process of law. A party who never appeared in the bankrupt court, whose rights were of record
in the public archives of the recorder's office, was not to be
divested of real rights by chance notices served on third
parties not representing him, through the mail.
The bankrupt court being one of special and limited jurisdiction, it was incumbent that those who pretend to have
divested the legal -rights of third parties, should clearly show
by the record such formal proceedings as the law requires,
and such service of process as was needed for the exercise
of such jurisdiction.
The discharge of the original mortgagor from all his debts
would not affect a lien on his estate, and especially when the
estate on which the lien was had passed to another owner.

RAY V. NoRSEWORTHY.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The theory of the plaintiff in error is that the title of the
petitioners under the first mortgage and privilege was extinguished by the decree of the bankrupt court, and that the
plaintiff acquired an absolute title to the land from the
assignee in bankruptcy, discharged of all prior incumbrances and privileges.
1. Jurisdiction of the bankrupt courts extends to all cases
and controversies arising between the bankrupt and any
creditors who shall claim any debt or demand, under the
bankruptcy, to the collection of all the assets of the bankrupt, to the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens and
other specific claims thereon, to the adjustment of the various
priorities and conflicting interests of all parties, and to the
marshalling and disposition of the different funds and assets,
so as to secure the rights of.all parties and the due administration of the assets among all the creditors.*
Powers of like kind were conferred upon the bankrupt
courts by the former Bankrupt Act, and the provision in
that regard is expressed in substantially the same terms.t
Cases involving the construction of that provision were
several times removed into this court for re-examination, in
all of which it was held that the power conferred extended
to all cases where the rights, claims, and property of the
bankrupt, or those of his assignee, are concerned, because
they were matters arising under the act and were necessarily
involved in the due administration and settlement of the
bankrupt's estate.t
So where the bankrupt court ordered the mortgdaged premises to be sold, and directed that the mortgages should be
cancelled and that the property should be sold free from
incumbrauce, rendering to the parties interested their respective priorities in the proceeds, this court decided that
the bankrupt court did not exceed their jurisdiction, and
affirmed their action.ยง
* 14 Stat. at Large, 517.

t 5 Id. 445.

E parte Christy, 3 Howard, 313; Norton v. Boyd, Ib. 437.
Ex
Houston v. City Bank, 6 Howard, 504.

Oct. 1874.]

RAY v. ]'ORSEWORTHY.
Opinion of the court.

Corresponding decisions were made by the State court in
construing the former Bankrupt Act, which are equally applicable to cases like the one before the court.*
Even if, by the true construction of the first section of the
act, any doubt could arise as to the power of the bankrupt
court to authorize such a sale, it has been well held that it
may be derived from the twentieth section of the same act.
By that section it is provided that a creditor having a mortgage or pledge of real or personal property, or a lien thereon,
for the security of a debt, shall be admitted as a creditor
only for the balance of the debt, deducting the value of such
property to be ascertained by agreement between him and
the assignee, or by sale thereof, to be made in such manner as
the court may direct.J
Beyond all doubt the propeity of a bankrupt may, in a
proper case, be sold by order of the bankrupt court free of
incumbrance, but it is equally clear that in order that such
a proceeding may be regular and valid the assignee must
apply to the bankrupt court for an order to that effect, and
must set forth the facts and circumstances which it is supposed justify the application, that the judge may decide
whether or not the application shall be granted. Secured
creditors in such a proceeding must have due opportunity
to defend their interests and consequently must be properly
notified and summoned to appear for that purpose.T
None of these conditions were fulfilled in this case. Instead of that the State court finds that the petitioner was
never properly notified and that he was not made a party to
the proceeding resulting in the order to sell the property in
question free of his prior mortgage, and it was upon that
ground that the State court decided that his rights were unaffected by the proceedings.
Concede to the fullest extent the powers of the bankrupt
Clark v. Rosenda, 5 Robinson (Louisiana), 39; Conrad v. Prieur, lb.
54; Lewis v. Fisk, 6 Id. 162.
j In re Kirtland, 10 Blatchford, 515.
: Foster v. Ames, 1 Lowell, 316; Willard v. Brigham, 25 Louisiana Annual, 601.

:RAY v. INoRSEWORTHY.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

court to do everything specified in the Bankrupt Act, still
itis clear that the mortgage and privilege of the petitioner
could not be cancelled and displaced without notice nor
without an opportunity to be heard, nor could the proceeds
of the sale be adjudged to a junior mortgagee with or without notice, unless for some cause other than what is disclosed in the record.* Notice in some form must be given'
in all cases, else the judgment, order, or decree will not conclude the party whose rights of property would otherwise,
be divested by the proceeding.t
No man is to be condemned without the opportunity of
making a defence, or to have his property taken from him
by a judicial sentence without the privilege of showing, if
he can, that the pretext for doing it is unfounded. Every'
person, as this court said in the case of The Mary, . may
make himself a party to an admiralty proceeding and appeal
from the sentence, but notice of the controversy is necessary
in order to enable him to become a party.ยง
Authorities to the same effect are very numerous, nor is'
there any well considered case which gives any support to
the proposition that the judgment, order, sentence, or decree of a court disposing of property subject to conflicting
claims will affect the rights of any one not a party to the'
Proceeding and who was never in any way notified of the
pendency of the proceeding.j1
Such a sale made in such a manner without notice may,
under some circumstances, be set aside as violating the
rights of the prior mortgagee, but the mortgagee may, if he
* Peychaud v. Bank, 21 Louisiana Annual, 202.
f The Lottawanna, 20 Wallace, 201; Nations v. Johnson, 24 Howard,
205; Harris v. Hardeman, 14 Id. 339; Borden v. Fitch, 15 Johnson, 141;
Buchanan v. Rucker, 9 East, 192.
t 9 Cranch, 144.
Webster v. Reid, 11 Howard, 460; Boswell's Lessee v. Otis, 9 Id. 3.50;
Oakley v. Aspinwall, 4 Comstock, 515.
I Weed v. Weed, 25 Connecticut, 337; Means v. Means, 42 Illinois, 50;
* Hill v. Hoover, 5 Wisconsin, 386; Wallis v. Thomas, 7 Vesey. 292; Water
Power Co. v. Pillsbury, 60 Maine, 427; Lane v. Wheless, 46 Mississippi,
666; Hettrick v. Wilson, 12 Ohio State, 136; Vallejo v. Green, 16 California,
160.

Oct. 1874.]

RANDALL V. KREIGER.
Syllabus.

sees fit, affirm the sale and proceed to enforce his priority
against the proceeds of the sale, which is the real nature of
the proceedings in this case.*
Authority is doubtless possessed by the assignee to sell
the property of the bankrupt, whether the same is or is not
incumbered, but when he sells incumbered property without
any special order from the court he sells the same subject
to any and all lawful incumbranees, and can convey no
better or higher interest than the bankrupt could have done.
In such a case it will be taken for granted that the assignee
sold on?y such right or title to the property as was vested in
him as the representative of the bankrupt, and therefore
that he sold it subject to the incumbrances.
Such sales may be made without notice to the secured
creditor, but if the assignee desires to sell the property free
of incumbrances he must obtain authority from the bankrupt court, and must see to it that all the creditors having
liens on the property are duly notified, and that they have.
opportunity to adopt proper measures to protect their interests.t
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit in this case.

RANDALL V.

KREIGER.

A. and wife, residents of the State of New York, executed a power of attorney
to B. to sell lands in Minnesota Territory of which A., the husband, was
seized. The power was executed and acknowledged by both parties, the,
wife undergoing such separate examination as by the laws of New York
makes valid the execution of deeds by afeme covert. At the time when
this power of attorney was given there was no law of the Territory authorizing such an instrument to be executed by the wife or the attorney
* Livaudais v. Livaudais, 3 Louisiana Annual, 454.

- King v. Bowman, 24 Louisiana Annual, 506; Bump on Bankruptcy
(7th ed.), 156; In re Kirtland, 10 Blatchford, 515.

