FASHNACHT V. FRANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

-

Captain Williamson was ordered by the Adjutant-General.
of the Department of Missouri, by authority of the General
of the Army, to proceed to his home and await orders, reporting thence by letter to the Adjutant-General of the
Army, and to these headquarters.
The power to make this assignment was a portion of the
executive authority, and was vested in the commander of
the army. Captain Williamson was not only justified in
obeying this order, but it was his duty to obey it. It was
his duty to proceed at once to his home, there to remain,
subject to orders to be communicated to him. He was expressly required by general order to make no application
for special duty, but was informed that if his services were
required a detail would be made without his application.
He did proceed to his home and there remained waiting for
orders until he was mustered out of the service. He was
waiting orders, in pursuance of law, but was not absent from
duty on leave.
It is not in the power of the executive department, or
any branch of it, to reduce the pay of an officer of the army..
The regulation of the compensation of the officers of the
army belongs to the legislative department of the government. Congress has fixed the pay of a captain of infantry
at $165 per month. The deduction of one-half of the
amount, when absent from duty on leave, is not applicable
to the case of Captain Williamson. He is entitled to his
full pay as a captain of infantry. The Court of Claims has
done right, therefore, in giving its award in his favor for
the amount withheld, afid its judgment is
AFFIRMED.

FASHNACHT

v.

FRANK.

Where in a suit pending before it a State court dissolves an injunction (previously granted by it on an allegation by the mortgagor, that the mortgagee bad agreed to give him further time) against proceeding to sell
mortgaged premises, under a foreclosure already had, and after such

Oct. 1874.]

FASHNACHT V. FRANK.
Statement of the case.

di.solation-the effect of which is, of course, to leave in force a final
decree of sale-an alien defendant petitions for a removal into the Circuit Court under the act of July 27th, 1866, "1for the removad of causes
in certain cases from State courts," and the State court refuses to grant
that petition, the defendant not excepting, and the case is afterwards
taken to the Supreme Court on an appeal from the decree dissolving the
injunction, no jurisdiction exists here to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, and on the
ground that a right, title, privilege, or immunity has been claimed under
a statute of the United States, and that a decision of the highest court
of the State where a decision could be had has been against it. The
refusal of the State court to grant a removal under the act of Congress
not having been excepted to, and that matter not having been involved
in what was before the Supreme Court, its judgment cannot be held to
have embraced it, nor indeed anything but the matter of the dissolution
of the injunction; a matter which involved no Federal question.

O, motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
The case was thus:
Frank, a citizen of New Orleans, having a mortgage on
property inNew Orleans of Fashnacht, a citizen of the Republic of Switzerland, obtained an order in the Fifth District Court for the Parish of New Orleans, for the seizure
and sale of it.
Fashnacht thereupon procured from the same court an injunction on the sheriff and on Frank restraining the execution of the order, alleging in his petition for the injunction
and as a ground for it, that at the time when the mortgage
was executed and as an inducement to the execution, Frank,
the mortgagee, had granted to him time for paying the bond,
which the mortgage was given to secure; although that fact
did not appear as a matter of mention in the contract.
The case came up January 16th, 1874, on the question
of a permanent injunction. Testimony was taken, witnesses
examined, letters read, &c., and the court on that day dissolved the injunction, with damages.
On the 20th of the same month a motion for a new trial
was made and refused.
Fashnacht, the defendant, thereupon, on the 23d of JanVOL. XXIII.

27

FASIHNACHT V. FRANK.

FSup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

uary-that is to say, three days after the refusal to allow him
a trial-filed a petition to remove his case into the Circuit
Court of the United States, under the act of July 27th, 1866,
"for the removal of causes in certain cases from State
courts;" an act which enacts that "in any suit in any State
court against an alien, if the suit so far as relates to the alien
defendant, is one in which there can be a final determination
of the controversy so far as respects him without the presence
of the other defendants as parties in the cause, then the alien
defendant may at any time before the trial orfinal hearing of
the ease, file a petition for the removal of the cause, as respects
him, into the next Circuit Court of the United States," &c.
The petition of Fashnacht for the removal stated
that the
suit could be thus determined.
The court refused to allow the transfer. It said:
"The order is refused, for the reason that the case was tried
and determined by this court after an appearance and pleading
of the defendant therein. The order should have been asked
for in liMine, and the case having been finally determined, as
far as this court had jurisdiction, the parties must abide its decision, unless they see proper to appeal therefrom."
Thereupon, on the 31st of January, Fashnacht appealed
to the Supreme Court of Louisiana from the decree of the
Fifth District Court of the Parish of New Orleans, dissolving
the injunction, but from nothing else.
The Supreme Court affirmed the decree of the court below.
From this judgment of affirmance the present writ of
error was taken by Fashnacht, under the assumption that
the case came within section 709 of the Revised Statutes,
which gives such writ to bring here for re-examination, a
final judgment or decree in the highest court of a State in
which a decision in the suit could be had, in cases where any
title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under any
statute of the United States, and the decision is against the
title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed
under such statute.*
* See Appendix.

Oct. 1874.]

FASHNA HT

v.

FRANK.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Conway -Robinson, in support of the jurisdiction:
The suit of Frank having been commenced against analien, the alien defendant, before the trial or final hearing
of the cause, filed a petition for the removal of the cause
into the next Circuit Court ofthe United States, herein setting up and claiming a right, privilege, and immunity under
a statute of the United States. It was, thereupon, the duty
of the State court to proceed no further in the cause. But
the court refused to grant a removal, and herein made a decision against the right, privilege, and immunity thus set up
and claimed, under a statute of the United States, and this
decision has been affirmed by a final judgment in the suit
in the highest court of the State in which a decision in the
suit could be had.
It is no answer to say that the petition to remove was too
late, and that the decree of the Fifth Parish Court was
right. If the decree of that court was against a right, privilege, and immunity set up by us, and if that decree has been
affirmed in the Supreme Court of Louisiana-the highest
court of the State-this court has jurisdiction to review the
case; and this motion cannot prevail, whatever may be the
ultimate decision of this court, when the matter of merits
comes to be considered.
Mr. T. J. Durant, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Previous to the time when the motion for a new trial was
made and overruled, no question had been presented in the
cause that could under any circumstances give this court
jurisdiction upon a writ of error. On the 23d of January
a petition was filed by the defendant for the removal of the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States. This petition was at once very properly overruled, for the reason
that a final judgment had already been rendered. No exception was taken to this ruling. So far as appears the defendant was satisfied, as he should have been, that he could
not have relief in that form against the judgment which had

CROSBY V. BUCHANAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

been rendered. On the 31st of January an appeal from the
judgment was taken to the Supreme Court of the State.
This was clearly the appropriate remedy for the correction
of the errors of the District Court, if there were any. The
action of the District Court in refusing the removal does not
appear to have been presented to the Supreme Court upon
this appeal. It could not properly have been presented, because the appeal was from the judgment alone, and this
action was subsequent to the judgment and independent of
it. We act only upon the judgment of the Supreme Court.
Only such questions as either have been or ought to have
been passed upon by that court in tbe regular course of its
proceedings can be considered by us upon error.
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

CROSBY V. BUCHANAN.
I. A., in 1812, made a deed to V. conveying to him valuable estates, V. by a
separate instrument, agreeing that if A. would, within five years, pay
to him a certain sum ($14,500), he would convey to A.'s children, then
infants, a part of this estate, and convey also to them a part of certain
other estates. Soon afterwards V. acknowledged that A. had paid to
him a large part ($11,600) of the money to be paid.
On proceedings in equity many years afterwards, in the Circuit Court of
the United States, the children, now become of age, prayed for1st. A dancellation of the deed by A., as having been fraudulently procured by V.
2d. That if this would not be decreed, then, on payment by the children
of the balance with interest, for a specific performance by V. of his contract to convey the two parts of the estates which he had agreed to convey, if $14,500 were paid in five years.
8d. If the court would make neither of these decrees, then that it would
decree that V. should refund with interest the $11,600 purchase-money
that had been paid to him.
The Circuit Court in 1853 refused to decree a cancellation of A.'s deed,
refused also to decree that V. should specifically perform his agreement
to convey; but as to the return of the $11,600 purchase-money paid, the
court said that it could not pass on that matter, proper parties not being
before the court, and made no decree about it. Proper parties came in,
and after hearing, the court refused to order a return of the purchase-

