EX PARTE MEDWAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

EX PARTE MEDWAY.

'Where on certain facts found by the Court of Claims-it refusing to find
as a fact a certain allegation which the petitioner in the suit requested
it to find-that qourt has given judgment against the petitioner, and
the petitioner has taken the record to this court, which, upon considering the case found, reverses the judgment of the Court of Claims and
remands the cause "for further proceedings in conformity with law and
justice," there is nothing which prevents the Court of Claims from set-

ting aside the findings of fact which it had made on the first trial and
from trying the case de novo.

ON petition for mandamus.
The case was thus: Medway had filed a petition in the
Court of Claims for the recovery, under the Abandoned and
Captared Property Acts, of the proceeds of ninety-four
bales of cotton, of which. he alleged himself to have been
the owner, and which he alleged had been seized and sold
by the United States, who now had the net proceeds,
$17,386.20, in their treasury. A trial was had, and the
court found as facts that the claimant was the owner of the
number of bales stated, that they bad been captured by
the United States military forces at Wilmington, North
Carolina, in February, 1865; that they bad been turned
over to the Treasury agent at Wilmington, and sold in New
York, in August, 1865; and that the net proceeds thereof
were in the treasury.
But it refused to find as another fact that which the plaintiff requested it to find, namely, "that the whole amount of
net proceeds of the said bales was $17,386.20."
Judgment was rendered against the plaintiT, who thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court reversed the judgment and remanded
the cause for further proceedings, "in conformity with law
and justice." The record in the Supreme Court contained
the foregoing findings, and showed the failure of the Court
of Claims to make the computation and state the amount of
proceeds.

Oct. 1874.]

EX PARTE MEDWAY.

Argument against the return.

The plaintiff then filed the mandate in the Court of Claims,
and moved that court to proceed with the case from the
point reached by the reversal, which proceeding he alleged
would be "in conformity with law andjustice." The court,
however, refused to so proceed, and on the contrary, on the
5th of April, 1875, ordered that all the findings of fact originally made and filed, and upon which the case had been
heard in the Supreme Court, should be set aside and held
for naught, and that a trial be had de novo.
M'. Thomas Wilson, for the plabdiff, now filed a petition in
this court, setting forth these thcts and praying that the
judges of the Court of Claims show cause why a mandamus
should not be issued to the said court, to compel it to vacate
its said order of April 5th, 1875, and it proceed in obedience
to the mandate of this court, and in conformity to law and
justice in the case.
The judges of the Court of Claims showed for cause1st. That the mandate of the Supreme Court left the Court
of Claims to decide what further proceeding in the ease would
be in conformity to law and justice; and
2d. That it was in conformity to law and justice to set aside
the findings of fact which had been made on the first trial, and
try the case de novo; and thereupon the said order of April 5th,
1875, was made.
The question now wds upon the sufficiency of the return.
Air. Thomas Wilson, for the petitioner:
The court below having once tried the case, and having
decided every question of fact arising in it, except making
the computation and statement of the amount in dollars and
cents, and having filed its findings in the nature of a special
verdict, and an appeal having been had to the Supreme
Court, which reversed the judgment and remanded the
cause for further proceeding, the court below should be now
required to proceed from the point reached by the reversal,
and cannot go back over and retry those questions of fact
which were settled and determined on the former trial, and

EX PARTE MEDWAY.

[Sup..Ct.,

Opinion of the court.

which, being certified to the Supreme Court on appeal,
formed the basis of its reversal.*
The finding of facts set forth in the record remained on
file in the Court of Claims; it continued to be part of its
record. The judgment alone was reversed. The finding of
fact remained unreversed and in full force, the same as
would a case stated, the report of an auditor, or a special
verdict. But for this finding as to ownership, seizure, sale,
and proceeds in the treasury, the judgment would not have
been reversed. It was upon these findings that the reversal
was made; yet the Court of Claims, upon regaining jurisdiction of the case, so far ignore the action of the Supreme
Court as to strike out and set aside the finding of those facts
upon which that court based its reversal.
If the proposition which we contend for is incorrect, then
no decision of the Court of Claims is final upon thefacts, and
the different issues in a case may be determined seriatim,
with an appeal to the Supreme Court intervening between
each decision. If upon each reversal and remanding there
be allowed a trial de novo, there may be injected another and
a new defence, which may result in another decision upon
another issue, and the granting of another appeal, and so on,
until the last issue is disposed of by the second, third, or
perhaps fourth appeal, the number of appeals being limited
only by the number of issues in the case.
This is the inevitable result of the position taken by the
Court of Claims. That it is erroneous is obvious.
Mr. ohn Goforth, Assistant Attorney- General,contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Our mandate required the Court of Claims to proceed in
the cause remanded in conformity to law and justice. We
did not undertake to direct what law and justice did require,
any further than to say that upon the finding of facts ap,
Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheaton, 591; White v. Atkinson, 2 Call,'
Id. 115.
376*; Price v. Campbell, 5

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V.

WISWALL.

507

Statement of the case.

pearing in the record sent to us upon the appeal, the judgment was erroneous. In everything else the Court of Claims
was left free to proceed with the cause in its own way and
according to its own judicial discretion. That discretion
we cannot control in this form of proceeding.
PETITION DISMISSED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. WISWALL.
The order of a Circuit Court remanding, for want ofjurisdiction to hear it,
a case removed from a State court into it, is not a "final judgment" in
that sense which authorizes a writ of error. The remedy of the party
against whose will the suit has been remanded, is by mandamus to compol action, and not by a writ of error to review what has been done.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court

for the Southern District of Illinois. The case was this:
Wiswall, a citizen of Illinois, sued, in one of the inferior
State c6urts of the State just named, the Chicago and Alton
Railroad Company. The company conceiving that the case
was properly cognizable in the Circuit Court of the United
States for that district-the Southern District of Illinoisgot an order from that court, the court below, commanding
the State court to send the record to it. This the State court
did. However, upon looking further into the matter, the
Circuit Court was satisfied that it had no jurisdiction, and on
motion of the plaintiff remanded the case to the State court.
To that remand the railroad company took a writ of error
from this court, and this writ it was which Wiswall now
moved to dismiss; the ground of the motion being that the
remand was not a "final" judgment or decree, and that
the proper proceeding of the company was a motion for
mandamus on the court below* to act, and not by writ of.
error to review what was done.
Mr'. B. C. Brearly, in support of the motion; ir. P. Phillips,
contra.
* Insurance Company v. Comstock, 16 Wallace, 258.

