GREGORY V.

MCVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

GREGORY V. MOVEIGH.
1. Where, by the laws of a State, an appeal can be taken from an inferior
court of the State to the highest court of the same, only with leave of
this latter or of a judge thereof, and that leave has been refused in any
particular case, in the regular order of proceeding-the refusal not being
the subject of appeal to this court-a writ of error, if there be in the
case a "F ederal question," properly lies, under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, to the inferior court, and not to the highest one.
2. A Federal question exists when-in a suit by a person who seeks to recover property on the ground that a judgment and execution on it by a
court of the United States, interpreting a statute of the United States,
has deprived him of the property in violation of the first principles of
law-the defendant sets up a title under that judgment and execution,
and the decision is against the title so set up.

ON motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of

error to the Corporation Court of Alexandria, Virginia.
The case was thus:
Towards the close of the late rebellion, the United States
filed a libel of information, under the act of 17th July, 1862,
"to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion,
to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other
purposes "-the act commonly known as "the Confiscation
Act "-against certain real estate in Alexandria, Virginia, a
State then within the government lines, belonging to one
McVeigh, a person then in the rebel lines, to confiscate it.
This act authorized a seizure by the President, of the property in the then loyal States of any person giving aid and
comfort to the rebellion, and directed that after the property had been seized, proceedings in rem should be instituted
in any District Court of the United States, "which proceedings," said the act, "shall conform as nearly as may be to
proceedings in admiralty or revenue cases." The act further
directed that if, on such proceedings had, the property,
whether real or personal, should be found to belong to a
person giving aid and comfort to the rebellion, the same
should be condemned "as enemies' property," and become

Oct. 1874.]

GREGORY V. MOVEIGH.
Statement of the case.

the property of the United States, and be disposed of as the
court should direct.
This "Confiscation Act" was the subject of interpretation
by this court in several cases which arose in December Term,
1867,* and in which it was adjudged that where the proceedings under the act relate to a seizure of land, they present
a case of common-law jurisdiction, and are to be conformed
in respect to trial by jury to the course of the common law.
In the particular proceedings now before the court, that
is to say, the proceedings against McVeigh's land, McVeigh
appeared by attorney, interposed a claim to the property,
and filed an answer. The District Attorney of the United
States submitted a motion that the appearance, answer, and
claim should be stricken from the records, for the reason
that the respondent was a resident of a place specified,
within the Confederate lines, and a rebel. The court (Underwood, J.) granted this motion. A decree pro confesso
was subsequently entered, the life interest of McVeigh in
the property condemned and ordered to be sold, and sold
accordingly; one Gregory being the purchaser. MeVeigh
then brought the case on error to this court; it is reported
in 11th Wallace, page 267. The court, by Swayne, J., then
said:
"The District Court committed a serious error in ordering
the claim and answer of the respondent to be stricken from the
files. The order in effect denied the respondent a hearing. It
is alleged that he was in the position of an alien enemy., and
hence could have no locus standi in that forum. If assailed there
he could defend there. The liability and the right are insepara.
ble. A different result would be a blot upon our jurisprudence
and our civilization. We cannot hesitate or doubt on the subject. It would be contrary to the first principles of the social
compact and of the right administration of justice."
This court accordingly reversed the judgment, and remanded the case with directions to proceed "in conformity
to law."
Union Insurance Companyv. United States, Armstrong's Foundry, and
United States v. Hart, 6 Wallace, 759, 766, 770.

GREGORY V.

MOVEIGtL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

With this judgment and opinion in his hand, MoVeigh
now brought ejectment against Gregory, the purchaser, in
the Corporation Court of Alexandria, which was the proper
court to sue in, to recover the lands in which his life estate
had been sold, under the decree in the proceedings under
the Confiscation Act.
On the trial the defendant set up the purchase made under
the decree in the suit in confiscation, and requested the court
to charge that the decree of condemnation divested McVeigh
of his life estate. The court refused so to chaige, and, contrariwise, charged that
"The sentence of condemnation was void, and the plaintiff
was not divested of any part of his title in the premises by
reason of the sentence, sale, and deed of the marshal, because
the answer, claim, and appearance of McVeigh were struck from
the files by the court before the decree was entered, and the said
McVeigh was thus denied a hearing, and his property condemned
without any opportunity of defence on his part:"
The defendant excepted to this charge.
Judgment was rendered, of course, in favor of McVeigh,
the plain tiff.
The defendant then addressed a petition to the different
judges of the Supreme Court of Appeals, of Virginia, praying for a writ of error and supersedeas to the said judgment.
The petition was not to the court in its corporate capacity.
The provisions of statute in Virginia* on this subject of
writ of error, &c., to the court just named are as follows:
When and in what case petition for appeal may be presented, time
excluded from the computation.
"SEcTio N 2. Any person who thinks himself aggrieved by an
order in a controversy concerning the . . . possession of title

of property to be changed, or adjudicating the principles of a
cause, or to any civil case wherein there is a final judgment, decree, or order, may present a petition . . . for a writ of error

or supersedeas to the judgment or order."
* Code of Virginia, 1873, Chap. 178.

Oct. 1874.]

GREGORY V.

MOVEIGH.

Statement of the case.

Record exhibited with petition; how it is made up; what shall not be
copied.
"SECTION 5. With such petition there shall be a transcript of
the record, of so much of the case wherein the judgment, decree, or order is, as will enable the court or judge to whom the
petition is to be presented properly to decide on such petition,
and to enable the court, if the petition be granted, properly to
decide the questions that may arise before it."
To whom presented.
"SEoTIoN 9. The petition may be presented to the court

wherein the ease is to be docketed if the writ of error or supersedeas be allowed, or to a judge thereof, or, if the judgment, decree, or order be of a county court, to any circuit judge."
When petition to be rejected, and when rejection final.
.-. In a case wherein the court or judge to
whom a petition is duly presented shall deem the judgment, decree, or order plainly right, and reject it on that ground, if the
order of rejection so state, no other petition shall afterwards be
presented to the same purpose."
"SECTION 10. . .

The judges of the Supreme Court of Appeals deeming the
judgment complained of to be "plainly right," each and all
rejected the petition and refused to grant any writ of error
or supersedeas.
This was, therefore, the end to all further proceedings in
appeal in the courts of the State.
The defendant now got a writ of error from this court to
the Corporation Court of Alexandria, assuming the case to
come within section 709 of the Revised Statutes (the 25th
section of the old Judiciary Act), which enacts that"A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of
the State in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
its validity . . . may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed

in the Supreme Court upon a writ of error."
The Corporation Court of Virginia is not the highest court

GREGORY V. MOVEIGH.

[Sup. dr.

Argument against the jurisdiction in this court.

of the State of Virginia.
of Appeals.

That court is the Supreme Court

Mr. P. Phillips, in support of the motion to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction:
We place this motion on two grounds:
1st. That the Corporation Court, to which the writ of
error was directed, was not the highest court of the State
in which the decision on the case could be had.
2d. That the charge given by the judge-to wit, that the
confiscation proceedings did not divest McVeigh of his title,
on the ground that he had been refused a hearing and his
answer stricken from the files-did not involve a "Federal
question;" in other words, that such proceedings did not
show "an authority exercised under the United States."
1st. The court was not the highest court of the State in which a
decision could be had.
The statute of Virginia enacts that when the court or judge
to whom the petition is presented shall deem the judgment
plainly right and reject it on that ground, if the order of rejection so state it, no other petition shall afterwards be presented. The defendant in the present case, having the right
to present a petition for the writ of error to the Court of
Appeals, or to the judge, has adopted the latter mode. His
application was rejected not by the Court of Appeals, but
by "all the judges."
The appellate jurisdiction of this court is exercised only
by virtue of section 709 of the Revised Statutes (the old
25th section of the Judiciary Act), and that confines it to
the revision of the judgment of the highest court of the
State in which the decision could be had.
The question then is, was the Corporation Court the highest
court in the State in which the decision could be.had?
The appellant maintains the affirmative, because he says
that he applied to all the judges of the highest court for the
writ of error, and that they refused it.
If he had made his application to the court itself, and
had had an order rejecting the application, this rejection

Oct. 1874.]

GREGORY V. MOVEIGH.
Argument against the jurisdiction in this court.

would have constituted an affirmance of the judgment below.
In other words, it would have been the decision of the
highest court of the State that the judgment was plainly
right. The writ of error would then, confessedly we suppose, have been only directed to review the judgment of the
Court of Appeals. The statute of Virginia requires the petition to be accompanied by the transcript, an assignment
of error, and notice to the opposite party. The cause is thus
fully before the Court of Appeals, on the showing made by
the petitioner, and the decision of the court is as final and
complete, as it could have been if the cause had been docketed and regularly argued.
But this is not an open question.
In The Richmond Railroad Company v. The Louisa Railroad
Company,* where the petition for appeal was directed to the
Court of Appeals of Virgina, the appellee contended that
this court bad no jurisdiction of the cause, because the
highest court of the State had not rendered afinaljudgment,
and that its refusal to allow the application for the appeal
was not an affirmance of the judgment below.
But this court briefly disposed of the position by saying,
"The decree having been affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
by their refusal to entertain an appeal, there can be no doubt of
the jurisdiction of this court to review the decision of the State

court."
In Bigelow v. Forrest,t the writ was directed to the Court
of Appeals, and in this as in the preceding case, the Court
of Appeals had merely rejected the petition for the writ of
error. This court says:
"There is no ground of complaint that the Supreme Court of
Appeals denied the supersedeas to the judgment below."
It is, therefore, clear that in the case now under consideration, the Court of Appeals was the highest court in the
State, and that that court had jurisdiction of the judgment
complained of.
" 13 Howard, 80.

"t 9 Wallace, 347.

GREGORY V.

MCVEIGtH.

[Sup. Or.

Argument against the jurisdiction in this court.

If that jurisdiction has not been invoked by the plaintiffs
in error, they have no right to say that the Corporation
Court is the highest court in which the decision could be
had.
It is shown by their own averment that they have not invoked the jurisdiction of that court as they might have done,
but have made their application for the writ to the judges.
If the action of all the judges in refusing the writ is in
legal effect the same thing as the refusal by the court, then
the court has acted, and, on the authority of the cases cited,
the writ of this court must be directed to the Court of Appeals.
If it is not the same, but a different thing, then having the
power to invoke the action of the highest court, and having
failed to do so, the revisory jurisdiction of this court cannot be extended over the judgment of an inferior court of
the State.
Where, indeed, by the law of the State limiting the appeal or writ of error, the judgment of the inferior court is
of such an amount or of such a cbaracter as not to be subject to the revisory power of the appellate tribunal, such
inferior court, ex vi termini, is the highest court of the State
in which the decision could be had, and then the writ in
this court is properly directed to that court. Sudh was the
case of Downham v. Alexandria,* where the writ was directed
to the Fourth Judicial Court of the State of Virginia, "in
which a judgment of the Corporation Court of Alexandria
for $200 was affirmed." The writ in that case was sustained, because by act of the State no appeal was allowed
from the judgments of said District Court where the matter
in controversy did not exceed $1000.
2d. There is no Federalquestion.
The writ of this court can only bring up for review the
judgment of a State court "where is drawn in question the
validity of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority exercised
under the United States."
* 9 Wallace, 659.

Oct. 1874.]

GREGORY V. MCVEIGH.
Argument against the jurisdiction in this court.

Now, Judge Underwood was a judge of the District Court.
His powers as judge are specified by statute. His judgment
within the limits of his prescribed jurisdiction are conclusive, until reversed by direct proceedings for this purpose.
They are then to be regarded as "authority exercised under
the United States," and cannot be attacked collaterally.
But if this judge render a judgment against a person, or on
a subject over which the law has conferred no jurisdiction,
such a judgment is a nullity, and if presented in another
court as a defence, its rejection would not be a denial of
"an authority exercised under the United States."
Suppose a record from a Circuit Court of the United
States, showing a judgment and sale to be given in evidence,
and on inspection it were seen that the declaration averred
that the plaintiff and defendant were citizens of the same
State. Or that it appeared the judgment was by default,
and without either service on defendant or any appearance
for him. In neither case would such a proceeding show
any "authority exercised under the United States," but on
the contrary an exercise of power exercised in violation of
its authority.
Now, this particular decree of condemnation made by Underwood, J., was made under the act of 1862, which authorizes the confiscation of property when its owner had been
guilty of a certain prescribed offence. The property was
not offending; but it was subject to condemnation when the
owner was proven to be guilty. On the trial the question
of guilt is to be submitted, under the statute, as it has been
interpreted by this court-that is to say, under the statute
rightly read-to a jury. The party offending is to receive
notice, and is entitled to be heard. McVeigh did receive
notice and filed his answer, but Underwood, J., refused him
a hearing and struck his answer from the files, and then
rendered a decree pro confesso. Was this the exercise of
"an authority under the United States?" Is such a judgment merely erroneous, or is it an absolute nullity ? If the
former, then we admit that in its rejection by the State
court a Federal question is involved. But if, as we main-

GREGORY V. MOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction in this court.

tain, it was an absolute nullity, its rejection does not involve
such a question; for a proceeding which is an absolute nullity cannot be said to be "an authority exercised under the
United States."
This action of Underwood, J., has been passed upon by
this court in the case of Mc WFeigh v. United States, in which it
is said that the striking from the files the answer of McYeigh
if sustained, "would be a blot upon our jurisprudence and
civilization, and contrary to the first principles of the social
compact and of the right administration of justice."
No stronger language could be well used to show that
these proceedings were absolutely null.
The Corporation Court had before it that decision when
this case was tried. In charging that the proceedings offered
in evidence did not divest Mcreigh of his title, did the court
deny the validity of" an authority exercised under the United
States?" If the decree of condemnation was, as we have
asserted, a nullity, the answer must be in the negative.
There must be, say this court in Mlillingar v. llartupee,*
something more than a bare assertion of such an authority
to give jurisdiction under section 709. This court in the
case cited thus declares:
"The authority intended by the act is one having a real existence derived from competent governmental power. If a different construction had been intended Congress would doubtless
have used fitting words. The act would have given jurisdiction
in cases of decisions against claims of authority under the United
States."
31r. S. .Beach, contra:
1. The power of the State courts to correct error in the
judgments, if error there was, had been wholly exhausted before the writ of error from this court was applied for. There
was no higher court of the State to which the case could be
taken for decision. Such being the fact, it matters not how
low down in the grade of State courts the judgment may
6 Wallace, 261.

Oct. 1874.]

8GREGOY V. MOVEIG1.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction in this court.

have been left. A writ of error will lie to it from this court
as much as if it had been made by the highest court in the
State; for, of course, the writ must be directed to the court
in which the record of the judgment is. No other court
could make return to a writ.
It is argued against us that the petition, instead of being
presented to the judges of the Court of Appeals, might have
been presented to the court itself, and it is said that their
refusal in such case by the court would have been an affirmance of the judgment below, and thus that the decision of
the case might have been had in the Court of Appeals.
It by no means follows (if the point were a material one)
that such rejection by the court is identical with an affirmance of the judgment below. That the two are "exactly
equivalent" in practical effect may be admitted, but things
may be exactly equivalent in practical effect and yet very
dissimilar in themselves.
Nor does the case of The Richnond Railroad Company v.
The Louisa Railroad Company establish that a refusal by the
court to allow the writ is a formal affirmance of the judgment below. In that case the manner of directing the writ
was not a question raised or considered by this court. It
considered the larger question, whether the power of the
State courts had been exhausted so as to give jurisdiction to
this court, and the decision of that question did not necessitate an inquiry into the proper manner of directing the writ.
What was said by the judge giving the opinion was dictum
merely.
The Court of Appeals never enters a judgment of affirmance or reversal, except upon a writ of error or supersedeas,
issued, executed, and returned. Until then no case finds
place upon its docket.
But, suppose that refusal by the court to allow a writ is
identical in law with a formal affirmance, what follows?
Clearly that if the petition had been presented to and refused by the court instead of having been presented to and
refused by the judges, the writ of error should have been
directed to the Court of Appeals, and not to the Corporation

304 -

GREGORY V. MCVEIGI.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction in this court.

Court; and that is all which follows, unless, indeed, the converse may also be said to follow, to wit, that inasmuch as
the petition was not so presented and refused, the writ is
not improperly directed, when directed to the Corporation
Court.
It does not matter by what method the power of the State
courts has been exhausted. This court concerns itself only
about thefact, and if the fact appears, the manner in which
it has been accomplished is immaterial. It is not denied
that we have pursued a method provided by law, and the
adoption of which barred us from resort to any other method,
and if the test of jurisdiction here be as we assert, thefactiiot the method-of the exhaustion of the power of the State
courts-not the grade of the court in which the judgment
happens to be left when the point of exhaustion is reachedthen the argument against us is not well made.
Unless exercised in this way this court cannot, in cases
where the practice in matters of appeal is such as exists in
Virginia, exercise jurisdiction at all. There is no other
court to which the writ could be directed. If the writ,
therefore, be dismissed because directed to the Corporation
Court, we have a case where a claim of right under Federal
law has been denied by a State court-where the party
asserting it has exhausted the power of the State courts to
reverse the decision-and yet the validity of the claim cannot be passed upon by a Federal court.
2. A Federalquestion is involved.
The action was an action of ejectment, in which the plaintiff in error was defendant. Oi the trial the defeudant
proved and offered in evidence the marshal's deed and the
record of the sentence of condemnation by which the plaintiff's life estate in the property had been condemned as forfeited to the United States, and prayed the court on that
evidence to rule that the plaintiff's life estate was thereby
divested. The court refused the prayer. The defendant
therefore claimed a right under the statute of the United
States, and the decision of the court was adverse to the
claim.

.Oct. 1874.]

GREGORY V.

MOVEIGH.

Opinion of the court.

Whether that decision was correct or erroneous is not a
question material to this motion, the appellate jurisdictionof
this court not depending upon whether the State court decided the question correctly, but upon whether it decided the
question adversely to the party raising it.
The distinction between the cases now before the court
and the case of Millingar v. Hartupee is obvious.
In the latter case jurisdiction in this court was claimed,
because of a right asserted under "an authority" of the
United States, and there existed no "authority" of the
United States under which any such right could be asserted.
The jurisdiction was therefore denied, the court saying:
"In respect to the question we are now considering, 'authority' stands upon the same footing with 'treaty' or ' statute.'
If a right were claimed under a treaty or statute, and on looking into the record it should appear that no such treaty or
statute existed or was in force, it would hardly be insisted that
this court could review the decision of a State court, that the
right claimed did not exist."
There is no question in the present case as to the existence of the "statute" under which the plaintiffs in error
claimed their right, or as to the fact of the rendering of the
judgment by the District Court and of the marshal's sale
and conveyance. The only matter with respect to which a
question is made is the legal validity of the judgment, and
that is not a question proper to be discussed under this
motion.
It is perhaps proper, however, to say that our general
proposition in respect to the judgment is, that whilst it may
have been or clearly was erroneous it was not void; that the
court which rendered it had jurisdiction to render it, and if
so, that a sale made under it carried a valid title to the purchasers.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss this cause for want of jurisdiction
is denied.
"A final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest
VOL. XXIII.

20

GREGORY V. MoVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be
had," may in a proper case be re-examined in this court.*
The Court of Appeals is the ihighest court in the State of
Virginia. If a decision of a suit could be had in that court,
we must wait for such a decision before we can take jurisdiction, and then can only examine the judgment of that
court. If, however, the suit is one of which that court cannot take jurisdiction, we may re-examine the judgment of
the highest court which, under laws of the State, could decide it.t
The Court of Appeals has revisory jurisdiction over the
judgments of the Corporation Court of the city of Alexandria, but parties are not permitted, in the class of cases to
which ihis belongs, to take such judgments there for review
as a matter of right. Leave for that purpose must first be
obtained. Two modes of obtaining this leave are provided.
One by petition to the Court of Appeals itself, and the other
by petition to a judge thereof. Ir the petition is presented
to a judge and he denies it generally, without more, it may
be again presented to the court. But if the judge to whom
the application is made "shall deem the judgment, &c.,
plainly right," and reject it on ihat ground, if the order of
rejection shall so state, no other petition shall afterwards be
presented to the same purpose.T The parties are left free
to present their petitions to the court or to a judge thereof,
as they may find it most convenient or desirable.
It has long been settled that if a cause cannot be taken to
the highest court of a State, except by leave of the court
itself, a refusal of the court upon proper application made
to grant the leave, is equivalent to a judgment of affirmance,
and is such a final judgment as may be made the basis of
proceedings under the appellate jurisdiction of this court.ยง
In the present case the Court of Appeals has now no
power to review the judgment of the court below. It canRevised Statutes, 709.
f Downham v. Alexandria, 9 Wallace, 659.
Code of Virginia, 1873, chapter 178, 10.
Railroad Co. v. Railroad Co., 13 Howard, 80.

Oct. 1874.]

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.
Syllabus.

not even entertain a motion for leave to proceed. A judgment has been rendered by the highest court of the State in
which a decision can be had. The Court of Appeals has
never, in fact, had jurisdiction. A suit cannot be taken
there, except upon leave, and that leave has, in the regular
order of proceeding, been refused in this case. From this
refusal there can be no appeal. Everything has been done
that can be to effect the transfer of the cause. The rejection
of a petition by one judge does not prevent its presentation
to another. Here the petition has been presented to each
and every one of the judges, and they have all rejected it because the judgment was "plainly right." Thus the doors
of the Court of Appeals have been forever closed against the
suit; not through neglect, but in the regular order of proceeding under the law governing the practice.
We think, therefore, that the judgment of .the Corporation Court of the city of Alexandria is the judgment of
'the highest court of the State in which a decision of the
suit could be had, and that we may re-examine it upon
error.
Without stopping to discuss the other question presented
by the motion, it is sufficient to say that we think the case
involves the consideration of a Federal question. The proceeding in the District Court was under the authority of the
United States, and its validity is drawn in question.
MOTION DENIED.

BLAKE V. NATIONAL BANKS.

1. 'Under the Internal Revenue Act of July, 1870, which enacts that "there
shall be levied and collected for and during the year 1871, a tax of 2J
per cent. on the amount of all interest paid by corporations, and on the
amount of dividends of earnings hereafterdeclared by them," and which
directs that such interest and dividends shall not after the 1st of August,
1870, be taxed under prior acts; interest paid and dividends declared
during the last five months of the year 1870, are taxable, as well is
those declared during the year 1871, it appearing that income of other

