THE GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE GREAT

REPUBLIC.

1. In cases of collision, where there is a great conflict of testimony, the
court must be governed chiefly by undeniable and leading facts, if such
exist in the case. The court so governed in this case.
2. A pilot, when he is close to a vessel before him making movements which
are not intelligible to him, ought not, in a case which is in the least
critical, to be governed by his " impressions 11of what the vessel is
going to do. He should make and exchange signals, and ascertain positively her purposed movements and manceuvres.
gr., a half a
3. A steamer close to the right bank of a broad river-one, ex..
mile broad-which means to cross over and land on the left shore, is not
bound, in the first instance, to give three or mnore whistles, which is the
signal for landing. It is enough that she give two whistles, which is the
signal that she is going to the left. The three or more whistles may be
given later.
4. Constructions not favorable put on the testimony and maneuvres of a
pilot who, it was proved, was 1addicted to drinking when ashore,"
and who confessed to having been drinking on the day when his vessel
left port, and within an hour of which time a collision occurred; though
he swore that he had not taken any drink for six hours before his boat
left its dock.
5. Similar constructions put on the conduct of a captain whose watch it was,
but who, instead of being engaged in a proper place in superintending
the navigation of his vessel, was on the lower deck conversing with a
passenger.
6. A large and fast-sailing steamer is bound to act cautiously when overtaking and getting near to a small and slow one; and a collision baving
occurred between two steamers of this sort, a minor fault of the small
and slow steamer was held not to make a case for division of damages
where such fault bore but a little proportion to many faults of the large
and fast one.
7. When, in a case of collision, it appears that one of the vessels neglected
the usual and proper measures of precaution, the burden is on her to
show that the collision did not occur through her neglect.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana, which court, on appeal from the District
Court sitting in admiralty, had dismissed a libel filed by the
steamer Cleona against the steamer Great Republic, for a
collision.
The case was thus:
At about five o'clock on the afternoon of the 28th of

Oct. 1874.]

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.
Statement of the case.

August, 1869, the Oleona, a small stern-wheel steamer of one
hundred and eighteen tons, and whose speed was about seven
miles an hour, left New Orleans bound up the Mississippi
to Donaldsonville (a place seventy-five miles above New Orleans), with an assorted cargo of merchandise for various
plantations on the two banks of the river. In a little more
than half an hour afterwards the steamer Great Republic, a
heavy side-wheel vessel of two thousand two hundred tons,
running at the rate of twelve or fourteen miles an hour, and
therefore one of the fastest on the Mississippi, set off up the
river bound on a voyage to St. Louis. The Oleona, as she
went up the river, had been, all the time, and was now, in
her full view.
Sailing up the stream the Oleona had now twice made
landings; first at what is known as the Stock-wharf, in the
upper part of New Orleans, and afterwards at a point known
as the Nine-mile Point, a point above the, city on the opposite or western bank of the river.
Having made this second landing she steered for the other
or eastern bank-the stream being in all this part of it about
half a mile wide-and then after straightening up and running for some time parallel with the eastern bank and within
about forty-five yards of it-turned somewhat shortly to
cross to a place called Waggaman's Landing, on the western
side, at which she wanted to discharge a part of her cargo.
She was now perhaps two miles above the Nine-mile Point.
The Republic, from the time that she began to overtake
the Cleoua, had followed much in her course-this line perhaps being the one indicated more or less by the channeland was so following when the Cleona steered from the
Nine-mile Point to the eastern bank. Of course the Republic was rapidly gaining on the Cleona, and if no catastrophe had occurred, would have passed her.
By the rules of navigation on the Mississippi one whistle
from the steam pipe indicates that a steamer wishes to pass
on the starboard or right side; two, that she wishes to pass
on the larboard or left, and three or more, that she is going
to cross and land.

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

How far the Republic was behind the Oleona when the
latter turned from the eastern bank to cross to Waggaman's
Landing, was a matter about which the testimony was widely
discrepant; the witnesses in behalf of the Oleona asserting
that it was from six hundred to seven hundred and 'ifty
yards, while those of the Republic fixed it, some of them,
so low as forty yards, while all brought it within three
hundred.
The river, as already said, was in this part of it a half a
mile wide. There were no obstructions in it. Dusk was
supervening, but it was not dark; objects being visible to
both vessels, alike on the shores and on each other.
When the Cleona turned to cross from the eastern bank
to Waggaman's Landing, the captain of the Republic, whose
watch it was, was on the lower deck of the steamer conversing with a passenger. The passenger saw the Cleona
turning, and said to the captain, "Why, she is taking a
sheer." The pilot of the Republic was of the same impression. Instead, therefore, of keeping his own course, he followed the Cleona's. He perceived, however, before very
long his mistake, as did all on both vessels very soon that a
catastrophe was impending.
What signals were given in this state of things was, as
usual in cases of collision, a matter where the evidence conflicted. But the result of the conjoint courses of the two
vessels, and action on board of them-that is to say, on the
one hand, of the Oleona's turning short to cross when the
Republic was so near behind, and on the other, of the Republic's supposing that the Cleona still meant to go up the
river, and attempting to follow her-and either of improper
signals or inattention to right signals on one or other of the
vessels, or on both-*as a collision, by which the Oleona
was careened, her stern end cut off, and two persons thrown
off her into the river and drowned; a catastrophe the more
deplorable since the evidence made it plain that if the boats
had had fifteen seconds more time-if one of them had been
ten feet further on, or the other ten feet further off-all misfortune would have been avoided; and that even five feet

Oct. 1874.]

THE

GREAT REPUBLIO.

Statement of the case.

in the change of their positions would have prevented any
serious injury.
We have already said that the testimony was discrepant.
The pilot of the Republic testified thus:
"When I arrived below the Twelve-mile Point I saw the
Cleona sheer to the larboard. She gave no signal when she thus
started. After she had been running out about half a minute
she gave the signal-two blasts of her steam whistle, which
were given just as fast as a man can blow them on a steamboat-and continued her course out. As soon as I saw her sheer
to the larboard, I, too, pulled to the larboard and was so swung
-all helm-thinking that she was running off from the shore.
When she started off to the larboard, I was below her in the
current from two hundred and fifty to three hundred yards, and
to the larboard of her about the same distance. Immediately
after she sheered I pulled my boat, as I have said, to the larboard, rang, first, both stopping-bells, and then the backingbells. I then told the boat's clerk who was in the pilot-house
at the time, to halloo through the trumpet on the larboard to the
engineer to ' back hard' I hallooed the same thing through the
starboard trumpet. The engineer on that side hallooed to me
that the boat was backing as hard as she could. I cannot say
how long the Republic had been backing when she struck the Oleona.
The Republic being a low-pressure boat, it is impossible for the
pilot to tell when she is backing until he feels the vibration of
the wheels. It was, I suppose, about half a minute from the
time the backing bells were rung until the collision occurred;
not over half a minute. From the vibration of the boat, I was
certain that the Republic was backing before she struck the
Cleona."
The engineer of the Republic testified thus:
"The bells on both sides were rung to stop both engines.
The engines were stopped immediately. Then the check bells,
one on each side. This was a notice to us to prepare to back.
The engines were checked immediately. Then the backing
bells rang on both sides. Both engines backed immediately.
No time was lost in obeying these orders. My assistants were
very good assistants, and handled the engines very well.
"I did not see the collision nor feel the jar of it. I knew

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

nothing of it until some time after it had occurred. I therefore
don't know how far the Republic was from the Cleona at the
time the bells were rung, nor what length of time elapsed between the first ringing of the bells and the collision; but we were
alongside of the Oleona before the larboard engine was stopped. 1
saw her from the engine-room. The Great Republic, if going up
stream at twelve or fourteen miles an hour, can be stopped dead in
seventy-five yards. We can stop her in this way because she is a
low-pressure boat."
Witnesses, including the pilot from the Cleona, testified,
on the other hand, that as the Cleona's head was directed
across the stream, one blast of the whistle was blown as an
indication for the Republic to keep to the right, which, had
she done it, would have prevented all injury; that the Republic not minding that signal, the signal was repeated in
about one minute and a half afterwards; that the Republic
neither answered nor obeyed the signals, but kept running
on; that the pilot of the Cleona seeing a collision impending,
and one which, if the two vessels kept their then courses,
would cut the Cleona in two, ordered on all head of steam
and headed his vessel down stream, so as that the blow, if
inevitable, might cut her wheel off, or cut off only an edge
of her stern; that by this manoauvre the injurious effect of
the collision was mitigated; that, notwithstanding this, the
Republic came upon the stern extremity of the Clebna with
tremendous force, causing her to turn partially over, and
throwing, as already stated, two persons overboard, who
were drowned, and wholly disabling the Oleona, whose surviving passengers sought safety on the Republic.
A witness who had been a passenger on the Republic also
testified to the bad action of her pilot, and to other unfavorable matters. He said:
"11 am a pilot by profession, and have been for sixteen years.
When the Cleona swung round to cross, Mr. Fulkerson, one of
the pilots of the Republic (not at the time in charge of the
wheel), with whom I was conversing, said: ' Look at that fellow.
What is he going to do?' I replied, 'I suppose that he is going
over the river to land.' I think that it was prudent for the

Oct. 1874.]

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.
Statement of the case.

Oleona to have attempted to cross the river where she did if she
had business on the other side. She was then fromn three hundred to five hundred yards ahead of us. I do not think that at
that time the Republic could have passed between the Cleona
and the shore. The Cleona blew two whistles; two distict blowings. Had not the Republic changed her course there would
have been no collision. A little before the collision, and when
the Republic was about one hundred yards from the Cleona, Mr.
Fulkerson remarked to me that if his partner (that is to say,
the pilot then in charge of the wheel) did not stop the Republic,
she would be into the Cleona. I do not know whether her
wheels were stopped at all before the blow. The Republic gave
no signal. Properly it was her duty to give the first signal,
stating which side she would take, as she was gaining on the
Cleona."
Testimony was brought in behalf of the Cleona to show
that, when "ashore," the pilot of the Republic was addicted
to drinking spirituous liquor, and had been drunk on shore,
though the witness "had never seen him at the wheel in an
intoxicated state."
The pilot himself, on cross-examination, said:
"I sometimes drink spirituous liquors. I took none for six
hours before the Republic left port on that day. I could not say
how many drinks I took. I did not keep any account of them."
The court below (herein affirming the decree of the District Court) considered that the Cleona had crossed the river
without proper signalling, too much under the bow of the
Republic, and in the current, and that this was the cause
of the disaster.
Its view was thus expressed:
"The act of crossing the bow of a boat when in close proximity is forbidden by the rules of navigation, and is a most
dangerous and reprehensible action at any time. No prudent
pilot will attempt it. In the case of the Cleona, it was doubly
dangerous, as the Republic was gaining on her so rapidly that
a collision was probable, especially as the weight of proof seems
to show that the signal of the Oleona was two blows of her

26

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup.

Ot.

Argument for the Cleona.
whistle, which signal the pilot of the Republic was bound to
interpret as an order to pass to the larboard, which he did.
"When the Cle'ona first started out from the shore she gave
no signal to indicate her course, as she ought to have done;
and when, in response to the two blows of the Cleona, the Republic pulled to the larboard, prudence should have dictated to
the pilot of the Cleona to have stopped his boat at once and
to have backed her heavily, instead of ringing his bell to crack
on all steam and cross at all hazards. The pilot of the Republic
was indeed guilty of a deviation from the rules and observances
of navigation in not answering the signal of the Cleona; and
though he acted promptly in letting his boat fall off to the lar-

board, he ought, in strict duty, to have answered the signal;
but this omission had nothing to do with the collision, for his
course was fully observed by apparently all on board the Cleona,
and the pilot of the Cleona, if he thought that there was a misconstruction of his signal, should at once have stopped his engines and-reversed. If this had been done a collision would not
have taken place."
From a decree of dismissal of the libel, made on this view,
the present appeal was taken.
By the'act of Congress of April 29th, 1864, entitled "An
act fixing certain rules and regulations for preventing collisions on the water,"* it is enacted:
"ARTICLE 16. Every steamship, when approaching another
ship, so as to involve risk of collision, shall slacken her speed,
or, if necessary, stop and reverse.
"ARTICLE 17. Every vessel overtaking any other vessel, shall
keep out of the way of the said last-mentioned vessel."
Messrs. William Tod Otto and J1. A. Grow, for the appellants:
The Republic was in fault in five particulars:
1st. In not keeping her course, instead of bearing to the
left, and following the steamer Cleona until she ran into
that boat.
2d. T not stopping her own engines and checking her
speed in proper time.
* 13 Stat. at Large, 61.

Oct. 1874.]

THE

GREAT REPUBLIC.

Argument for the Republic.

3d. In not altering her course to the starboard by porting
her helm, when the collision became inevitable from the
course she was pursuing.
4th. In not giving any signal, and in failing and neglecting to answer the signals given by the steamer Oleona.
5th. In her captain, whose watch it was, not having been
on watch and control of the navigation of the vessel at the
time of the collision; he having been sitting on the lower
deck talking to a passenger, instead of being on the roof of
the boat, and seeing and superinteuding her navigation.
Messrs. Durant and .ornor, contra:
The Cleona, whilst ascending the left bank, suddenly,
without warning or signalling, changed her course to crossing the river, at a wrong place, not more than three hundred yards ahead of the Republic, in the current. The Republic thought she had sheered, and helmed astarboard to
give her room to straighten up, but she kept on across, to
the pilot's surprise, and gave two whistles and kept on crofsing. Then danger became imminent. Then the Republic
helmed hard astarboard; first, stopping-bells; then, backing-bells; and had begun to swing heavily to the larboard;
but it was not possible to at once overcome momentum or
suddenly change the course of the Republic.
I. Admitting the right of the Cleona to cross the river
when and where she pleased, still that vessel was in fault in
exercising this right, under the circumstances; because it
could not be done without the greatest peril to the Cleona
herself, and without equal danger to the fir more valuable
Republic and her freight, and her much larger crew and
number of passengers. It is fault for a pilot to persist in
the exercise of an undoubted right, when, by refraining
from its exercise, damages can be avoided.*
This persistent act of folly on the part of the Cleona in
crossing in front of the Republic was the beginning, continuance, and end of the disaster.
* Mlayhew v. Boyce, 1 Starkie Reports, 343.

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

II. Nor was it fault in the Republic not to answer the
Oleona's signals. Because1st. They were not the proper signals for a crossing boat.
2d. They were ambiguous signals, and the Republic could
not know whether they were intended to direct her to the
starboard or to the larboard.
3d. They were in every way calculated to mislead, and
should not have been answered.
4th. They were susceptible of three different interpretations; and an answer, even if responsive to the views and
intentions of those on the Oleona, would have been useless
and unprofitable.
III. The fault was not on the Republic for not replying
to the Cleona's signals, but on the Cleona, for having made
signals which were no indication of her intention to cross;
but which, according to her own account, were given for a
different purpose, and so hurriedly, imperfectly, and tardily
that any intelligent response to them was impracticable;
signals which, if they had been acted upon by the Republic,
would in'all probability have been followed by a result even
more disastrous than the one which took place. This is
true at least of her alleged signalling to helm astarboard.
The intemperance of the Republic's pilot has not been
proved. There are few seamen who, when ashore, do not
oecasionally drink strong drink, and sometimes too much
of it. Yet those same men, when on duty, or liable to be
put bn duty, will never touch it. The pilot here had touched
nothing intoxicating for seven hours before the catastrophe.
On the whole case, see the Grace Girdler.*
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There is some excuse, even for a party in fault, when two
boats collide in tempestuous or foggy weather, or on a dark
night, but there are no exculpatory circumstances attending
this disaster. It happened before dark, in the middle of the
Mississippi, and when the light was good enough to distin* 7 Wallace, 196.

Oct. 1874.]

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.
Opinion of the court.

guish small objects on both banks of the river. The weather
was clear and calm, and the river unobstructed, affbrding
ample room for passage on either side of the point where
the vessels collided.
It is very plain that the collision ought to have been
avoided, and the inquiry is, who is to blame for it. It almost uniformly happens in cases of this description that different accounts are given of the occurrence by those in the
employment of the respective vessels, and that the court has
difficulty in this conflict of evidence of deciding to which
side a preferable credence should be given. There are generally, however, in every case, some undeniable facts which
enable the court to determine where the blame lies, and this
case is one of that character.
There is no dispute that the Cleona was a small sternwheel boat of the burden of 118 tons, that the steamboat
Great Republic was of the burden of 2200 tons; a large and
very fast vessel with side wheels; that both boats crossed
the river, from the right to the left bank, just above Ninemile Point, and straightened up on the left bank and ran
parallel with the shore for some time, the Oleona being
some distance ahead, and the Republic following almost in
her wake; that just previous to reaching Twelve-mile Point
the Cleona started to cross the river in an oblique direction,
intending to make a landing at Waggaman's plantation to
put out freight; that the Republic kept bearing to the left,
following the Oleona, instead of keeping her course, and
finally overtook her about the middle of the river, and that
the collision occurred. There is a great deal of discrepancy
in the testimony relative to the distance between the two
boats at the time the Oleona started to cross for the Waggaman plantation. Under the most favorable circumstances
it is impossible to measure distances on the water with accuracy, but in times of excitement there is very little reliance to be placed on the opinion of any one on this subject,
and especially is this so when the condemnation of a boat
may depend upon it. If the Oleona was only some two or
even three hundred yards ahead of the Republic, it was cer-

THE

GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

tainly imprudent in her officers to undertake to cross the
river, but if she was more than double this distance in advance there is no reason why she should not have attempted
to cross if she had business on the opposite side.
Without discussing the testimony to show on which side
the probabilities are, there are certain things in connection
with this part of the case which are inconsistent with the
theory advanced by the respondents. According to the testimony of nearly all the witnesses the Republic was going
twice as fast as the Cleona, or, in other words, making two
hundred yards to the Cleona's one hundred. It is quite
clear that the Cleona was not more than forty or fifty yards
from the left shore when she turned to cross over, and must
have sailed to reach the middle of the river (a half mile wide
at that point and confessedly the place of collision) nearly,
if not quite, four hundred yards, and occupied, at her rate
of speed, at least two minutes of time in doing it. As the
Republic was swinging to the larboard, which would increase her distance outside of the Cleona, she must have
gone considerably over eight hundred yards to reach the
point of collision. Besides, if the distance between the two
boats when the Cleona undertook to cross was as short as
the respondents say, the collision would have occurred much
sooner, as the speed of the Republic, by the weight of the
testimony, was twelve miles an hour, enabling her to make
three hundred and fifty yards in one minute. It would,
therefore, seem quite clear that the Cleona was far enough
ahead to cross with safety, on the supposition that the following boat would pursue the prescribed rules of navigation.
Apart from this view of the subject the Republic cannot
escape condemnation if the case be tested by the account
which the pilot at the wheel gives of the affair. He says
that he thought when the Cleona turned to the larboard
she was sheering-running off from the shore; that at this
time the Republic was below her in the current about two
hundred and fifty or three hundred yards, and to the larboard of her about the same distance; that as soon as the
Cleona sheered to the larboard he pulled to the larboard,

Oct. 1874.]

THE GREAT IREPUBLIC.
Opinion of the court.

and rang first the stopping-bells and then the backing-bells,
and that the Cleona gave no signal until she had been running out about half a minute, when she blew two blasts of
her whistle, and that the collision occurred in about half a
minute from the time the backing-bells were rang. This
pilot acted on the belief that the Cleona had sheered when
she made the sudden turn, and, therefore, followed her until
he overtook her in the middle of the river, instead of keeping his course, which the whole evidence shows would have
prevented the collision.
That the Cleona's movement was not a mere sheer is
manifest enough, but what right had the pilot to proceed
on that supposition ? Impressions of this sort are not admissible, and ought never to be entertained by a pilot, and
if disaster occurs the consequences must rest on-the boat he
is guiding. The cause of this collision is clearly traceable
to this mistake, and, to use no harsher term, the pilot showed
great incapacity on the occasion. It was his duty to have
kept his course, and if he had done this instead of swinging
to the larboard the accident would not have happened.
Even had he ported his helm but for a few seconds after the
danger was imminent, it would at least have checked the
swinging of his boat to the larboard, and this would have
prevented the disaster, as the evidence shows ten feet would
have cleared the Oleona, and five feet saved everything except a few of her wheel-arms.
As boats are not apt to sheer in deep water there was no
excuse for the mistake made by the pilot. If, however,
sheering were possible, as it is out of the common course
of things, ordinary prudence would have told this pilot to
have exchanged signals, so as to have understood what the
movement was. Instead of this he did not answer the signals of the Cleona, which the law says he must do, in order
to avoid mistakes. Two whistles were blown on the Cleona,
which this pilot and others on board the Republic interpreted as meaning but one signal. Whether these whistles
constituted one signal or two, answer should have been

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

made, and, it may be, if this had been done the result would
have been different.
The signals were given by the Cleona for each boat to
keep to the right, and, if seasonably given, were the proper
ones.
It is said, however, that the Cleona should have given
three whistles, indicating a purpose to land, but the boat
was not close enough to land, and all the signal that was
required was one which should tell which side she desired
to take.
But the pilot says no signal was given by the Cleona until
half a minute after she turned to cross. If so, and the Oleona omitted such a plain matter of duty, why did he not
supply this omission by signalling as soon as he discovered
the danger? That he thought danger was imminent as soon
as the Cleona made the turn is manifest, because he says he
rang the bells at once to stop and back. It was, however,
his duty, as his boat was astern and gaining rapidly on the
other, to have given the first signal; but even if this were
not so, any self-possessed pilot, having a due regard for life
and property, as soon as danger was threatening, would have
signalled in order to call the attention of the other boat to
the condition of things. If this had been done, is there any
reason to suppose the signal would not have been obeyed?
and if obeyed the courts would never have been troubled
with this case. The precautions against danger of necessity,
in any case, rest to a greater extent upon the boat in the
rear than upon the boat in advance, and this is eminently
true of a large and fast steamer following a small and slow
boat.*
But the pilot says that as soon as the Cleona turned to
cross, he took instant means to stop and back his boat. If
so, it is singular that his boat, having two hundred and fifty
yards to go, almost in the same direction with the Cleona,
run her down with great violence; but the testimony of the
engineer of the Republic shows, unmistakably, that the pilot,
* Whitridge et al. v. Dill et al., 23 Howard, 454.

Oct. 1874.]

THE GREAT REPUBLIC.
Opinion of the court.

to say the least, is mistaken in this particular.

Indeed, it is

very doubtful from the evidence whether the engines of the
:Republic were stopped at all until the collision occurred,
but if they were, it was at a point of time much later than
that named by the pilot. It is true the pilot gave the signal
to stop and back, and this signal was obeyed, but the engineer does not know how far off the Cleona was when he was
signalled to stop and back, nor can he tell what period of
time elapsed between the first ringing of the bell and the
collision. He does tell, however, the important fact that the
Republic, going up stream at the rate of twelve or fourteen
miles an hour, can be stopped "dead" in seventy-five yards,
and gives the reason why she can be stopped quicker than
ordinary boats of her class navigating the Mississippi River.
In the light of this testimony, which must be accepted as
tru'e in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, plainly
the pilot did not take the steps to check the speed of his
boat when he says he did, nor, in fact, until the collision
was inevitable.
There is evidence in the record tending to show that the
pilot was addicted to drinking when ashore, and he confesses
to drinking on that day, but not for six hours before he left
port. It may be that he was not under the influence of
liquor on this occasion, but if not, his conduct is inexplicable on any other theory than ignorance of the ordinary
rules of navigation, or reckless inattention to duty. There
were ample means and opportunity to avoid this collision,
and yet it occurred. In the midst of danger seconds of time
are important, not to speak of minutes, and the clear-headed
pilot who recognizes this fact, and makes no ventures, is not
apt to bring his boat into trouble. Practical steamboat
men, passengers on board the Republic, understood the
movement of the Oleona to be for the purpose of crossing
the river, and yet the pilot in charge mistook it for sheering.
They could see plainly enough if he kept his course the collision would have been avoided, and there was plenty of
room to pass on the starboard, and he took exactly the opposite direction. With ability to stop his boat in seventyVOL. XXIII.

3

THE

GREAT REPUBLIC.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

five yards, he does not do it in two hundred and fifty yards.
In charge of the wheel of one of the fastest and largest
steamers on the river, and in plain sight, all the way from
New Orleans, of a small coasting vessel engaged in landing
freight and passengers at the plantations on both sides of
the river, he runs her down with such violence as to cause
her to careen over, without using any signals at all, or answering those she gave, or taking any precaution until too
late to escape danger. If all this does not constitute mismanagement, to use no harsher word, it is difficult to understand what does. The slightest exercise of ordinary skill
and prudence would have avoided the accident. Even after
the peril was imminent, the simple act of bearing to the
starboard, instead of the larboard, would have brought the
IRepublic's stem clear of the Oleona's stern.
There are other witnesses for the respondents who, in the
matters of distance and time particularly, differ with the
pilot at the wheel, but we do not feel called upon to review
their testimony, as it does not, in our judgment, change the
result, and would unnecessarily lengthen this opinion.
It may be that this collision would have been avoided if
there had been any proper officer in good season on the roof
of the Republic superintending her navigation. The pilots
seem to have had, on this occasion, the whole charge of her
navigation, for the captain, whose watch it was, was sitting
on the lower or boiler deck, talking to a passenger, until his
attention was called to the danger of a collision.
Under the circumstances of this case, the burden is on
the Republic to excuse herself, she being the following ves$el, and having actually overtaken the Cleona and run her
down. And in any case of collision, whenever it appears
that one of the vessels has neglected the usual and proper
measures of precaution, the burden is on her to show that
the collision was not owing to her neglect.*
If we are correct in our own interpretation of the evidence,
* Meyer v. Steamboat Newport, opinion by Judge Blatchford, 14 Internal
Revenue Record, 37; The Schooner Lion, 1 Sprague, 40.

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED

STATES V. VILLALONGA.

85

Syllabus.

enough has been said to condemn the Republic, and there
is nothing in the record to excuse her.
As we have seen, she could have avoided this collision,
even after danger was imminent. If she had stopped, or
ported her wheel a second or two before the collision occurred, she would have gone clear of the Cleona. On the
contrary the Oleona's course after she saw the Republic following her, was to try and get out of her way. This course
she pursued diligently, for she packed on all the steam possible, and succeeded so far as to save her hull, and came
near escaping altogether. On a full and fair consideration
of the whole evidence, we are satisfied the officers of the
Oleona, when the boat was turned to the right shore, had
no ground to fear a collision, and that the boat itself was far
enough ahead to cross with safety, if the Republic, instead
of following after her, had pursued her course on the left side
of the river. It is pretty clear that the Cleona did not blow
her whistle for each boat to keep to the right, as soon as she
started for the opposite shore. This omission was a fault,
but this fault bears so little proportion to the many faults of
the Republic, that we do not think, under the circumstances,
the Oleona should share the consequences of this collision
with the Republic.
DECREE of the Circuit Court REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a decree for the libellant
and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
REVERSAL AND

UNITED S-rATES V.

REMAND

ACCORDINGLY.

VILLALONGA.

Under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, which gives to "the
owner" of any such property a right, after it has been sold by the government, to recover the proceeds of it in the Treasury of the United
States, a factor who has merely made advances on the property-there

