Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY V. REW.
Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice FIELD dissented from the judgment, being
of opinion that the plaintiffs were not wholesale dealers,
either within the common acceptation of the terms or the
meaning of the statute.

SCHOLEY V. REW.
1. The ,succession tax," imposed by the acts of June 30th, 1864, and July
13th, 1866, on every "devolution of title to any real estate," was not a
"direct tax," within the meaning of the Constitution; but an 11impost
or excise," and was constitutional and valid.
2. A devise of an equitable interest in real estate, in which personal property had been invested by the trustee with the assent of the devisor, before the making of the will, was a devolution of real estate within the
meaning of the acts of June 30th, 18*64, and July 13th, 1866, and the
devisee is liable to the succession tax imposed thereby, in respect of it,
if he has received its value, although in proceedings for partition he has
had assigned to him only personal property.
3. An alien to whom a devi-e of an interest in real estate has been made,
and who has received its value in proceedings for partition, is estopped
to set up against a demand for a succession tax thereon, that by the law
of the State where the estate is, the devise is absolutely null and void.
4. Quo-re. Whether a general assignment of errors that the judgment below
on a special case was for the wrong party, is sufficient.
5. Semble. That an objection that a devise is void because of the alienage
of the devisee, cannot first be taken by him in this court on a writ of
error to the judgment of a Circuit Court on a special case, although the
record discloses the fact of alienage.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
New York, in which court Scholey, a British subject, sued
Rew, collector of internal revenue, to recover the amount
of a "succession tax" which Rew, as collector, had demanded of him, Scholey, and wich-asserting it to be
illegal-Scholey had paid only on compulsion and under
protest.
The case was found specially, by the Circuit Court, on a
waiver of a jury, under the act of March'3d, 1865, which
authorizes such a finding by the court, and enacts that when

1 332

SCHOLEY v.

R:EW.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the finding is special the review by this court may extend to
the sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment.
The case so found was thus:
Elwood, of Rochester, New York, died in 1863, leaving a
widow and three minor children, and a large amount of
personal property, besides certain real estate.
lHe left also a will, by which, after certain bequests of
personal property, he directed that all the residue of his
estate, real and personal, should be divided by his executors
between his wife and three children, according to the statutes
of New York, as if lie had died intestate; that is to say, as
the Reporter supposes-though the language or effect of the
statute was nowhere stated in the record or briefs-one-third
to the wife and two-thirds between the children. And he
appointed his wife and two friends, Mumiford and Russel,
executors of the will.
In May, 1864, Russel, as acting executor, presented to the
Supreme Court of New York a petition, setting forth that
the assets of the estate were about $500,000, chiefly invested
in personal securities, but including a large amount of
money uninvested; that it was deemed for the interest of
the estate to invest a portion of the assets in productive real
estate in Rochester; and asking authority to make the purchase of certain property described, in that city, for $73,000.
In pursuance of this prayer an order was made authorizing
the executors to invest so much as should be necessary of
the assets of the estate in the purchase of the real estate
described; and "to purchase and to hold the same as such
executors."
Under the authority of this order, the executors in May,
1864, took a conveyance of the premises to themselves as
executors of Elwood's will, the survivor or survivors of them,
their successors or assigns, for $72,602. These premises
were thenceforth styled and spoken of as the "Elwood lot,"
and, after being improved, as the "Elwood block."
At the time of Elwood's death, he owned four parcels of
real estate in Rochester, one of them a vacant lot on Mill
Street, which parcels were altogether of the value of $50,000.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY v. REw.
Statement of the case.

After the purchase of the Elwood lot the executors, by authority of the Supreme Court of New York, erected a building on the vacant lot on Mill Street, which cost $15,111,
and also made improvements upon the Elwood lot at a cost
of $49,006, which increased the value of the property at
least to that amount. All these improvements were completed in the spring of 1868, and were paid for, as was also
the purchase price of the Elwood lot, out of the personal
property of Elwood's estate.
In October, 1867, Mrs. Elwood, the widow of Elwood, was
-married to Scholey, the plaintiff iii the present case; and in
September, 1869, she died, leaving a will. By her will, after
five annuities during the lives of the five annuitants, amounting altogether to $4100, annually, certain specific legacies
of personal property, and certain legacies of money, amounting to $6500, she gave all the residue of her property, real
and personal, to her husband, the plaintiff, and appointed
him with the above-named Mumford and one Worcester,
executors.
In February, 1870, Mumford, as sole surviving executor
of Elwood's will (Russel having died in 1866), instituted
joint proceedings in the Supreme Court of New York
against the three children of Elwood, against Scholey, Worcester, and Mumford, as coexecutors of Mrs. Seholey's will,
and against Scholey individually as her husband and residuary legatee.
The complainant alleged that Mrs. Seholey acquired some
interest in or title to the Elwood block, and the once vacant
lot on Mill Street, by reason of the same having been bought
and improved out of Elwood's persoml estate, and that
Scholey, by virtue of Mrs. Scholey's will, claimed some title
to or interest in it. It prayed that Mumford's accounts, as
sole surviving executor of Elwood, and Mrs. Scholey's as
sole executrix, might be settled and adjudged fiual and conclusive, and that her executors might be required to render
accounts in furtherance of that purpose, including an account of all rents or income of said real estate received by
her; that an account might be taken of all Elwood's per-

884

SCHOLEY v. REW.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

sonal estate, and its value at the time of his death and at all
times afterwards; that Mrs. Seholey's share in that personal
estate at the time of her death and at the time of the accounting, and also "what right or title she bad in and to
the said real estate, bought or improved out of the personal
estate of" Elwood, might be determined; that when such
share or interest should be determined, it should be partitioned fi'orn the body of Elwood's estate; that the shares of
the three children in their father's personal estate might be
determined and partitioned off to them in severalty, and that
thereafter the share of each child might be kept separate, to
the end that such share, with its increase, might be paid to
each respectively as he or she should become entitled to receive it.
Scholey answered, admitting the making of the various
orders and the investment of the sums mentioned in the
purchase and improvement of real estate; denied the binding character of the orders, but admitted the propriety of
the investments in case the advantages thereof were to be
equitably shared by the parties interested in the funds invested, in proportion to their respective interests. He admitted that no distribution of Elwood's personal estate had
been made, and joined in the prayer for an accounting and
distribution, praying further that upon Mrs. Scholey's share
being ascertained, the same, or such part of it as should not
be required to provide for the legacies given by her will,
might be delivered to him as her residuary legatee.
The other defendants also answered, and the same was
referred to three referees to try the issues; to take and state
the several accounts mentioned in the complaint; to determine the extent and value of the interest in Elwood's personal estate, which Mrss. Scholey's executors, and her husband as her residuary legatee, were entitled to receive under
her will; to determine the share of each of Elwood's ehil-.
dren in his personal estate; to determine whether actual
partition of his personal estate could be made between Mrs.
Scholey's executors and Mumford as Elwood's surviving
executor, and if so, to make such partition; and to deter-

Oct. 1874.]

SOHOLEY V. R-EW.
Statement of the case.

mine whether Elwood's personal estate could be actually
partitioned as between his three children, and if so to make
such partition.
These referees reported on the 5th of November, 1870,
among other things, as follows:
That Elwood's personal estate at his death amounted to
$331,709, and at the date of the report to $492,374, which
last sum included the building on the Mill Street lot, at
$15,111 and the Elwood block at $135,000; and that the
value of such personal estate subject to partition at the latter
date, after deducting three specific bequests or charges in
Elwood's will, was $467,402, which sum included the Elwood block and Mill Street building at the above valuation.
That the extent and value of the shares and interests of
the several parties in Elwood's estate subject to partition,
after making all proper deductions, was as follows:
Mumford, Worcester, and Scholey, as executors
of Mrs. Scholey, and Scholey as her residuary
legatee,
$154,894 10
Elwood's children-Frank,
$104,113 22
Agnes,
103,359 87
Elizabeth, .
105,034 87-$312,507 90
$467,402 00

That the referees bad determined that actual partition of
said personal estate could be made between all said parties,
and had made such partition, and had set apart to Mrs.
Scholey's executors, in full of all claim which they or her
residuary legatee might have upon Elwood's estate, the following property:
Bonds of the United States, .
Railroad and telegraph bonds,
Bond and mortgage,
Promissory note, .
Railroad stocks,
Cash,

$128,151
7,525
9,218
5,098
720
4,181

25
00
75
10
00
00

$154,894 10

That the referees had set apart to Elwood's three children
their respective shares as above stated, schedules of which

SOHOLEY V.

REW.

. [Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

similar to the foregoing were given, and each schedule contained as the last item:
"One-third of the appraised valuation of the Elwood
block and Mill Street building,..
$50,037"

That they had not included the Elwood block in the partition between Elwood's three children, because it was not
capable of actual partition.
A.judgmeut was entered upon this report December 8th,
1870, reciting the partition, including the setting apart to
each of the children of the undivided one-third of the Elwood block; confirming such partition, and adjudging that
the complainant Mumford should remain in possession of the
Elwood block as trustee for the children until they should
respectively become of age.
Upon these facts the plaintiff here, Scholey, was assessed
for a succession tax of six par cent. upon $45,000, as the
value of one-third interest in the Elwood block, lie asserted
that he was not liable to such tax; that he never was entitled
to such real estate or any part of it, and that he never had
any interest in it as a successor. He appealed from the
assessment to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who
decided the appeal adversely to him, whereupon he paid the
defendant, May 30th, 1871, the amount so assessed, being
$2700, under compulsion and protest, and on the following
day demanded repayment thereof, which was refused.
Upon this case, found as already said by the court, the
plaintiff's counsel requested the court to order judgment
against the defendant for $2700 and interest. But the court
held, as a matter of law, that on the statutes governing the
case and intmediately hereinafter cited the defendant was
entitled tojudgment, andjudgment was entered accordingly.
The assignment of errors was thus made on the brief of
the plaintiff in error:
"The sole question in the case is, was the plaintiff liable to a
succession tax upon this property? The sole error assigned is
the decision of the court in the affirmative."
The statute in relation to "succession taxes," in force at

Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY V. l Ew.
Statement of the case.

the time of Mrs. Scholey's death, in September, 1869, was
the original Internal Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864,* as
amended by the act of July 13th, 1866.t
It enacts:j
That fbr the purposes of the act "the term ' real estate'
shall include all lands, tenements, and hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal;" and, that the term ' succession'
shall denote the devolution of title to any real estate."
"That every past or future disposition of real estate by
will, deed, or laws of descent, by reason whereof any person
shall become beneficially entitled, in possession or expectancy, to any real estate, or the income thereof, upon the
death of any person dying after the passing of'this act, shall
be deemed to confer, on the person entitled by reason of
any such disposition, a ' succession.' "
That "there shall be levied and paid to the United States
in respect of every such succession as aforesaid, according
to the value thereof," duties at rates depending upon the
degree of consanguinity between predecessor and successor;
and where the successor is "a stranger in blood," at the
rate of six per cent.
That the duty "shall be paid at the time when the successor, or any person in his right or on his behalf, shall become entitled in possession to his succession, or to the receipt
of the income and profits thereof;" except that if it afterwards becomes more valuable by the determination of a
prior charge upon or interest in it, an additional duty shall
then be paid on its increased value.
That "the interest of any successor in moneys to arise
from the sale of real estate, under any trust for -the sale'
thereof, shall be deemed to be a succession chargeable with
duty under this act, and the said duty shall be paid by the
trustee, executor, or other person having control of the
funds."
Also, that "the interest of any successor in personal prop" 13 Stat. at Large, 287-291, P 126-150.
: 126, 127, 133, 137, 138, 139.
VOL. xxIII.

22

t 14 Id. 140, 141.

[Sup. Ct.

SCHOLEY "v. IREW.

Argument against the lawfulness of the tax.

erty, subject to any trust for the investment thereof in the
purchase of real estate to which the successor would be absolutely
entitled, shall be chargeable with duty as above."
The succession tax is by the act creating it* made a
"lien" on the land, "iin respect whereof" it is laid, and is
to be "collected by the same officers, in the same manner,
and by the same processes as direct taxes upon lands under'
the authority of the United States."t
By the same statute which imposes the duty on the succession to real property, a duty is also laid on legacies and
distributive shares of personal property.1 But while the
rates of duty, as in the case of real property, vary with the
degree of conisanguinity, all personal property passing from
wife to husband is exempt from tax, as well as that which
passes from husband to wife, the succession to real property
being exempt only in the latter case.ยง
Mr. Theodore Bacon, for the plaintiff in error:
I. The statute imposing this duty is unconstitutional.
It is within the prohibitions of the Constitution, which
ordain that"Direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States
โข . . according to their respective numbers."
And that"No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid unless in proportion to the census," &c.
The tax is a "direct tax," within all the decisions upon
this subject, and it will be admitted that'it is not laid in proportion to the census.
The opinions in the carriage-tax case, Hlylton v. The United
States,I while narrowing down the constitutional restriction
to the utmost, distinctly recognize "a tax on land" as the
only direct tax contemplated by the Constitution, except a
capitation tax.
-

145, 146.
13 Stat. at Large, 285-287, a 124; 125.
3 Dallas, 175, 177, and 188.

f

150.
1lb. 286,

124 adfinem.

Oct. 1874.]

SOIHOLEY V. REW.
Argument against the lawfulness of the tax.

These views are approved in Pacific Insurance Company v.
Soule.*

The present is a tax on land, if ever one was. No doubt
it is to be paid by the owner of the land, if he can be made
to pay it; but that is true of any tax that ever was, or ever
can be imposed on property. And as if to prove how directly the property, and not the property owner, is aimed
at, the duty is made a specific lien and charge upon the land
"in respect whereof" it is assessed.
More than this: as if to show how identical, in the opinion
of Congress, this duty was with the avowedly direct tax upon
lands which it had levied but a year or two before, it enacts
that this succession tax alone, out of a great revenue system,
should be collected by the same officers, in the same manner,
and by the same processes as direct taxes upon lands under
the authority of the United States.
I. But, assuming the act to be valid, this case is not within it.
1. There has been no "devolution of title to any real
estate," either upon the plaintiff or upon any one else. And
this is the statutory definition of a "succession."
The title to the Elwood block is, where it has always been
since May, 1864, in the executors of Elwood.
2. The plaintiff has not "become beneficially entitled, in
possession or expectancy, to any real estate, or the income
thereof."
His testatrix never was "entitled" to the Elwood block,
or to the income from it. Whatever rights she had were
personal claims against the executors for a certain proportional interest in Elwood's personal property.
3. The orders of the Supreme Court of New York,. obtained ex parte, assuming to authorize the acting executor
of Elwood's will to invest certain funds in this block, were
without effect, except as being a sort of evidence of good
faith in the executors in making the investment. The beneficiaries under the will were still entitled to hold them to
account for the personalty which came to their hands; and
" 7 Wallace, 444-451; and see Veazie Bankv. Fenno, 8 Id. 533; per
Chase, C. J.; 542-546.

SOHOLEY "v.

RrEW.

[Slip. Cf.

Argument against the lawfulness of the tax.

if the investment should prove unprofitable, to deny the
propriety of it, and compel them to respond for the amount
invested, as upon an abuse of their discretion. The circumstance that a justice of the Supreme Court concurred with
them in considering the investment a desirable one, might
tend to prove their good ihith, but it could not discharge
them.
The only investments authorized in the State of New York
for funds like these, are such as allow of their being always
subject to recall, principal as well as interest, for the benefit
of the cestuis que trust, and these are well settled to be government stocks and loans upon real estate to much less than
its value.*
4. But conceding the right of the executors to make the investment, their duty would be clear to sell the property again
and reconvert it into government stocks or bonds and mortgages, if at any time they should be of opinion that the preservation of the fund demanded such change.
If they had, at least any time before the Elwood block
was specifically set apart from the body of the estate to the
three infant children, judged such sale to be advantageous,
neither Mrs. Scholey in her lifetime, nor this plaintiff after
her death, could have forbidden such change of investment.
And notwithstanding all objections on the part of any beneficiary of the estate, the executors would have given absolute
title, legal and equitable, to the purchaser, by their deed.
Nor has there ever been a time when Mrs. Scholey in her
lifetime, or this plaintiff since her death, could compel either
a partition or a conveyance of a share of the block, or an
assignment of a fixed proportion of its income. How, then,
could either of them be said to have "title" to either the
block or its income; and how would that "title" be described?
Possibly all the beneficiaries together might have ratified
the investment, but the dissent of one would have deprived
an attempted ratification of all force. And three were infants and incompetent either to ratify or repudiate.
* King v. Talbot, 40 New York, 76.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY v). IREW.
Argument against the lawfulness of the tax.

If,upon the distribution of the estate, this plaintiff had
insisted that he was entitled, as the assessor asserts, to onethird of the Elwood block in severalty, both the executors
and the court would have repudiated his claim, and would
have told him, as their decree in fact told him, that his right
was only to receive personal securities and money to an
amount to be ascertained upon an accounting.
If Mfrs. Scholey had died intestate, it is expressly adjudicated that her interest in the Elwood estate, except so far as
it was realty at the time of Elwood's death, would have
passed as assets to her administrator, instead of descending
to her heirs.*
And this proposition seems to us conclusive of this case,
for the statute nowhere distinguishes, in laying duties upon
"legacies or distributive shares of personal property," on
the one hand, and upon "successions to real estate" on the
other, between descents by will and by operation of law.
The fact that Mrs. Scholey made a will, while it makes an
important difference as to who shall receive her property,
can make none whatever as to its liability to pay a tax to
the United States.
5. But this plaintiff never got anything like the rights
even which his testatrix had. Her interest in this block
has been appraised by the assessor at $45,000. But before
the residuary legatee gets anything from her estate he must
satisfy special legacies amounting to $6500, and pay certain
annual charges for an indefinite period, amounting to $4100
a year, to say nothing of debts. It does not appear that
there is any residuum for the plaintiff: But if,upon his
final accounting as administrator, it shall turn out that there
is a residue-which may well be less than the amount upon
which he has paid "succession duty"-with what propriety
is his share to be called real estate and charged with this
tax, any more than the shares of the other distributees?
6. If it should be argued that he had, before distribution
Rogers v. Patterson, 4 Paige, 409; Gibson v.Scudamore, 1 Dickens, 45;
Witter v. Witter, 3 Pcere Williams, 99; Earl of Winchelsea v.Norcliffe, 1
Vernon, 435; Awdley v.Awdley, 2 Id. 192.

SCHOLEY V. REW.

[Sup. ot.

Argument in favor of the lawfulness of the tax.

of the Elwood estate, some title "in expectancy" to the
block or some part of it, it was not until he should become
entitled "in possession" that the duty was to be paid. That
certainly had not happened when this tax was levied and
collected.*
* 7. So far as cases at all analogous appear in the books,
the authorities seem to support our position.t
III. The plaintiff is an alien. If Mrs. Scholey's alleged interest in the _Ewood block was an "interest in real estate," the
alleged devise of it to him was absolutely void by statute of New
York.
The statute enacts:j
"SECTION 4. Every devise of any interest in real property, to
a person who, at the time of the death of the testator, shall be
an alien, not authorized by statute to hold real estate, shall be
void. The interest so devised shall descend to the heirs of the
testator; if there be no such heirs competent to take, it shall
pass under his will to the residuary devisees therein named, if
any there be, competent to take such interest."

If, under the laws of New York, Scholey got no "interest
in real estate," he cannot be made to pay tax upon an
interest.
It is no answer to say: this is an interest in real estate;
the plaintiff has in fact got it; therefore he ought to pay
duty on it. For if both premises were true the syllogism
'is not complete. It is further necessary, in order -that the
duty should attach, that lie should have taken it "by will,
deed, or laws of descent." There is no pretence of a deed.
The will, so far as this is concerned, is void. Instead of
taking by the law, he take.s in spite of the law.
Mr. 0.H. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra, for the
collector, defendant in error:
1. The succession tax is not a "direct tax" within the
* Blake v. Mc~artney, 10 Internal Revenue Record, 131.

t Attorney-General v. Holford, 1 Price, 426; Oustance v. Bradshaw, 4
Hare, 315; United States v. Watts, 1 Bond, 578. *
I Revised Statutes of New York, part 2, chapter 6, title 1, article 1.

Oct. 187/4.]

SeHOLEY

v. REW.

Argument in favor of the lawfulness of the tax.

meaning of that term in the Constitution, and is eonstitutional and valid. The construction always given to Article 1,
indicates that the only taxes which the Constitution regards
as direct taxes, are capitation taxes and taxes imposed immediately on land, and which are capable of apportionment
without producing any inequality or injustice.*
The term seems to have been derived from the Roman
law, which recognized two kinds of direct taxes; a capitation
tax (eapitis tributum) and a land tax (agri tributum). Italy and
privileged towns, which were exempted from these taxes,
paid a tax of five per cent. on all testamentary successions
('icesima hereditatum), and on manumitted slaves, which together with customs and excises, seems to have been first
imposed in the time of Augustus.t
If all taxes that political economists regard'as direct taxes
should be held to fall within those words in the Constitution, Congress would be deprived of the practical power to
impose such taxes, and the taxing power would be thus
greatly crippled; for no Congress would dare to apportion,
for instance, the income tax. Hamilton,j whose brief is preserved to us in his works published by Congress, said in
arguing Hyllon v. United States :ยง
"It would be contrary to reason and every rule of sound construction, to adopt a principle for regulating the exercise of a
clear constitutional power which would defeat the exercise of
the power."
A succession tax is not a direct tax to any greater extent
than the income tax, which was held by Mr. Justice Strong,j
in the Third Circuit, to be constitutional and valid.
* Hylton v. United States, 3 Dalls, 171; Pacific Insurance Company v.
Soule, 7 Wallace, 433, 446; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Id. 533, 546; 7 Hamilton's Works, 845; 1 Kent's Commentaries, 254*-256*; 1 Story on the Constitution, N 954, et seq.
t Poste's Gaius, 145, 146; Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, ch. 6
: 7 Hamilton's Works, 845.
3 Dallas, 171.
JJClark v. Sickel, 14 Internal Revenue Record, 6.

SCHOLEY V.

REW.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the ]awfulness of the tax.

It is assessed upon the landowner "in respect of" the property. Making it a lien upon the land is only a method of
securing the tax, and does not make the tax a direct tax on
land. The distinction is illustrated by the rule of law that
a covenant in a lease to pay taxes assessed on the demised
land, does not cover a tax imposed on the landlord in respect of the land.*
SI. Under his wife's will, Scholey took an equitable interest
in one-third of the estate in question, and he is liable to pay
a succession tax in respect thereot under section 127 of the
act of June 30th, 1864.t iHe became entitled to the income
of one-third of the Elwood block, upon the death of his
testatrix, that is to"say, of his wife, who had herself invested
the personal property left by her first husband in this estate;
and he consequently became liable to pay a succession tax
in respect of the same.
If the Supreme Court had jurisdiction to authorize the
investment of the personal estate of Elwood, in the purchase
of real estate by his executors, its decree in the premises
was in the nature of a proceeding in rem, and bound all persons interested therein ;J and there is nothing in the record
to show that its jurisdiction was not complete.
But there is no question here as to whether equity would
treat the Elwood block as real or personal property. The
property of Mrs. Elwood devised under her first husband's
will had been converted by her own act into real property
before she devised the same to her second husband, and this
brings the case within the language of the statute. If
Scholey thus acquired an interest in the Elwood block, the
subsequent partition, whereby this entire estate was set off
to the heirs of Elwood, does not relieve him from liability
* 2 Platt on Leases, 172, and cases cited; Palmer v. Power, 4 Irish Common Law, 191; Tidswell v. 'Whitworth, Law Reports, 2 Common Pleas,
326; Twycross v. Railroad, 10 Gray, 293; see also Society for Savings v.
Coite, 6 Wallace, 594; Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, Id. 611.
13 Stat. at Large, 287,288.
: Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wallace, 396; Blount v. Darrach, 4 Washing.
ton Circuit Court, 657; Forsythe v. Ballance, 6 McLean, 562; Merriam v.
-White, 8 Gray, 316; Denny v. Mattoon, 2 Allen, 374-376.

Oet. 1874.]

SO11OLEY V. P:EW.
Opinion of the court.

to pay a succession tax in respect of his share of it. lie
received its full value in other property.
The objection that Scholey being an alien, cannot take
real estate by devise under the laws of New York, but that
such pretended devise is made by them absolutely void, does
not seem to have been taken below; but if open to be taken
here, is of no avail, for two reasons:
1st. There is nothing to show that Seholey has not been
authorized to hold real estate in the manner provided for in
the statute cited by him. Indeed, as he received the benefit
of the devise, the presumption would be that he had been
so authorized.
2d. He having never disclaimed any interest in the devise,
and having received its value in the partition of the Elwood
estate, from those to whom it would descend if the devise
to him is void, is estopped to set up alienage in order to
avoid the payment of the succession tax due on the estate.
Having received the benefit or the devise, he must bear any
burden attaching to it; and the government being entitled
to a tax from some one in respect of this estate, may take
advantage of the estoppel, being precluded by Scholey's
action from claiming a tax from the heirs at law.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Questions of importance were discussed at the bar, some
of which it cannot be admitted are properly presented for
decision. Such questions only as are specified in the assignment of errors are, in general, to be regarded as open to the
plaintiff, and it is very doubtful whether an assignment that
the decision of the Circuit Court is for the wrong party is
sufficient to present any question for decision, but inasmuch
as the findings of the court in this case are in their nature a
special finding, the better opinion is that their sufficiency to
support the judgment is open to re-examination.
Flanigan v. Turner, 1 Black, 491; Swain v. Seamens, 9 Wallace, 273,
274; Pendleton County v. Amy, 13 Id. 297, 305; Pickard v. Sears, 6 Adolphus & Elljs, 469; Welland Canal v. Hathaway, 8 Wendell, 483; Dezell v.
Odell, 3 Hill, 215, 221, et seq.; Coke Littleton, 352a, 352b; Bigelow on Estoppel, 578, et seq., and cases cited.

SCHOLEY V.

R:EW.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Enough has already appeared to show that the plaintiff
took under his wife's will an equitable interest in one-third
of the estate in question, and the United States contend that
in view of those facts he is liable to pay a succession tax or
duty in respect of the same by virtue of the act passed to
levy such taxes, as it applies to every past or future disposition of real estate by will, deed, or laws of descent, by reason
whereof any person shall become beneficially entitled in
possession or expectancy to any real estate, or the income
thereof, upon the, death of any person dying after the passage of that act.
Apply the rule to be deduced forom that enactment to the
facts found by the court, and it must follow that the argument of the United States is well founded, unless some one
or more of the special objections to the tax set up by the
plaintiff are sufficient to exonerate him from such liability.
Those objections are as follows: (1.) That the act imposing
the duty is unconstitutional and void. (2.) That the case is
not one within the act imposing the tax or duty. (3.) That
the plaintiff being an alien the devise to him is absolutely
void.
1. Support to the first objection is attempted to be drawn
from that clause of the Constitution which provides that
direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States
which may be included within the Union, according to their
respective numbers; and also from the clause which provides that no capitation or other direct tax shall be laid
unless in proportion to the census or amended enumeration;
but it is clear that the tax or duty levied by the act under
consideration is not a direct tax within the meaning of either
of those provisions. Instead of that it is plainly an excise
tax or duty, authorized by section eight of article one, which
vests the power in Congress to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises to pay the debts and provide for the
common defence and general welfare.
Such a tax or duty is neither a tax on land nor a capitation exaction, as subsequently appears from the language of
the section imposing the tax or duty, as well as from the

Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY V. REW.
Opinion of the court.

preceding section, which provides that the term succession
shall denote the devolution of real estate; and the section
which imposes the tax or duty also contains a corresponding
clause which provides that the term successor shall denote the
person so entitled, and that the term predecessor shall denote
the grantor, testator, ancestor, or other person from whom
the interest of the successor has been or shall be derived.
Successor is employed in the act as the correlative to predecessor, and the succession or devolution of the real estate
is the subject-matter of the tax or duty, or, in other words,
it is the right to become the successor of real estate upon
the death of the predecessor, whether the devolution or disposition of the same is effected by will, deed, or laws of
descent, from a grantor, testator, ancestor, or other person
from whom the interest of the successor has been or shall
be derived; nor is the question affected in the least by the
fact that the tax or duty is made a lien upon the land, as the
lien is merely an appropriate regulation to secure the collection of the exaction.
Indirect taxes, such as duties of impost and excises and
every other description of the same, must be uniform, and
direct taxes must be laid in proportion to the census or
enumeration as remodelled in the fourteenth amendment.
Taxes on lands, houses, and other permanent real estate
have always been deemed to be direct taxes, and capitation
taxes, by the express words of the Constitution, are within
the same category, but it never has been decided that any
other legal exactions for the support of the Federal government fhl within the condition that unless laid in proportion
to numbers that the assessment is invalid.*
Whether direct taxes in the sense of the Constitution
comprehend any other tax than a capitation tax and a tax
on laud is a question not absolutely decided, nor is it necessary to determine it in the present case, as it is expressly
decided that the term does not include the tax on income,
*Hylton v. United States, 3 Dallas, 171; 1 Kent, 12th ed., 255; Story on
the Constitution, 955.

SOHO0LEY V. IREW.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

which cannot be distinguished in principle from a succession
tax such as the one involved in the present controversy. *
Neither duties nor excises were regarded as direct taxes
by the authors of the Federalist. Objection was made to the
power to impose such taxes, and in answering that objection

Mr. Hamilton said that the proportion of these taxes is not
to be left to the discretion of the national legislature, but it
is to be determined by the numbers of each State, as described in the second section of the first article. An actual
census or enumeration of the people must furnish the rule,
a circumstance which shuts the door to partiality or oppression. In addition to the precaution just mentioned, said he,
there is a provision that all duties of imposts and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United States.t
Exactions for the support of the government may assume
the form of duties, imposts, or excises, or they may also
assume the form of license fees for permission to carry on
particular occupations or to enjoy special franchises, or they
may be specific in form, as when levied upon corporations
inreference to the amount of capital stock or to the business
done or profits earned by the individual or corporation.1
2. Sufficient appears in the prior suggestions to define the
language employed and to point out what is the true intent
and meaning of the provision, and to make it plain that the

exaction is not a tax upon the land, and that it was rightfully
levied, if the findings of the court show that the plaintiff
became entitled, in the language of the section, or acquired
the estate or the right to the income thereof by the devolution of the title to the same, as assumed by the United States.
Doubt upon that subject, it would seem, cannot be entertained if it be conceded that the subject-matter of the assess.mentis the devolution of the estate or the right to become
* Insurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wallace, 446; Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wallace,
546; Clark v. Sickel, 14 Internal Revenue Record, 6.
t Federalist, No. 36, p. 161; 7 Hamilton's Works, 847; License Tax Cases,
5 Wallace, 462.
1 Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, 495*; Provident Institution V.
Massachusetts, 6 Wallace, 625; Bank v. Apthorp, 12 Massachusetts, 252.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY

v. IREW.

Opinion of the court.

beneficially entitled to the same,,or the income thereof, in
possession or expectancy, under the circumstances and conditions specified in the other parts of the section.
Decided support to the proposition that such is the true
theory of the act is derived from the fact that the act of
Parliament from which the particular provision under discussion was largely borrowed has received substantially the
same construction.*
Suppose that to be the true construction of the act imposing the duty, and it is undeniable that the case before the
court falls within its operation, unless the fact that the plaintiff is an alien exonerates him from such an exaction. Proof
of the introductory proposition is found in the conceded fact
that the testatrix in her lifetime invested the personal property left her by the will of her first husband, or some part
of it, in the said real estate, and that the plaintiff became
entitled to the same or to the income of one-third of the
same at her decease, and consequently became liable to pay
the succession tax or duty in question unless he is exempted
from the liability by his alienage.
He does not deny that the investment of the personal
property in the manner stated was made by the executrix
and her associates, under the decree of the Supreme Court
of the State, nor does lie attempt to impugn the regularity
or the validity of those proceedings, nor is there anything
in the record that would enable him to do so with success
if the attempt was made. Proceedings, it is true, were instituted to effect a partition of the estate of the testatrix,
and it is equally true that those proceedings were carried
forward to final judgment, from which it appears that the
entire block, in respect of which the controversy has arisen,
was set off to the heirs of his deceased wife, but it is clear
Wilcox v. Smith, 4 Drewry, 49; Blythe v. Granville, 13 Simons, 195;
Attorney-General v. Middleton, 3 Hurlstone & Norman, 136; Same v. FitzJohn, 2 Id. 472; Same v. Gardner, 1 Hurlstone & Coleman, 649; Same v.
Gell, 3 Id. 629; Braybrooke v. Attorney-General, 9 Clark (House of Lords
Cases), 165; Lyall v. Lyall, Law Reports, 15 Equity, 11; Jeves v. Shadwell,
Law Reports, 1 Chancery Appeals, 1; In re Badart, Law Reports, 10 Equity,
296.

SCHOLEY V.

R w.

[Sup. Gt.

Opinion of the court.

that that circumstance cannot relieve him from liability to
pay a succession tax in respect to his share, of the estate, for
the obvious reason that he received its full value in other
property assigned to him belonging to the same estate.
Beyond what may be inferred from the finding of the
court, that the plaintiff is an alien, it does not appear that
the defence of alienage was set up in the court*below, nor
does the assignment of errors contain any specification of
such a question, except that the plaintiff is not liable to a
succession tax and that the decision of the court below that
he is so liable is erroneous. Such an assignment is not a
compliance with the rule upon that subject, but the court is
not inclined to rest the decision upon that ground.
Admit that the question is open, still the court is of the
opinion that it cannot avail the plaintiff in this case, even
under the comprehensive provision of the State statute. By
that statute it is enacted that every devise of any interest in
real property to a person who, at the time of the death of
the testator, shall be an alien, not authorized by statute to
hold real estate, shall be void.*
Nothing appears in the record of an express character to
show that the plaintiff was ever authorized by statute to
hold real estate, but it does appear that he claimed a onethird interest in the block in respect of which the succession tax was levied, and that his claim was recognized
by the court and all the parties in the partition suit, and
that the same was finally adjudged to him in the judgment
of partition by an allowance for the value in other property
left by the testatrix; nor can it make any difference that the
corresponding allowance to him was of personal property,
never converted into real estate, as the record of the proceedings in partition shows that the referees, whose report
was confirmed and adopted by the court, adjusted the
amounts as if the block was personal property, probably for
the reason that the consideration of the same at the time of
the investment was paid out of the personal property left by
the former husband of the testatrix.
* 2 Revised Statutes of New York, 68.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHOLEY V. 'REW.

Opinion of the court.

Difficulty, it may be admitted, would attend the solution
of the question if the issue was one between the plaintiff and
the heirs at law of the testatrix, but the record shows that
the testatrix became the owner of the property in the manner before stated, and that the interest claimed by the plaintiff was devised to .him by the actual owner, and that he
claimed it as if entitled to it under the will of the testatrix,
and that he received one-third part of the income of the
same from her decease to the commencement of the suit for
partition, and that the claim made by him was fully recognized and included in the judgment of partition, and nothing
is shown to support the theory that he is not still in the undisputed enjoyment of the allowance made to him in substitution for the one-third interest of the estate in respect of
which the succession tax was levied.
Except for the purpose of avoiding the tax or duty due to
the United States he has always claimed the benefit 6f the
devise and still claims it for every other purpose. Had he
disclaimed the right to take the interest devised to him the
actual devolution of the estate would have given the right
of possession to the heirs, either by the will or by the law
of descent, and in that event the United States would not
have met with any embarrassment in levying and collecting
the succession tax or duty. By the terms of the will the devise was to the plaintiff, and inasmuch as he claimed the
benefit of it without opposition, and has continued to enjoy
its use, as before explained, to the present time, it followed
that the heirs could not be subjected to such an exaction.
Tested by these suggestions it is clear that the claim of
the plaintiff to recover back the amount of the tax or duty
is inequitable, and in that regard the court here concurs in
the proposition submitted by the United States, that the
plaintiff is estopped to set up alienage as a ground of recovery under the circumstances of this case.*
* Swain v. Seamans, 9 Wallace, 273; Picard v. Sears, 6 Adolphus & Ellis,
474; Freeman v. Cooke, 2 Exchequer, 654; Foster v. Dawber, 6 Id. 854;
Edwards v. Chapman, 1 Meeson & Welsby, 231 ; Bigelow on Estoppel, 378;
Hyde v. Baldwin, 17 Pickering, 303.

REEDY V. SCOTT.

[Sup. Ot

Syllabus.

Having accepted the beneficial interest under the will,
and being in the undisturbed enjoyment of the same, he
must bear the burden which legally attaches to the interest.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

REEDY V. SCOTT.
1. Though as a general rule suits for infringement of a patent, are defeated
by the surrender of the patent, and a new original bill-not a supplemental bill-is the proper sort of bill by which to proceed for an infringement under the reissue, yet where there has been a surrender and
reissue, and the patentee has proceeded by a supplemental bill-the defendant making no objection to this sort of proceeding, but allowing
proofs to be taken and the suit to proceed otherwise to a conclusion, as
if the irregularity were wholly unimportant; the two parties proceeding respectively throughout the trial upon the assumption and concession that the reissued patent was substantially for the same invention
as that embodied in the original patent-all objection to the irregularity
in proceeding by a supplemental bill instead of by a new original one
must be considered as waived.
2. Where, pending a bill in a Federal court for the infringement of a patent,
the parties have agreed to submit the question whether a machine made
by the defendant was an infringement, to a solicitor of patents, and to
abide by his decision, and that if he decides that it is not, then that the
bill in said suit shall stand dismissed; and the referee does decide that
there is no infringement, but the complainant instead of having his
original bill dismissed and filing a new original bill, files a supplemental bill alleging a surrender and reissue, and that the reissue is "for the
same invention " as was secured by the original patent: in such case if
it appear that the parties throughout the trial have treated the invention secured by the reissue, as substantially the same invention as that
secured by the original letter, and have raised no issue about exact
specification or any of those differences which may properly exist between a claim in an original patent and a claim in a reissue, but on the
contrary have impliedly admitted substantial identity, having taken the
issue on other matters, the matters, to wit, whether the complainant was
not deceived when agreeing to refer, and whether the right of the referee
to make any award was not legally revoked before any award was made
by him, and whether, therefore, the award was not void: in such case
if the court be satisfied that there was no deception, and that the award
was made, and validly, then the plea of the award and agreement to be
bound by it, may be properly pleaded to the supplemental bill as it
might have been to the original one.

