LEE KUM HOY v. MURFF.
Per Curiam.

355 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. LEE KUM HOY ET AL. V.
'MURFF, DISTRICT DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
CERTIORARI TO

THE UNITED

STATES

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 32.

Argued November 21, 1957.-Decided December 9, 1957.

Three Chinese children sought entry into the United States, claiming
to be children of an American citizen, but they were excluded on
the ground that blood grouping tests showed that the American
citizen was not their parent. It appeared that the blood grouping
tests were in some respects inaccurate and the reports thereof
partly erroneous and conflicting. Held: The judgments heretofore
entered are vacated and the case is remanded to the District Court
with directions that the hearings before the Special Inquiry Officer
or a Board of Special Inquiry be reopened, so that new, accurate
blood grouping tests may be made under appropriate circumstances,
and that relevant evidence may be received as offered on 'the issues
involved.
237 F. 2d 307, judgments vacated and case remanded.

Benjamin Gim argued the cause for petitiofiers.
him on the brief was Edward J. Ennis.

With

John.F. Davis argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant
Attorney General Olney, Acting Assistant Attorney General McLean and Beatrice Rosenberg.
PER CURIAM.

In view of the representation in -the Solicitor General's
argument at the Bar that the blood grouping test requirement here involved is presently and has been for some
time applied without discrimination "in every case,
irrespective of race, whenever deemed necessary," and in
view of our remand of the case, we need not now pass
upon the claim of unconstitutional discrimination.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curiam.

355 U. S.

It appearing that the blood grouping tests made herein
were in some respects inaccurate and the reports thereof
partly erroneous and conflicting, the judgments heretofore entered are vacated and the case is remanded to the
District Court with directions that the hearings before
the Special Inquiry Officer or a Board of Special Inquiry
be reopened, so that new, accurate blood grouping tests
May be made under appropriate'circumstances, and that
relevant evidence may be received as offered on the issues
involved. The excludability of petitioners remains to be
determined upon those proceedings.

