426

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Syllabus.

355 U. S.

KERNAN, ADMINISTRATOR, v. AMERICAN
DREDGING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 21, 1957.-Decided February 3, 1958.

A seaman lost his life on a tug which caught fire when an openflame kerosene lamp on the deck of a scow it was towing on
a river at' night ignited highly inflammable vapors lying above
an accumulation of petroleum products spread over the surface
of the river. The lamp was not more than three feet above the
water, and the vapor would not have been ignited had the Jamp
been carried at the height of eight feet required, by Coast Guard
regulations. There was no collision or fault of.navigation. Held:
Under the Jones Act, which incorporates the provisions of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, the seaman's employer was liable,
without a showing of negligence, for his death resulting from a
violation of. the Coast Guard regulations pertaining to navigation.
Pp. 427-439.
(a) The decisions of thih Court in actions under the 'Federal
Employers' Liability Act based upon violations of the Safety Appliance Acts and the Boiler Inspection Act establish that a violation of either Act creates liability without regard to negligence, if
the violation in fact contributes to the death or injury, without
regard to whether the injury flowing from the -breach was the
injury the statute sought to prevent. Pp. 430-436.
(b) The basis of liability established. in those decisions is not
confined to cases involving the Safety Appliance Acts or the Boiler
Inspection Act but extends also to deaths resulting from a violation
of the Coast Guard regulations here involved. Pp. 436-439.
(c) Under § 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, when a
statutory, violation results in a defect or insufficiency in appliances
or other equipment,liability ensues, without regard to whether the
injury flowing from the violation was the injury the statute sought
to guard against. Pp. 437-439.
(d) The Jones Act expressly provides for seamen the cause of
action-and consequently the entiie judicially developed doctrine
of liability-grantd to railroad workers by the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. P. 439.
35 F. 2d 618, 619, reversed and remanded.

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

427

Opinion of the Court.

Abraham E. Freedman argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
T. E. Byrne, Jr. argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was Mark D. Alspach.
MR, JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this limitation proceeding brought by the respondent
under § 183-186 of the Limited Liability Act, R. S.
§§ 4281-4289, as amended, 46 U. S. C. §§ 181-196, the
District Court for the Eastern. District of Pennsylvania
denied the petitioner's claim for damages filed on behalf
of the widow and other dependents of a seaman who lost
his life on respondent's tug in a fire caused by the violation of a navigation rule. 141 F..Supp. 582. The Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed. 235 F. 2d 618,
rehearing denied, 235 F. 2d 619. We granted certiorari.
352 U. S. 965.
The seaman lost his life on the tug Arthur N. Herron,
which, on the night of November 18, 1952, while towing a
scow on th Schuylkili River in Philadelphia, caught fire
when an open-flame kerosene lamp on the deck of the
scow ignited highly inflammable vapors lying above an
extensive accumulation of petroleum products spread over
the surface of the river. Several oil refineries and facilities for oil storage, and for loading and unloading petroleum products, are located along the banks of the Schuylkill River. The trial court found .*that the lamp was
not more than three feet above the water. Maintaining
the lrmp at a height of less than eight feet violated a
navigation rule promulgated by the Commandant of the
United States Coast Guard.' The trial court found that
133 CFR § 80.16 (h). "Scows not otherwise provided for in this
section on waters described in paragraph (a) of this section shall

OCTOBER TERM, 195.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

the vapor would not have been ignited if the lamp had
been carried at the required height.
The District Court held that the violation of the rule,
"whether . . . [it] be called negligence or be said to make
the flotilla unseaworthy," did not impose liability because
"the Coast Guard regulation had to do solely with navigation and was intended for the prevention of collisions,
and for no other purpose. In the present case there was
no collision and no fault of navigation. True, the origin
of the fire can be traced to the violation of the regulation,
but the question is not causation but whether the violation of the regulation, of itself, imposes liability." 141
F. Supp., at 585.
The petitioner urges first that the statutory violation
made the flotilla unseaworthy, creating liability without
regard to fault. But the remedy for unseaworthiness
derives from the general maritime, law, and that law
recognizes no cause of action for wrongful death Whether
carry a white light at each end of each scow, except that when such
scows are massed in tiers, two or more abreast, each of the outside
scows shall carry a white light on its outer bow, and the outside scows
in the last tier shall each carry, in addition, a white light on the outer
part of the stern. The white light shall be carried not less than
8 feet above the surface of the water, and shall be so placed as to show
an unbroken light all around the horizon, and shall be of such a character as to be visible on a dark night with a clear atmosphere at "a
distance of at least "5 miles."
The Commandant is empowered by 30 Stat. 102, as amended,
33 U. S. C. .§ 157, to establish rules "as to the lights to be carried . . .
as he . . . may deem necessary for safety . . . ." This section was
contained in the Act of June 7, 1897, the purpose of which was to
codify the rules governing navigation on inland waters and to conform them as nearly as practicable to the revised international rules
for preventing collisions at sea adopted at the International Marine
Conference in October 1889. 30 Cong. Rec. 1394; H. R. Doc. No. 42,
55th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1.

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

429

Opinion of the Court.

occasioned by unseaworthiness or by negligence. The
Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199; 2 see Western Fuel Co. v.
Garcia, 257 U. S. 233, 240. Before the Jones Act,' federal courts of admiralty resorted to the various state death
acts to give a remedy for'wrongful death. The Hamilton,
207 U. S. 398; The Transfer No. 4, 61 F. 364; see
Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, supra, at 242; Great Lakes
Dredge & Dock Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479. The
Jones Act, created a federal right of action for the wrongful death of a seaman based on the statutory action under
the Federal Employers' .Liability Act. In Lindgren v.
United States, 281 U. S. 38, the Court held that the Jones
Act remedy for wrongful death was exclusive and precluded any remedy for wrongful death within territorial
The Harrisburg disapproved lower federal court cases, among
them a decision of Chief Justice Chase at Circuit, The Sea- Gull,
21 Fed. Cas. 910, No. 12578a, which had given a right of action for
wrongful death. Reliance'was placed on the fact that English admiralty law did not recognize the cause of action although continental
maritime law did. By statute, English admiralty courts niw entertain
a cause of action for wrongful death. 23 Halsbury's Laws of England
(2d ed. 1936) § 979.
* "Any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the course of
his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages
at law, with the right of trial by jury, and in such artion all statutes
of the United States modifying or extendig' the common-law right or
remedy in cases of personal injury to railway employees shall apply:
and in case of the death of any seaman as a result of any such personal iijury the personal representative of such seaman may maintain an action for damages at law with the right of trial by jury,
and in such action all statutes of the United States conferring or
regulating the right of action for death in the case of railway
employees shall be applicable. [I. e., Federal Employers' Liability
Act, 35 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60.] Jurisdiction in
such actions shall be under -the court of the district in which the
defendant employer resides or in which his principal office is located."
41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

waters,' based on unseaworthiness, whether derived from
federal or state law. The petitioner assumes that under
today's general maritime law the personal representative
of a deceased seaman may elect, as the seaman himself
may elect, between an action based on the FELA and an
action, recognized in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175,
based upon unseaworthiness. In view of the disposition
we are making of this case, we need not consider the
soundness of this assumption.
The petitioner also urges that, since the violation of the
rule requiring the lights to be eight feet above the water
resulted in a defect or insufficiency in the flotilla's lighting
equipment which in fact caused the seaman's death, liability was created without regard to negligence under the
line of decisions of this Court in actions under the FELA
based upon violations of either the Safety Appliance
Acts ' or the Boiler Inspection Act.' That line of decisions interpreted the clause of § 1 of the FELA, 45 U. S. C.
§ 51, which imposes liability on the employer "by reason
of any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in
its cars, engifies, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed,
works, boats, wharves, or other equipment." The cases
"Where death occurs beyond a marine league from state shores,
the Death on the High Seas Act, 41 Stat. 537, 46 U. S. C., §§ 761-768,
provides a remedy for wrongful -death. Presumably any claims,
based on unseaworthiness, for damages accrued prior to the decedent's
deaih would survive', at least if a pertinent staite statute is effective
to bring. about a survival of the seaman's right.. See Holland v.
Steag, Inc.,"143 F. Supp. 203; cf. Cox v. Roth, 348 U. S. 207; Just v.
Chambers, 312 U. . 383. Claims for maintenance and cure survive
the death of the seaman. Sperbeck v. A. L. Burbank & Co., 190 F.
2d 449. For a discussion of the applicability of a state wrongfuldeath statute to an action for death of a nonseaman based upon a
breach of the warranty of seaworthiness, see Skovgaard v. The
Tungus, 252 F. 2d 14.
5 27 Stat. 531, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 1-16.
036 Stat..913, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 22-34.

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

431

Opinion of the Court.

hold that under this clause, a defect resulting from a violation of either statute which causes the injury or death
of an employee creates liability without regard to negligence. San Antonio & A. P. R. Co. v. Wagner, 241 U. S.
476, 484. Here the defect or insufficiency in the flotilla's
lighting equipment due to a violation of the statute
resulted in the death of the seaman. The question for
our decision is whether, in the absence of any showing of
negligence, the Jones Act-which in terms incorporates
the provisions of the FELA-permits recovery for the
death of a seaman resulting from a violation of a
statutory duty. We hold that it does.
In denying the claim the lower courts relied upon their
views of general tort doctrine. It is true that at common law the liability of the master to his servant was
founded wholly on tort rules of general applicability and
the master was granted the effective defenses of assumption of risk and contributory negligence. This limited
liability derived from a public policy, designed to give'
maximum freedom to infant industrial enterprises, "to
insulate the employer as much as possible from bearing
the 'human overhead' which is an inevitable part of the
cost-to someone-of the doing of industrialized business." Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54,
59. Bnt it came to be recognized that, .hatever the
rights and duties among persons generally, the industrial
employer had a special responsibility toward his workers,
who were daily exposed to the risks of the business
and who were largely helpless to provide adequately for
their own safety. Therefore, as industry and commerce
became sufficiently strong to bear, the burden, the law,
the reflection of an evolving public policy, came to favor
compensation of employees and. their dependents for the
losses occasioned by the inevitable 'deaths and inrjuries
of industrial employment, thus shifting to industry, the
"human overhead" of doing business. For most ip.dus-

432;

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

tries this change has been embodied in Workmen's Compensation Acts. In' the railroad and shipping industries,
however, the FELA and Jones Act-provide the framework
for determining liability for industrial accidents. But
instead of a detailed statute codifying common-law principles, Congress saw fit to enact a statute of the most
general terms, thus leaving in large measure to the
courts the duty of fashioning remedies for injured employees in a manner analogous to the development of
tort remedies at common law. But it is clear thlat the
general congressional intent was to provide liberal recovery for injured workers, Rogers v. MissouriPacific R. Co.,
352 U. S. 500, 508-510, and it is also clear that Congress
intended the creation of no static remedy, but one which
would' be developed and enlarged to meet changing conditions and changing concepts of industry's duty toward
its workers.
The FELA and the Jonet Act impose upon the employer
the duty of paying damages when injury to the worker
is caused, in whole or in part, by the employer's fault.
This fault may consist of a breach of the duty of care,
analogous but by no means identical to the general common-law duty, or of:a breach of some statutory duty.
The tort doctrine which the lower courts applied imposes
liability for violation of a statutory duty only where
the injury is one which the statute was designed to
prevent! However, this Court has' repeatedly refused
to apply such a limiting doctrine in FELA cases. In
FELA cases based upon violations of the Safety AppliTThe trial court relied upon Restatement, Torts, § 286, Comment ton Clause (c), h: "A statute or ordinance may be construed as
intended to give protection against a particular form of harm to a
particular interest. If so, the actor cannot be liable to another for a
violation of the enactment unless the harm which the violation causes
is that from which it was the purpose of the enactment to protect the
other."

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO. 433
426

Opinion of the Court.

ance Acts or the Boiler Inspection Act, the Court has held
that a violation of either statute creates liability under'
FELA if the resulting defect or insufficiency in equipment
contributes in fact to the death or injury in suit, without
regard to whether the injuryflowing from the breach was
the.injury the statute sought to prevent. Since it appears
in this case that the defect or insufficiency of the flotilla's
lighting equipment resulting from the violation of 33
U. S. C. § 157 actually caused the seaman's death, this
principle governs and compels a result in favor of the
petitioner's claim.
In Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617, a
railroad employee on one of five freight cars loaded with
coal was thrown to the track and injured when an engine
pushed .a stock car into the last of the loaded cars and
drove the fit.e cars against a standing train. Neither the
stock car nor the car which it struck was equipped with
automatic couplers, as required by the Federal Safety
Appliance Act. Had the cars been so equipped they
would have coupled when. they came together and the
five cars would not have run against the standing train.
The stated purpose of the automatic coupler requirement
was to avoid "the necessity of men going between the
ends of cars," and the railroad contended that this showed
that the Congress intended the requirement only for the
benefit of employees injured when between cars for the
purpose of coupling or uncoupling them. The Court
rejected the argument and affirmed a judgment for the
plaintiff.
In Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v. Gotschall, 244 U. S.
66, a brakeman walking along the tops of the cars of a
moving train was thrown off and killed when the train
separated because of the opening of a coupler which
resulted- in an automatic setting of the emergency brakes
and a sudden jerk of the train. This Court sustained a

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

judgment against the railroad although the injury was
not one which the Safety Appliance Act aims to prevent.
In Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S. 239, the conductor of a
moving train holding on to the grab iron directly over
the sill-step on which he stood fell because the grab iron
was loose and defective. It was contended that the grab
iron was required to aid employees engaged in coupling
or uncoupling cars or a service connected therewith, not
to aid in the transportation of employees. The Court
rejected this contention and held that the Layton and
Gotschall cases had settled that the employee ". . . can
recover if the failure to comply with the requirements of
the [Safety Appliance] act is a proximate cause of the
accident, resulting in injury to him while in the discharge
of his duty, although not engaged in an operation in
which the safety appliances are specifically designed to
furnish him protection." Id., at 243.
In Swinson v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. R. Co., 294 U. S.
529, a freight brakeman was releasing a tightly set hand
brake at the end of a tank car. Release of the hand brake
required the application of considerable force to the brake
wheel. The brakeman put his left foot on the running
board and his right foot on the grab iron to set himself
better to put pressure on the brake wheel. The foot
pressure exerted on the grab iron caused the. plank to
which it was attached to split and one of the bolts securing the grab iron to be pulled through. As a result the
brakeman lost his balance and was seriously injured in a
fall in front of the moving car. The railroad contended,
unsuccessfully, that it was not liable because the grab iron
had been used by the brakeman for a purpose for which it
was not intended, arguing that the duty to supply grab
irons *was intended by Congress in order to provide
employees with an appliance to grasp with the hands, not
to provide' a foot brace or support to secure leverage in
releasing a hand brake.

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

435

Opinion of the Court.

In Coray v. Southern Pacific Co., 335 U: S. 520, an
employee of the railroad, riding a motor-driven track car
behind a moving freight train, was killed in a crash of the
track car into the freight train which stopped suddenly
when its brakes locked because of a defect in its braking
system. The Supreme Court of Utah affirmed the state
trial court's direction of verdict for the railroad upon the
ground that, in so far as brakes were concernefi, the object
of the Safety Appliance Act was not to protect employees
from standing trains, but from moving trains. The Utah
Supreme Court also reasoned that the stopping of the
train in consequence of the leak in the valve was-precisely
what, as a safety device, it was designed to do. This
Court reversed and said, id., at 524:
"The language selected by Congress to fix liability
in cases of this kind is simple and direct. Consideration of its meaning by the introduction of dialectical
subtleties can serve no useful interpretative purpose.
The statute declares that railroads shall be responsible for their employees' deaths 'resulting in whole
or in part' from defective appliances such' as were
here maintained. 45 U. S. C. § 51. And to make its
purpose crystal clear, Congress has also provided that
'no such employee . . . shall be- held to have been
guilty of contributory negligence in any case' where
a violation of the Safety Appliance Act, such as the
one here, 'contributed to the . . . death of such
employee.' 45 U. S. C. § 53. Congress has thus for
its own reasons imposed extraordinary safety obligations upon railroads and has commanded that if a
breach of these obligations contributes in part to an
employee's death, the railroad must pay damages.
These air-brakes were defective; for this reason alone
the train suddenly and unexpectedly stopped; a
motor track car following at about the same rate
of speed and operated by an employee looking in

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
355 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

another direction crashed into the train; all of
these circumstances were inseparably related to one
another in time and space. The jury could have
found that decedent's death resulted from any or all
of the foregoing circumstances."
Finally, in Urie v. Thompson, 337 U. S. 163, the Court
considered a claim based upon an alleged violation of an
Interstate Commerce Commission regulation promulgated under the Boiler Inspection Act. The regulation
provided: "Locomotives shall be equipped with proper
sanding apparatus, which shall be maintained in safe and
suitable condition for service, and tested before each -trip.
Sand pipes must be securely fastened in line with the
rails." Id., at 195. The purpose of the requ-irement was
to" provide sand for traction. A fireman employed by the
railroad for almost thirty years sued to recover damages
for silicosis allegedly contracted from the inhalation of silicate dust emitted by allegedly broken or faultily adjusted
sanders into the decks and cabs of the many locomotives
on which he had worked. The railroad contended that
the ICC rule was designed "to ensure an adequate auxiliary braking system, not to protect employees against
silicosis, and therefore the employee could not recover for
an injury, not of the kind the ICC rule sought to guard
against. The Court rejected the argument as.resting on
general tort doctrine inapplicable to this case.
The decisive question in this case, then, is whether the
principles developed in this line of FELA cases permit
recovery for violation of this navigation statute or are
limited, as the dissenting opinion would have it, to cases
involving the Safety Appliance and Boiler Inspection
Acts. Our attention is directed to the provisions of § 4
of the FELA, which makes reference to "any statute
enacted for the safety of employees

. .

.

,"

and it is

urged that this phrase, in some unexplained manner,

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

437

Opinion of the Court..

creates a special relationship between the FELA and the
Safety Appliance and Boiler Inspection Acts. Several
answers may be given to this contention.
First, § 4 relates entirely to the defense of assumption
of risk, abolishing this defense where the injury was
caused by the employer's negligence or by "violation . . .
of any statute enacted for the safety of employees .... "
It is § 1 of the FELA which creates the cause of action
and this section, on its face, is barren of any suggestion
that injuries caused by violation of any statute are to be
treated specially. In formulating the rule that violation
of the Safety Appliance and Boiler Inspection Acts creates
liability for resulting injuries without proof of negligence, the Court relied on judicially evolved principles
designed to carry out the general congressional purpose
of providing appropriate remedies for injuries incurred
by railroad employees. For Congress, in 1908, did not
crystallize the application of the Act by enacting specific
rules to guide the courts. Rather, by using generalized
language, it created only a framework within which the
courts were left to evolve, much in the manner of the
common law, a system of principles providing compensation for injuries to employees consistent with the
changing realities of employment in the railroad industry.
Second, it is argued that the Safety Appliance and
Boiler Inspection Acts are special safety statutes and
thus may easily be assimilated to the FELA under
general common-law principles. But there is no magic
in the word "safety.'" In the cases we have discussed
it was regarded as irrelevant that the defects in the
appliances did not disable them from performing their
intended safety function. For instance, in Gotschall
the coupling defect parting the cars resulted in the
automatic setting of the emergency brakes as a safety
measure. In Coray the train stopped due to the operation of the very safety mechanism required by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

statute. In Urie the defect in the sanders which caused
sand to come into the locomotive cabs in no wise impaired
the designed safety function of the sanders-to provide
sand for traction. We think that the irrelevance of the
safety aspect in these cases demonstrates that the basis
of liability is a violation of statutory duty without regard
to whether the injury flowing from the violation was the
injury the statute sought to guard against. It must
therefore be concluded that the nature of the Acts violated
is not a controlling consideration; the basis of liability is
the FELA.8
The courts, in developing the FELA with a view to
adjusting equitably between the worker and his corporate
employer the risks inherent in the railroad industry, have
plainly rejected many of the refined distinctions necessary in common-law tort doctrine for the purpose of allocating risks between persons who are more nearly on an
equal footing as to financial -capacity and ability to avoid
the hazards involved. Among the refinements developed
by the common law for the purpose of limiting the risk
of liability arising from wrongful conduct is the rule that
violation of a statutory duty creates liability only when
the statute was intended to protect those in the position
of the plaintiff from the type of injury in fact incurred.
This limiting approach has long been discarded from the
FELA. Instead, the theory of the FELA is that where
the employer's conduct falls short of the high standard
8 The dissenters argue that the Safety Appliance and Boiler Inspection Acts were each prefaced by the statement: "An Act to
promote the safety of employees and travelers . . . ." But we are
not persuaded that liability under the FELA should depend on the
title of the Acts whose violation is alleged. Were we to rely on such
indicia. we could point out that the statute here involved empowered
the Commandant of the Coast Guard to establish rules "as to
the lights to be carried . . . as he . . . may deem necessary for
safety . . . ." 30 Stat. 102, 33 U. S. C. § 157. (Emphasis added.)

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO. 439
426

Memorandum of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

required of him by this Act, and his fault, in whole or in
part, causes injury, liability ensues. And this result follows whether the fault is a violation of a statutory duty or
the more general duty of acting with care, for the
employer owes the employee, as much as the duty of acting with care, the duty of complying with his statutory
obligations.
We find no difficulty in applying these principles,
developed under the FELA, to the present action under
the Jones Act, for the latter Act expressly provides for
seamen the cause of action-and consequently the entire
judicially developed doctrine of liability-granted to railroad workers by the FELA. The deceased seaman here
was in a position perfectly analogous to that of the railroad workers allowed recovery in the line of cases we have
discussed, and the principles governinj those cases clearly
should apply here.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed with
direction to remand to the District Court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
Memorandum of MR. JUSTiCE FRANKFURTER.

Since it has been my general practice for on to a decade
to refrain from participating in the substantive disposition of cases arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the Jones Adt that have been brought here
on writ of certiorari, a word explaining my participation
today is in order.
After persistent protest against granting petitions for
certiorari to review judgments in the state courts and the
United States Courts of Appeals involving application of
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, I deemed it necessary to register my conviction on the unjustifiability of
granting such petitions by noting that the petitions were

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Memorandum of

FRANKFURTER, J.

355 U. S.

improvidently granted. See my opinion in Rogers v.
Missouri Pacific R. Co., 352 U. S. 500, 524. All these
cases involved evaluation of evidence: evidence on what
constitutes "negligence," i. e., the common-law conception of negligence which Congress adopted, subject to
qualifications regarding "causation" and withdrawal of
common-law defenses, and which remains the statutory
requisite for liability. It has become the practice for
this Court to review evidence where trial courts have
considered it their duty to take cases from juries or to
set -aside jury verdicts, or where appellate courts have
reversed trial court decisions as to what are allowable verdicts by juries. This manifestly ceased to be the function of this Court after Congress, by the Act of September
6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726, abolished appeals to the Court in
Federal Employers' Liability Act cases and restricted
review of lower court decisions in such cases to the confined scope of our general certiorari jurisdiction.
I am aware of the suggestion that these cases, at least
those coming from the Courts of Appeals, involve a constitutional issue-namely, the application of the Seventh
Amendment. That, I should suppose, would be equally.
true of every case in'the federal courts in which the claim
is made that a case should have been left to the jury, and
equally, of course, such claims (in non-FELA cases, at
any rate) are here denied, except in the most flagrant
instances. This Court has said again and again, in other
than FELA cases, that questions of fact-and that is
essentially what these negligence cases involve-afford an
inadmissible basis for review by this Court. And this for
the conclusive reason that deliberate consideration and
wise adjudication of' the cases that concededly ought
to be reviewed here make a demand greater than the
resources of time and thought possessed by this Court, no
matter how ably 'constituted, reasonably afford. See

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.

441

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

426

Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S. 578, 602-603 (dissenting
opinion).
This case is different in kind from those in which I
have felt it my duty to abstain from consideration on -the
merits. This is a case which involves a serious question
of construction of a statute of nationwide importance.
Such questions of construction are among the most
important issues for final determination by this Court.
I therefore reach the merits, and on the merits I join
the opinion of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

whom

FURTER, MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

MR. JUSTICE FRANK-

and MR.

JUSTICE WHIT-

join, dissenting.
I share the view of the Court that under existing law
a cause of action for wrongful death does not lie on principles of unseaworthiness, ard that therefore respondent's
liability for the death caused by this unfortunate accident
depends entirely on the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, 46
U. S. C. § 688, which incorporates the provisions of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, as amended,
45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60, and thereby reflects the principles
of negligence upon which the FELA is explicitly based.
The District Court granted exoneration to respondent
upon findings that the accident was not attributable to
negligence of any kind on its part, and in particular that
respondent was not negligent in carrying the kerosene
signal lantern, which ignited the fumes from the petroleum products on the surface of the river, at a height of
three feet in a part of the river which had never been
considered a danger area. Although the District Court
found that the accident was traceable in fact to respondent's violation of a Coast Guard regulation,. 33 CFR
§ 80.16 (h), which required a white light to be carried

TAKER

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

at a minimum height of eight feet above the water,' the
court held that this violation did not of itself give rise
to liability in negligence because the sole purpose of
the statute authorizing the regulation, 30 Stat. 102, as
amended, 33 U. S. C. § 157, was to guard against collisions
and not to prevent the type of accident which here
resulted.
This holding, as the Court seems to recognize, was in
accord with the familiar principle in the common law of
negligence that injuries resulting from violations of a
statutory duty do not give rise to liability unless of the
kind the statute was designed to prevent. Indeed that
principle, which is but an aspect of the general rule of
negligence law that injuries in order to be actionable must
be within the risk of harm which a defendant's conduct
has created, see Seavey, Principles of Torts, 56 Harv. L.
Rev. 72, 90-92 (1942), was established as long ago as
1874 by a leading English case, Gorris v. Scott, L. R. 9.
Ex. 125, and has been followed in this country almost
without exception. Restatement, Torts, § 286; Prosser,
Torts (2d ed. 1955), § 34; Lowndes, Civil Liability
Created by Criminal Legislation, 16 Minn. L. Rev. 361,,
372-377 (1932); cf. The Eugene F. Moran, 212 U. S. 466,
476 (under admiralty law).
1 This

finding *.must rest on the assumption of the District Court
that the regulation forbade respondent to carry any signal light at
a height of less than eight feet above the water. However, it is
questionable whether the regulation had the effect. of proscribing a
light at three feet, as well as requiring a light at a minimum height
of eight feet. That is, the violation of the regulation may have consisted solely in the absence of a light eight feet above the water, not
in the presence of a light.three feet above the water, in which case
the accident could not be attributed to violation of the regulation.
For the purpose of this opinion, I shall assume, as the District Court
necessarily concluded, that the violation of respondent consisted in
carrying the light at three feet and was thus the factual cause of the
accident.

KERNAN v.AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

443

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

The Court neither casts doubt on the District Court's
finding that respondent was not negligent in' carrying the tug's lantern at three feet above the water
surface nor disputes that the sole purpose-of the Coast
Guard regulation was to guard against the risk of collision, but it nevertheless decides that violation of the
regulation in and of itself rendered the respondent liable
for all injuries flowing from it. This holding is said
to follow from the decisions of this Court in a series of
FELA cases based on violations of the Safety Appliance
Act, 27 Stat. 531, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 1-16, and
the Boiler Inspection Act, 36 Stat. 913, as amended,
45 U. S. C. §§ 22-34. These decisions, as the Court here
properly states, have created under the FELA an absolute
liability-that is, a liability "without regard to Tiegligence"-for injuries resulting from violations of the other
Acts. From this, the Court concludes that there is no
reason not to extend this absolute liability to cases based
on the violation of a statutory duty which are brought
under the Jones Act.
'This conclusion I cannot share. A reading of the cases
relied upon by the Court demonstrates beyond dispute
that the reasons underlying those decisions have no application in the context of this Coast Guard regulation and
the Jones Act. It follows that liability can be impressed
on respondent only because of negligence, the theory upon
which the Jones Act is founded.
In the course of its development of an absolute liability
under the FELA for injuries traceable to violations of the
Safety Appliance Act or the Boiler Inspection Act, the
Court has faced two distinct problems. First, was it necessary for the plaintiff to show that the violation of either
of these safety statutes was due to negligence? The
answer has uniformly been "no." St. Louis, Iron Mountain & So. R. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.281; San Antonio &

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

A. P. R. Co. v. Wagner, 241 U. S. 476; Minneapolis & St.
L. R. Co. v. Gotschall, 244 U. S. 66 Southern R. Co. v.
Lunsford, 297 U. S. 398; Lilly v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 317
U. S. 481. Second, was the defendant's liability for the
injuries suffered limited to those within the character of
the risks which these statutes were designed to eliminate?
Except for St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Conarty, 238 U. S.
243, which stands alone and has never since been followed,
the answer here has also been "no." Louisville & N.
R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617; Davis v. Wolfe, 263
U. S. 239; Swinson v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. R. Co.,
294 U. S. 529; Brady v. Terminal Railroad Assn., 303
U. S. 10.
The rationale for these earlier cases is not entirely clear,
but after a good deal of uncertainty it finally became
established in 1948 and 1949 that-railway employees suffering injuries in consequence of a violation of safety
regulations found in or promulgated under either the
Safety Appliance Act or the Boiler Ihspection Act could
maintain an action under the FELA without reference to
the law of negligence. Urie v.. Thompson, 337 U. S. 163;
O'Donnell v. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co., 338 U. S. 384;Carter v. Atlanta & St. A. B. R. Co., 338 U. S. 430.
As a result of these cases, the scope of § 1 of the FELA,
35 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. § 51, has been enlarged by making compensable not only injuries "resulting in whole or in part from the negligence" of the carrier,
but also those resulting from violation of the two regulatory Acts, so that in effect these Acts give rise, through
the medium of the FELA, to a "non-negligence" (O'Donnell, supra, at 391) cause of action. Referring to the
nature of that kind of action this Court said in Carter,
supra.(at p. 434_) :
"Sometimes that violation [of the Safety Appliance
Act] is described as 'negligence per se' . . . ; but we

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

HARLAN,

445

J., dissenting.

have made clear in the O'Donnell case that that term
is a confusing label for what is simply a violation of
an absolute duty.
"Once the violation is established, only causal relation is in issue. And Congress has directed liability
if the injury resulted 'in whole or in part' from
defendant's negligence or its violation of the Safety
Appliance Act." (Italics added.)
These cases then certainly do not establish any broad
rule under the FELA that the term "negligence" as used
in that Act is not subject to the limiting doctrine of
Gorris v. Scott, supra, which the District Court applied.
Rather, they are based on a theory of liability wholly
divorced from negligence. And in fact, the Court today
invokes these decisions to support its conclusion that a
"non-negligence" action bssed on violation of this Coast
Guard regulation lies under the Jones Act. Its reasons
for this conclusion are that the Jones Act "incorporates
the provisions of the FELA" and "expressly provides for
seamen the cause of action-and consequently the entire
judicially developed doctrine of liability-granted to railroad workers by the FELA." The Court thus reads these
decisions to establish a doctrine under the FELA that
injuries following any violation of any statute, not simply
the Safety Appliance and Boiler Inspection Acts, are
actionable without any showing of negligence, and it is
this doctrine which, the Court argues, the Jones Act
absorbs.
So unjustifiably broad a view of the doctrine this Court
is said to have establishe4 disregards the basis upon which
these earlier decisions proceed. In brief, they concentrate and explicitly rest upon the peculiar relationship
between the Safety Appliance and the Boiler Inspection
Acts, on the one hand, and the FELA, on the other. - In
view of this relationship, the Court, recognizing that

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

355 U.S.

neither of these safety Acts gives rise to a private cause
of action of its own force, see, e. g., Urie v. Thompson,
supra, at p. 188, has read the FELA to provide the private
remedy to enforce the absolute'liability which the Court
considered the other Acts to establish. The Court's
opinion here makes no effort to 'show either that the
statute authorizing the Coast Guard regulation was
intended to give rise to an absolute liability for injuries
resulting from its violation or that the Jones Act, a
statute founded on negligence, was intended to be. the
medium of enforcement of such a liability.
In the cases involving the Safety Appliance and the
Boiler Inspection Acts, the Court has repeatedly emphasized that the manifest purpose of Congress was to -foster
through these particular Acts the safety of employees
and to make employees secure in their jobs, a purpose
partially evidenced by statements prefacing each of these
Acts as they were originally enacted: "An Act to promote the safety of employees and travelers upon railroads
by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate
commerce to . . ." follow the rules of each Act. 27 Stat.
531; 36 Stat. 913; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Williams,
242 U. S. 462, 466-467; Urie v. Thompson, supra, at
190-191. In keeping with this statement of purpose, twosections of the Safety Appliance Act expressly refer to
the civil liability of employers to injured employees by
abrogating the common-law defense of assumption of
risk and by preserving such civil liability over a particular
exception to the general liability for fines payable to the
United States which is imposed on carriers for violation
of the provisions of the Act. 27 Stat. 532, 45 U. S. C. § 7;
36 Stat. 299, 45 U. S. C. § 13.
Paralleling the provision of the Safety Appliance Act
referring to assumption of risk is § 4 of the FELA, 35
Stat. 66, as amended, 45 U. S. C. § 54, which abolishes

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

HARLAN,

447

J., dissenting.

the defense of assumption of risk not only with respect
to actions grounded on negligence but also "in any case
where the violation . . . of any statute enacted for the

safety of employees contributed to the injury or death
of" an employee. This quoted clause is included also
in § 3 of the Act, 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C. § 53, which
substitutes for the absolute common-law defense of contributory negligence what is in effect a rule of comparative negligence, but bars this defense completely in
actions based on the violation of such a statute. The
phrase "any statute enacted for the safety of employees"
of course refers to the Safety Appliance Act, Moore v.
Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 291 U. S. 205, 210, and to
the Boiler Inspection Act, Urie v. Thompson, supra, at
188-189. The use of this phrase in juxtaposition with
the term "negligence" in these sections confirms the
congressional purpose to accord special treatment to
employees injured by violations of these Acts.
These express indications of congressional intent to
impose strict liability for injuries traceable to violations
of these statutes underlay the holdings on which the
Court relies. The intimate relationship between the
Safety Appliance Act and the FELA was summed up by
the Court in San Antonio & A. P. R. Co. v. Wagner, supra,
in the following language (p. 484):
"If [.the Safety Appliance Act] is violated, the question of negligence in the general sense of want of care
is immaterial. .

.

. [T]he two statutes

[Safety

Appliance Act and the FELA] are in pari materia,
and where the IFELA] refers to 'any defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars, engines,
appliances,' etc., it clearly is the legislative intent
to treat a violation of the Safety Appliance Act as
'negligence'

. . .

."

(Italics in original.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

And in Urie v. Thompson, supra, the Court concluded
(p. 189):
"In this view the Safety Appliance Acts, together
with the Boiler Inspection Act, are substantively if
not in form amendments to the [FELA] ...
[They] cannot be regarded as statutes wholly separate from and independent of the [FELA]. They
are rather supplemental to it, having the purpose
and effect of facilitating employee recovery .... "
Finally, as noted above, the Court in Carter v. Atlanta &
St. A. B. R. Co., supra, at 434, observed that "Congress
has directed liability" under the FELA for injuries resulting from negligence or from violation of these Acts.
In short, I think it is evident that this Court's past
interpretation of the FELA to provide a cause of action
based on absolute liability for injuries traceable to violations of these two particularsafety statutes has rested
entirely on its view of congressional intent, and that
no general rule of absolute liability without regard to
negligence for injuries resulting from violation of any
statute can fairly be said to emerge from these decisions.
Despite the explanations in the past cases for creation
of this absolute liability, the Court now asserts that "the
nature of the Acts violated is not a controlling consideration." Indeed, it dQes not even appear to be a pertinent
consideration, for the opinion makes no effort to show
that a similar congressional intent to create absolute
liability in favor of seamen, or even to afford additional
rights to seamen, can be discerned either in the terms of
the statute authorizing this Coast Guard regulation or
in its relationship with the Jones Act. It is abundantly
clear from the face of the regulation, and its setting, that
its purpose was simply to prevent collisions, rather than
to guard against such unforeseeable occurrences as the

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

HARLAN,

449

J., dissenting.

explosion in this case.' This is confirmed by the tenor of
the section of the statute under which the regulation
issued:
"The Commandant of the United States Coast
Guard shall establish such rules to be observed on the
waters mentioned in the preceding section by steam
vessels in passing each other and as to the lights to
be carried on such waters by ferryboats and by vessels and craft bf all types when in tow of steam
vessels . . . as he from time to time may deem
necessary for safety .

. . .,

Moreover, although another section of the same statute
indicates that violation of this regulation does give rise
to an absolute liability on the part of the master or mate
2

The particular regulation violated

by respondent, 33 CFR

§ 80.16 (h), appears under Subchapter D of 33 CFR, which is
entitled ' "Navigation Requirements For Certain Inland Waters."
Section 80.16 itself bears the caption: "Lights for barges, canal boats,
scows and other nondescript vessels on certain inland waters on the
Atlantic and Pacific Coasts." Other sections under Subchapter D
regulate fog signals (§ 80.12), speed in fog (§ 80.13), and navigation
near bends and curves (§ 80.5). Section 80,16 (h) itself states that
a light shall be carried at a minimum height of eight feet above the
surface of the water ". . . and shall be so placed as to show an
unbroken light all around the horizon, and shall be of such a character- as to be visible on a dark night with a clear atmosphere at a
distance of at least 5 miles."
3 This section, 30 Stat. 102, as amended, 33 U. S. C.. § 157, appears
under Chapter 3 of Title 33, which bears the title: "Navigation
Rules for Harbors, Rivers, And Inland Waters Generally." Other
sections under Chapter 3 refer to sound signals (33 U. S. C. § 191),
speed in fog (33 U. S. C. § 192), and ascertainment of risk of collision
•(33 U. S. C. § 201). Section 157 was originally enacted as part of
the Act of June 7, 1897, and the clear purpose of that Act was simply
to effect a codification of all rules governing navigation on inland
waters so that they would conform in the highest possible degree to
prevailing international rules for the prevention of collisions at sea.
H. R. Doc. No. 42, 55th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

of the tug for damages suffered by passengers, that section
makes no reference to seamen's remedies and provides
generally that liability of the vessel or owner is not to
be affected by the statute.' Finally, there are no cross
provisions between this statute and the sections of the
FELA incorporated into the Jones Act comparable to
those found between the FELA, on the one hand, and
the Safety Appliance and Boiler Inspection Acts, on the
other. In short, unlike the situation as to those statutes,
one can look in vain for evidence of a congressional purpose to supplement the remedies for injuries due to negli4 30 Stat. 102, as amended, 33 IT. S. C. § 158, was also enacted as
part of the Act of June 7, 1897, note 3, supra. It provides in part
that: "Every pilot, engineer, mate, or master of any steam vessel . . . and every master or mate of any barge or canal boat, who
neglects or refuses to observe the provisions of . . .the regulations
established in pursuance of [§ 157, text at note 3, supra] ...
shall
be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars, and for all damages
sustained by any passenger in his person or baggage by such neglect
or refusal: Provided, That nothing herein shall relieve any vessel,
owner, or corporation from any liability incurred by reason of such
neglect or refusal." As originally drafted, preceding its enactment
in 1897, present § 15S read substantially as it does now, except that
it did not contain the last "Provided" clause. H. R. Doe. No. 42,
55th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 9. In the House debates concerning the
Act of 1897, discussion was directed in part to this section and the
question was raised whether its effect might be to impose liability
for injury to passengers exclusively upon officers of the vessels, who
might be financially irresponsible. 30 Cong. Rec. 1395. To end
these doubts, the section was amended prior to its enactment by
addition of the "Provided" clause. Representative Payne stated that
the amendment's purpose was to make clear that liability of the
vessel or owner of the vessel for damages would remain entirely
unaffected .by the section. 30 Cong. Rec. 1465. In other words, the
Act of 1897 was not intended either to define to any extent liability of
a vessel or its owner or to advance the remedies or broaden the rights
of seamen, but simply afforded passengers remedies against officers
personally liable because of breach of regulations.

KERNAN v. AMERICAN DREDGING CO.
426

HARLAN,

451

J., dissenting.

gence available to seamen under the Jones Act by a cause
of action based on absolute liability for damages suffered
in consequence of a violation of this Coast Guard regulation. In these circumstances, the argument that such a
cause of action arises because the Jones Act. "expressly
provides for seamen the cause of action . . .granted to
railroad workers by the FELA" seems to me an empty
one.
The premise of the Court that the FELA was intended
to leave to federal courts the duty of fashioning remedies
"to meet .. changing concepts of industry's duty
toward its workers" underlies today's holding. In carrying out this duty, the courts, as shown by this decision,
are not to consider themselves confined by doctrines
deeply ingrained in the common law of negligence upon
which the FELA was predicated but instead are to be
free to develop other theories of liability. Indeed, not
content with its particular conclusion that violation of a
statutory duty leads to absolute liability under the FELA
and the Jones Act, the Court goes on to say that "the
theory of the FELA is that where the employer's conduct
falls short of the high standard required of him by this
Act, and his fault, in whole or in part, causes injury,
liability ensues . . ..whether the fault is a violation of a
statutory duty or the more general duty of acting with
care ... " Thus the Court in effect reads out of the
FELA and the Jones Act the common-law concepts of
foreseeability and 'risk of harm which lie at the very core
of negligence liability, and treats these statutes as making
employers in this area virtual insurers of the safety of
their employees.
Whatever may be one's views of the adequacy of
"negligence" liability as the means of dealing with occupational hazards in these fields, Congress has not legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

lated in terms of absolute liability. "The basis of liability
under the Act is and remains negligence." Wilkerson v.
McCarthy, 336 U. S. 53, 69 (concurring opinion of
DOUGLAS,

J.).

And, except as expressly modified by Con-

gress, the term "negligence" as it appears in § 1 of the
FELA has always been taken to embody common-law
concepts. Thus in Urie v. Thompson, supra, one of the
principal cases on which the Court here relies, it was said
(at 174, 182):
"The section [§ 1 of the FELA] does not define
negligence, leaving that question to be determined . . . 'by the common law principles as established and applied in the federal courts.'...
"We recognize . . .that the Federal Employers'
Liability Act is founded on common-law concepts of
negligence and injury, subject to such qualifications
as Congress has imported into those terms."'
I cannot agree that Congress intended the federal courts
to roam at large in devising new bases of liability to
replace the liability for negligence which these Acts
imposed on employers.
I would affirm.

5The qualifications of course refer to those provisions of the FELA
not applicable to the facts of this case which modify or abrogate the
common-law defenses of contributory negligence, § 3, 35 Stat. 66,
45 U. S. C. § 53, and assumption of risk, § 4, 35 Stat. 66, as amended,
45 U. S. C. § 54.

