518

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

Property rights do not gain any absolute inviolability

in the bankruptcy court because created and protected
by state law.

protected.

Most property rights are so created and

But if Congress is acting within its bank-

ruptcy power, it may authorize the bankruptcy court to

affect these property rights, provided the limitations of
the due process clause are observed.
In so far as the judgments below struck from the schedules the 80.31-acre tract and refused to permit amendment to show the character of appellant's interest, they
are affirmed. As to the rest of the land in question, they

are reversed.
Affirmed in part; reversed in part.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration or 6decision of this case.
COLLINS Er AL. v. YOSEMITE PARK & CURRY CO.
APPEAL IROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 870.

Argued April 27, 28, 1938.-Decided May 31, 1938.

1. The United States, owning land set aside as a national park within
the boundaries of a State, may constitutionally accept from the
State a cession of jurisdiction over it. The jurisdiction ceded need
not be exclusive but may be limited by reservations of powers
in the State, such as the power to tax persons and their property
on the land included. Pp. 527, 530.
It is not essential to valid acquisition of jurisdiction by cession
from a State that the land involved shall be acquired by the
United States for one of the purposes specified in Clause 17,
§ 8, Art. I, of the Constitution. P. 528.
2. The territory embraced in the Yosemite National Park in California was acquired by the United States under the Treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo. Part of it, known as Yosemite Valley,
was granted to the State, in 1864, for park and recreational pur-

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK Co.
518

519

Syllabus.

poses, and was regranted to the United States by Act of the state
legislature in 1905, at a time when another statute (Cal. Stat.
1891, c. 181) purported to cede to the United States, over land
granteaI to it, jurisdiction for all purposes except the administration
of the criminal laws of the State and the service of civil process.
The other lands composing the Park have remained in the proprietorship of the United States since the time of the Treaty. By
Act of April 15, 1919, California granted exclusive jurisdiction
over the Park as a whole, saving certain rights, including the
right "to tax persons and corporations, their franchises and property" on the lands included; and this was accepted by the Act of
Congress of June 2, 1920. Held:
(1) That whatever the status of jurisdiction existing at the
time of their enactment, these. Acts of cession and acceptance,
of 1919 and 1920, are to be taken as declarations of the agreements, reached by the xespective sovereignties, State and Nation,
as to the future jurisdiction and rights of each in the entire
area of Yosemite National Park. P. 528.(2) Distinguished from the right to tax, the power to regulate
the sale and use of alcoholic beverages was not reserved by the
State, and such regulations are not enforceable in the Park.
P. 530.
(3) The reservation of the right to tax is to be construed without employing the rule of strict construction applied to grants
limiting a state's taxing power. P. 432.
(4) This reservation does not authorize the Stae to exact, for
the sale or importation of alcoholic beverages M tne Park, the
fees for licenses whieh are provided by § 5 of the C4lifornia
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, those provisions being regulatory.
in character. P. 533.
This is not a case where provisions requiring a license may be
treated as separable from regulations applicable to those licensed.
Here the regulatory provisions appear in the form of conditions
to be satisfied before a license- may be granted.
(5) The reservation, however, does authorize the State to tax
sales in the Park, under §§ 23 and 24 of the Act cited. P. 534.
3. A corporation operating hotels, camps and stores in the Yosemite
National Park, under a contract with the Secretary of the Interior
obliging it to pay over to him a portion of its excess profits, imported beer, wine and spirits from places outside of Calftrnia
and retailed them to customers in the Park at prices approved by
the Secretary. The California Alcoholic Beverage Control Act

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

304 U.S.

imposes a tax per unit sold upon beer and wine sold "in this
State" by an importer, and upon distilled spirits sold "in this
State" by a rectifier or wholesaler thereof. It defines tho term
"in this State" as embracing all territory within the geogri0phical
limits of the State. Held:
(1) That the company is taxable on its sales. P. 534.
These tax provisions are separable from the licensing and regu-.
latory provisions of the Act.
Although the company does not import beverages into California
within the meaning of the Twenty-First Amendment, for the
purposes of the Act it is an importer making sales "within
this State."
There is nothing in the Act restricting these taxirg provisions
to sales made by or to persons licensed under the Act.
Although the company is neither a manufacturer nor a rectifier, the tax on its sales of distilled spirits is sustainable under
a provision (§ 33) that "in exceptional instances" the state enforcing agency may sell stamps, evidencing payment of tax, "to
on- and off-sale distilled spirits licensees and other personm."
(2) Objection that collection of the taxes may interfere with
an agency of the United States and may be taken in part p'rom
the United States, because of its interest in the profits from the
contract, is answered by the fact that the United States, by its
acceptance of qualified jurisdiction over the Park, has consented
to such taxation. P. 536.
4. The Twenty-First Amendment did not confer upon a State
the power to regulate the importation of intoxicating liquors into
territory over which it has ceded to the United States exclusive
jurisdiction. P. 536.
20 F. Supp. 1009, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three
judges, which permanently enjoined the appellants, members of the Board of Equalization of California and the
state Attorney General, from enforcing the California
Beverage Control Act against the appellee, with respect
to sales of intoxicating liquors in the Yosemite National
Park.

Mr. Seibert L. Sefton, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellants.

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James S. Moore, Jr., with whom Messrs. Herman
Phleger, Maurice E. Harrison, and Gregory A. Harrison
were on the brief, for appellee.
Solicitor General Jackson filed a memorandum on behalf of the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellee, the Yosemite Park and Curry Co., brought
this suit to enjoin the State Board of Equalization and
the State Attorney General from enforcing the "Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act" of the State of California,1 within
the limits of Yosemite National Park. Appellee is engaged in operating, within the Park, hotels, camps, and
stores, under a contract with the Secretary of the Interior,
leasing portions of the Park to appellee for a 20-year
term. The contract, expressly intended to implement
the Congressional desire to make the Park a resort and
playground for the benefit of the public, places upon appellee the duty of furnishing visitors with sundry facilities and accommodations. If it pays dividends in excess
of 6% on its investment it must pay to the Secretary of
the Interior a sum equal to 25% of the excess during the
first ten years, and 221/2% of any excess over 6%
earned during the second ten years. Appellee sells liquors, beer and wine to Park visitors for prices approved
by the Secretary of the Interior. In the ordinary course
of business, it imports from places outside of California
beer, wine, and distilled spirits, which it stores and sells
within the Park.
According to the allegations of appellee's bill, appellants (defendants below) assert that the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act applies within the Park and that appellee
is obligated to apply for permits for importation and
1

Cal. Stat. 1935, c. 330, as amended, Cal. Stat. 1937, c. 681, 758.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

sale; that appellee is subject to provisions of the Act prohibiting the issuance of importer's licenses to persons
holding on-sale retail licenses, and vice versa; that appellee must pay fees and taxes imposed by the Act or be
subject to penalties. Allegation was made that appellants threaten to seize beverages on or being transported
to appellee's premises, demand rendition of reports and
keeping of accounts, and threaten to institute civil and
criminal proceedings against appellee for violation of the
Act. On the other hand, appellee's allegations continue,
the Secretary of the Interior, under the contract of lease,
has approved prices making no allowance for taxes, and
has instructed appellee to apply for no license and to pay
no tax under the California Act, and that payment of
such license fees or taxes will not be allowed as an
operating expense under the contract.
Appellee brought this suit to restrain enforcement of
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act within Yosemite
Park, on the theory that the Park is within the exclu-'
sive jurisdiction of the United States. The suit being one
to restrain the enforcement of a state statute as applied
to a specific situation, a three-judge court was convened
under § 266 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 380.
The case was heard below upon motion to dismiss the
complaint. The District Court denied this motion. It
granted a temporary injunction, 20 F. Supp. 1009, and
later granted the final injunction prayed for by the complaint, restraining appellants (a) from entering upon
appellee's preniises, examining its records, seizing its beverages, or interfering with its importation and sales of
beverage within the Park; (b) from interfering with
shipments to appellee from outside the State; (c) from
instituting any actions based on alleged violations of the
Act with respect to the importation, possession, or sale of
liquors; (d) from requiring reports thereon; (e) from
enforcing the Act as to transactions within the Park.

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court, after noting that Yosemite National Park consists of Yosemite Valley and considerable
surrounding territory, first discussed what it conceived to
be the situation in the Valley.2 It reviewed the history
of the land: The United States acquired it in 1848 under
the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,' reserved proprietary
rights when California became a State in 1850,' and on
June 30, 1864, gave 'the Valley to California in trust for
public park and recreational purposes.5
The District Court held that exclusive jurisdiction
over the land was acquired again by the United States
by virtue of the joint operation of three statutes: an
1891 California law ceding to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over such land as might be ceded
to it;6 a 1905 California statute re-ceding the Valley to
the United States;' and the Act of June 11, 1906,
The discussion applies equally to the Mariposa Big Tree Grove.
a9 Stat. 922.
'9 Stat. 452.
' 13 Stat. 325.
"Section 1. The State of California hereby cedes to the United
States of America exclusive jurisdiction over such piece or parcel of
land as may have been or may be hereafter ceded or conveyed to the
United States, during the time the United States shall be or remain
the owner thereof, for all purposes except the administration of the
criminal laws of this State and the service of civil process therein."
Cal. Stat. 1891, c. 181.
"'An act to recede and regrant unto the United States of America,
the 'Yosemite Valley,' and the land embracing the 'Mariposa Big
Tree Grove."'
"Section 1. The State of California does hereby recede and regraut
unto the United States of America, the 'Cleft' or 'Gorge' in the granite
peak of the Sierra Nevada mountains, situated in the county of
Mariposa, State of California, and the headwaters of the Merced
river, and known as the Yosemite Valley, with its branches or spurs,
granted unto the State of California in trust for public use, resort and
recreation by the act of congress entitled 'An act authorizing a grant
to the State of California of the Yosemite Valley and of the land em.bracing the 'Mariposa Big Tree Grove,' approved June 30th, 1864; and

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

whereby Congress accepted the regrant and constituted
8
the Valley a part of the Yosemite National Park. It
further held, over appellants' objection, that there was
no constitutional obstacle to the acquisition by the
United States of exclusive jurisdiction over land ceded
to it for national park purposes. Jurisdiction over the
the State of California does hereby relinquish unto the United States
of America and resign the trusts created and granted by the said act
of congress.
"Sec. 3. This act shall take effect from and after acceptance by the
United States of America of the recessions and regrants herein made,
thereby forever releasing the State of California from further cost of
maintaining the said premises, the same to be held for all time by
the United States of America for public use, resort and recreation,
and imposing on the United States of America the cost of maintaining
the same as a national park. Provided, however, that the recession
and regrant hereby made shall not affect vested rights and interests
of third persons." Cal. Stat. 1905, c. 60.
"'Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the recession
and regranting unto the United States by the State of California of
the cleft or gorge in the granite peak of the Sierra Nevada Mountains,
situated in the county of Mariposa, State of California, and the headwatcrs of the Merced River, and known as the Yosemite Valley, with
its branches or spurs, granted unto the State of California in trust
for public use, resort, and recreation by the Act of Congress entitled
'An Act authorizing a grant to the State of California of the Yosemite
Valley and of the land embracing the Mariposa Big Tree Grove,'
approved June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-four (Thirteenth
Statutes, page three hundred and twenty-five), as well as the tracts
embracing what is known as the 'Mariposa Big Tree Grove,' likewise
granted unto the State of California by the aforesaid Act of Congress,
is hereby ratffied and accepted, and the tracts of lands embracing the
Yosemite Valley and the Mariposa Big Tree Grove, as described in
the Act of Congress approved June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and
sixty-four, together with that part of fractional sections five and six,
township five south, range twenty-two east, Mount Diablo meridian,
California, lying south of the South Fork of Merced River and almost
wholly between thc Mariposa Big Tree Grove and the present south
boundary of the Yosemite National Park, be, and the same are hereby,

COLLTNS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

Opinion of the Court.

rest of the Park, it concluded, was in the State until
April 15, 1919, when it was offered to the National Government (which had always retained the proprietary interest) in a statute saving to the State, inter alia, "the
right to tax persons and corporations, their franchises
and property on the lands included in said parks."9 Jureserved and withdrawn from settlement, occupancy, or sale under
the laws of the United States and set apart as reserved forest lands,
subject to all the limitations, conditions, and provisions of the Act of
Congress approved October first, eighteen hundred and ninety, entitled
'An Act to set apart certain tracts of land in the State of California
as forest reservations,' as well a the limitations, conditions, and
provisions of the Act of Congress approved February seventh, nineteen hundred and five, entitled 'An Act to exclude from the Yosemite
National Park, California, certain lands therein described, and to
attach and include the said lands in the Sierra Forest Reserve,' and
shall hereafter form a part of the Yosemite National Park." 34
Stat. 831.
"'An'Act to cede to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over
Yosemite national park, Sequoia national park, and General Grant
national park in the State of California.
"Section 1. Exclusive jurisdiction shall be and the same is hereby
ceded to the United States over and within all of the territory which
is now or may hereafter be included in those several tracts of land
in the State of California set aside and dedicated for park purposes
by the United States as 'Yosemite national park,' 'Sequoia national
park,' and 'General Grant national park' respectively; saving, however, to the State of California the right to serve civil or criminal
process within the limits of the aforesaid parks in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred or
crimes committed in said state outside of said parks; and saving
further, to the said state the right to tax persons and corporations,
their franchises and property on the lands included in said parks; and
the right to fix and collect license fees for fishing in said parks; and
saving also to the persons residing in any of said parks now or hereafter the right to vote at all elections held within the county or
counties in which said parks are situate; provided, however, that
jurisdiction shall not vest until the United States through the proper
offiCer notifies the State of California that they assume police jurisdiction over said parks." Cal. Stat. 1919, c. 51.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

risdiction of the Park was assumed by the United States
by Act of June 2, 1920, which referred vo the state act,
including its reservation of a power to tax." The District Court held this reservation inapplicable, on the
ground that the Alcoholic Beverage Act is chiefly regulatory in nature rather than a revenue measure. Concluding that the United States had exclusive jurisdiction
over the land in question, the District Court enjoined the
enforcement of the state Act.
From this final decree of injunction, a direct appeal
to this Court was taken under §§ 238 and 266 of the
Judicial Code. Several questions were argued on the
appeal. At this point, reference may be confined to
appellants' contention that the United States has no
1041

Stat. 731, 16 U. S. C. § 57.

"Be it enacted by the Senate and Houe of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the provisions
of the act of the Legislature of the State of California (approved
April 15, 1919), ceding to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over
the territory embraced and included within the Yosemite National
Park, Sequoia National Park, and General Grant National Park,
respectively, are hereby accepted and sole and exclusive jurisdiction
is hereby assumed by the United States over such territory, saving,
however, to the said State of California the right to serve civil or
criminal process within the limits of the aforesaid, parks or either of
them in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired,
obligations incurred, or crimes committed in said State outside of said
parks; and saving further to the said State the right to tax persons
and corporations, their franchises and property on the lands included
in said parks, and the right to fix and collect license fees for fishing
in said parks; and saving also to the persons residing in any of said
parks now or hereafter the right to vote at all elections held within
the county or counties in which said parks are situated. All the laws
applicable to places under sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States shall have force and effect in said parks or either of
them. All fugitives from justice taking refuge in said parks, or
either of them, shall be subject to the same laws as refugees from
justice found in the Stfr of California."

518

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARIK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

527

power under the Constitution to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over land ceded to it by a State for national park
purposes. Pursuant to the Act of August 24, 1937, the
Court certified to the Attorney General that in this cause
was drawn in question the constitutionality of the Acts
of June 11, 1906, 34 Stat. 831, and June 2, 1920, 41 Stat.
731, accepting exclusive jurisdiction over the areas which
embrace the Yosemite National Park. The United
States, regarding appellee's argument as adequate, determined that it was not necessary to intervene.
Exclusive jurisdiction. By the Act of March 3, 1905,
see note 7, California ceded and granted the United
States title to the "Cleft" or "Gorge," known as Yosemite Valley and the Mariposa Big Tree Grove. As the
Act of March 31, 1891, was then in force, see note 6,
exclusive jurisdiction, with the exception of right to administer criminal laws and serve civil process, passed
to the United States, on its acceptance, unless the United
States was without constitutional power to exercise it.
By the Act of June 11, 1906, see note 8, the ,Congress
accepted the cession and made the lands conveyed a part
of the Yosemite National Park. The other lands composing the Park had been in the proprietorship, of the
national government since cession by Mexico. Exclusive
jurisdiction of them passed from the United States to
California by the admittance of that State to the Union.
Except for certain rights expressly reserved, exclusive
jurisdiction of these lands was granted to the United
States by the Act of April 15, 1919, see note 9, and accepted by the Congress on June 2, 1920, see note 10. As
this Act granted exclusive jurisdiction over all "territory which is now or may hereafter be . . . included
in . . . Yosemite National Park," the language of
the cession and acceptance is apt to determine exclusive
jurisdiction, with the explicit reservations, of the Gorge
also.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Whatever the existing status 'of jurisdiction at the time
of their enactment, the Acts of cession and acceptance of
1919 and 1920 are to be taken as declarations of the
agreements, reached by the respective sovereignties, State
and Nation, as to the future jurisdiction and rights of
each in the entire area of Yosemite National Park. As
jurisdiction over the Gorge was created by one set of
statutes and that over the rest of the Park by differenb
legislation, this adjustment was desirable. The States of
the Union and the National Government may make
mutually satisfactory arrangements as to jurisdiction of
territory within their borders and thus in a most effective
way, co6peratively adjust problems flowing from our dual
system of government." Jurisdiction obtained by consent
or cession may be qualified by agreement or through offer
2
and acceptance or ratification. It is a matter of arrangement. These arrangements the courts will recognize and
respect.
The State urges the constitutional inability of the National Government to accept exclusive jurisdiction of any
land for purposes other than those specified in Clause 17,
§ 8, Article I of the Constitution." This clause has not
been strictly construed. This Court at this term has
given full consideration to the constitutional power of
Cf. Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525, 541; Hinderlider v. LaPlataRiver & Cherry Creek Ditch Co., ante, pp. 92, 104.
"James v. Dravo ContractingCo., 302 U. S.134, 146; Silas Mason
Co. v. Tax Commission, 302 U. S. 186, 203; Fort Leavenworth R. Co.
v. Lowe, supra; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 647, 651.

,""To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over
such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of
particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat
of the-Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority
over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the
State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines,
Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings;..

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

518

the United States to acquire land under Clause 17 without taking exclusive jurisdiction.1' In that case, it was

said: "Clause 17 contains no express stipulation that the
consent of the State must be without reservations. We
think that such a stipulation should not be implied. We
are unable to reconcile such an implication with the freedom of the State and its admitted authority to refuse or
qualify cessions of jurisdiction when purchases have been
made without consent or property has been acquired by
condemnation." The clause is not the sole authority for
the acquisition of jurisdiction. There is no question
about the power of the United States to exercise jurisdiction secured by cession, though this is not provided for
by Clause 17."5 And it has been held that such a cession
may be qualified.16 It has never been necessary, heretofore, for this Court to determine whether or not 'the
United States has the constitutional right to exercise jurisdiction over territory, within the geographical limits of a
State, acquired for purposes other than those specified in
Clause 17. It was raised but not decided in Arlington
Hotel v. Fant,278 U. S. 439, 454. It was assumed without discussion in Yellowstone Park Transportation Co.
v. Gallatin County, 31 F. 2d 644.1
On account of the regulatory phases of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act of California, it is necessary to determine that question here. The United States has large
bodies of public lands. These properties are used for
,James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, 148.
'Fort LeavenwOrth R. Co. v. Lowe, supra; Chicago, R. 1. & P: Ry.
Co. v. McGlinn, 114 U. S. 542; Benson v. United States, 146 U. S. 325;
Arlington Hotel Co. v. Fant, 278 U. S. 439; United States v. Unzeuta,
281 U. S. 138; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 647; Standard
017 Co. v. California,291 U. S. 242; Yellowstone Park Transportation
Co. v. Gallatin County, 31 F. 2d 644.
'Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, supra.
"Cf. Rainier Nat. Park Co. v. Martin, 18 F. Supp. 481.
81 638'-38---.84

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

forests, parks, ranges, wild life sanctuaries, flood control,
and other purposes which are not covered by Clause 17.
In Silas Mason Co. v. Tax Commission of Washington,
302 U. S. 186, we upheld in accordance with the arrangements of the State and National Governments the right
of the United States to acquire private property for use
in "the reclamation of arid and semiarid lands" and to
hold its purchases subject to state jurisdiction. In other
instances, it may be deemed important or desirable by
the National Government and the State Government in
which the particular property is located that exclusive
juridiction be vested in the United States by cession or
conIent. No question is raised as to the authority to
acquire land or provide for national parks. As the National Government may, "by virtue of its sovereignty"
acquire lands within the borders of states by eminent
domain and without their consent, 8 the respective sovereignties should be in a position to adjust their jurisdictions. There is no constitutional objection to such an
adjustment of rights. It follows that jurisdiction less
than exclusive may be granted the United States. The
jurisdiction over the Yosemite National Park is exclusively in the- United States except as reserved to California,, e. g., right to tax, by the Act' of April 15, 1919.
As there is no reservation of the right to control the sale
or use of alcoholic beverages, such regulatory. provisions
as are found in the Act under consideration are unenforceable in the Park.
Interpretation of Reservations. The lower court, in
interpreting the language of the Acts of grant and acceptance was of the opinion that the saving of "the right
to tax persons and corporations, their franchises and
property" was not sufficiently broad to justify the collecJames v. Dravo Contracting Co., aupra, 147; Kohl v. United
States, 91 U. S. 367, 371, 372.

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.

531

Opinion of the Court.

tion of fees for licenses under § 5 and sales under §§ 23
and 24 of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. 1 ' The
retention of the right to charge license fees for fishing
,"Sec. 5. The following are the types of licenses to be issued under
this act and the annual fees to be charged therefor.
$750. 00 per year
1. Beer manufacturer's license-------------------------2. Wine manufacturer's license (to be computed only on the
20. 00 per year
gallonage manufactured) five thousand gallons or less.
Over five thousand gallons to twenty thousand gallons per
40. 00 per year
. year -------------------------------------------Over twenty thousand to one hundred thousand gallons
75. 00 per year
per year
- ------------Over one hundred thousand to two hundred thousand
100. 00 per year
gallons per year --------------------------------Over two hundred thousand gallons to one million gallons
150. 00 per year
a year-----------------------------------------For each million gallons or fraction thereof over a million
100. 00 per year
gallons an additional -----------------------------250. 00 per year
8. Distilled spirits manufacturer's license ---------------10. 00 per year.
4. Still license --------------------------------------per still
250. 00 per year
5. Rectifier's license ----------------------------------150. 00 per year
6. Brandy manufacturer's license ----------------------no fee
7. Distilled spirits importer's license--------------------no fee
S. Wine importer's license -----------------------------no fee
9. Beer importer's license ------------------------------10. 00 per year
10. Public warehouse license---------------------------10. 00 per year
11. Wine bottling or packaging license--------------------500. 00 per year
12. Beer bottling or packaging license-------------------250. 00 per year
13. Distilled spirits wholesnler's license ------------------50. 00 per year
14. Beer and wine wholesaler's license--------------------250. 00 per year
15. Broker's license -----------------------------------10. 00 per year
16. Retail package off-sale beer and wine license -----------17. Retallpackage off-sale distilled spirits license for the first
100. 00 per year
$10,000 retail sales per year ----------------------For each $1,000 retail sales or fraction thereof over
10. 00 per year
$10,000 per year---------------------------------50. 00 per year
18. Industrial alcohol dealer's license--------------------25. 00 per year
19. On-sale beer license --------------------------------75. 00 per year
20. On-sale beer and wine license -----------------------15. 00 per year
21. On-sale beer and wine license for trains (per train) ....
50. 00 per year
22. On-sale beer and wine license for boats (per boat) -----As set by the board
23. On-sale distilled spirits license---------------------250. 00 per year"
24. Distilled spirits manufacturer's agents license ----------

"Sec. 23. An excise tax is hereby imposed upon all beer and wine
sold in this State by a manufacturer or importer, except as otherwise
in this act provided, at the following rates:
"(a) On all beer, sixty-two cents for every barrel containing thirtyone gallonl;, and at a proportionate rate for any other quantity;
"(b) On all natural dry wines one cent per wine gallon and at a
proportionate rate for any other quantity; (c) on all other Still wines
two cents per wine gallon and at a proportionate rate for any other

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U.S.

was considered an indication of abandonment of the right
to enforce any other license fees; and finally, the regulatory character of the California enactment was deemed
to"mark it as non-enforceable under the reservation of
the right to tax.
As the respective acts of State and Nation were in the
nature of a mutual declaration of rights, this is not an
occasion for strict construction of a grant by a State
limiting its taxing power. Without employing that rule,
we are of the opinion that this language is sufficiently
broad to cover excises on sales, 20 but not the license fees
quantity; (d) on champagne, sparkling wine, except sparkling hard
cider, whether naturally or artificially carbonated one and one-half
cents per half pint or fraction thereof, three cents per pint or fraction thereof greater than one-half pint, six cents per quart or fraction
thereof greater than one pint; (e) on sparkling hard cider two cents
per wine gallon and at a proportionate rate for any other quantity."
Statutes 1937, ch. 758; operative July 1, 1937.
"See. 24. An excise tax is hereby imposed upon all distilled spirits
sold in this State by rectifiers or wholesalers thereof, at the following
rates:
"On all distilled spirits of proof strength or less, two cents on each
bottle containing two ounces or fraction thereof; five cents on each
bottle containing eight ounces or fraction thereof greater than two
ounces; ten cents on each bottle containing one pint or fraction thereof greater than a half-pint; sixteen cents on each bottle containing
one-fifth gallon or fraction thereof greater than one pint; twenty cents

on each bottle containing one quart or fraction thereof greater than
one-fifth gallon; forty cents on each bottle containing one-half gallon
or fraction thereof, greater than one quart; eighty cents on each
bottle containing one gallon or fraction thereof greater than one-half
gallon, and at a proportionate rate for any quantity.
"All distilled spirits in excess of proof strength shall be taxed at
double.the above rate." Statutes 1937, ch. 758; operative July 1,
1937.
"Mid-Northern Oil Co. v. Walker, 268 U. S. 45, 49; Rainier Nat.

Park Co. v. Martin, 18 F. Supp. 481, 486, affirmed, 302 U. S.661, on
the authority of the Walker case.
' In this view we need not consider appellants' argument that the
Constitution of California forbids the release of the taxing power.

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

Opinion of the Court.

provided for by this Act. The fact that the.."right to fix
and collect license fees for fishing in said parks' was
reserved, is not decisive. It may well be that the negotiators of the agreement considered such licenses regulatory in nature and therefore requiring express exception
from the agreement for exclusive jurisdiction, in addition
to the tax exception.
(a) Licenses. As the State of California has in the
area of the Yosemite National 2ark only the jurisdiction
saved under the cession and acceptance acts of 1919 and
1920, it does not have the power to regulate the liquor
traffic in the Park. Except as to this reserved jurisdiction, California "put that area beyond the field of operation of her laws." 21 While the State has, under its reservation, the right to use means to force collection of the
taxes saved,' it seems clear that the licenses required by
§ 5 go beyond aids to the collection of taxes and are truly
regulatory in character. This is not a case where provisions requiring a license may be treated as separable
from regulations applicable to those licensed. 2' Here the
regulatory provisions appear in the form of conditions to
be satisfied before a license may be granted." The pro'Standard Oil Co. v. California, 291 U. S. 242..
"Rainier National Park v. Martin, 18 F. Supp. 481, 488.
Cf. Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities & Exchange Comm'n,
303 U. S. 419.
"Art. XX, § 22, of the California' Constitution provides that the
State Board of Equalization "shall have the power, in its discretion,
to deny or revoke any specific liquor license if it shall determine for
good cause that the granting or continuance of such license would
be contrary to public welfare or morals."
The Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, Cal. Stat. 1935, 6. 330, as
amended Stat. 1937, c. 681, a. 758, contains, inter alia, provisions that
no person may perform acts authorized by a license, unless licensed
(§ 3) ; that an importer's license may be issued only to the holder of a
manufacturer's, rectifier's, or wholesaler's license, § 6 (d); that appli-

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

visions requiring licenses for the importation or sale of
alcoholic beverages in the Park are invalid.
(b) Excise Taxes. A different conclusion obtains,
however, with respect to the excise tax provisions of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, laying a tax, at a specified rate per unit sold, on beer, wine, and distilled spirits
sold "in this State." The Park Company, seeking. to
bring the excise provisions of the Act within the principle stated above with respect to the license fee provisions, contends that, notwithstanding the separability
clause,"5 the taxing features cannot be separated from
the regulatory features, and that "the Act does not even
purport to tax persons not subject to licensing requirements." Thus the argument is made that § 23 imposes
an excise tax on beer and wine sold by an importer, and
applies not to the Company, which sells beverages direct
to consumers, but only to importers licensed under the
Act, and restricted by their license to sales to retail
licensees.
cation of a required type be filed for a license (§ 10); that no on-sale
distilled spirits license shall be issuecl to. any applicant who is not a
citizen of the United States (§ 12); that no distilled spirits license may
be issued to any person or agent of any person who manufactures
distilled spirits within or without the State (§ 20%); that retail
licenses may not be granted for premises in certain locations (§§ 1317); that no retail on-sale or off-sale licensee shall purchase alcoholic
beverages for resale from any person except a person holding a beer,
or wine, manufacturer's, a rectifier's or a wholesaler's license issued
under this act (§ 6.6).
"'See. 70. If any section, subsection, clause, sentence or phrase of
this act which is reasonably separable from the remaining portion of
this act is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, sUch decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this act. The Legislature
hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining portions of
this act irrespective of the fact that any such section, subsection,
clause, sentence or phrase of this act be declared unconstitutional."

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

535

Opinion of the Court.

Neither party cites any pertinent state court decision.
There is nothing in the statute itself compelling the conclusion that the excise tax and regulatory provisions are
inseparable, or requiring the Court to overturn the presumptively correct determinatidn of the administrative
officers that the sales within the Park are subject to the
excise tax. Section 23 provides that an excise tax is imposed upon beer and wine sold "in this State by [an]
. . . importer." Reference to provisions of the Act.
defining the terms used in this section 28 makes it plain
that although appellee Company does not import beverages into California within the meaning of the TwentyFirst Amendment, it is an importer for purposes of the
Act, and, as such, is subject to the tax. The Act is restricted to sales "in this State," but that term embraces
all territory within the geographical limits of the State."7
There is nothing in the Act restricting this taxing provision to sales made by or to persons licensed under the
Act. Sec. 23 clearly applies to beer and wine sold by
appellee Company in the Park, and it applies to such
sales regardless of the applicability vel non of the regulatory or licensing provisions of the Act.
Section 24 imposes an excise tax upon all distilled
spirits "sold i.i this State by rectifiers or wholesalers."
Appellee Company does not come within the statutory
Sec. 2 (k): "'Importer' means any consignee of alcoholic beverages brought into this State from without this State when such alcoholic beverages are for delivery or use within this State, . . ." Sec.
2 (w): "'Within this State' means all territory 'within the boundaries

of this State."

Sec. 2 (w): "'Without the State' means all territory

without the boundaries of the State."
'See supra, note 26. See boundary of State of California as defined in Cal. Const., Art. XXI, § 1.
Compare Rainier Nat. Park Co. v. Martin, 18 F. Supp. 481, 486
(W. D. Wash.), affirmed 302 U. S. 661.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

definition of either of these groups2

but § 24 must be

read in conjunction with § 33. Sec. 33 provides that the
"tax imposed by § 24 of this act upon the sale of distilled
spirits shall be collected from rectifiers and wholesalers
of distilled spirits and payment of the tax shall be evidenced by stamps issued by the board to such rectifiers
and wholesalers," and continues with the provision that
"in exceptional instances the board may sell such stamps
to on- and off-sale distilled spirits licensees, and other
persons." (Italics added.) In view of the atypical circumstances -of the present case, we cannot consider erroneous an interpretation by the board that stamps, to be
affixed to the liquor containers, might be issued and sold
to appellee Company. These provisions, like § 23, are
independent of any licensing or regulatory provisions of
the Act, and may be enforced independently, as a purely
tax or revenue measure.
The objection that collection of the taxes may not only
interfere with an agency of the United States but may
be actually partly collected from the National Government because of its. interest in the' profits under the
contract is fully answered by the fact that the United
States, by its acceptance of qualified jurisdiction, has con29
sented to such a tax.
XXI.Amendment. The State makes the point that § 2
of the XXI Amendment 80 gives it the right to regulate
Sec. 2 (j) "'Rectifier' means every person who colors, flavors, or
otherwise processes distilled *spirits by distillation, blending, percolating -or other processes."
(s) "'Wholesaler' meang and includes every person other than a
manufacturer or rectifier who is engaged in business as a jobber or
wholesale merchant, dealing in alcoholic beverages."
Rainier Nat. Park Co. v. Martin, 302 U. S. 661; cf. Baltimore
Nat. Bank v. State Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 209.
o"Sec. 2, The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of
intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereef, is hereby
prohibited."

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

537

Opinion of the Court.

the importation of intoxicating liquors. Reliance for enforcement is placed upon §§ 49 and 49.2 of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act." The argument for this claim is
bottomed upon our decision in State Board of Equaliza-

tion v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S.59, where we held
that a statute imposing a $500 license fee for importing
and a $750 license fee for brewing beer did not violate
I"Sec. 49. Alcoholic beverages shall be brought into this State from
without this State for delivery or use within the State only when
such alcoholic beverages are consigned to a licensed, importer and
only when consigned to the premises of such licensed importer or to
the premises of a public warehouse licensed uiider this act. Alcoholic
beverages which are consigned to a destination within this State shall
be presumed to be for delivery or use within this State. Alcoholic
beverages imported into this State contrary to the. irovisions hereof
shall be seized by the board. Every .person violitfg the provisions.
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor." Stitutes 1937, ch.
758; operative July 1, 1937.
"Sec. 492. Common or private carriers transporting alcoholic beverages into this State from without the State for delivery or use
within this State must obtain the receipt of the licensed importer,
distilled spirits manufacturer or distilled spirits manufacturer's agent
for the alcoholic beverages so transported and delivered and, if the
consignee refuses to give such receipt*and show his license to the carrier, the carrier shall be relieved of all responsibility for delivering
said alcoholic beverages. Where the consignee is not a licensed imlorter, distilled spirits manufacturer or distilled spirits manufacturer's
agent or where the consignee refuses to give his receipt and show his
license the carrier shall immediately notify the board at Sacramento
giving full details as to the character of shipment, point of origin,
destination and address of the consignor and consignee, and within
ten days such alcoholic beverages shall be delivered to the board and
shall be forfeited to the State of California. If any alcoholic beverages
seized under the preceding section or forfeited under this section are
sold by or under the direction of the board the common carrier's unpaid freight and storage charges accruing on the shipments of such
alcoholic beverages shall be satisfied out of the proceeds of any sale
made by the State after deducting the cost of such sale and any excise
taxes accruing thereon. Every person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor." Statutes 1937, ch. 758;
operative July 1, 1937.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the commerce clause or the equal protection clause, because the words of the XXI Amendment "are apt to confer upon the State the power to forbid all importations"
and "the State may adopt a lesser degree of regulation
than total prohibition" (pp. 62, 63)." 2 The lower court
was of the opinion that though the Amendment may
have increased "the state's power to deal with the problem . . . , it did not increase its jurisdiction." With this
conclusion, we agree. As territorial jurisdiction over the
Park was in the United States, the State could not legislate for the area merely on account of the XXI Amendment."3 There was no transportation into California "for
delivery or use therein." The delivery and use is in the
Park, and under a distinct sovereignty. Where exclusive
jurisdiction is in the United States, without power in the
State to regulate alcoholic beverages, the XXI Amendment is not applicable."4
Conclusion. The bill of complaint states that the defendants, the state officials, "assert that said Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act of the State of California applies
to complainant's operations within said Yosemite National Park;

.

. . that it is obligated to pay the fees and

taxes imposed by said Act and is subject to the penalties
thereof for the possession and sale of' said beverages
without compliance with the provisions of said Act." In
the prayer of the bill, the complainant prays for an injunction restraining the defendants "from enforcing in
any manner within the Uniits of Yosemite National Park,
or in respect of transactions within said Park, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act of the State of California."
The conclusions have been reiterated in Mahoney v. Joseph Triner
Corp., ante, p. 401.
"Standard Oil Co. v. California,291 U. S. 242.
" Compare Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Chiles, 214 U. S. 274;
Yellowstone Park Transportation Co. v. Gallatin County, 31 F. 2d
644.

COLLINS v. YOSEMITE PARK CO.
518

539

Opinion of the Court..

The final decree forbids entering upon the premises of
complainant; seizing, impeding or interfering with any
shipments to complainant in Yosemite National Park;
from instituting any actions or proceedings in any court
of law or equity for violations or alleged violations of said
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act ,in respect of the importation, possession or sale in the Park; from requiring
or demanding reports on the importation, possession or
sale of said beverages; from enforcing in any manner
within the limits of Yosemite National Park, or in respect of transactions within said Park, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act of the State of California.
From the pleadings and decree it is clear that until now
the controversy has turned not upon special provisions
of the Act in question but upon its applicability as a
whole. As in our judgment, as heretofore pointed out,
the tax provisions are enforceable and the regulatory provisions unenforceable, it is necessary to reverse the decree and remand the cause to the District Court for a
determination by the Court in accordance with this
opinion of the applicability of such sections of the Act
as the State may threaten to enforce.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the de-

cree below should be reversed because as stated by counsel for appellants, "The acts of cession and acceptance
reserved to the State the right to levy upon and collect
from the appellee company the type of tax imposed by
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act." Also, that discussion should be confined to that point.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

