CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT "

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

MORGAN

ET AL.

v.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 581.

Argued.March 10, 11, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.
Petition for rehearing denied May 31, 1938.

1. An order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing the maximum
rates to be charged by market agencies (commission men) at
stockyards held void for failure to allow the "full hearing" before the Secretary required by the Packers and Stockyards Act.
Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S. 468. P. 13.
.2. In administrative, proceedings of a quasi-judicial character, the
liberty and property of the citizen must be protected by the
rudimentary requirements of fair play. These demand a faiand open hearing. P. 14.
3. In requiring a "full hearing," the Packers and Stockyards Act
has regard to judicial standards,-not in any technical sense, but
with respect to those fundamental requirements of fairness which
are of the essence of due process in a proceeding of a judicial
nature. Those requirements relate not only to the taking and
consideration of evidence but also to the concluding, as well as t)
the beginning and intermediate, steps in the procedure. P. 19.
4. The proceeding was begun by a general notice of inquiry int
the reasonableness of the rates of market agencies at the Kansas
City Stockyards. Thousands of pages of testimony were take i
by an examiner and numerous complicated exhibits were intrcduced, bearing upon all phases of the broad subject of the businesses in question. Appellants' request that the examiner prepare
a tentative report, to be submitted as a basis for exceptions and
81638°-38-----1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

argument, was refused. Oral argument, before an Assistant.
Secretary, was general and sketchy and did hot reveal in any
appropriate manner the Government's claims. The Government
submitted no brief and furnished no statement of its contentions. Numerous and elaborate findings were prepared by subordinates who had conducted the proceedings for the Government,
and were submitted to the Secretary, who accepted them, with
certain rate alterations. No opportunity was afforded the appellants to examine the findings until they were served with the
order fixing rates which they claim to be confiscatory. A rehearing was refused by the Secretary. The Secretary did not
read the testimony, but examined it somewhat to get its drift; he
did not hear the oral argument but read a transcript of it and the
appellants' briefs, ..and conferred ex parte concerning the findings
with the subordinates whoprepared them. Held:
(1) The right to a "full hearing" embraces not only the right
to present evidence but also a reasonable opportunity to know
the claims of the opposing party and to meet them. The right'
to submit argument implies that opportunity; otherwise the right
may be 'but a barren one. Those who are brought into contest
with the Government in a quasi-judicial proceeding aimed at the
control of their activities are entitled to be fairly advised of what
the Government proposes and to be heard upon its proposals before it issues its final command. -.P. 18.
(2) No such 'reasonable opportunity was accorded in this
case. P. 19.
(3) In all substantial aspects, the proceeding was an adversary
one-a prosecution by the Government of the owners of the
market agencies threatening the existence of the agencies and
the owners' means of livelihood. P. 20.
(4) An earlier order containing findings of facts and fixing a
schedule of rates, which was set aside because of changes in
economic conditions, could not avail to remedy the defects in
the conduct of the latter proceeding here in question. P. 21.
(5) The action of the Secretary. in accepting and making
as his own the findings which had been prepared by the active
prosecutors for the Government, after an ex parte discussion
with them and without according any reasonable opportunity to
the respondents in. the proceeding to 'know the claims thus
presented and to contest them, was more than an irregularity in
procedure; it was a vital defect. P. 21.

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
1

Argftment for Appellants.

5. A petition for rehearing based upon the grounds of inconsistency of the decision on this appeal with rulings on the earlier
appeal, 298 U. S. 468, and upon the ground of surprise-is denied.
P. 23.
6. Questions as to the disposition of moneys impounded in the
District Court representing charges for market-agency services
paid in excess of the rates fixed by the void order, are for that
court to decide. P. 26.
23 F. Supp. 380, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which dismissed the bills in fifty suits,
consolidated for hearing, challenging the validity of maximum rates fixed by the Secretary of Agriculture for market agencies at the Kansas City Stock Yards. A former
appeal is reported in 298*U. S. 468. The present report
includes an opinion delivered May 31, 1938, denying a
rehearing. Summaries of the arguments on the procedural questions are extracted from the main briefs used
on the hearing.
Messrs. Frederick H. Wood and John B. Gage, with
whom Mr. Thomas T. Cooke was on the brief, for appellants.
It is not necessary, in order to meet the requirements
of a "full hearing," that the Secretary, in person, should
hear all of the. evidence or that he should read it all.
On the other hand, the requirements of a "full hearing"
are not met. if, as testified to by the Secretary in this
case, the order merely represents his "independent conclusion as based upon the findings" of his subordinates,
or his "own independent reactions to the findings of"
such subordinates. It is not enough that he has exercised an independent judgment of his own predicated
upon findings of fact made by others. Nor that he has
satisfied himself, as an executive might, after making
some inquiries of his subordinates, that he is willing to

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellants.

304 U. S.

adopt their findings. He is, as stated by this Courts "the
trier of the facts" and as such required to weigh the evidence upon which the findings depend,. and upon which,
in turn, his conclusions and ultimate determinations are
based. This duty may not be delegated to or performed
by others.
It is true that the "evidence . . . taken may be sifted
and analyzed by competent subordinates," 298 U. S.
481, but this clearly means that the sifting and analysis
must be of the evidence as a whole upon any controverted
issue of fact or in respect of which any ultimate findings
of fact must be based. It may not be a one-sided analysis. If variant or contrary inferences may be drawn from
the evidence, the subordinates may not choose between
them but must fairly present both sides of the evidence,
so that the authorized tribunal may make his choice.
If an ultimate or evidentiary finding of fact, controversial in character, requires for its determination consideration of evidence relating to different but related subjects,
withot:t the weighing of all of which no ultimate or evidentiary finding may be made, then such analysis must
fairly set forth these several descriptions of evidence and
their relation to the possible ultimate or evidentiary inferences presented. To what extent the Secretary may
rely upon such analyses without examination of the
record himself in respect of controverted questions, it is
unnecessary to discuss. This is so because it plainly appears from the record as a whole that no such analysis
of the evidence was made and submitted to'him by any
subordinate.
The law is not concerned with the mechanics employed..
What it does require is that the findings of fact shall be
those of the Secretary himself, made only after a weighing and appraisal of the evidence, however that evidence
may be submitted to him for consideration.

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

In leaving the findings of fact to his subordinates, the
Secretary proceeded upon the erroneous assumption that
the delegation of the legislative power to fix rates was to
the Department of Agriculture rather than to the Secretary in person.
The evidence as to the manner in which the findings,
submitted to the Secretary and accepted by him, were
prepared, discloses the absence of any quasi-judicial
weighing or appraisal of the evidence by those who prepared them. The record discloses that neither the evi'dence nor the argument was thereafter weighed or appraised by the Secretary.
The findings prepared by the Secretary's subordinates
do not constitute such a "sifting and analyzing" of the
evidence as to absolve the Secretary frqm weighing and
appraising the evidence itself.
The Secretary did not weigh and appraise the evidence
concerning salesmanship performance, the findings concerning which are based on the flimsiest kind of evidence
and are the most important of all.
The Secretary accepted without change findings made
by his subordinates in respect of sales performance, ap-.
parently under the misapprehension that they were supported by actual performance, without any examination
of the evidence in respect thereof, which, if made, would
have disclosed the contrary.
The Secretary did not weigh and appraise the evidence
upon which the order's so-called reasonable cost assigned
to business-getting and maintaining was predicated.
The Secretary did not weigh and appraise the evidence
bearing upon the reasonable cost of yarding or office salaries, but accepted the findings submitted upon a misunderstanding of their import.
Neither the fragmentary oral statements of his subordinates as to what some of the evidence was nor the

OCTOBER, TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellants.

304 U. S.

Secretary's hit or miss investigation into" the record is
an acceptable substitute for his weighing and appraising
the evidence as a whole.
The altering by the Secretary of a few rates in the tentative order in no way tends to prove he weighed and
appraised the evidence. Had he filled in a wholly blank
schedule he would be no better off.
The inexorable requirement of a fair trial before an
impartial tribunal, which shall render judgment upon
the evidence, is not met where, without any allegation
that any rates are unreasonable, and without any disclosure of their contentions as to the ultimate facts proved
or the principles intended to be applied to them, the
findings and order to be made are prepared by opposing
counsel and, without the knowledge of the appellants or
their counsel, submitted to the trier of the facts who, after
private unrecorded conferences with opposing counsel,
issues an order in accordance therewith, without himself
weighing or appraising the evidence upon controverted
issues.
There was no allegation or suggestion in the original
order of inquiry that any of appellants' rates were unjust,
or unreasonable or discriminatory. The "Order Granting Rehearing" was not more explicit in these respects.
Counsel for the Government, in his argument, presented no issues of fact. Where he did refer to individual
agencies he paid them the highest possible compliment as
to efficiency of operation. He stated that in his opinion
the rates under investigation were not discriminatory and
that none of the appellants were making too much money
under the existing rates.
Nothing occurred in the course of the oral argument to
forecast the fact that the Assistant Secretary was not to
pass upon the issues but was to retire from further con-.

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

sideration of the case. No statement indicated that a tentative report was to be prepared by the attorneys for the
Government and a Government economist, an important
witness for the Government. It was not suggested that
the proposed 'findings and order, without having been
first served upon counsel for appellants, would be presented to the Secretary personally and discussed with him
by the attorneys for the Government in unrecorded conferences, out of the presence of appellants' counsel. Appellants' counsel, without the benefit of a complaint containing specific allegations as to the unreasonableness of
any rates, having before him in the evidence a cost study
prepared after extensive audits by Government accountants showing experienced costs to be in excess of receipts
under existing rates, and without any knowledge of the
contents of the tentative report, prepared a brief which
was filed with the Assistant Secretary. No briefs were
filed or served by the Government. ' ,
The proposed findings and order so prepared by the
attorneys 'for the Government, together with certain
memoranda prepared in part by the economist who was
a Government witness in the case, was presented to -the
Secretary. The .Secretary, according to his testimony,
after examining the record casually, took the order, the
briefs, and transcript of oral argument home with him.
He states that he read the tentative order and part, at
least, of the briefs. After, discussing the matter with
counsel for the Government in private unrecorded conferences, he changed, to an unimportant extent, a few
figures expressing individual rates, and signed the order
as proposed, otherwise unchanged, on June 14, 1933.
This he did without weighing or appraising the evidence on controverted issues of fact and without familiarizing himself with any part thereof except as com-

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellants.

304 U. S.

municated to him in ex parte oral conversations with his
subordinates including the attorney prosecuting the case.
No record was kept of these conversations, but it appears
they were fragmentary and unaccompanied by any weighing and appraising of the evidence by the Secretary. And
this although the findings accepted are directly contrary
to statements in appellants' administrative briefs. Such
a course of administrative procedure constitutes neither
a full hearing nor due process of law.
The more extensive the employment of the implement
of the administrative tribunal becomes-and its use is
daily becoming more widespread-and the more credit
which is given to its decisions, the more important is it
that strict regularity be observed in the conduct of its
hearings and that all the elements of a full and fair bearing and of due process of law be accorded. See Lord
Chief Justice Hewart, "The New Despotism," pp. 50-51.
It is not contended by appellants that in cases where
a fair and proper method has been adopted for limiting
the issues, whether it be a tentative report of the Examiner or otherwise, the tribunal passing judgment must
review or appraise all of the evidence relating to noncontroversial as well as controversial issues. Nor is it contended that in order that there be a full hearing, oral argument or oral presentation is essential in every instancefor by other methods the trier of the facts may become so
adequately informed as to enable himself to properly appraise the evidence. Nor is it contended that the order
is void solely by reason of the fact that the attorneys
for the prosecution, assisted by a witness for the prosecution, prepared it,-for had such an order, so prepared,
been followed by presentation of it to counsel for appellants with full opportunity to refute the conclusions expressed therein before him whose duty it was to resolve
the evidence into findings, the requirement of a fair trial

MORGAN V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

could be met if the Secretary weighed and appraised all
of the evidence upon the findings questioned by appellants' counsel. A court or administrative tribunal may
for its convenience require submission of issues upon
written statement-if such written statements are, under
conaitions fairly permitting, reply, made known to opposing parties. Evidence may for the assistance of the one
charged with the responsibility of decision be fairly analyzed by impartial and competent assistants, unbiased
by previous partisan connection with the proceeding.
Where, however, issues are not defined and limited by
means and methods fair to all persons affected or to be
affected, fair analyses or synopses of the evidence are
not prepared by impartial or competent assistants, and
the one deciding the issues does not personally review and
weigh and appraise the evidence, a full hearing is not had
in accordance with ,statutory and constitutional requirements.
Assuming that, as claimed, the Secretary read oral and
written argument, nevertheless it is clear that he did not
judicially weigh and appraise the same, since he admittedly adopted the vitally important inferences drawn by
his subordinates from the evidence, and rejected the
widely differing inferences asserted by appellants in their
briefs, without weighing or appraising the evidence upon
which either set of inferences Was based.
The order should be set aside because unsupported by
essential findings of basic facts, because the fundamental
findings of fact therein are not supported by substantial
cvidence, because based upon an erroneous conception of
the law and of the powers of the Secretary, because
based upon a departure from recognized and accepted
standards, both of reasonableness and of administrative
procedure, and because arbitrarily made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Appellees.

304 U.S.

Solicitor General Jackson and Mr. Wendell Berge, with
whom Ass't Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs. Hugh B.
Cox, James C. Wilson, Edward J. Ennis, and G. N. Dagger were on the brief, for the appellees.
The contention that the decision of a quasi-judicial
officer, made upon a proper record after full hearing of
argument, may be declared to be void on the ground that
it was insufficiently considered is without precedent. In
its prior decision, this Court held that where it was alleged that the Secretary heard neither evidence nor argument a case was made for judicial investigation. It did
not hold that where he had heard argument, judicial investigation may test the adequacy of his further consideration of the case. The detailed facts of the Secretary's
physical examination of arguments "and evidence and the
detailed mental processes which lie employed in reaching
his determination are not a proper subject for judicial
inquiry. Appellants' contention is, in essence, an endeavor to avoid, by a novel doctrine of judicial review,
the established rule that the findings of a quasi-judicial
officer, made after hearing or reading full aigument on a
proper record submitted to him, can be attacked Ionly by
showing that the findings are in fact unsupported by the
evidence.
,The question of the scope of the issue is not of controlling importance in the present case. Should this Court
decide that it is free to look behind the fact that the Secretary read and considered appellants' arguments, it will
find that the evidence shows that the Secretary fully
complied with any procedural standard that may reasonably be imposed.
The Secretary made his decision on the basis of his own
personal consideration and appraisal of the evidence an4
argument. The transcript of record was in his possession
and, while he did not read it consecutively or in full, he

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellees.

consulted it wherever in his judgment such consultation
was necessary. As a guide to his examination of the record he studied the arguments of appellants directed to the
evidence and compared them with the voluminous findings of fact which constituted a summary and analysis
of the evidence. Having read and considered the tentative findings of fact and the arguments of appellants, he
madean investigation into the record-assisted by consultation with members of the Department-for the purpose of considering and appraising the evidence upon
which the findings were made. Uncontradicted testimony establishes that the Secretary, in the exercise of his
independent judgment, altered three of the most important items in the tentative schedule of rates. With respect to all the numerous questions raised by appellants,
persuasive evidence exists to show independent inquiry
and the exercise~bf independent judgment by the Secretary. By asserting that the Secretary did not give them a
fair hearing, appellants have assumed the burden of
proving by clear and convincing evideice that the Secretary did not consider their arguments or the evidence to
which those arguments related.
Appellants renew their objection that they were not
given an opportunity to file exceptions to an examiner's
report or to tentative findings of fact, and to present
argument in support of those exceptions. This Court has
already passed on this argument. [Citig Morgan v.
United State8, 298 U. S. 468, 478.] The practice which
the Court described as desirable has now been established
in proceedings under . 307 of the Act. See Order of September 16, 1936, 1 Federal Register 1362. It remains
true, however,: that the failure to follow it is not fatal to:
the validity of the hearing.,
•Appellants also complain that in,his oral argument
counsel for the Department did not apprise them of the

12

OCTOBER TFRM, 1937.
Argument for Appellees.

304 U. S.

issues which they might be expected to meet, and they.
refer to statements he made which were in agreement
with their contentions. It is not to be supposed that
the appellants were prejudiced by such friendly statements in oral argument or that appellants' counsel needed
the assistance of Government counsel, or of an examiner's report, or of tentative findings of fact, to determine
what the important issues in the proceeding were. It is
common knowledge that often in ordinary litigation the
argument addressed by counsel to the court is made before the submission of proposed findings of fact or conclusions of law, and that the argument of opposing counsel does not in every case disclose with clarity the issues
on which the case is to be decided. Such circumstances
when they exist can hardly be said to amount to a denial
of a full hearing.
Furthermore, it should be noted that, at the time of
the oral argument and when petitioners filed their supplemental brief with the Secretary, they had before them
an order, which had been signed on May 18, 1932, by
the Secretary of Agriculture, containing findings of fact
and fixing a schedule of rates. At the time the rehearing
was granted, the Secretary had set this order aside. The
record upon which that order had been made was a part
of the record before the Secretary at the time of the rehearing, and the order served to inform the appellants of
the nature of the issues involved. That it did so inform
them is shown by the fact that much of appellants' suppleriental brief was devoted to a discussion of this order.
and that in the course of that discussion they advanced
most of the.contentions which they make with respect to
the order now under attack.
Appellants attempt to distinguish this present situation from one in which a court adopts findings prepared
by counsel on the ground that a court affords opposing

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.

13

Opinion- of the Court.

counsel an opportunity to submit findings of his own or
to except to the findings which are adopted. There is
no force in this distinction. Although the appellants
were not given an opportunity to except to the tentative
findings of -fact, they had an unrestricted opportunity to
submit findings of their own to the Secretary of Agriculture which he could have considered. They did not
take advantage of that opportunity; but that is not a circumstance which can be held against the Secretary of
Agriculture. There is no logic in appellants' suggestion
that the adoption of findings is done independently if
opposing counsel has a chance to criticize those findings,
but must be presumed not to have been done independently if the opportunity to criticize is not afforded.
The order of the Secretary is based upon correct principles of law and is supported by substantial evidence.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case presents the question of the validity of an
order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing maximum rates
to be charged by market agencies at the Kansas City Stock
Yards. Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, 42 Stat. 159;
7 U. S. C. 181-229. The District Court of three judges
dismissed the bills of complaint in fifty suits (consolidated
for hearing) challenging the validity of the rates,-and the
plaintiffs bring this direct appeal. 7 U. S. C. 217; 28
U. S. C. 47.
The case comes here for the second time. On the former
appeal we met, at the threshold of the controversy, the
contention that the plsintiffs had not been accorded the
hearing which the statute made a prerequisite to a valid
order. The District Court had struck from plaintiffs' bills
the allegations that the Secretary had made the order

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

.04 U. S.

without having heard or read the evidence and without having heard or considered the arguments submitted, and that his sole information with respect to the
proceeding was derived from consultation with employees
in the Department of Agriculture. We held that it was
error to strike these allegations, that the defendant should
be'required to answer them, and that the question whether
plaintiffs had a proper hearing should be determined.
Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S. 468.
After the remand, the bills were amended and interrogatories were directed to the Secretary which he answered. The court received the'evidence which had been
introduced at its previous hearing, together with additional testimony bearing upon the nature of the hearing
accorded by the Secretary. - This evidence embraced the
testimony of the Secretary and of several of his assistants.
The District Court rendered an opinion, with findings of
fact and conclusions of law, holding that the hearing before the Secretary was adequate and, on the merits, that
his order was lawful. On this appeal, plaintiffs again contend (1) that the Secretary's order was made without the
hearing required by the statute and (2) that the order was
arbitrary and unsupported by substantial evidence.
The first question goes to the very foundation of the
action of administrative agencies entrusted by the Congress with broad control over activities which in their
detail cannot be. dealt with directly by the legislature.
The yast expansion of this field of administrative regulation in response to the pressure of social needs is made
pbssible Under our system-by adherence to the basic prin-,
ciples that the legislature shall appropriately determine
the standards of administrative action and that in administrative proceedings of a quasi-judicial character the liberty and property. of the citizen shall be protected by the

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

rudimentary requirements of fair play. These demand
"a fair and open hearing,"-essential alike to the legal
validity of the administrative regulation and to the maintenance of public confidence in the value and soundness
of this important governmental process. Such a hearing
has been described' as an "inexorable safeguard." St.
Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S.38, 73;
Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities Commission,
301 U. S.292, 304, 305; RailroadCommission of California
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 302 U. S. 388, 393; Morgan
v. United States, supra. And in equipping the Secretary
of Agriculture with extraordinary powers under the Packers and Stockyards Act, the Congress explicitly recognized
and emphasized this requirement by making his action
depend upon a "full hearing." § 310.1
In the record now before us the controlling facts stand
out clearly. The original administrative proceeding was
begun on April 7, 1930, when the Secretary of Agriculture
issued an order of inquiry and notice of hearing with re'Section. 310 of the Packers and Stockyards Act (42 Stat. 159, 166;
7 U. S. C. 211) provides:
"Sec. 310. Whenever after full hearing upon a complaint made as
provided in section 309, or after full hearing under an order for
investigation and hearing made by the Secretary on his own initiative, either in extension of any pending complaint or without any
complaint whatever, the Secretary is of the opinion that any rate,
charge, regulation, or practice of a stockyard owner or market agency,
for or in connection with the furnishing of stockyard services, is or
will be unjust, unreasonable, or discriminatory, the Secretary"(a) May determine and prescribe what will be the just and reasonable rate or charge, or rates or charges, to be thereafter observed
in such case, or the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, to be charged, and what regulation or practice is or will 'be
just, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory to be thereafter followed; L..."

OCTOBER, TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

spect to the reasonableness of the charges of appellants
for stockyards services at Kansas City. The taking of
evidence before an examiner of the Department was begun on December 3, 1930, and continued until February
10, 1931. The Government and appellants were represented by counsel and voluminous testimony and exhibits
were introduced. In March, 1931, oral argument was had
before the Acting Secretary of Agriculture and appellants
submitted a brief. On May 18, 1932, the Secretary issued
his findings and an order prescribing maximum rates. In
view of changed economic conditions, the Secretary vacated. that order and granted a rehearing. That was begun
or, O.-tober 6, 1932, and the taking of evidence was concluded on November 16, 1932. The evidence received at
the first hearing was re-submitted and this was supplemented by additional testimony. and exhibits. On March
24, 1933, oral a'rgument was had before Rexford G. Tug-'
well as Acting Secretary.
It appears that there were about 10,000 pages of transcript of oral evidence and over 1,000 pages of statistical
exhibits. ,The oral argument was general and sketchy.
Appellants submitted the brief which they had presented
after the first administrative hearing and a supplemental
brief dealing with the evidence introduced upon the rehearing.. No brief -was at any time supplied by the Government. Apart from what was said on its behalf in the
oral argument, the Government formulated no issues and
furnished appellants no statement or summary of its
contentions and no proposed findings. Appellants' request that the examiner prepare a tentative report, to
be submitted as a basis for exceptions and argument, was
refused.
Findings were prepared in the Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of Agriculture, whose representatives had
conducted the proceedings for the Government, and were
submitted to the Secretary, who signed them, with a few

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

changes in the rates, when his order was made on Junel14,
1933. These findings, 180 in number, were elaborate.
They dealt with the practices and facilities at the Kansas City livestock market, the character of appellants'
business and services, their rates and the volume of their
transactions, their gross revenues, their methods in getting
and maintaining business, their joint activities, the economic changes since the year 1929, the principles which
governed the determination of reasonable commission
rates, the classification of cost items, the reasonable unit
costs plus a reasonable amount of profits to be covered into reasonable commission rates, the reasonable amounts to
be included for salesmanship, yarding salaries and expenses, office salaries and expenses, business getting and
maintaining expenses, administrative and general expenses, insurance, interest on capital, and profits, together
with summary and the establishment of the rate structure.
Upon the basis of the reasonable costs as thus determined,
the Secretary found that appellants' schedules of rates
were unreasonable and unjustly discriminatory and fixed
the maximum schedules of the just and reasonable rates
thereafter to be charged.
No opportunity was afforded to appellants for the examination of the findings thus prepared in the Bureau of
Animal Industry until they were served with the order.
Appellants sought a rehearing by the Secretary but their
application was denied on July 6, 1933, and these suits
followed.
The part taken by the Secretary himself in the departmental proceedings is shown by his full and candid testimony. The evidence had been received before he took
office. He did not hear the oral argument. The bulky
record was placed upon his desk and he dipped into it
from time to time to get its drift. He decided that probably the essence of the evidence was contained in appellants' briefs. These, together with the transcript of the.
81638088-2

18,

OCTOBER TERM, i937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U.S.

oral argument, he took home with him and read. He had
several conferences with the Solicitor of the Department
and with the officials in the Bureau of Animal Industry
and discussed the proposed findings. He testified that he
considered the evidence before signing the order. The
substance of his action is stated in his answer to the question whether the order represented his independent conclusion, as follows:
. "My answer to the question would be that that very
definitely was my independent conclusion as based on the
findings of the men in the Bureau of Animal Industry.
I would say, I will try to put it as accurately as possible,
that it represented my own independent reactions to the
findings of the men in the Bureau of Animal Industry."
Save for certain rate alterations, he "accepted the findings."
In the light of this testimony there is no occasion to discuss the, extent to which the Secretary examined the evidence, and we agree with the Government's contention
that it- was not the function of the court to probe the
imental processes of the Secretary in reaching his conclusions if he gave the hearing which the law required. The
Secretary read the summary presented by appellants' briefs
and he conferred with his subordinates who had sifted and
analyzed the evidence. We assume that the Secretary
sufficiently understood its purport. But a "full hearing"a fair and open hearing-requires more than that. The
right to a hearing embraces not only the right to present
evidence but also a reasonable opportunity to know the
claims of the opposing party and to meet them. The right
to submit argument implies that opportunity; otherwise
the right may be but a barren one. Those who are brought
into contest with the Government in a quasi-judicial proceeding aimed at the control of their activities are entitled to be fairly advised of what the Government pro-

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

poses and to be heard upon its proposals before it issues
its final command.
No such reasonable opportunity was accorded appellants. The administrative proceeding was initiated by a
notice of inquiry into the reasonableness of appellants'
rates. No specific complaint was formulated and, in a
proceeding thus begun by the Secretary on his own initiative, none was required. Thus, in the absence of any
definite complaint, and in a sweeping investigation,
thousands of pages of testimony were taken by the examiner and numerous complicated exhibits were introduced bearing upon all phases of the broad subject of the
conduct of the market agencies. In the absence of any
report by the examiner or any findings proposed by the
Government, and thus without any concrete statement of
the Government's claims, the parties approached the oral
argument.
Nor did the oral argument reveal these claims in any
appropriate manner. The discussion by counsel for the
Government was "very general," as he said, in order not
to take up "too much time." It dealt with generalities
both as to principles and procedure. Counsel for .appellants then discussed the evidence from his standpoint.
The Government's counsel closed briefly, with a few additional and general observations. The oral argument was
of the sort which might serve as a preface to a discussion
of definite points in a brief, but the Government did not
submit a brief. And the appellants had no further information of the Government's concrete claims until they
were served with the Secretary's order.
Congress, in requiring a "full hearing," had regard to
judicial standards,-not in any technical sense but with
respect to those fundamental requirements of fairness
which are of the essence of due process in a proceeding of
a judicial nature. If in an equity cause, a special master

.20

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

or the trial judge permitted the plaintiff's, attorney to
formulate the findings upon the evidence, conferred ex
parte with the plaintiff's attorney regarding them, and
then adopted his proposals without affording an opportunity to his opponent to know their contents and present
objections, there would be no hesitation in setting aside
the report or'decree as having been made without a fair
hearing. The requirements of fairness are not exhausted
in the taking or consideration of evidence but extend to
the concluding parts of the procedure as well as to the
beginning and intermediate steps.
The answer that the proceeding before the Secretary
was not of an adversary character, as it was not upon complaint- but was initiated as a general inquiry, is futile.
It has regard to the mere form of the proceeding and ignores realities. In all substantial respects, the Government acting through the Bureau of Animal Industry of
the Department was prosecuting the proceeding against.
the owners of the market agencies. The proceeding had
all the essential elements of contested litigation, with the
Government and its counsel on the one side and the appellants and their counsel on the other. It is idle to say tLat
this was not a proceeding in reality against the appellants
when the very existence of their agencies was put in
jeopardy. Upon the rates for their services the owners
depended for their livelihood, and the "proceeding attacked them at a vital spot. This is well shown by the
fact that, on the merits, appellants are here contending
that under the Secretary's order many of these agencies,
although not found to be, inefficient or wasteful, will be
left with deficits instead of reasonable compensation for
their services and will be compelled to go out -of business.
And to this the Government responds that if as a result
of the prescribed rates some agencies may be unable to

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

continue, because through existing competition there are
tco many, that fact will not invalidate the order. While
we are not now dealing with the merits, the breadth of the
Secretary's discretion under our rulings applicable to such
a proceeding (Tagg Bros. & Mobrhead v. United States,
280 U. S. 420; Acker v. United States, 298 U. S. 426)
places in a strong light the necessity of maintaining the
essentials of a full and fair hearing, with the right of the
appellants to have a reasonable opportunity to know the
claims advanced against them as shown by the findings
proposed by the Bureau of Animal Industry.
Equally unavailing is the contention that the former
Secretary of Agriculture had made an order in May, 1932,
containing findings of fact and fixing a schedule of rates,
of which appellants were apprised. Because of changes in
economic conditions, the Secretary himself had set aside
that order and directed a rehearing. This necessarily involved, as the Secretary found, a consideration "of changes
both general and particular" which had "occurred since
the year 1929" and brought up all the questions pertinent
to the new situation to which the additional evidence upon
the rehearing was directed. The former findings and order
were no longer in effect and it is with the conduct of the
later proceeding that we are concerned.
The Government adverts to an observa '_>n in our
former opinion that, while it was good practice-which
we approved-to have the examiner, receiving the evidence in such a case, prepare a report as a basis for exceptions and argument, we could not say that that particular
type of procedure was essential to the validity of thel roceeding. That is true, for, as we said, what the statute
requires "relates to substance and not form." Conceivably, the Secretary, in a case the narrow limits of which
made such a procedure practicable, might himself hear

22

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the evidence and the contentions of both parties and make
his findings upon the spot. Again, the evidence being in,
the Secretary might receive the proposed findings of both
parties, each being notified of the proposals of the other,
hear argument thereon and make his own findings. But
what would not be essential to the adequacy of the hearing if the Secretary himself makes the findings is not a
criterion for a case in which the Secretary accepts and
makes as his own the findings which have been prepared
by the active prosecutors for the Government, after an
ex parre discussion with them and without according any
reasonable opportunity to the respondents in the proceeding to know the claims thus presented and to contest
them. That is more than an irregularity in- practice; it
is a vital defect.
The maintenance of proper standards on the part of
administrative agencies in the performance Of their quasijudicial functions is of the highest importance and in no
way cripples or embarrasses the exercise of their appropriate authority. On the contrary, it is in their manifest
interest. For, as we said at the outset, if these multiplying agencies deemed to be necessary in our complex society are to serve the purposes for which they are created
and endowed with vast powers, they must accredit themselves by acting in accordance with the cherished judicial
tradition embodying the basic concepts of fair play.
As the hearing was fatally defective, the order of the
Secretary was invalid. In this view, we express no opinion upon the merits. The decree of the District Court is
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK dissents.

MR.JusTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration and decision of this case.

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
On Petition for Rehearing.

A PETITION FOR REHEA.ING, FILED ON MAY 20, 1938,
WAS DENIED ON MAY 31, 1938.
PER CURIAM.
The Solicitor General moves for a rehearing of this eae
upon two grounds:
First. The first ground is that the Court has reversed
itself; that the present decision is "directly contrary to
the law of the case" as established by the Court's decision
on the former appeal, Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S.
468; and that "a procedural omission" previously held
"to*be of no significance" is now regarded as "fatally
defective."
These assertions are unwarranted. Not only are the two
decisions consistent, but the rule announced in our forner
opinion was applied and was decisive of the present appeal. And the Government is in no position to claim surprise. The question whether. there had been a fair
hearing in the present case, in the light of the situation
disclosed by the Secretary's testimony and the other evidence, was fully argued at the bar. Appellants presented,
both orally and in an elaborate brief, with copious references to the record, the contention which we sustained.
The first appeal was brought to this Court because the
plaintiffs had been denied an opportunity to prove that
the Secretary of Agriculture had failed to give them the
full hearing which the'statute required. Their allegations
to that effect had been struck out by the District Court.
8 F. Supp. 766. We held its riling to be erroneous and
that the question whether the plaintiffs had a proper hearing should be determined, saying:
"But there must be a hearing in a substantial sense.
And to give the substance of a hearing, which is for the
purpose of making determinations upon evidence, the
officer who makes the determinations must consider and
appraise the evidence which justifies them."

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
On Petition for Rehearing.

304 U.S.

The case was then tried by the District Court upon
that issue. From the Secretary's frank disclosure it appeared that findings of fact necessary to sustain the order
had not been made by him upon his own consideration'
of the evidence but as stated below. Because such actioi
fails to satisfy the requirement of a full hearing stated
in our first opinion and quoted above, we reversed the
judgment of. the District Court which sustained the
order.
Testimony of the Secretary and his associates, disclosed what had actually occurred. It appeared that the
oral argument before the Assistant Secretary had been
general and sketchy; that, aside from the oral argument,
which did not reveal the claims of the Government in
any appropriate manner, the Government had submitted
no brief and no statement of its contentions had been
furnished; that in this situatioRn findings had been prepared in the Bureau.of -Animal Industry, Department of
Agriculture, whose representatives had conducted the
proceedings for the Government; that these findings, 180
in number, were elaborate, dealing with all phases of the
practices and facilities at the Kansas City live-stock
market, the services and methods'd the plaintiffs, and
the costs and profits which should .be allowed them as
reasonable. These findings, prepared not by the Secretary but by those who had prosecuted the case for the
Government, were adopted by the Secretary with certain
rate alterations. No opportunity was afforded to the
plaintiffs for the examination of the findings thus prepared until they were served with the Secretary's order
and their request for a rehearing was denied.
The statement made in the petition for rehearing that
the present decision is contrary to the law of the case as
declared ;n our first opinion is wholly unfounded. Our
decision Was not rested upon the absence of an examiner's
report. So far from departing from our former opinion,

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
On Petition for Rehtaring;

or from the statement that the mere matter of the presence or absence of an examiner's report was not itself
determinative, we reiterated -both that statement and
the principle underlying it in our opinion on thepresent
appeal. We said:
"Those who are brought into contest .with- the Government in a quasi-judicial proceeding, aimed at the control of their activities "are entitled'to be fairly advised of
what the Government proposes and to be heard uporf its
proposals before it issues its final comipand:
"No such reasonable opportunity was accorded appellants.
"The Government adverts to an observation in our
former opinion that, while it was good, practice-which
we approved-to have the examiner, receiving the evidence in such a.case, prepare a report as a basis for exceptions and argument, we could not say that that particular type of procedure was essential to the validity of.
the proceeding. That is true, for, as we said, what the
stathte requires 'relates to substance and not form.' Conceivably the Secretary, in a case the narrow limits of
which made such a procedure practicable, might -himself hear the evidence and the contentions of both parties and make his findings upon the spot., Again, the
.evidence being in, the Secretary might receive the proposed findings of both parties, each being notified of the
proposals of the other, hear argument thereon and make
his own findings."
And, then, pointing out the distinction and the seri6us
defect in the procedure in the instant case, we added:
"But what would not be essential to the adequacy of
the hearing if the Secretary himself makes the findings is
not a criterion -for a case in which the Secretary accepts
and makes as his own the findings which have been prepared by the active prosecutors for the Government, after

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
On Petition for Rehearing.

304 U. S.

an ex parte discussion with them and without according
any reasonable opportunity to the respondents in the
proceeding to know the claims thus presented and to contest them. That is more than an irregularity in practice; it is a vital defect."
The distinction was again brought out in our recent
decision in the case of National Labor Relations Board
v. Mackay Radio & Telegraph Co., post, p. 333, where the
mere absence of an examiner's report was found not to
be controlling,, as the*record showed that in that case the
contentions of the parties had been clearly defined and
that there had been in the substantial sense a full and
adequate hearing.
The effort to establish a case for rehearing, either because of an asserted inconsistency in our rulings or because
of lack of opportunity for full argument, is futile.
Second. The second ground upon which a rehearing is
sought is that there is impounded in the District Court
a large sum representing charges paid in excess of the
rates fixed by the Secretary. The Solicitor General raises
questions both of substance and procedure as to the disposition of these moneys. These questions areappropriately for the 'District Court and they are not properly
before us upon the present record. We have ruled that
the order of the Secretary is invalid because the required
hearingwas not given. We remand the case to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with our
opinion. What further proceedings the Secretary may see
fit to take in the light of our decision, or what determinations may be made by the District Court in relation to
any such proceedings, are not matters which we should
attempt to forecast or hypothetically to decide:
The petition for rehearing is denied.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration of this petition.

