U. S. v. SHOSHONE TRIBE.
92

Syllabus.

parties ,to this suit and cannot be made so.
tion is unsound.

The conten-

The cases are many where title to land

dependent upon the boundary between States has been
passed upon by this Court upon review of judgments of
federal and of State cours in suits between private litigants."3
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. SHOSHONE TRIBE OF
INDIANS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 668.

Argued March 31, April 1, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

1. The opinion of the Court of Claims may not be referred to for the
purpose of altering or modifying the scope of unambiguous findings.
P. 115.
2. The right of the Shoshone Tribe in the lands set apart for it, under
the treaty of July 3, 1868, with the United States, included the
mineral and timber resources of the reservation; and -the value of
these was properly included in fixing the amount of compensation
due for so much of the lands as was taken by the United States.
P. 118.
3. The phrase "absolute and undisturbed use and occupation" in the
treaty is to be read, with other parts of the treaty, in the light of
the purpose of the arrangement made, the relation between the
parties, and the settled policy of the Government to deal fairly
with the Indian tribes. P. 116.
Compare .Handly's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374; Howard
v. Ingersoll, 13 How. 381; Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Pet. 185; Coffee v.
Groover, 123 U. S. 1; St. Louis v. .Rutz, 138 U. S. 226; Moore v.
McGuire, 205 U. S. 214; Cissna v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 289; Marine
Ry. & Coal Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.47; Smoot Sand & Gravel
Corp. v. Washington Airport, 283 U. S.348.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

4. Treaties made by the United States with Indian tribes are not to
be construed narrowly, but rather in the sense in which naturally
the Indians would understand them. P. 116.
85 Ct. Cls. 331, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 629, to review a judgment against
the United States in a suit brought by the Indian Tribe
under the special jurisdictional Act of March 3, 1927.
For an earlier phase of the case, see 299 U. S. 476.
Assistant. Attorney General McFarland, with whom
Solicitor General Jackson and Mr. Oscar Provost were on
the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. George M. Tunison and Albert W. Jefferis, with
whom Mr. Charles J. Kappler was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the. opinion of the
Court.
The Shoshone Tribe brought this suit to recover the
value of part of its reservation taken by the United
States by putting upon it, without the tribe's consent,
a band of Arapahoe Indians. The Court of Claims found
the taking to have been in August, 1891, ascertained value
as of that date, on that basis fixed the amount of compensation, and gave judgment accordingly. We held, 299
U. S. 476, that the court erred as to the date of the taking, declared it to have been March 19, 1878, reversed the
judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings. Then the lower court proceeded to determine the
value of the tribe's right at the time of the taking, and
the amount to be added to produce the present worth of
the money equivalent of the property, paid contemporaneously with the taking. It heard evidence, made additional findings, and gave plaintiff judgment for $4,408,444.23, with interest from its date until paid. This Court
granted writ of certiorari.
.

U. S. v. SHOSHNE TRIBE.
Opinion of the Court.

111

The sole question for decision is whether, as the United
States contends, the Court of Claims erred in holding
that the right of the tribe included the timber and mineral resources within the reservation.
The findings show: The United Sfates, by the treaty
of July 2, 1863, set apart for the Shoshone Tribe a
reservation of 44,672,000 acres located in Colorado, Utah.
Idaho and Wyoming. By the treaty of July 3, 1868, the
tribe ceded that reservation to the United States. And
by it the United States agreed that the "district of country" 3,054,182 acres definitely described "shall be and
the same is set apart for the absolute and undisturbed
use and occupation of the Shoshone Indians . . ., and
the United States now solemnly agrees that no persons,"
with exceptions not important here, "shall ever be permitted to pass over, settle upon, or reside in" that territory.- The Indians agreed that they would make the
reservation their permanent home. The treaty provided
that any-individual member of the tribe having specified
qualifications, might select a tract within the reservation
which should then cease to be held in common, and be
occupied and held in the exclusive possession of the
person selecting it, and of his family, while he or they
continued to cultivate it. It declared: ". . Congress
shall provide for protecting the rights of the Indian settlers . . . and may fix the character of the title held by
each. The United States may pass such laws on the subject of alienation and descent of property as between
Indians, and on all subjects connected with the government of the Indians on said reservation, and the internal.
proper."
police thereof, as may be thought
The treaty emphasized the importance of education;
the United States agreed to provide a schoolhouse and
teacher for every thirty children, and the tribe promised
to send the children to school. The United States also
agreed to provide instruction by a farmer -for members
81638*-38----8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

cultivating the soil, clothing for members of the tribe,
and a physician, carpenter, miller, enqineer and blacksmith. i It stipulated that no treaty for the cession of
any portion of the reservation held in common should
be valid as against the Indians, unless signed' by at
least a majority- of all interested male adults; and that
no cession by the tribe should be construed to deprive
any member of his right to any tract of land selected
by him.
When the treaty of 1868 was made, the' tribe consisted
of full blood blanket Indians, unable to read, write, or
speak English. Upon consummation of the treaty, the
tribe went, and has since remained, upon the reservation. It was known to contain valuable mineral deposits--gold, oil, coal and gypsum. It included more
than 400,000 cres of timber, extensive well-grassed
Sbefhch lands and fertile river valleys conveniently irrigable. It was well protected by mountain ranges and a
divide, and was the choicest and best-watered portion
of Wyoming.
In 1904 the- Shoshones and Arapahoes ceded to the
United States 1,480,000 acres to be held by it in trust for
the sale of such timber lands, timber and other products,
and for the making of leases for various purposes. The
net proceeds were to be credited to the Indians. From
1907 to 1919. there were allotted to members of the tribes
245,058 acres.
The court's finding of the ultimate fact is: "The fair'
and reasonable value of a one-half undivided interest of
the Shoshone or Wind River Reservation of a total of
2,343,540 acres, which was taken by the United States
on March 19, 1878, from the Shoshone Tribe of Indians
'for the Northern Arapahoe Tribe, was, on March 19, 1878,
$1,5ยง1,889.50." That is $1.35 per acre for 1,171,770 acres,
one-half of the reservation in 1878, at the time of taking.
TIe United States does not challenge the principle or

U. S. v. SHOSHONE TRIBE.
111

Opinion of the Court.

basis upon which the court determined the amount to be
added to constitute just compensation.
The substance of the Government's point is that in fixing the value of the tribe's right, the lower court included
as belonging to the tribe substantial elements of value;
ascribable to mineral and timber resources, which in fact
belonged to the United States.
It contends that the Shoshones' right to use and occupy
the lands of the reservation did not include the ownership of the timber and minerals and that the opinion of
the court below departs from the general principles of law
regarding Indian land tenure and the uniform policy of
the Government in dealing with Indian tribes. It asks
for reversal with "directions to determine the value of the
Indians' right of use and occupancy but to exclude therefrom 'the net value of the lands' and 'the net value of any
timber or minerals.'"
The findings are unambiguous; there is no room for
construction. The opinion of the Court of Claims may
not be referred to for the purpose of eking 6ut, controlling, or modifying the scope of the findings. Stone v.
United States, 164 U. S. 380, 383. Luckenbach S. S. Co.
v. United States, 272 U. S. 533, 539-549. Cf. American
Propeller Co. v. United States, 300 U. S. 475, 479-480.
In this case we have held, 299 U. S. 476, 484, that the
tribe had the right of occupancy with all its beneficial
incidents; that, the right of occupancy being the primary
one and as sacred as the fee, division by the United States
of the Shoshones' right with the Arapahoes was an appropriation of the land pro tanto; that although the
United States always had legal title to the land and power
to control and manage the affairs of the Indians, it did
not have power to give to others or to appropriate to its
own use any part of the land Without rendering, or assuming the obligation to pay, just compensation to the tribe,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

for that would be, not the exercise of guardianship or
management, but confiscation.
It was not then necessary to consider, but we are now
called upon to decide, whether, by the treaty, the tribe acquired beneficial ownership of the minerals and timber on
the reservation. The phrase "absolute and undisturbed
use and occupation" isto be read, with other parts of the
document, having regard to the purpose of the arrangement made, the relation between the parties, and the
settled policy of the United States fairly to deal with
Indian tribes., in treaties made with them the Ur.ited
States seeks no advantage for itself; friendly and dependeni Indians are likely to accept without discriminating
scrutiny the terms proposed. They are not to be interpreted narrowly, as sometimes may be writings expressed in words of art employed by conveyancers, but
are to be construed in the sense in which naturally the
Indians would understand them. Worcester v. Georgia,
6 Pet. 515, 582. Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 11. Starr
v. Long Jim, 227 U. S. 613, 622-623.
The principal purpose of the treaty was that the Shoshones should have, and permanently dwell in, the defined district of country. To that end the United States
granted and. assured to the tribe peaceable and unqualified possession of the land in perpetuity. Minerals and
standing timber are constituent elements of the land itself. United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591. BritishAmerican Oil Co. v. Board, 299 U. S.159, 164-166. For
all practical purposes, the tribe owned the land. Grants
of land subject to the Indian title by the United States,
which had only the naked fee, would transfer no beneficial
interest. Leavenworth, L. & G. R. Co. v. United States,
92 U. S. 733, 742-743. Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S.517,
525. The right.of perpetual and exclusive occupancy of
the land is not less valuable than full title in fee. See

U. S. v. SIHOSHONE TRIBE.
ill

Opinion of the Court.

Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211, 244. Western Union Tel. Co.
v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 195 U. S. 540, 557.
The treaty, though made with knowledge that there
were mineral deposits and standing timber in the reservation, contains nothing to suggest that the United States
intended to retain for itself any beneficial interest in
them. The words of the grant, coupled with the Government's agreement to exclude strangers, negative the idea
that the United States retained beneficial ownership. The
grant of right to members of the tribe severally to select
and hold tracts on which to establish homes for themselves and families, and the restraint upon cession of land
held in common or individually, suggest beneficial ownership in the tribe. As transactions between a guardian
and his wards are to be construed favorably to the latter,
doubts, if there were any, as to ownership of lands, minerals or timber would be resolved in favor of the tribe.
The cession in 1904 by the tribe to the United States in
trust reflects a construction by the parties that supports
the tribe's claim, for if it did. not own, creation of a trust
to sell or lease for its benefit would have been unnecessary and inconsistent with the rights of the parties.
Although the United States retained the fee, and the
tribe's right of occupancy was incapable of alienation or
of being held otherwise than in common, that right is
as sacred and as securely safeguarded as is fee simple
absolute title. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 48.
Worcester v. Georgia, supra, 580. Subject to the conditions imposed by the treaty, the Shoshone Tribe had the
right that has always been understood to belong to Indians, undisturbed possessors of the soil from time immemorial. Provisions in aid of teaching children and of
adult education in farming, and to secure for the tribe
medical and mechanical service, to safeguard tribal and
individual titles, when taken with other parts of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

treaty, plainly evidence purpose on the part of the United
States to help to create an independent permanent farming community upon the reservation. Ownership of the
land would further that purpose. In .the absence of definite expression of intention so to do, the United States
will not be held to have kept it from them. The authority of the United States to prescribe title by which individual Indians may hold tracts selected by them within
the reservation, to pass laws regulating alienation and descent and for the government of the tribe and its people
upon the reservation detracts nothing from the tribe's
ownership, but was reserved for the more convenient discharge of the duties of the United States as guardian
and sovereign*
United States v. Cook, supra, gives no support to the
contention that in ascertaining just compensation for the
Indian right taken, the 'value of mineral and timber resources in the reservation should be excluded. That case
did not involve adjudication of the scope of Indian title
to land, minerals or standing timber, but only the right
of the United States to replevin logs cut and sold by a
few unauthorized members of the tribe. We held that,
as against the purchaser from the wrongdoers, the United
States was entitled to possession. It was not there decidqd that the tribe's right of occupancy in perpetuity did
not include ownership of the land or mineral deposits or
standing timber upon the reservation, or that the tribe's
right was the mere equivalent of, or like, the title of a life
tenant.
The lower court did not err in holding that the right of
the Shoshone Tribe included the. timber and minerals
within the reservation.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE and MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR.JUSTICE REED

dissents.

