OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

tested. The rule here often announced is that no constitutional question will. be passed upon unless necessary
for disposition of the pending cause.
The judgment of the Supreme Court must be
-Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CAnDozo took no part in the consideration

or decision of this cause.
ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. TOMPKINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 367.

Argued January 31, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.

1. The liability of a railroad company, for injury caused by negligent operation of its train to a pedestrian on a much-used, beaten
path on its right-of-way along and near the rails, depends, in the
.absence of a federal or state statute, upon the unwritten law of
the State where the accident occurred. Pp. 71 et seq.
2. A federal court exercising jurisdiction over such a case on the
ground of diversity of citizenship, is not free to treat this question
as one of so-called "general law," but must apply the state law as
declared by the highest state court. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1,
overruled. Id.
3. There is no federal general common law. Congress has no power
to declare substantive rules of common law applicable in a State
whether they be local in their nature- or "general," whether they
be commercial law or *apart of the law of torts. And no clause
in the Constitution purports to confer such a power upon the,
federal courts. Except in matters governed by the Federal Constitution or by Acts of Congress, the law to be applied in any case
is th3 law of the State. And whether the law of the State shall
be declared by its legislature in a statute or by its fiighest court
in a decision is not a matter of federai concern. P. 78.
4. In disapproving the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson, the Court does
not hold unconstitutional § 34 of the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789
or any other Act of Congress. It merely declares that by applying the doctrine of that case iights which are reserved by the Constitution to the several States have been invaded. P. 79.
90 F. 2d 603, reversed.

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
Argument for Petitioner.

64
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 671, to review the affirmance of

a judgment recovered against the railroad company in an
action for personal injuries. The accident was in Pennsylvania. The action was in New York, jurisdiction being based on diversity of citizenship.
Mr. Theodore Kiendl, with whom Messrs. William C.
Cannon and Harold W. Bissell were on the brief, for
petitioner.
The Pennsylvania decisions denying permissive rights
on longitudinal pathways as distinguished from crossings
should have received due consideration in recognition of
the elementary principle that the law to be applied is the
lex loci delicti. Restatement, Conflict of Laws, § 380,
p. 462.
Whatever difficulties there may be in ascertaining the
pertinent Pennsylvania law or in fixing the extent to
which the federal courts are bound to recognize the pertinent decisions of the Pennsyivania courts, it is settled
beyond question that it is the Pennsylvania law which
the federal courts, quite as truly as: the state courts, are
bound to ascertain and apply. There is no-such thing as
a federal common law applicable in such cases. Bucher
v. Cheshire Railroad Co., '125 U. S. 555, 583-584; Smith
v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 478-479. See also Carroll
County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, 563; McGuire v. SheiwinWilliams Co., 87 F. 2d 112; Boston,& Maine R. v. Breslin, 80 F. 2d 749, (cert. denied, 297 U. S. 715).; Moore v.
Backus, 78 F. 2d 571, (cert. denied, 296 U., S. 640); Reed
& Barton.Corp. v. Maas, 73 F. 2d 359; Public Service
Ry. Co. v. Wursthorn, 278F. 408, (cert. denied, 259 U. S.
585); Keystone Wood-Co. v. Susquehanna Boom Co., 240
F. 296, (cert. denied, 243 U. S. 655); Snare & Triest Co.
v. Friedman,169 F. 1, 11, (cert. denied, 214 U. S. 518).
Although each State unquestionably hao the power to
determine thp particular conception of the. common law '
816a38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioner.

304 U. S.

adopted by it, and although the common law is acclaimed
as being adaptable to changing conditions, the opinion
of the court below is an unqualified pronouncement that
it is beyond the power of the Pennsylvania courts to
determine or evolve the law of Pennsylvania as to permissive rights on railroad rights-of-way in Pennsylvania.
It would, seem clear that this is a sweeping repudiation
of the principle that the law to be applied is that of the
State.
The Pennsylvania decisions should have been recognized as controlling because they had established the
rule of law with sufficient definiteness and finality to
constitute it a local rule of property, action or conduct,
even though the question might otherwise have been
regarded as mainly one of general law.
We do not question the finality of the holding of this
Court in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, .that the "laws of the
several States" referred to in the Rules of Decision Act
do not include state court decisions as such. But whether
by virtue of the Act or of comity, it is well settled that
such decisions are pertinent and, under certain circumstances, controlling in ascertaining or determining the
law of the State.
It would be idle to deny that this Court, in matters of
a general nature, has exhibited a marked reluctance to
recognize nonconformist state rules as settling the question of state law. But even in cases where an asserted
rule of the state courts has been rejected, it has been
stated or implied that the asserted rule would govern if
sufficiently established. Expressions to this effect occur
with such frequency and consistency that they must be
recognized as forming a part of the general doctrine on
the subject.
As a matter of comity at least and by virtue of the
Rules of Decision Act as well, the federal courts are
bound to recognize an asserted rule of state law where

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Argument for Petitioner.

the evidence in the form of state decisions is sufficiently
conclusive, in other words, when the asserted rule is
established with sufficient definiteness and finality.
The implication from the Swift case would seem to be
that the federal courts would follow the state rule if
established with such definiteness and finality that the
state courts would no longer resort to the general sources
of the common law or to general reasoning and legal
analogies, but would regard the question as foreclosed in.
the State.
This Court has so indicated in many cases where the
conclusion was that there was no state rule so firmly
established as to exclude resort to general principles.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co., 16 Pet.
495; Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464;. Chicago v. Robbins, 2
Black 418; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; New York
Central R. Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Burgess v.
Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Barber v. Pittsburgh,F. W. & C.
Ry. Co., 166 U. S.83; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215
U. S.349;.Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow
Taxicab Co., 276 U. S.518.
Obviously, a case is not regarded as depending "upon
the doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence" when the applicable state rule is established by
state statute, even though the statute deals with a mafter which but for the statute would unquestionably come
within the scope of commercial law and general jurisprudence. Burns Mortgage Co. v. Fried, 292'U. S.487;
Marine Bank v. Kalt-Zimmers Co., 293 U. S.357. It
would seem equally obvious that a case is not to be regarded as depending "upon the doctrines of commercial
and general jurisprudence" when there is an applicable
state rule of property, action or conduct, definitely and
finally established as such by decisions of the highest
state court, even though the decisions deal with a matter

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Respondent.

304 U. S.

which but for such established rule would unquestionably come within the scope of commercial law and general jurisprudence. Snare & Triest Co. v. Friedman,.169
F. 1, 12; 214 U. S. 518; Bucher v. Cheshire .RailroadCo.,
125 U. S. 555; Byrne v. Kansas City, Ft. S. & M. R. Co.,
61 F. 605.
The Pennsylvania decisions denying permissive rights
on longitudinal pathways, as distinguished from crossings, declare a Pennsylvania rule sufficiently local in nature to be controlling, even though more definiteness and
finality might be required in a rule of a more general
nature. It rests expressly on a*local policy relating to
the efficient operation of railroads, a policy which presumably was dictated by local conditions.
Mr. Fred H. Rees, with whom Messrs. Alexander L.
Strouse and William Walsh were on the brief, for respondent.
In cases involving questions of general law, federal
courts will exercise their independent judgment.
This doctrine, which is now elementary, found its inception in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; has consfantly been
reaffirmed by. this Court and was most recently applied
in the case of Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown &
Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S. 518.
Decisions of this Court, as well as logic and reason,
have established that questions of the type here presented, involving railroad accidents, are questions of general law, upon which independent judgment may be exercised by federal courts. [Citing Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co. v. Baugh; 149 U. S. 368, and many other cases.]
There is no doctrine that where a rule is well established in a State, the question is one of local law and
federal courts must follow the rule even though the rule
might otherwise be regarded as one of general law.
Even if a question of local law were here involved, the
same result must be reached, since petitioner relies upon

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.

69

Opinion of the Court.

64

'a solitary Pennsylvania decision, clearly contrary to the
weight of Pennsylvania decisions, and of doubtful applicability to the facts of the case at bar.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether the oft-challenged
doctrine of Swift v. Tyson 1 shall now be disapproved.
Tompkins, a citizen of Pennsylvania, was injured on a
dark night by a passing freight train of the Erie Railroad Company while walking along its right of way at
Hughestown in that State. He claimed that the, accident
occurred through negligence in the operation, or maintenance, of the train; that h.e was rightfully on the
premises as licensee because on a commonly used beaten
footpath which ran for a short distance alongside the
tracks; and that he was struck by something which looked
like a door projecting from one of the moving cars. To
enforce that claim he brought an action in the federal
court for southern New York, which had jurisdiction
because the company is a corporation of that State.

It

denied liability; and the case was tried by a jury.
-.16'Pet. 1 (1842).

Leading cases applying the doctrine are col-

lected in Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab
Co., 276 U. S. 518, 530, 531. Dissent from its application or extension was expressed as early as 1845 by Mr. Justice McKinley (and
Mr. Chief Justice Taney) in Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464, 477. Dissenting opinions were also witten by Mr. Justice Daniel in Rowan v.
Runnels, 5 How. 134, 140; by Mr. Justice Nelson in Williamson v.
Berry, 8 How. 495, 550, 558; -by Mr. Justice Campbell in Pease
v. Peck, 18 How. 595, 599, 600; and by Mr. Justice Miller in Geipcke
v. City of Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, 207, and Butz v. 'City of Muscatine, 8 Wall. 575, 585: Vigorous attack upon the entire doctrine was
made by Mr. Justice Field in Baltimore & Ohio : Co. v. Baugh,
149 U. S. 368, 390, and by Mr. Justice Holmes in Kuhn v. Fairmont
Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349, 370, and in the Taxicab case, 276 U. S. at
532.

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The Erie insisted that its duty to Tompkins was no
greater than that owed to a trespasser. It contended,
among other things, that its duty to Tompkins, and
.hence its liability, should be determined in accordance
with the Pennsylvania law;, that under the law of Pennsylvania, as declared by its highest, court, persons who
use pathways along the railroad right of way-that is
a longitudinal pathway as distinguished from a crossing-are to be deemed trespassers; and that the railroad
is not liable for injuries to undiscovered trespassers resulting from its negligence, unless it be wanton or wilful.
Tompkins denied that any such rule had been established
by the decisions of the Pennsylvania courts; and contended that, since there was no statute of the State on
the subject, the railroad's duty and liability is to be
determined in federal courts as a matter of general law.
The trial judge refused to rule that the applicable law
precluded recovery. The jury brought in a verdict of
$30,000; and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held, 90 F. 2d
603, 604, that it was unnecessary to consider whether the
law of Pennsylvania was as contended, because the question was one not of local, but of general, law and that
''upon questions of general law the federal courts are
free, in the absence of a local statute, to exercise their
independent judgment as to what the law is; and it is
well settled that the question of the responsibility of a
railroad for injuries caused by its servants is one of general law. .

. Where the public has made open and

notorious use of a railroad right of way for a long period
of time and without objection, the company owes to persons on such permissive pathway a duty of care in the
operation of its trains ....
It is likewise generally recognized law that a jury may find that negligence exists
toward a pedestrian using a permissive path on the railroad right of way if he is hit by some object projecting
from the side of the train."

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of the Court.

The Erie had contended that application of the Pennsylvania rule was required, among other things, by § 34
of the Federal Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c.
20, 28 U. S. C. § 725, which provides:
"The laws of the several States, except where the
Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States
otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules
of decision in trials at common law, in the courts of the
United States, in cases where they apply."
.Because of the importance of the question whether the
federal court was.,free to disregard the alleged rule of the
Pennsylvania common law, we granted. certiorari.
First. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 18, held that federal
courts exercising jurisdiction on the ground of diversity
of citizenship need not, in matters of general jurisprudence, apply the unwritten law of the State as declared
by its highest court'; that they are free to exercise an
independent judgment as to what the common law of the
State is--or should be; and that, as there stated by Mr.
Justice Story:
."the true interpretation of the thirty-fourth section limited its application to state laws strictly local, that is to
say, to the positive statutes of the state, and the construction thereof adopted by the local tribunals, and to
rights and titles to things having a permanent locality,
such as the rights and titles to real estate, and other matters immovable and intraterritorial in their nature and
character. It never has been supposed by us, that the section did apply, or was intended to apply, to questions of a
more general nature, not at all dependent upon local statutes or local usages of a fixed and permanent operation, as,
for example, to the -construction of ordinary contracts
or other written instruments, and especially to questions
of general commercial law, where the state tribunals are
called upon to perform the like functions as ourselves,
that is, to, ascertain upon general reasoning -and legal.
analogies, what is the true exposition of the contract or

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

instrument, or what is the just rule furnished by the principles of commercial law to govern the case."

The Court in applying the rule of § 34 to equity-cases, in
Mason v. United States, 260 U. S. 545, 559, said: "The

statute, however, is merely declarative of the rule which
would exist in the absence of the statute." 2 The federal

courts assumed, in' the broad field of "general law," the
power to declare rules of decision which Congress was
confessedly without power to enact as statutes. Doubt
was repeatedly expressed as to the correctness of the construction given § 34,8 and as to the soundness of the rule
which it introduced.4 But it was the more recent research of a competent scholar, who examined the original
document, which established that the construction given
to it by the Court was erroneous; and that the purpose of
the section was merely to make certain that, in all matters except those in which some federal law is controlling,
In Hamkins v. Barney's Lessee, 5 Pet. 457, 464, it was stated that
§ 34 "has been uniformly held to be no more than a declaration of
2

what the law would have been without it: to wit, that the lex loci
must be the governing rule of private right, under whatever jurisdiction private right comes to be examined." See also Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley's Lessee, 2 Pet. 492, 525. Compare Jackson v. Chew,
12 Wheat. 153, 162, 168; Livingston v. Moore, 7 Pet. 469, 542.
3 Pepper, The Border Land oft Federal and State Decisions (1889)
57; Gray, The Nature and Sources of Law (1909 ed.) §§ 533-34;
Trickett, Non-Federal Law Administered in Federal Courts (1906)
40 Am. L. Rev. 819, 821-24.
4 Street, Is There a General Commercial Law of the United States
(1873) 21 Am: L. Reg. 473; Hornblower, Conflict between State and
Federal Decisions (1880) 14 Am. L. Rev. 211; Meigs, Decisions of
the Federal Courts on Questions of State Law (1882) 8 So. L. Rev.
(n. s.) 452, (1911) 45 Am. L. Rev. 47; Heiskell, Conflict between
Federal and State Decisions (1882) 16 Am. L. Rev. 743; Rand, Swift
v. Tyson versus Gelpcke v. Dubuque (1895) 8 Harv. L. Rev. 328,
341-43; Mills, Should Federal Courts Ignore State Laws (1900)34
Am. L. Rev. 51; Carpenter, Court Decisions and the Common Law
(1917) 17 Col. L. Rev. 593, 602-03.

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of the Court.

the federal courts exercising jurisdiction in diversity of
citizenship cases would apply as their rules of decision the
law of the State, unwritten as well as written.'
Criticism of the doctrine became widespread after the
decision of Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S. 518.' There, Brown and
Yellow, a Kentucky corporation owned by Kentuckians,
and the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, also a Kentucky corporation, Wished that the former should have
the exclusive privilege of soliciting passenger and baggage
transportation at the Bowling Green, Kentucky, railroad
station; and that the Black and White, a competing Kentucky corporation, should be prevented from interfering
with that privilege. Knowing that such a contract would
be void under the common law of Kentucky, it was arranged that the Brown and Yellow reincorporate under
the law of Tennessee, and that the contract with the railroad should be executed there. The suit was then brought
by the Tennessee corporation in the federal court for
western Kentucky to enjoin competition by the Black
and White; an injunction issued by the District Court
Charles Warren, New Light on the History of the Federal Judiciary
Act of 1789 (1923) 37 Harv. L. Rev. 49, 51-52, 81-88, 108.
0
5Shelton, Concurrent Jurisdiction-Its Necessity and its Dangers
(1928) 15 Va. L. Rev. 137; Frankfurter, Distribution of Judicial
Power Between Federal and State Courts (1928) 13 Corn. L. Q. 499,
524-30; Johnson,, State Law and the Federal Courts (1929) 17 Ky.
L. J. 355; Fordham, The Federal Courts and the. Construction of
Uniform State Laws (1929) 7 N. C. L. Rev. 423; Dobie, Seven Implications of Swift v. Tyson (1930) 16 Va. L. Rev. 225; Dawson,
Conflict of Decisions between State and Federal Courts in Kentucky,
and the Remedy (1931) 20 Ky. L. J. 1; Campbell, Is Swift v. Tyson
an Argument for or against Abolishing Diversity of Citizenship Jurisdiction (1932) 18 A. B. A. J. 809; Ball, Revision of Federal Diversity
Jurisdiction (1933) 28 11. L. Rev. 356, 362-64; Fordham, Swift v.
Tyson and the Construction of State Statutes (1935) 41 W. Va. L. Q.
131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

was sustained by the Court of Appeals; and this Court,
citing many decisions in which the doctrine of Swift v.
Tyson had been applied, affirmed the decree.
Second. Experience in applying the doctrine of Swift
v. Tyson, had revealed its defects, political and social;
and the benefits expected to flow from the rule did not
accrue. Persistence of state courts in their own opinions
on questions of common law prevented uniformity;7 and
the impossibility of discovering a satisfactory line of
demarcation between the province of general law and that
of local law developed a new well of uncertainties.8
On the other hand, the mischievous results of the doctrine had become apparent. Diversity of citizenship
jurisdiction was conferred in order to prevent apprehended discrimination in state courts against those not
citizens of the State. Swift v. Tyson introduced grave
discrimination 'by non-citizens against citizens. It made
rights enjoyed under the unwritten "general law" vary
according to whether enforcement was sought in the state
Compare Mr. Justice 'Miller in Gelpcke v. City of Dubuque, 1

Wall. 175, 209. The conflicts listed in Holt, The Concurrent Jurisdiction of the Federal and State Courts (1888) 260 et seq. cover
twenty-eight pages. See also Frankfurter, 8upra note 6, at 524-30;
Dawson, supra note 6; Note, Aftermath of the Supreme Court's Stop,
Look and Listen Rule (1930) 43 Harv. L. Rev. 926; cf. Yntema and
Jaffin, Preliminary Analysis of Concurrent Jurisdiction (1931) 79 U.
of Pa. L. Rev. 869, 881-86. Moreover, as pointed out by Judge
Augustus N. Hand in Cole v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 43 F. 2d 953,
956-57, decisions of this Court on common law questions are less
likely than formerly to promote uniformity.
8 Compare 2 Warren, The Supreme Court in United States History (rev. ed. 1935) 89: "Probably no decision of the Court has ever
given rise to more uncertainty as to legal rights; and though doubt-,
less intended to promote uniformity in the operation of business
transactions, its chief effect has been to render it difficult for business
men to know in advance to what particular topic the Court would
apply the doctrine ...

."

The Federal Digest, through the 1937

volume, lists nearly 1000 decisions involving the distinction between
questions of general and of local law.

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of the Court.

or in the federal court; and the privilege of selecting the
court in which the right should be determined was conferred upon the non-citizen9 Thus, the doctrine rendered impossible equal protection of the law. In attempting to promote uniformity of law throughout the
United States, the doctrine had prevented uniformity in

the administration of the law of the State.
The discrimination resulting became in practice farreaching. This resulted in part from the, broad province accorded to the so-called "general law" as to which
federal courts exercised an independent judgment." In

addition to questions of purely commercial law, "general
law" was held to include the obligations under'contracts
entered into and to be perfomed within the State,11 the
, extent to which a carrier operating within a State may
stipulate for exemption from liability for his own negligence -or that of his employee;12 the liability for torts

committed within the State upon persons resident or
property located there, even where the question of lia"It was even possible for a non-resident plaintiff defeated on a
point of law in the highest court of* a State nevertheless to win out
by taking a nonsuit and renewing the controversy in the federal
court. Compare Gardner v. Michigan Cent. R. Co., 150 U. S. 349;
Harrisonv. Folei, 206 Fed. 57 (C.C. A. 8); Interstate Realty & Inv.
Co. v. Bibb County, 293 Fed. 721 (C.C. A. 5); see Mills, supra
note 4, at 52.
10 For a recent survey of the scope of the doctrine, see Sharp &
Brennan, The Application of the Doctrine of Swift v. Tyson since
1900 (1929) 4 Ind. L. J. 367.
1 Black & White Taxicab Co., v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co.,
276 U. S. 518; Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How. 134, 139; Boyce v. Tabb,
18 Wall. 546, 548; Johnson v. Cha. D. Norton Co., 159 Fed. 361 (C.
C. A. 6); Keene Five Cent Say. Bank v. Reid, 123 Fed. 221 (C.
C. A. 8).
22 Railroad'Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 367-68; Liverpool &
G. W. Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 443; Eels v. St.
Louis, K. & N. W. Ry. Co., 52 Fed. 903 (C.C.S.D. Iowa); Fowler
v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 229 Fed. 373 (C.C. A. 2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

bility depended upon the scope of a property right conferred by the State;1" and the right to exemplary or punitive damages. 4 Furthermore, state decisions construing
local deeds,1" mineral conveyances,18 and even devises of
real estate" were disregarded. 8
In part the discrimination resulted from the wide range
of persons held entitled to avail themselves of the federal
rule by resort to the diversity of citizenship jurisdiction.
Through this jurisdiction individual citizens willing to
remove from their own State and become citizens of
another might avail themselves of the federal rule.' 9 And,
without even change of residence, a corporate citizen of
18 Chicago v. Robbins, 2 Black 418, 428. Compare Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 506-07; Yeates v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 137
Fed. 943 (C. C. N. D. Ill.); Curtis v. Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. Ry.
Co., 140 Fed. 777 (C. C.'E. D. Ill.). See also Hough v. Railway Co.,
100 U. S. 213, 226; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S.
368; Gardner v. Michigan Cent. R. Co., 150 U. S. 349, 358; Beutler
v. Grand Trunk Junction Ry. Co., 224 U. S. 85; Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co. v. Goodman, 275 U. S. 66; Pokora v. Wabash Ry. Co., 292
U. S. 98; Cole v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 43 F. (2d) 953 (C. C. A. 2).
14
Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co. v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101, 106;
Norfolk & P. Traction Co. v. Miller, 174 Fed. 607 (C. C. A. 4);
Greene v. Keithley, 86 F. (2d) 239 (C. C. A. 8).
15 Foxcroft v. Mallet, 4 How. 353, 379; Midland Valley R. Co. v.
Sutter, 28 F. (2d) 163 (C. C. A. 8);'Midland Valley R. Co. v. Jarvis,
29 F. (2d) 539 (C. C. A. 8).
18 Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349; Mid-Continent Petroleum Corp. v. Sauder, 67 F. (2d) 9, 12 (C. C. A. 10), reversed on
other grounds, 292 U. S. 272.
17 Lane v. Vick, 3 How. 464, 476; Barber v. Pittsburgh, F. W. &
C. R. Co., 166 U. S. 83, 99-100; Messinger v. Anderson, 171 Fed.
785, 791-792 (C. C. A. 6), reversed on other grounds, 225 U. S. 436;
Knox & Lewis v. Alwood, 228 Fed. 753 (S. D. Ga.).
18 Compare, also, Williamson v. Berry, 8 How. 495; Watson v.
Tarpley,
18 How. 517; Gelpcke v. City of Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175.
29 See Cheever
v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108, 123; Robertson
v. Carson.
19 Wall. 94, 106-07; Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315, 328; Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181, 192; Williamson v. Osenton, 232 U. S. 619, 625.

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.

77

Opinion of the Court.

64

the State could avail itself of the federal rule by re-incorporating under the laws of another State, as was done in
the Taxicab case.

The injustice and confusion incident to the doctrine of
Swift v. Tyson have been repeatedly urged as reasons for
abolishing or limiting diversity of citizenship jurisdicIf
tion.
Other legislative relief has been proposed..'
only a question of statutory construction were involved,
we should not be prepared to abandon a doctrine so widely
applied throughout nearly a century.

But the uncon-

See, e. g., Hearings Before a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on the Judiciaryon S. 937, S. 939, and S. 3243, 72d Cong., 1st
Sess. (1932) 6-8; Hearing Before the House Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 10594, H. R. 4526, and H. R. 11508, 72d Cong., 1st
Sess., ser. 12 (1932) 97-104; Sen. Rep. No. 530, 72d Cong., 1st Sess.
(1932) 4-6; Collier, A Plea Against Jurisdiction Because of Diversity
(1913) 76 Cent. L. J. 263, 264, 266; Frankfurter, supra note 6;
Ball, supra note 6; Warren, Corporations and Diversity of Citizenship (1933) 19 Va. L. Rev. 661, 686..
21
Thus, bills which would abrogate the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson
have been introduced. S. 4333, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.; S. 96, 71st
Cong., 1st Ses.; H. R. 8094, 72d Cong., 1st Bess. See also Mills,
supra note 4, at 68-69; Dobie, supra note 6, at 241; Frankfurter,
supra note 6, at 530; Campbell, supra note 6, at 811. State statutes
on conflicting questions of "general law" have also been suggested.
See Heiskell, supra note 4, at 760; Dawson, supra note 6; Dobie, supra
note 6, at 241.
2 2
The doctrine has not been without defenders. See Eliot, The
Common Law of the Federal Courts (1902) 36 Am. L. Rev. 498,
523-25; A. B. Parker, The Common Law Jurisdiction of the United
States Courts (1907) 17 Yale L. J. 1; Schofield, Swift v. Tyson:
Uniformity of Judge-Made State Law in State and Federal Courts
(1910) 4 Ill. L. Rev. 533; Brown, The Jurisdiction of the Federal
Couits Based on Diversity of Citizenship (1929) 78 U. of Pa. L. Rev.
179, 189-91; J. J. Parkcr, The Federal Jurisdiction and Recent Attacks Upon It (1932) 18 A. B. A. J. 433, 438; Yntema, The Jurisdictiofi of the Federal Courts in Controversies Between Citizens of
Different States (1933) 19 A. B. A. J. 71, 74-75; Beutel, Common
Law Judicial Technique and the Law of Negotiable InstrumentsTwo Unfortunate Decisions (1934) 9 Tulane L. Rev. 64.
20

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

stitutionality of the course pursued has now been made
clear and compels us to do so.
Third. Except in matters governed by the Federal Constitution or by Acts of Congress, the law to be applied in
any case is the law of the State. And whether the law of
the State shall be declared by its Legislature in a statute
or by its highest court in a decision is not a matter of federal concern. There is no federal general common law.
Congress has no power to declare substantive rules of common law applicable in a State whether they be local in
their nature or "general," be they commercial law or a
part of the law of torts. And no clause-in the Constitution purports to confer such a power upon the federal
courts. As stated by Mr. Justice Field when protesting
in Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U.'S. 368, 401,
against ignoring the Ohio common law of fellow servant
liability:
"I am aware that what has been termed the general law
of the country-which is often little less than what the
judge advancing the doctrine thinks at the time should
be the general law on a particular subject--has been often
advanced in judicial opinions of this court to control a
*conflicting law of a State. I admit that learned judges
have fallen into the habit f -repeating this doctrine as a
convenient mode of brushing aside the law of a State in
conflict with their views. And I confess that, movedi and
governed by the authority of the great names of those
judges, I have, myself, in many instances, unhesitatingly
and confidently, but I think now-.erroneously, repeated
the same doctrine. But, notwithstanding the great names
which may be cited in favor of the doctrine, and notwithstanding the frequency with which the doctrine has been
reiterated, there stands, as a perpetual protest against its
repetition, the Constitution of the United States, which
recognizes and preserves the autonomy and independence
of the States-independence in their legislative and inde-

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of the Court:

pendence in their judicial departments. Supervision over
either the legislative or the judicial action of the States
is in no case permissible except as to matters by the Constitution specifically authorized or delegated to the United
States. Any interference with either, except as thus permitted, is an invasion of the authority of the State and,
to that extent, a denial of its independence."
The fallacy underlying the rule declared in Swift v.
Tyson is made clear by Mr. Justice Holmes.2" The doctrine rests upon the assumption that there is "a transcendental body of law outside of any particular State but
obligatory within it unless and until changed by statute,"
that federal courts have the power to use their judgment
as to what the' rules of common law are; and that in the
federal courts "the parties are entitled to an independent
judgment on matters of general law":
"but law in the sense in which courts speak of it today
does not exist without some definite authority behind it.
The common law so far as it. is enforced in a State,
whether called common law or not, is not the common
law generally but the law of that State existing by the
authority of that State without regard to what it may
.have been in England or anywhere else....
"the authority and only authority is the State, and if that
be so, the voice adopted by the State as its own [whether
it be of its Legislature or of its Supreme Court] should
utter the last word."
Thus the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson is, as Mr. Justice
Holmes said, "an unconstitutional assumption of powers
by courts of the United States which no lapse of time or
respectable array of opinion should make us hesitate to
correct." In disapproving that doctrine we do not hold
23

Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349, 370-372; Black &

White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S. 518,

532-36.

80

"OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion -of BurLE, J.

304 U. S.

unconstitutional § 34 of the Federal Judiciary Act of
1789 or any other Act ot Congress. We merely declare
that in applying the doctrine this Court and the lower
courts have invaded rights whicl in our opinion are reserved by the Constitution to the several 'States.
Fourth. The defendant contended that by the common law of Pennsylvania as declared by its highest court
in Falchetti v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 307 Pa. 203; 160 A.
859, the only duty owed to the plaintiff was to refrain
from wilful or wanton injury. The plaintiff denied that
such is the Pennsylvania law.2 ' In support of their respective contentions the parties discussed and cited 'many
decisions of the Supreme Court of the State. The Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the question of liability
is one of general law; and on that ground declined to decide the issue of state law. As :we hold this was error,
the judgment is reversed and the case remanded to it for
further proceedings in conformity with our opinion.
Reversed.
MR; JUSTICE CARDOZO took
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTIcF

no part in the consideration

BUTLER.

The case presented by the evidence is a simple one.
Plaintiff was severely injured in Pennsylvania. While
walking on defendant's right of way along a much-used
path at the end of the cross ties of its main track, he came
into collision with an open door swinging from the side
of a car in a train going in the-opposite direction. Having
been warned by whistle and headlight, he saw the locomo-;
ompkins also contended that the alleged rule of the Falchetti
case is not in any event applicable here because he, was struck at the
intersection of the longitudinal pathway and a transverse 'crossing.
The court below found it unnecessary to consider this contention, and
we leave the question open.

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
Opinion of Bumm, J.

64

tive approaching and had time and space enough to step
aside and so avoid danger. To justify his failure to get
out of the Way, he says that upon many other occasions
he had safely walked there while trains passed.
Invoking jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of
citizenship, plaintiff, a citizen .and resident of Pennsylvania, brought this suit to recover damages against defendant, a New York corporation, in the federal court for,
the southern district of that State. The issues were
whether negligence of defendant was a proximate cause
of his injuries and whether negligence of plaintiff contributed. He claimed that,- by hauling the car with the
open door, defendant violated a duty to him. The defendant insisted that it violated no duty and that plaintiff's injuries were caused by his own negligence. .The
jury gave him a Verdict on which the trial court entered
judgment; the circuit court of appeals affirmed. 90 F.
(2d) 603.
Defendant maintained, citing Falchettiv. Pennsylvania
R. Co., 307 Pa. 203; 160 A. 859, and Koontz v. B. & 0. R.
Co., 309 Pa. 122; 163 A. 212, that the only duty owed
plaintiff was to refrain from willfully or wantonly injuring
him; it argued that the courts of Pennsylvania had so
ruled with respect to persons using a customary longitudinal path, as distinguished from one crossing the track.
The plaintiff insisted that the Pennsylvania decisions did
not establish the rule for which the defendant contended..
Upon that issue the circuit court of appeals said (p. 604):
"We need hot- go into this matter since the defendant
concedes that the great weight of authority in other states
is to the contrary., This concession is fatal to its contention, for upon questions of general law the federal courts
are free, iii absence of a local statute, to exercise their
independent judgment as to what the law is; and it is well
settled that the question of the responsibility of a railroad
for injuries caused by its servants is one of general law.".
81638 °-.j--.--

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of BwtLxa, J.

304 U. S.

Upon that basis the court held the evidence sufficient to
susrain a finding that plaintiff's injuries were caused by
the negligence of defendant. It also held the question
of contributory negligence one for the jury.
Defendant's petition for writ of certiorari presented
two questions: Whether its duty toward plaintiff should
have been determined in accordance with the law as
found by the highest court of Pennsylvania, and whether
the evidence conclusively showed plaintiff guilty of contributory negligence. Plaintiff contends that, as always
heretofore held by this Court, the issues of negligence and
contributory negligence are to be determined by general
law against which local decisions may not be held conclusive; that defendant relies on a solitary Pennsylvania
case of doubtful applicability and that, even if the decisions of'the courts of that State were deemed controlling,
the same result would have to be reached.
No constitutional question was suggested or argued below or here. And as a general rule, this Court will not
consider any question not raised below and presented by,
the petition. Olson v. United States, 292 U.'S. 246, 262,
Johnson v. ManhattanRy. Co., 289 U. S. 479,494. Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 98. Here it does not decide
either of the questions presented but, changing the rule
.of decision in force since the foundation of the Government,' remands the case to be adjudged according to a
standard never before deemed permissible.
The opinion just announced states that "the question
for decision is whether the oft-challenged doctrine of
Swift v. Tyson [1842, 16 Pet. 1] shall now be disapproved."
That case involved the construction of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, § 34: "The laws of the several states, except
where the Constitution. treaties, or statutes of the United
Staes otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as
rules of decison i trials at common law in the courts of-

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of BumFnm, J.

the United States in cases where they apply." Expressing theview of all the members of the Court, Mr. Justice
Story said (p. 18): "In the ordinary use of language it will
hardly be contended that the decisions of Courts constitute laws. They are, at most, only evidence of what the
laws are, and not of themselves laws. They are often
re-examined, reversed, and qualified by the Courts themselves, whenever they are found to be either defective, or
ill-founded, or otherwise incorrect. The laws of a-state
are more usually understood to mean the rules and enactments promulgated by the legislative authority thereof,
or lOng established local customs having the.force of laws.
In all, the various cases, which have hitherto come before
us for decision, this Court have uniformly supposed, that
the true interpretation of the thirty-fourth section' limited
its application to state laws strictly local, that is to say, to
the positive statutes of the state, and the construction
thereof adopted by the local tribunals, and to rights and
titles to things having a permanent locality, such as the
rights and titles to real estate, and Dther matters immovable and intraterritorial in their nature and character.
It never has been supposed by us, that the section did
apply, or was designed to apply, to questions of a more
general nature, not at all dependent upon local statutes
or local usages of a fixed and permanent operation, as,
for example, to the construction of ordinary contracts or
other written instruments, and especially to questions of
general commercial law, where the state ,tribunals are
called upon to perform the like functions as ourselves,
that is, to ascertain upon general reasoning and legal.
analogies, what is the true exposition of the contract or
instrument, or what is the just rule furnished by the prin-.
ciples of commercial law to govern the case. And we have
not now the slightest difficulty in holding, that this seetion, upon its true intendment and construction, is strictly
limited to local statutes and local usages of the character

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of

BUTLER, J.

304 U. S.

before stated, and does not extend to contracts and other
instruments of a commercial nature, the true interpretation and effect whereof are to be sought, not in the decisions of the local tribunals, but in the general principles
and doctrines of commercial jurisprudence. Undoubtedly,
the decisions of the local tribunals upon such subjects are
entitled to, and will receive, the most deliberate attention
and respect of this Court; but they cannot furnish positive rules, or conclusive authority, by which our own judgments are to be bound up and governed." (Italics
added.)
The doctrine of that case has been followed by this
Court in an unbroken line of decisions. So far as appears, it was not questioned until more than 50 years
later, and then by a single judge.' Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 390. In that case, Mr.
Justice Brewer, speaking for the Court, truly said (p.
373): "Whatever differences of opinion may have been
expressed, have not been on the question whether a matter of general law should be settled by the independent
judgment of this court, rather than through an adherence.
to the decisions of the state courts, but upon the other
question, whether a given matter is one of local or of
general law."
And since-that decision, the division of opinion in this
Court has been one of the same character as it was before.
In 1910, Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for himself and
two other Justices, dissented from the holding that a
1 Mr. Justice Field filed a dissenting opinion, -several sentences of
which are quoted in the decision just announced. The dissent failed
to impresi any of his associates. It assumes that adherence to § 34
as construed involves a supervision over legislative or judicial action
of the states. There is no foundation for that suggestion. Clearly
the dissent of the learned Justice rests upon misapprehension of the
rule. He joined in applying the doctrine for more than a 'quarter
of a century before his dissent. The reports do not disclose that he
objected to it in any later case. Cf. Oakes v. Mase, 165 U. S.- 363.

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of

BuTLER, J.

court of the United States was bound to exercise its own
;independent judgment in the construction of a conveyance made before the state courts had rendered an authoritative decision as to its meaning and effect. Kuhn
v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S.349. But that dissent
accepted (p. 371) as "settled" the doctrine of Swift v.
Tyson, and insisted (p. 372) merely that the case under
consideration was by nature and necessity peculiarly local.
Thereafter, as before, the doctrine was constantly applied.2 In Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S. 518, three judges dissented.
The writer of the dissent, Mr. dustice Holmes, said, however (p. 535): "I should leave Swift v. Tyson undisturbed, as I indicated in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., but
I would not allow it to spread the assumed dominion
into new fields."
No more unqualified application of the doctrine can be
found than in decisions of this Court speaking through Mr.
Justice Holmes. United Zinc Co. v. Britt, 258 U. S.268.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Goodman, 275 U. S.66, 70.
Without in the slightest departing from that doctrine, but
implicitly applying it, the strictness of the rule laid down in the Goodman case was somewhat ameliorated by
Pokora v. Wabash Ry. Co., 292 U. S.98.
Whenever possible, consistently with standards sustained by reason and authority constituting the general.
law, :,his Court has followed applicable decisions of. state
courts. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 293 U. S.335,
339. See Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 34. Black
& White Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co.,
supra, 530. Unquestionably the issues of- negligence and
contributory negligence upon which decision of this case
2

In Salem Trust Co. v. Manufacturers' Finance Co., 264 U. S.
182, Mr. Justice Holmes and Mr. Justice Brandeis co.ncaima (p. 2M)
in the judgment of the Court upon a question of general law on the
I
ground that the rights of the parties were governed by state'law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of Bun%,J.

304 U. S.

depends are questions of general law. Hough v. Railway
Co., 100 U. S. 213, 226. Lake, Shore & M. S. Ry. Co. v.
Prentice, 147 U. S. 101. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Baugh, supra. Gardner v. Michigan Central R. Co., 150
U. S. 349, 358. Central Vermont Ry. Co.. v. White, 238
U. S. 507, 512. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Goodman,
supra. Pokora v. Wabash Ry. Co., supra.
While amendments to § 34 have from time to time
been suggested, the section stands as originally enacted.
Evidently Congress has intended throughout the years
that the rule of decision as construed should continue to
govern federal courts in trials at common law. The
opinion just announced suggests that Mr. Warren's research has established that from the beginning this Court
has erroneously construed § 34. But that author's "New
Light oi the History of the Federal Judiciary Act of
,1789" does not purport to be authoritative and was intended to be no more than suggestive. The weight to
be given to his discovery has never been discussed at this
bar. Nor does the. opinion indicate the ground, disclosed
by the research. In his dissenting opinion in the TaxicA case, Mr. Justice Holmes referred to Mr.'Warren's
work but failed to persuade the Court that "laws" as used
in § 34 included varying and possibly ill-considered rulings by the courts of a State on questions of common
law. See, e. g., Swift v. Tyson, supra, 16-17. It well
may be that, if the Court should now call for argument
of counsel on the basis of Mr. Warren's research, it would
adhere to the construction it has always put upon § 34.
Indeed, the opinion in this case so indicates. For it declares: "If only a question of statutory construction were
involved, we should not be prepared to abandon a doctrine so widely applied, throughout a century. But the
unconstitutionality of the course pursued has now been
made clear and compels us to do so." This means that,,
so far as concerns the rule of decision now condemned,
the Judiciary Act of 1789, passed to establish judieial

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of

BuTmL,

J.

courts to exert the judicial power of the United States,
and especially § 34 of that Act as construed, is unconstitutional; that federal courts are now bound to follow
decisions of the courts of the State in which the controversies arise; and that Congress is powerless otherwise
to ordain. It is hard to foresee the consequences of the
radical change so made. Our opinion in the Taxicab case
cites numerous decisions of this Court which serve in
part to indicate the field from which it is now intended
forever to bar the federal courts. It extends to all matters of contracts and torts not positively'governed by
state enactments. Counsel searching for precedent and
reasoning to disclose common-law principles on which to
guide clients and conduct litigation are by this decision
told that as to all of these questions the decisions of this
Court and other federal courts are no longer anywhere
authoritative.
This Court has often emphasized its reluctance to consider constitutional questions, and that legislation will not
be held invalid as repugnant to the fundamental law if
the case may be decided upon any other ground. In view
of grave consequences liable to result from erroneous exertion of its power to set aside legislation, the Court should
move cautiously, seek assistance of counsel, act only after
ample deliberation, show that the question is before the
Court, that its decision cannot be avoided by construction
of the statute assailed or otherwise, indicate precisely the
principle or provision of the Constitution held to have
been transgressed, and fully disclose. the reasons and
authorities found to warrant the conclusion of invalidity.
These safeguards against the improvident use of the great
power to invalidate legislation are so well-grounded and
familiar that statement of reasons or citation of authority
to support them is no longer necessary. But see e. g.:
CharlesRiver Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 553;
Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666, 673,;
Chicago & G. T. Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345;

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of Bur~ut, T.

304 U.S.

Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284, 292; Martin v. District of
Columbia, 205 U. S. 135, 140.
So far as appears, no litigant has ever challenged the
power of Congress to establish the: rule as construed. It
has so long endured that its destruction now without
appropriate deliberation cannot be justified. There is
nothing in the opinion to suggest that consideration of
any constitutional question is neccssary to a decision of
the case. By way of reasoning, it contains nothing that
requires the conclusion reached. Admittedly, there is no
authority to support that conclusion. Against the protest
of those joining in this opinion, the Court declines to
assign the case for 'reargument. It may not justly be
assumed that the labor and argument of counsel for the
parties would not disclose the right conclusion and aid
the Court in the statement of reasons to support it. Indeed, it would have been appropriate to give Congress
opportunity to be heard before devesting it of power to
prescribe rules of decision to be followed- in the courts of
the United States. See Myers v. United States, 272 U. S.
52, 176.
The course pursued by the Court in this case is repugnant to the Act of Congress of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat.
751. It declares: "That whenever the constitutionality
of any Act of Congress affecting the public interest is
drawn in question in any court of the United States in
any suit or proceeding to which the United States, or any
agency thereof, or any officer or employee thereof, as such
officer or employee, is not a party, the court having jurisdiction of the suit or proceeding'shall certify such fact to
the Attorney General. In any such case the court shall
permit the United States to intervene and become a party
for presentation of evidence (if evidence is otherwise
receivable in such suit or proceeding) and argumentp upon
the question of the constitutionality of such Act.. In any
such suit or proceeding the United States shall, subject to
the applicable provisions of law, have all the rights of a

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
64

Opinion of

BUTLER, J.

party and the liabilities of a party as to court costs to the
,!xtent necessary for a proper presentation of the facts and
law relating to the constitutionality of such Act." That
provision extends to this Court. § 5. If defendant had
applied for and obtained the writ of certiorari upon the
claim that, as now held, Congress has no power to prescribe the rule of decision, § 34 as construed, it would have
been the duty of thi Court to issue the prescribed certificate to the Attorney General in order that the Unitod
States might intervene and be heard on .the constitutional
question. Within the purpose of the statute and its true
intent and meaning, the constitutionality of that measure
has been "drawn in question." Congress intended to give
the United States the right to be heard in every case involving constitutionality of an Act affecting the public
interest. In view of the rule that, in the absence of challenge of constitutionality, statutes will not here be invalidated on that ground, the Act of August 24, 1937
extends to cases where constitutionality is first "drawn
in question" by the Court. No extraordinary or unusual
action by the Court after submission of the cause should
be permitted to frustrate the wholesome purpose of that
Act. The duty it imposes ought here to be willingly assumed. If it were doubtful whether this case is within
the scope of the Act, the Court should give the United
States opportunity to intervene and, if so advised, to
present argument on the constitutional question, for undoubtedly it is one of great public importance. That
would be to construe the Act according to its meaning.
The Court's opinion in its first sentence defines the
question to be whether the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson
shall now be disapproved; it recites (p. 72) that Congress is without power to prescribe rules of decision that
have been followed by federal courts as a. result of the
construction of § 34 in Swift v. Tyson and since; after discussion, it declares (pp. 77-78) that the unconstitutionality of the course pursued'. [meanlin, the rule of decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of RnED, J.

304 U. S.

resulting from that construction] compels" abandonment
of the doctrine so long applied; and then near the endof the last page the Court states that it does not hold
§ 34 unconstitutional, but merely that,-in applying the
doctrine of Swift v. Tyson construing it, this Court and
the lower courts have invaded rights which are reserved
by the Constitution to the several States. But, plainly
through the form of words employed, the substance of
the decision appears; it strikes down as unconstitutional
§ 34 as construed by our decisions; it divests the Congress of power to prescribe rules to be followed by federal
courts when deciding questions of general law. In that
broad field it compels this and the lower federal courts
to follow decisions of the courts ofa particular State.
I am of opinion that the constitutional validity of the
rule need not be considered; because under the law, as.
found by the courts of Pennsylvania and -generally
throughout the country, it is plain that the evidence
required a finding that plaintiff was guilty of negligence
that contributed to cause his injuries and that the judgment below should be reversed upon that ground.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE REED.

I concur in the conclusion reached in this case, -in the
disapproval of the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson, and in the
reasoning of the majority opinion except in so far as it
relies upon the -unconstitutionality of the "course pursued" by the federal courts.
The "doctrine of.Swift v. Tyson," as I understand it,
is that the wordsi'the laws," as used in § 3,, line one, of
the Federal Judiciary Act of September 24, 17,89, do not
include in their meaning "the decisions of the local tribunals." Mr. Justice Story, in deciding that point, said
(16 Pet. 19):

ERIE R. CO. v. TOMPKINS.
864

91

Opinion of Rmz, J.

"Undoubtedly, the decisions of the local tribunaIs upon
such subjects are entitled to, and will receive, the most
deliberate attention and respect of this Court; but they
cannot furnish 'positive rules, or conclusive authority,
by which our own judgments are to be bound up and
governed."
To decide the case now before us and 'to "disapprove"
the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson requires only that we say
that the words "the laws" include in their meaning the
decisions of the local tribunals. As the majority opinion
shows, by its reference to Mr. Warren's researches and
the first quotatiori from Mr. Justice Holmes, that this
Court is now of the view that "laws" includes "decisions,"
it is unnecessary to go further and declare that the
"course pursued" was "unconstitutional," instead of
merely erroneous.
The "unconstitutional" course referred to in the majority opinion is apparently the ruling in Swift v. Tyson
that the supposed omission of Congress to legislate as to
the effect of decisions leaves federal courts free to interpret general law for themselves. I am not at all sure
whether, in the absence of federal statutory direction,
federal courts would be compelled to follow state decisions. There was sufficient doubt about the matter in
1789 to induce the first Congress to legislate. No former
opinions of this Court have passed upon it. Mr. Justice
Holmes evidently saw nothing "unconstitutional" which
required the overruling of Swift v. Tyson, for he said
in the very opinion quoted by the majority, "I should
leave Swift v. Tyson undisturbed, as I indicated in Kuhn
v. Fairmont Coal Co.,_but I would not allow it to spread
the assumed dominion into new fields." Black & White
Taxicab Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U. S.
518, 535. If the opinion commits this Court to the position that the Congress is without power to declare what
rules of substantive law shall govern the federal courts,

OCTOBER TERM., 1937.
Syllabus

304 U. S.

that conclusion also seems questionable. The line between procedural and substaitive law is hazy but no
one doubts federal power over procedure. Wayman v.
Southard, 10 Wheat. 1. The Judiciary Article and the
"necessary and proper" clause of Article One may fully
authorize legislation, such as this section of the Judiciary
Act.
In this Court, stare decisis, in statutory construction,
is a useful rule, not an inexorable command. Burnet v.
Coronado Oil & Gas ,Co., 285 U. S. 393, dissent, p. 406,
note 1. Compare Read v. Bishop of Lincoln; [1892]
A. C. 644, 655; London Street Tramways Co. v. London
County Council, [1898] A. C. 375, 379.' It'seems jreferable to overturn an established construction of an Act of
Congress, rather than, in the circumstances of this case,
to interpret the Constitution. Cf. United States v.
Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366.
There is no occasion to discuss further the range or
soundness of these few phrases of the opinion. It is sufficient now to call attention to them and express my own
non-acquiescence.

HINDERL'IDER, STATE ENGINEER,

ET AL. V.

LA

PLATA RIVER & CHERRY CREEK DITCH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF COLORADO.

No. 437.

Argued February 10, 11, 1938.-Decided April 25,.1938.

1. The water of an interstate stream, used beneficially in each of the
two States through which it flows, must be equitably apportioned
between the two. P. 101.
The claim that on interstate streams the upper State has such
ownership or control of the whole stream as entitles it to divert all
the .water, regardless of any injury or prejudice to the lower State,
has been consistently denied by this Court. P. 102.--'.
2.A decree of a state court can not confer a right in the water of an
interstate stream in excess of the State's equitable portion of such
water. P. 102.

