486

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

304 U. S.

IN THE MATTER OF THE NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
PETITION FOR WRITS OF PROHIBITION AND MANDAMUS.

No. 21, Original. Argued May 23, 1938.--Decided May 31, 1938.
1. To confer jurisdiction upon the Circuit Court of Appeals to
review an order of the National Labor Relations Board, the
filing and service of the petition are not enough, but a transcript
of the Board's proceedings also must be filed with the court.
National Labor Relations Act, § 10 (d) (e) (f). P. 491.
2. Where a petition for review has been filed and served on the
Board, and the petitioner has requested the Board to furnish
a certified transcript of its proceedings but none has been furnished
and filed in the court, the Board retains authority, under § 10
(d) of the Act, to vacate or modify its order for the purpose of
correcting errors which render it inadequate or unjust, and the
court has no jurisdiction to restrain the Board from so doing and
to requir! it to file the transcript. Pp. 491-494.
in the present case there is no occasion to determine what, if
any, relief may be needed by or available to a party who has
filed his petition for review, where the Board does not desire to
modify or set aside its order but fails or refuses to furnish a
transcript of its proceedings.
3. The investiture of the court with jurisdiction to review an order
of the Labor Board on the merits, only upon the filing of a
transcript exhibiting the Board's final action, is not a denial of
due process. P. 495.
4. Mandamus and prohibition are appropriate remedies, in the
absence of adequate remedy by certiorari, for unwarranted
assumption by the Circuit Court of Appeals of jurisdiction over
proceedings of the National Labor Relations Board. P. 496.

ORIGINAL application by the National Labor Relations
Board for writs of mandamus and prohibition directed to
the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Cir-uit. The cause was submitted by the respondents,
Hon. Joseph Buffington, Hon. J. Warren Davis, and Hon.
J. Whitaker Thompson, Circuit Judges, upon their return
to the rule to show cause.

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert B. Watts; with whom Solicitor General
Jackson was on a memorandum, for petitioner.
Mr. Luther Day, with whom Messrs. Thomas F. Patton, Joseph W. Henderson, Thomas F. Veach, and Mortimor S. Gordon were on the brief, opposed the relief
sought. They appeared as counsel for the Republic Steel
Corporation, party to the proceedings in the lower court
against which the petition was directed.
MR. JUSTIcE. ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The motion before us involves a coastrution of § 10
(d) (e) and (f) of the National Labor Relations Act,1
providing for review of orders of the National Labor Relations Board.
May 16, 1938, the Board filed in this court a motion for
leave to file a petition for writs of prohibition and mandamus directed to the judges-of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Attached to the
motion was the petition which set forth the following
facts.
April 8, 1938, the Board, in a cause pending before it,
issued an order directing the Republic Steel Corporation
to desist from certain unfair labor practices and to take
certain affirmative action. April 18 Republic filed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals a petition for review alleging
that the order violated the constitutional guarantee of
due process because it was entered without an opportunity to Republic to support its contentions by argument
or brief and thus the Board had denied it the hearing to
which it was entitled. On the same day Republic requested of the Board a transcript of the entire record of
its proceedings and the General Counsel of the Board
149 Stat. 454; U. S. C., Supp. II, Tit. 29,'§ 160 (d) (e) (f).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

replied: "I have your letter of April 18th, and received
today a copy of your petition for review of the Board's
order filed in the Third Circuit. We will proceed to get
up the record as promptly as possible for certification to
the court."
The rules of the Board extend to any party the right,
within a reasonable period after the close of a hearing,
to present oral argument before the trial examiner and,
with his permission, to file briefs. They further provide
that the Board may decide a cause with or without allowing the parties to present oral argument before the Board
itself or to submit briefs to the Board. It is the Board's
practice to grant leave to submit briefs to it or to make
oral argument before it whenever s' requested, ,but the
rules do not expressly state that such a request may be
made or that the request, if made, will be granted. No
such request was made by Republic and no brief was
received or oral argument heard before the entry of the
order of April 8, 1938. The rules also provide for hearing
before a trial examiner of causes initiated by the filing
of charges before a regional director unless the cause is
transferred for hearing before the, Board in Washington.
If the hearing is before an examiner he is to render an
intermediate report containing findings of fact and recommendations as to the disposition of the cause, which arc
to be served upon the parties, and they are entitled to
take exceptions to the intermediate report. In cases initiated by charges filed with the Board in Washington, or
transferred for hearing before the Board, it may direct
the trial examiner to prepare an intermediate report, but
the rules do not require that such a report shall be prepared or served, or that the Board shall serve ts own
proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The
complaint against Republic was initiated by charges filed
with the Board. The Board did not direct the trial
examiner to prepare an intermediate report and none was

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

Opinion of the Court.

prepared or served, nor did the Board serve its own proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law prior to
the entry of its order.
Subsequent to April 25, 1938, the Board instituted the
practice of notifying the parties in all proceedings before
it of their right to submit briefs to the Board and, upon
request, to present oral argument to the Board; and
further determined that, in cases thereafter o be decided,
which had been initiated before it, or transferred to it for
hearing (except for special reasons in particular cases) an
intermediate report should be prepared by the trial examiner and served upon the parties or, in the alternaitive,
proposed findings of fact and conclusions should be prepared by the Board and similarly served with express
notice to the parties of their right to take exceptions to
the report or the proposed findings and, upon request, to
be heard by the Board, orally or upon brief in support
of the exceptions. In cases already decided, in which
complaint had been made of the omission of an intermediate report or proposed findings, or of the lack of written or oral argument, the Board determined to vacate its
orders, to restore the causes to its docket, and to reconsider and redetermine them after granting full opportunity of exception to proposed findings and conclusions
and after the service of notice of the right of the parties
to submit briefs and to be heard by the Board if they
should so request. Among the cases in this category was
that involving Republic.
April 30, 1938, Republic moved the Circuit Court of
Appeals for a stay of the Board's order and, upon the
hearing of the motion, the Board advised the court that
it was considering vacating the order. May 3, upon ex
parte application of Republic, the court issued a rule,
returnable May 13, requiring the Board to show cause
why it should not file in the court a certified transcript
of the record of the proceedings against Republic, and

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

made an order restraining the Board from taking any
steps or proceedings whatsoever in the cause until the return day of the rule.
May 13 the Board answered the rule of May 3 stating
that the record was incomplete because the Board had
determined on May 3 to vacate the order and to restore
the cause Mo the docket for further proceedings and had
been prevented from so doing by the restraining order
issued May 3; the answer further set out that the provisions of § 10 (d) of the National Labor Relations Act
deprive the court of jurisdiction to issue the restraining
order and of jurisdiction to forbid the vacation ofthe
Board's order and to compel the filing of a transcript f
the Board's record as it stood prior to the decision to
vacate the order. The court made the rule absolute and
enjoined the Board from taking any further steps or proceedings in the cause until the transcript was filed.
The petition of the National Labor Relations Board
asserts that the court was without jurisdiction to take
this action and prays a writ of mandamus directing the
judges who participated to vacate the order of May 13,
and a writ of prohibition against the exercise of jurisdiction upon the petition of Republic to set aside the order
of April 8 without affording the Board a reasonable opportunity to vacate it.
Upon presentation of the papers we granted leave to
file them and entered a rule upon the judges of the Circuit Court to show cause why the relief should not be
granted as prayed, returnable May 23, and directed that,
on the return day, the parties should be heard upon the
question of the jurisdiction of the court to make the challenged order.
May 21, the judges filed their return admitting the
allegations of the petition, except those as to the rules
and practice of the Board, and its determination to vacate
the orders in the Republic and *other cases, which it

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
* 486

491

Opinion of the Court.

neither admitted nor denied. The return showed that
the order of May 13 was made in the view that, under
§ 10 (f) of the Act, Republic, by filing and serving its
petition for relief, and by requesting the Board to file,
or to deliver -for filing, a certified transcript, complied
with the jurisdictional requirements of the statute so far
as was within Republic's power; that thereupon it became
.the duty of the Board forthwith to file a transcript and
that, in the judges' opinion, jurisdiction of the court attached upon service of the petition for review and could
not be defeated by the Board's failure to perform its
statutory duty, which' was to file the transcript. The
return further shows that the court was of opinion that
possible damage would result to Republic from delay due
to the failure to file the transcript and this consideration
moved the court to a construction of the Act which called
for the entry of its order. The return concludes as follows: "Recognizing the debatable character of the question presented on this record, the respondents submit
themselves to the judgment of this court as to whether
or not they had jurisdiction to enter the order complained
of and record their readiness to vacate the same if, in the
opinion of this court, jurisdiction of the cause was
lacking."
As is indicated by our action on the motion of the
Board for leave to file, and by the return to the rule, the
question is solely of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of Appeals. This question is to be answered in the light
of § 10 (d) (e) and (f) of the National Labor Relations
2
Act, the pertinent portions of which are in the margin.
"(d) Until a transcript of the record in a case shall have been
filed in a court, as hereinafter provided, the Board may at any tiime,
upon reasonable notice and in such manner as it shall deem proper,
modify or set aside, in whole or in part, any finding or order made or
issued by it.
"(e) The Board shall have power to petition any circuit court of
appeals .. .for the enforcement of such order and for appropriate

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Counsel for the petitioner and for Republic have presented their views in oral argument and briefs.
The Board's proceedings are administrative in char-

acter. Its final action is subject to judicial review in
the manner specified in the Act. Subsection (d) of
§ 10, in plain terms, invests the Board with authority,
at any time before the transcript shall have been filed in
court, to modify or set aside its order in whole or in part.
The purpose of the provision obviously is to afford an
opportunity to correct errors or to consider new evi-

dence which would render the order inadequate or unjust.
The words used are "Until a transcript of the record
. . . shall have been filed in a court, as hereinafter provided," the Board may vacate or modify. The following

subsections, (e) and (f), are those to which we turn for
the connotation of the qualifying phrase. Subsection
(e) grants the Board resort to a court for the enforcement of its order. That enforcement is to be obtained
by filing a petition for enforcement and filing a certified
temporary relief or restraining order, and shall certify and file in the
court a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding, including the
pleadings and testimony upon which such order was entered and the
findings and order of the Board. Upon such filing, the court shall
cause notice thereof to be served upon such person, and thereupon
shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and of the. question determined therein,
"(f) Any person aggrieved by a final order of the Board granting
or denying in whole or in part the relief sought may obtain a review
of such order in any circuit court of appeals . . . by filing in such
court a written petition praying that the order of the Board be
modified or set aside. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith
served upon the Board, and tLareupon the aggrieved party shall file
in the court a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding, certified by the Board, including the pleading and testimony upon which
the order compiained of was entered ane the findings and order of
the Board. Upon such filing, the court shall proceed in the same
manner as in the case of an application by the Board under subsection (e). . ....

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

Opinion of the Court.

transcript of the Board's proceedings. The subsection
proceeds: "Upon such filing, the court shall cause notice
thereof to be served upon" the person against whom enforcement is asked. Here it is quite plain that the court
is without jurisdiction to take action at the behest of'
the Board until the transcript shall have been filed and
notice of the filing of the petition and the transcript has
been served. Subsection (f) affords relief to "any person
aggrieved by a final order of the Board granting or denying in whole or in part the relief sought, . . ." Such a
person, the statute declares, "may obtain a review" of
the Board's order by filing in court "a written petition
praying that the order of the Board be modified or set
aside." A copy of the petition is to be served forthwith
upon the Board, and "thereupon the aggrieved party
shall file in the court a transcript" of the Board's proceedings. "Upon such filing, the court shall proceed in
the same manner as in the case of an application by the
Board under subsection (e), . . ." Plainly the court
may not proceed to review the Board's order under either
section until a transcript is filed.
Counsel for Republic urge, in support of the Circuit
Court's action, that the words, "as hereinafter provided,"
in subsection (d), refer to the filing of the transcript
required in an enforcement proceeding initiated by the
Board authorized by subsection (e) but cannot have
reference to a proceeding for review initiated by any
other party before the Board pursuant to subsection (f).
The words of the statute do not warrant th's construction. Two filings are required by subsection (f), the first
of a petition, the second of a transcript. After prescribing the second, the Act provides that "Upon such filing,
the court shall proceed in the same manner as in the
case of an application by the Board under subsection
(e), . ." The reference clearly is to the ling of the
transcript and not to the filing of the petition. The con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

tention that the Act cannot be applied in accordince with
its apparent intent is that, as only the Board can certify
the proceedings, and the petitioner under subsection (f)
must file the certified transcript, such a construction
would enable the Board to hold the transcript for an
indefinite period and thus harass and embarrass a litigant,
and delay, and perhaps deny, any effective judicial re7
view. No such case is here presented. We have no
occasion to determine what, if any, relief may be needed
by or available to a party who has filed his petition for
review, where the Board does not desire to modify or set
aside its order but fails or refuses to furnish a transcript-.
of its proceedings.
Jurisdiction as the term is to be applied in this instance,
is the power to hear and determine the controversy presented, in a given set of circamstances. A court has
jurisdiction, in another use of the term, to examine the
question whether that power is conferred upon it in the
circumstances disclosed, but if it finds such power is not
granted it lacks jurisdiction of the subject matter and
must refrain from any adjudication of rights in connection therewith. Since the statute empowers the Board,
before the filing of a transcript, to vacate or modify its
orders, certainly it does not confer jurisdiction upon the
reviewing court to prohibit the exercise of the granted
power. It is obvious that Congress intended to confer
no jurisdiction upon the reviewing court to prevent the
Board from seasonably vacating or modifying its order
so as to make it comport with right and justice. The
Act plainly indicates that the purpose was to give the
court full and exclusive jurisdiction to review the Board's
order in the respects indicated by the Act once the transcript of the Board's proceedings is before it. It is
equally plain that the court is to have no power to prevent the Board from vacating or modifying its order,
prior to such plenary submission of the cause.

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for Republic urges that the Board's petition
to this court indicates that it does not intend irrevocably
to abandon its former order but merely to regularize it
and re-enter it after regularization and that the Act gives
no power to do this after the Board has heard the case
and issued an order. We have no occasion to speculate
upon the future proceedings beiore the Board. It is
enough that the petition shows that the Board desired to
and would have vacated its order had it not been restrained by the action of the court. What the legal effect
of its future proceedings may be we need not decide.
Counsel insist that Republic is aggrieved, within the
meaning of subsection (f), by the Board's attempt to retain juisdiction of the proceeding and take further steps
in it. But the Act grants a review and relief only to a
person aggrieved by an order of the Board, and had the
court not restrained the Board its order would have been
vacated and there now would be no order outstanding.
The Board is given no power of enforcement. Compliance is not obligatory until the court; on petition of the
Board or any party aggrieved, shall have entered a decree
enforcing the order as made, or as modified by the court.
Statutory authority to the Board to vacate its order prior
to the filing of the transcript does not seem to us to differ
materially from a like statutory authority to a master in
chancery to modify or recall his report to a court after
submission but before action by the court. No one could
successfully claim to be aggrieved in a legal sense by such
a statutory provision or assert that the legislature is incompetent to confer such power upon a master with consequent lack of jurisdiction in the court to forbid its
exertion.
The investiture of a court with jurisdiction to review
an order on the merits only upon the filing of a transcript
exhibiting the Board's final action is not a denial of due
process as suggested by counsel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BuTLE, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

We think the writs prayed are appropriate remedies in
the circumstances disclosed." The Circuit Court was
without jurisdiction of the subject matter. If the Board
had complied with the orders made, a hearing would have
resulted respecting the legality of supposed action of. the
Board which was not in law or fact the final action, review of which the statute provides. No adequate remedy
would be open to the Board by way of certiorari from the
court's ultimate review of an order which the Board was
authorized and desired to set aside.
The expression in tile return of readiness to vacate the
order entered in the Circuit Court, if this court is of
opinion that the tribunal lacked jurisdiction, renders the
present issue of process supererogatory. Should the order
not be vacated and occasion thus arise for the award of
process, the clerk may issue it upon the order of a Justice
of this Court.
MR. JusTICE SToNE and MR. JusTIcE CmRDozo took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JuSTicE BUTER, dissenting.

The case is not here as if on writ of certiorari or appeal
for review of error alleged to have been committed by the
lower court. This is an application for the writs of mandamus and prohibition to command and restrain action
by the judges named. These may not be granted unless
the lower court was plainly without jurisdiction to hear
and determine the case or the particular issue. In re
New York & P. R. S.,S.Co., 155 U. S. 523, 531. Ex parte
' Compare Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 329; In re Rice, 155
U. S. 396, 402; In reNew York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 155 U. S. 523;

In re Atlantic City Railroad, 164 U.S. 633; In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458,
466-468; Ex parte Harding,219 U. S. 363, 377; Ez parte Oklahoma,

220 U. S. 191, 208; Ez parte Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 255 U, S. 273,
275.

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

Bu.mn, J., dissenting.

Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191, 208. Ex parte Chicago, R. I. &
P. Ry., 255 U. S. 273, 275. Precisely, the question is
whether, on the facts here disclosed, the court was without power to consider and decide upon the corporation's
application for an order directing the Board to certify and
file a transcript of the record and restraining in the meantime any other action by it. The decision just announced
answers affirmatively, and that is the basis on which the
Court commands vacation of the order of the lower court
and prohibits it from reviewing the order of the Board
without first giving it a reasonable opportunity to vacate
its order; that is, without giving the Board more time to
proceed under § 10 (d). Obviously jurisdiction of the
circuii court of appeals attached upon the filing of the
corporation's petition for review and service of a copy on
the Board. Any other construction of § 10 (f) would let
the Board, by refusing to certify a transcript of proceedings before it, prevent judicial review of its orders. Congress did not so intend. While the statute expressly requires the person aggrieved to file a certified transcript,
it impliedly, but not less plainly, commands the Board to
certify the record. This Court's decision rests on the
statement that, as the term is to be applied in this instance, jurisdiction is the power to hear and determine
the controversy presented in a given set of circumstances.
If the lower court had jurisdiction to entertain and decide the corporation's motion, writs of mandamus and
prohibition may not be granted, for they are not available for correction of mere error or even abuse of discretion. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. New York, N. H.
& H. R. Co., 287 U. S. 178, 203-204. Ex parte Whitney,
13 Pet. 404, 408. Ex parte Taylor, 14 How. 3, 13. Ex
parte Railway Co., 101 U. S. 711, 720. In re Hawkins,
Petitioner, 147 U. S. 486, 490. n re Atlantic City Railroad, 164 U. S. 633, 635. In re James Pollitz, 206 U. S.
323, 331. Cf. Ex parte Simons, 247 U. S. 231, 240.
81638°-38----32

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

Stripped of unnecessary details and language, the circumstances under which the lower court made the challenged order may be stated briefly.
Upon charges made by the Steel Workers' Organizing
Committee, the Board, July 15, 1937, issued complaint
alleging that the corporation was engaging in unfair labor
practices. The corporation joined issue. Before it filed
answer, hearings were held by the Board, from July 21 to
July 24. After answer, there were hearings before an
examiner at various times and places between August 9
and September 27. April 8, 1938, the Board made its
decision and order. It found the corporation guilty of
practices denounced by the Act. It ordered it to cease
and desist, to reinstate certain persons, to pay sufficient
to. equalize what certain persons would have earned if
employed by the corporation during specified periods,
less the hmount they earned at other work during those
periods.
April 18, the corporation filed in the circuit court of
appeals its petition to have the Board's order adjudged
invalid. The petition charges that, in violation of the
corporation's rights under the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment, the Board ordered the corporation to
reinstate persons not alleged ip the complaint to have
been unlawfully discharged or discriminated against by
the corporation; and so directed notwithstanding the corporation had never been accorded or offered a hearing or
opportunity of making defense as to the asserted rights
of those persons; that the Board made the order without
affording the corporation opportunity to present its case
by argument, orally or upon brief. It alleges that, under
the terms of the order, about five thousand persons may
claim reinstatement, petitioner is required to reinstate
or pay them as specified, the average wage is ,$6.50 per.
day. And it asserts that to defer reinstatement, ending
decision by the court as to validity, of -the order, would

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

involve a risk of such magnitude as imminently to
threaten its right to have review in court. And the petition avers that unless the order be stayed, irreparable
injury and loss will result to the corporation and that it
will be denied review of a substantial part of the order.
It prays service of a copy on the Board, certification by
the Board of the transcript as required by law, invalidation of the order, direction to the Board to dismiss its
complaint, and a stay of the order and of proceedings by
the Board to enforce it, excepting such as may be taken
in court.
April 18, the( day on which the corporation filed petition for review, the Board, consistently with the corporation' claim as to its duty under the Act, agreed
promptly to certify the transcript and to file it in court.
April 22, the corporation filed an application for stay and
temporary relief. Its application cited § 10 (g), which
declares that commencement of proceedings under § 10
(f) shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court,
operate as a stay of the Board's order. It stated: The
purpose of the application was to prevent irreparable loss
and denial of review. If, pending final detarmination of'
the case, petitioner should fail to make reinstatements
in accordance with the.order, its potential weekly liability would exceed $95,000. On that basis the corporation, sought suspension of the portion of the order that
relates to reinstatement or payment of wages, so that, if
it should be upheld, the corporation's liability to reinstate or to pay would commence ten days after the final
decree of the court. In a brief submitted in support of
its motion, the corporation maintained that the order
is invalid because the corporation was not afforded a
fair and full hearing and because the order is one for reemployment and not for reinstatement; and that unless
the stay be granted, the corporation will suffer irreparable financial losses.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BumER, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

April 30 the corporation's motion came on for hearing. The Board appeared - and argued against it. The
court neither grantcl nor denied the application. The
rule to show cause, issued May 3, recites that at the hearing, April 30, the Board stated that it "was seriously considering withdrawing, modifying or changing its order in
the case and reopening same." The Board's application
for vacation of that order states that at the hearing on
April 30 the Board advised the court that it was contemplating vacating its order, and would advise the court
of its final position not later than May 4, 1938; that, on
May 3, it notified the corporation that it had definitely
decided to vacate the order; but that, before any steps to
do so could be taken, the court had issued the restraining
order. The Board maintained that as the transcript had
not been filed, § 10 (d) was applicable and that the Board
then had the right to withdraw or vacate the order.
In its answer to the rule to show cause, the Board says
that it was not guilty of refusal to certify or of dilatory
tactics, and that on April 18 its counsel informed the corporation's counsel that the Board would as promptly as
possible prepare the record for certification. "This task
of considerable magnitude was forthwith commenced and
was incomplete a week later when the supervening decision of the Supreme Court in Morgan v. United States,
304 U. S. 1, was rendered. . . . There is no question in
this case, therefore, whether the court had jurisdiction
to require the Board to file a record when such filing has
been long delayed or refused by the Board. The Board
has with all promptness elected to exercise its power to
vacate its order under § 10 (d), and there is no merit in
petitioner's claim that that section is inapplicable because the Board has evaded its obligations under the
Act."
In these circumstances the court did not lack jurisdiction to hiear and determine the controversy presented by

IN RE LABOR BOARD.
486

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

the corporation's application for an order directing the
Board to certify the record for filing in court. The Act
contemplates prompt action. Section 10 (i) declares
that petitions filed under it shall be heard expeditiously
"and if possible within ten days after they have been
docketed." Power under § 10 (d) to change or vacate
its order does not enable the Board to delay filing the
record. At the bar counsel expressed the opinion that
the Board may vacate an order without notice, &10 (d).
It had fifteen days, April 18 to May 3, to decide whether
to vacate the order or join issue. That period included
a week before and a week after our decision in Morgan
v. United States, supra. The Board does not claim that
it needed until May 3 to certify the transcript. .So the
issue before the lower court was the very narrow one,
whether for an unreasonable length of time the Board
withheld the record. And that question involves consideration of subsidiary ones: To what extent, if at all,
a certification may be delayed by the choice of the Board
to enable it to consider modification or repeal of its
order. Whether after decision in Morgan v. United States
more than a reasonable time had elapsed. While there
is room for difference of opinion on these questions, it is
very hard to perceive on what ground it may be held
that the court was without jurisdiction to decide them,
or even to conclude that the order was an arbitrary exertion of power, or that restraint against further delay by
the Board involved an abuse of discretion.
I am of opinion that the lower court had jurisdiction
of the case and of the issues decided by the challenged
order, and that therefore the Board's application for
writs of mandamus and prohibition should be denied.
MR. JUSTiCE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.
I

