502

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 715 and 716.

Argued April 6, 1938-Decided May 31, 1938.

1. The filing by a farmer debtor-of a petition for composition and
extension, and an amended .petition to be adjudged bankrupt,
under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act before its amendment by the
Act of August 28, 1935, did not bring within the control of the
bankruptcy court mortgaged land listed in the schedules as his
property and of which he acquired the equity during the proceeding, but in which he held no interest when the petitions were
filed. P. 507.
2. Land in which a farmer debtor had an equity of redemption,
but which was not subject to administration in a pending proceeding under § 75 of the. Bankruptcy Act because his interest
in it was acquired after the filing of his petition, was not brought
within the jurisdidtion by the enactment of he amendatory Act
of August 28, 1935, and the filing of an amended petition under
subsection (s) as amended, where those events occurred after
his interest had been extinguished by a foreclosure of the mortgage in a state court followed by a judicial sale of the land and
expiration of the period for redemption allowed by the state law.
P. 508.
3. Land subject to mortgage was scheduled by a farmer debtor as
his property, in a proceeding for composition and extension
brought-under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act. He had no interest
in the land when the petition was filed, but later received a
conveyance of it from owners of the equity of redemption. The
mortgage was foreclosed and the mortgagee bought in the land
at a judicial sale, but the period for redemption allowed by
the state law had not expired before § 75 was amended by the
Act of August 28, 1935, and the debtor filed his petition to be
adjudged bankrupt, under subsection (s), as so amended. Held,
applying amended* subsection (n), that upon the filing of the
amended petition the property was brought within the control of
thi.bankruptcy court and the time for redemption was extended.
P. 509.
4. The provision of § 75 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended,
for extension of period for redemption, held constitutional as

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO. 503
502

Opinion of the Court.

applied against a mortgage creditor vrho foreclosed by suit in
an -Indiana court and bought in the land at a judicial *sale, but
as to whom, the right of the debtor to redeem, under the Indiana
law, had not expired when his petition to be adjudged bankrupt
was filed under § 75, as amended. P. 513.
The provision is within the bankruptcy power and not inconsistent with the rights of the creditor-purchaser under the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment. It is not an invasion
of power reserved to the State by the Tenth Amendment. P. 515.
91 F. 2d 894, affirmed in part, reversed in part.

CERTIORARI,

303 U. S.630, to review the affirmance of

two orders of the District Court in bankruptcy, the one
striking certain described ,real estate from the debtor's
schedules, the other refusing to permit an amendment of
the schedules.
Messrs. Samuel E. Cook and- Wm.Lemke, with whom
Messrs. Walter L. Clements, Elmer McClain and Ray M.
Foreman were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Arthur S. Lytton, with whom Messrs. Stanley K.
Henshaw and Virgil D. Parish were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JusTIcE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petition for writs of certiorari to the United States
Circuit 'Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit was
granted by this Court to review the judgments in two
appeals brought to the lower court by petitioner here.
Wright v. Union CentralLife Ins. Co., 91 F. 2d 894. The
judgments affirmed two orders of the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Indiana,
erptered there in proceedings under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act instituted by Wright.
The earlier order approved the recommendation of the
Conciliation Commissioner to strike certain described
real estate from the debtor's schedules, and the later.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

order refused topermit the debtor to amend the schedules
by showing the circumstances under which the debtor
claimed an interest in the same real estate covered by the
earlier motion. The correctness of the orders depends
largely upon the constitutional validity of certain provisions of § 75 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended
by § 4 of the Act of August 28, 1935. 49 Stat. 942.
These provisions, held unconstitutional by the lower
court, operate to extend the period of redemption from
a foreclosure sale allowed the mortgagor under state law.
To decide this important constitutional question, our
writs of certiorari were issued. In view of § 1 of the Act
of Augu~t 24, 1937, c. 754, 28 U. S. C. § 401,1 enacted
subsequent to the decision of the case below, the Court
certified to the Attorney General the fact that the constitutionality of an Act of Congress affecting the public
interest was drawn in question in this cause. The Attorney General disclaimed intention to intervene.
The controversy as to whether or not the land in question was subject to the administration of the court of
bankruptcy had its origin in this plexus of facts. Petitioner James M. Wright on October 1, 1925, together
with his wife, executed a mortgage to respondent coml"Whenever the constitutionality of any Act of Congress affecting
the public interest is drawn in question in any court of the United
States in any suit or proceeding to which the United States, or any
agency thereof, or any officer or employee thereof, as such officer or
employee, is not a party, the court having jurisdiction of the suit or
proceeding shall certify such fact tn the Attorney General. In any
such case the court shall permit the United States to intervene and
become a party for presentation of evidence (if evidence is otherwise
rgeceivable in.
such suit or proceeding) and argument upon the question of the constitutionality of such Act. In any such suit or proceeding the United States shall, subject to the applicable provisions
of law, have all the rights of a party and the liabilities of a party
as to court costs to the extent necessary for a proper presentation
of the facts and law relating to the constitutionality of such Act.

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.
502

505

Opinion of the Court.

pany on a tract of land in Indiana, containing 80.31 acres,
to secure a note of $3,000. At the same time, the same
parties executed another mortgage to the respondent on
a different tract of land containing 200 acres, also in Indiana, to secure a note of $9,.X0. In 1931, the first tract
was deeded to petitioner's son, and three separate fortyacre parcels from the second tract were deeded to his
wife, daughter and son-in-law respectively. The property was conveyed subject to definite portions of the
indebtedness but without an assumption of any of the
obligation by the grantees.
On January 3, 1934, respondent brought suit to foreclose the smaller mortgage, joining as defendants petitioner and his son. Judgment of foreclosure was entered,
June 9, 1934, and on July 12, 1934, the 80.31-acre tract
was sold, on the foreclosure sale, to respondent. Respondent received a duly executed sheriff's certificate of sale.
Delivery of final deed was delayed in view of the one-year
period of redemption allowed to mortgagors by Indiana
statute. Ind. Ann. Stat. (Burns, 1933) §§ 2-3909,
2-4001.
Wright filed a petition under § 75 of the Bankruptcy
Act, October 29, 1934. In listing his property on his
schedules, he set forth all 280.31 acres, despite his previous conveyances of 200.31 acres. On Decembei 1.9, 1934,
stating that no agreement of creditors could be had, he
amended his petition under § 75 (s), asking to be adjudged a bankrupt.' On April 13, 1935, petitioner's son
This fact is stated in respondent's brief. Petitioner's answer to
respondent's motion to strike out from the schedules the real estate in
controversy alleges "that all the steps under said Section 75 were
taken; that later petitioner (Wright) amended his petition under
Subsection (s) of Section 75, as amended August 28, 1935." By stipulation the allegations of the answer were admitted as evidence. There
is apparently no issue as to the fact of the filing of a petition in bankruptcy on iecember 19, 1934.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

and daughter and their spouses delivered to him a quitclaim deed for all the property, 200.31 acres, he had
previously deeded to them and his wife.
On May 27, 1935, respondent obtained a personal judgment against petitioner on the $9,000 note, and a decree
of foreclosure of the 200-acre tract, which respondent purchased at the sheriff's sale on July 20, 1935, receiving a
certificate of sale. On August 2, 1935, petitioner's oneyear ,period for redeeming from sale the 80.31-acre tract
having expired July 12, 1935, respondent surrendered its
certificate of sale and received a sheriff's deed to this land.
On October 11, 1935, petitioner amended his petition
as authorized by § 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy Act, as
amended August 28, 1935, following the invalidation by
the decision in Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555,
of § 75 (s) as originally drafted, and again asked to be
adjudged a bankrupt.
On July 20, 1936, the one-year redemption period having expired, respondent received from the sheriff a final
deed for the 200-acre tract. On July 29, 1936, respondent
filed a motion in the District Court for Northern Indiana,
where the proceedings under § 75 (s) were pending, to
strike from petitioner's schedules, which had been filed
October 29, 1934, these 280.31 acres of land.
On December 14, 1936, the District Court granted this
motion, and entered an appropriate order. Apparently
the order struck from the schedules eighty acres still
owned by Wright in October, 1934, and properly scheduled at that time. Later in December, 1936, petitioner
asked leave to amend his schedules to set forth the reconveyances by his children on April 13, 1935. On December 31, 1936, the District Court denied the application to amend the schedules. Petitioner appealed from
"Apparently his wife had died in the meanwhile.
cates that she died prior to May 27, 1935.

The record indi-

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO. 507
502

Opinion of the Court.

both orders of the District Court, striking the land from
the schedules and denying leave to amend. The appeals
were consolidated in the Circuit Court of Appeals. As
stated in the opening paragraph of this opinion, that
court affirmed both orders of the District Court. These
judgments are under review here.
A further aspect of the controversy between petitioner
and respondent may be noted. On September 13, 1935,
prior to the debtor's filing of an amended petition under
§ 75 (s) as amended, respondent instituted an action in
the state ourt for possession of the 80.31 acres. A judgment overruling a defense grounded on the bankruptcy
proceedings, and a'arding possession and damages to
respondent, -was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Indiana on April 2, 1937. Wright v. Union Central Life
Ins. Co., 212 Ind. 214. A similar judgment with iespect to the rest of the land was affirmed October 26,
1937, Wright v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 212 Ind.
563. By temporary restraining order of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and subsequent stay of mandate, respondent
has been restrained from taking possession of the land.
First. (a). By October 30, 1934, when petitioner
sought adjustment and extension of debts under § 75,
the 80.31-acre tract had been deeded away to petitioner's
son. Accordingly, although this tract was listed on petitioner's schedules, it did not at that time pass into
the hands of the bankruptcy court for administration.
Nor was the amended petition under § 75 (s), filed on
December 19, 1934, any more effective in bringing the
tract within the purview of the bankruptcy court. On
April 13, 1935, the members of Wright's family relinquished all their right and interest in his lands, including this 80.31-acre tract, so that petitioner then acquired
an interest in the land. But Wright's receipt of this giff
of land was not effective in and of itself to bring the
land within the control of the bankruptcy court. This

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

is the rule applicable to property received by a bankrupt subsequent to the filing of an ordinary petition in
bankruptcy,4 and we see no reason why the same rule
should not apply to debtor proceedings under § 75.5
There is no substance in any contention that this
80.31-acre tract was brought within the purview of the
bankruptcy court by the Act of August 28, 1935, amending § 75 (s), or the filing of an amended petition under
this section on October 11, 1935. Prior thereto, judgment of foreclosure had been entered in the state court
and a judicial sale (at which respondent bought in the
80.31-acre tract) held on July 12, 1934. Conveyance and
delivery of possession to the purchaser was deferred for
one year, the period of redemption under the statutes
of Indiana. This period expired on July 12, 1935, and
the sheriff's deed was executed on August 2, 1935. With
the delivery of the deed, prior to any effective extension
of the period of redemption, the purchaser's rights, flowing from the judicial sale, were no longer affected by
the court's jurisdiction of petitioner and petitioner's
'Everett v. Judson, 228 U. S. 474, 478; Local Loan Co. v. Hunt,
292 U. S. 234, 244; 4 Remington, Bankruptcy, §§ 1377, 1395, 1400;
1 Collier, Bankruptcy, p. 1641.
'In considering this 80.31-acre tract we are not concerned with such
property acquired subsequent to the filing under § 75 as would-be
controlled by § 75 (n) as amended by the Act of August 28, 1935.
"In proceedings under this section, except as otherwise provided herein,
the jurisdiction and powers of the courts, the title, powers, and duties
of its officers, the duties of the farmer, and the rights and liabilities
of creditors, and of all persons with respect to the property of the
farmer and the jurisdiction of the appellate courts, shall be the same
as if a voluntary petition for adjudication had been filed and a decree
of adjudication had been entered. on the day when the farmer's petition, asking to be adjudged a bankrupt, was ified with the clerk of
court or left with the conciliation commissioner for the purpose of
forwarding same to the clerk of court."

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.
502

509

Opinion of the Court.

estate under the Bankruptcy Act.' Nothing in § 75 as
it now stands indicates any intention that the bankruptcy
courts assume control over land not previously within
the jurisdiction of a bankruptcy court, and already completely divorced from any title of the debtor.
(b). On October 29, 1934, when Wright filed his original petition under § 75, he was undoubtedly the owner
of 80 acres out of the 200-acre tract. He had never conveyed away these 80 acres; no proceedings to foreclose
them had been begun. These 80 acres were clearly within
the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, but we shall
not give them separate discussion, for they are controlled
a fortiori by our ruling with respect to the other 120
acres out of the 200-acre tract.
(c). The status of these 120 acres, deeded in fortyacre parcels, to three members lof the family, is governed
by other facts. These parcels passed to the other members of the family prior to the filing of the petition for
composition on October 29, 1934. Petitioner, however,
included them in his schedules. The grantees had title
on December 19, 1934, when petitioner filed his first
amendment to the petition for composition. On April
13, 1935, these parcels were reconveyed to petitioner; on
May 27 judgment for foreclosure was entered and on
July 20, 1935, a sale was had. Respondent became the
purchaser. The right of redemption expired July 20,
1936. Between the sale and the expiration of the period
of redemption, two events occurred. The Congress enacted the Act of August 28, 1935, which added to the
Bankruptcy Act, § 75, a new subsection (s) to take the
"A sheriff's certificate, however, after the expiration of the year
for redemption, invests the holder with an equitabl6 estate in the
land, of such high character 'that it only requires his demand for a
deed, to ripen it into an absolute legal title." Hubble v. Berry, 180
Ind. 513, 519.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304-U. S.

place of the subsection (s)held invalid in Louisville
Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555. This new subsection
(s)was sustained in Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. $.
440. Secondly, the petitioner, on October 11, 1935, filed
a second amendment to his petition for -composition and
was "duly adjudged a bankrupt." Both of these events
are signficant in reasoning but the status of the 120
acres.
If the rule of the General Bankruptcy Act is followed,
property acquired after the filing of a petition for composition under the provisions of § 75 would not be subject
to bankruptcy administration. Section 75 (n) in effect
at the time of the filing of the petition leads to the conclusion that, at that time, a similar rule, as to property
subsequently acquired, would apply.! At the time petitioner filed his first amendment, seeking to be adjudged
a bankrupt, subsection (n) continued ip the same form.
It was changed by the Act of August 28, 1935, to the language shown below.' By the terms of the second and
"'(n) The filing of a petition pleading for relief under this section.
shall subject the farmer and his property, wherever located, to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the court. Inproceedings under this section,
except as. dtherwise provided herein, the jurisdiction and powers of
the court, the title, powers, ana duties of its officers, the duties of the.
-farmer, and the rights and liabilities of creditors, and of all persons
with respect to the property of the farmer and the jurisdiction of the
appellate courts, shall be the same as if a voluntary petition for
adjudication had been filed and a decree of adjudication had been
entered on the day when the farmer's petition or answer was filed."
'"(n) The filing. of a petition or answer with the clerk of court,
or leaving it with the conciliation commissioner for the purpose of
forwarding same to. the clerk of court, praying for relief under section
75 of this Act, as amended, shall immediately su ject the farmer and
all his property, wherever located, for all the purposes of this section,
.to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court, including all real or personal
property, or any equity or right in any such -property, including,
among others, contracts for purchase, contracfs for deed, or conditional sales contracts, the right or the equity of redemption where the

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.
502

511

Opinion of the Court.

third paragraphs of § 4 of that Act, all rights of redemption of petitioner which had not expired in land within
the jurisdiction of the court of bankruptcy were extended.
By the earlier subsection (n) the line of cleavage, between
property subject to the bankruptcy jurisdiction and property free from it, came at the date when the "farmer's
petition or answer was filed." When this language was
adopted there was no provision for a petition in bankruptcy under § 75. There was provision only for a petition for composition or extension. By § 4 of the Act of
period of redemption has not or had not expired, or where a deed of
trust has been given as security, or where the sale has not or had not
been confirmed, or where deed had not been delivered, at the time of
filing the petition.
"In all cases where, at the time of filing the petition, the period of
redemption has not or had not expired, or where the right under a
deed of trust has not or had not become absolute, or where the sale
has not or had not been confirmed,' or where deed had not been
delivered, the period of redemption shall be extended or the confirmatinn of sale withheld for the period necessary for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section. The words 'period of
redemption' wherever they occur in this section shall include any
State moratorium, whether established by legislative enactment or
executive proclamation, or wherethe period of redemption has been
extended by a judicial decree. In proceedings under this' section,
except as otherwise provided herein, the jurisdiction and powers of
the courts, the title, powers, and duties of its officers, the duties of
the farmer, and the rights and liabilities of creditors, and of all persons
with respect to the property .of the farmer and the jurisdiction of
the appellate courts, shall be the same as if a voluntary petition for
adjudication had been filed and a decree of adjudication had been
entered on the day when the farmer's petition, asking to be adjudged
a bankrupt, was filed with the clerk of court or left with the conciliation commissioner for the purpose of forwarding same to the clerk of
court."
*Act of March 3, 1933, § 75 (c):
"(c) At any time within five years after this section takes effect,
a petition may be filed by any farmer, stating that the farmer is
insolvent or unable to meet his debts as they mature, and that it is

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

August 28, 1935, subsection (n) was changed to comport
with subsection 75 (s), permitting a petitioner to amend
and ask "to be adjudged a bankrupt." We are of the
opinion that it is the date of filing this request for adjudication as bankrupt which fixes "the line of cleavage"
as to the property. This conclusion is really in conformity with the reasoning governing the rule in the General
Bankruptcy Act. There the first petition seeks an adjudication in bankruptcy. Under § 75, it is only the later
amendment which does. 0 As the 120 acres had been
reconveyed to the petitioner prior to his filing of the
petition of October 11, 1935, seeking adjudication as a
bankrupt, his interest in the 120 acres was subject to bankruptcy jurisdiction. As the land was reconveyed to the
petitioner prior to the decree of foreclosure, petitioner was
an owner entitled to redeem after the sale. Ind. Stat.
Ann. (Burns, 19*33) c. 40. The amendment of October
11, 1935, was the first opportunity to bring the 120 acres
desirable to effect a composition or an extension of time to pay his
debts. The petition or answer of the farmer shall be accompanied
by his schedules. The petition and answer shall be filed with the
court, but shall, on request of the farmer or creditor, be received by
the conciliation commissioner for the county in which the farmer
resides and promptly transmitted by him to the clerk of the court for
filing. If any such petition is filed, an order of adjudication shall not
be entered except as provided hereinafter in this section."
"Section 75 as originally enacted kas a part of Chapter VIII of
the Bankruptcy Act, approved March 3, 1933, and did not contemplate an adjudication in bankruptcy. Section 73 of that Chapter
reads as follows:
"See. 73. Additional Jurisdiction.-In addition to the jurisdiction
exercised in voluntary and involuntary proceedings to adjudge persons bankrupt, courts of bankruptcy shall exercise original jurisdiction
in proceedings for the relief of debtors, as provided in sections 74, 75,
and 77 of this Act."
The Amendments of Bankruptcy Rules, Order of June 1, 1936, 298
U. S. 695, are based upon petitions for composition rather than
bankruptcy. See particularly General Order L, p. 701.

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.

513

Opinion of the Court.

502

into the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court, and we
think it had that effect.
Second. The conclusion that all the lands in controversy, except the 80.31-acre tract, are within the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court under the petitioner's
amendment asking to be adjudged a bankrupt and are
lands subject to petitioner's right of redemption, as extended by subsection (n) of § 75, requires the reversal
of the judgments below, as to these lands, unless the provisions of § 75 (n), extending the period of redemption,
are unconstitutional. Respondent insists that these provisions are a direct invasion of the State's rights under
the Tenth Amendment and violative of the respondent's
own rights, by virtue of its title acquired by purchase at
the judicial sale, in contravention of the Fifth Amendment.
The right of the Congress to legislate on the subject of
bankruptcies is granted by the Constitution in general
terms. "The Congress shall have power . . .To establish . . uniform laws on the subje-t of Bankruptcies
throughout the United States," Article I, § 8, clause 4
To this specific grant, there must be added the power,;
of the general grant of clause eighteen. "To make aL
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers . . ." The subje-t.
of bankruptcies is incapable of final definition. The con.cepu changes. It has been recognized that it is not lim.
ited to the connotation of the phrase in England or tho
States, at the time of the formulation of the Constitution.' An adjudication in bankruptcy is not essential
to the jurisdiction. The subject of bankruptcies is nothing less than "the subject of the relations between an
insolvent or nonpaying or fraudulent debtor and hi3
"1Adair v. Bank of America Assn., 303 U. S. 350, 354; Continentc.
Bank v. Chicago,R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648, 668.
81638°-38-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

creditors, extending to his and their relief." 12 This definition of Judge Blatchford, afterwards a member of this
Court, has been cited with approval here.'
The development of bankruptcy legislation has been
towards relieving the honest debtor from oppressive indebtedness and permitting him to start afresh. 1 By the
Act of March 3, 1933, the Congress deliberately undertook the rehabilitation of the debtor as well as his discharge from indebtedness."5 This legislation for rehabilitation has been upheld as within the subject of bankruptcies. 6 But respondent urges that under the Bankruptcy Clause Congress is confined to legislation for the
adjustment of the debtor-creditor relationship, and insists that the purchaser at an Indiana judicial sale is not
a creditor but a grantee with rights acquired by the purchase, separate and distinct from the rights and obligations arising from the creation of the debt. While there
may be no relation of debtor and creditor between the
bankrupt and the purchaser of his property at judicial
sale, we think the purchaser at a judicial sale does enter
into the radius of the bankruptcy power over debts.- His
purchase is in the liquidation of the indebtedness. The
debtor has a right of redemption of which the purchaser
is advised, and until that right of redemption expires
the rights of the purchaser are subject to the power of
the Congress over the relationship of debtor and creditor
and its power to legislate for the rehabilitation of the
debtor. The person whose land has been sold at fore'In re Reiman, 20 Fed. Cas. 490.
"Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., supra, 672;
United States v. Bekins, ante, pp. 27, 47; Hanover National Bank v.
Moyses, 186 U. S. 181, 187.
"Williams v. U. S. Fidelity & G. Co., 236 U. &-549, 554, 555;
Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, 582.
'Adair v. Bank of America Assn., supra,pp. 354, 355, notes 2 and 3.
'Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S.440, 456.

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO. 515
502

Opinion of the Court.

closure sale and now holds a right of redemption is, for
all practical purposes, in the same debt situation as an
ordinary mortgagor in default: both are faced with the
same ultimate prospect, either of paying a certain sum
of money, or of being completely divested of their land.
We think the provision for the extension of the period
of redemption comes clearly within the power of the
Congress under the bankruptcy clause. But respondent
presses a further argument that the Fifth and Tenth
Amendments are violated.
(a) The Fifth Amendment is said to be violated and
the property of respondent, the purchaser at the judicial
sale, taken without due process,'7 by the provision for
extension of the time of redemption. Section 75 (n) provides that "the period of redemption shall be extended
• . . for the period necessary for the purpose of carrying
out the provisions of this section." The stay may be approved for the period during which the debtor seeks to
effect a composition, 8 and, as contemplated by § 75 (s),
for a moratorium period not exceeding three years, during
which the court's equitable supervision over the land continues, and a reasonable rental is required.'" That such
an extension is consonant with the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment is indicated by our decision in
Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U.. S. 398,
where we held that neither the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment nor the contracts clause was
violated by an emergency state statute authorizing extension of the period of redemption from foreclosure sales,
for a just and equitable period not exceeding two years,
'conditioned on payment by the mortgagor of a reasonable rental, as directed by the court.
' Compare Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, 601.
Cf. Adair v. Bank of America Assn., 303 U. S. 350.
" See Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. 440, 460 et seq.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The mortgage contract Was'inade subject to constitutional power in the Congress to legislate on the subject of
bankruptcies. Impliedly, this was written into the contract between petitioner and respondent. "Not only are
existing laws read into contracts in order to fix obligations
as between parties, but the reservation of essential attributes of sovereign power is also read into contracts as a
postulate of the legal order." 20 And the fact that in this
case the purchaser at the foreclosure sale was also the
mortgagee is not a determining factor. Any purchaser at
a judicial sale must purchase subject to the possibility of
the exercise of the bankruptcy power in a manner consonant with the Fifth Amendment.
We have held that § 75 (s) does not unconstitutionally
affect the rights of the mortgagee."' We do not think
the provision for extension of the period of redemption
in § .75 (n) is invalid. The rights of the purchaser are
preserved, the possibility of enjoyment is merely delayed.
The rights of a purchaser, who under the state law is
entitled to the redemption money or possession within
a year. are not substantially different from those of a
mortgagee entitled, on the maturity of the obligation, to
payme:at or sale of the property.
(b) In view of our decision that the law is within the
bankruptcy power, scant reliance can be placed on the
Tenth Amendment. Respondent argues that to subject
property bought in at a foreclosure sale to the extended
redemption period and other provisions of § 75 (s)
"would be a direct invasion of the powers reserved to
the State by the Constitution, and a violation of [respondent's] property rights theretofore determined by the.
conrts of the State of Indiana in accordance with the law
of that State."
"Home Bldg. & Loan Ann. v. Blaisdell, supra, at page 435.
Wright v. Vinton Branch, supra.

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.
502

517

Opinion of the Court.

If the argument is that Congress has no power to alter
property rights, because the regulation of rights in property is a matter reserved to the States, it is futile. Bankruptcy proceedings constantly modify and affect the
property rights established by state law. A familiar instance is the invalidation of transfers working a preference, though valid under state law when made. Recent decisions illustrate other instances:
"A court of bankruptcy may affect the interests of lien
holders in many ways. To carry out the purposes of
the Bankruptcy Act, it may direct that all liens upon
property forming a part of the bankrupt's estate be marshalled; or that the property be sold free of encumbrances and the rights of all lien holders be transferred
to the proceeds of the sale. Van Huffel v. Harkelrode,
284 U. S. 225, 227. Despite the peremptory terms of a
pledge, it may enjoin sale of the collateral, if it finds that
the sale would hinder or delay preparation or consummation of a plan of reorganization. Continental Illinois
Nat. Bank & Trust Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
294 U. S. 648, 680-681. It may enjoin like action by a
mortgagee which would defeat the purpose of [§ 751 subsection (s) to effect rehabilitation of the farmer mortgagor." Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. at 470.22
Such action does not indicate a disregard of the property rights created by state law. The state law still establishes the norm to which Congress must substantially
adhere; a serious departure from this norm, i. e., from
the quality of the property rights created by the state
law, has led to condemnation of the federal action as
constituting a deprivation of property without due
process.2
See also Adair v. Bank of America Assn., supra, restricting the
enforcement of a m~rtgage upon the gross proceeds of a crop.
Louisville Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

Property rights do not gain any absolute inviolability

in the bankruptcy court because created and protected
by state law.

protected.

Most property rights are so created and

But if Congress is acting within its bank-

ruptcy power, it may authorize the bankruptcy court to

affect these property rights, provided the limitations of
the due process clause are observed.
In so far as the judgments below struck from the schedules the 80.31-acre tract and refused to permit amendment to show the character of appellant's interest, they
are affirmed. As to the rest of the land in question, they

are reversed.
Affirmed in part; reversed in part.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration or 6decision of this case.
COLLINS Er AL. v. YOSEMITE PARK & CURRY CO.
APPEAL IROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 870.

Argued April 27, 28, 1938.-Decided May 31, 1938.

1. The United States, owning land set aside as a national park within
the boundaries of a State, may constitutionally accept from the
State a cession of jurisdiction over it. The jurisdiction ceded need
not be exclusive but may be limited by reservations of powers
in the State, such as the power to tax persons and their property
on the land included. Pp. 527, 530.
It is not essential to valid acquisition of jurisdiction by cession
from a State that the land involved shall be acquired by the
United States for one of the purposes specified in Clause 17,
§ 8, Art. I, of the Constitution. P. 528.
2. The territory embraced in the Yosemite National Park in California was acquired by the United States under the Treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo. Part of it, known as Yosemite Valley,
was granted to the State, in 1864, for park and recreational pur-

