156

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

304 U. S.

v. PAN AMERICAN

PETROLEUM CORP.

ET AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE'DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 514. Argued March 29, 30, 1938.-Decided April 25, 1938.
1. The Interstate Commerce Commission did not exceed the powers
conferred upon it by the Interstate Commerce Act, in ordering
carriers serving certain industrial plants to discontinue the practice of making allowances on the line-haul rates to the owners of
'the plants for moving, with' plant facilities, cars between interchange tracks and points within the plants, the Commission having
found, in respect of each of the plants involved, that the carrier's
obligation of delivery was fulfilled by placing or receiving cars on
the interchange tracks and that the moving and spotting of cars in
the plants formed no part of the service covered by the line-haul
rate. United States v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S.
402. P. 158.
2. Examination of the record discloses that the Commission's findings
and orders in each of the cases here involved were supported by
substantial evidence. Id.
3. The value and weight of the evidence on questions of fact, and the
inferences to be drawn therefrom, are for the Commiss'on, and its
determination thereof is conclusive. Id.
18 F. Supp. 624, reversed.
APPEALS from decrees of specially constituted District
Courts, setting aside and enjoining the enforcement of
orders of the Interstate Conimerce Commission.

Mr. Daniel W. kitowlton, with whom Acting Solicitor
General Beli, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and

Messrs. Elmer B. Collins, Edward M. Reidy,- and Nelson
Thomas were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Luther M. Walter and John S. Burchmore, with
whom Mr. Nuel D. Belnap was on the brief, for appellees.
iTogether with No. 530, United States et al. v. Humble Oil &
Refining Co. et al., on appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Southern Distrit of Texas.

U. S. v. PAN AMERICAN CORP.
156

MR.

Opi.ion of the Court.
JUsTiC

ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These appeals are from decrees of specially constituted
district courts, setting aside and enjoining the enforcement of orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission in
nine cases which were consolidated for hearing and decided
in a sinle opinion.1 The orders of the Commission which
were the subject of attack commanded the railroad or railroads serving industrial plants of the appellees to cease
and desist from the payment of allowances for switching
services performed by plant facilities. They resulted
from a general report in which the Commission after investigation announced general conclusions respecting
switching services by carriers in industrial plants, and
payment of allowances out of the line-haul rate to an industry performing the service,2 - and subsequent supple-

mental reports with respect to specific plants.' The Commission held that, in the circumstances disclosed at each
of the plants under consideration, the carriers' obligation
of delivery was fulfilled by placing or receiving cars on
interchange tracks and that the moving and spotting of
cars in the industries' plants formed no part of the service
covered by the line-haul rate. It concluded that the prac'18 F. Supp. 624. A circuit judge and two district judges sat as a
District Court for each of the districts to hear the cases.
2 Ex parte No. 104, Practices of Carriers Affecting Operating Revenues or Expenses, Part II, Terminal Services, 209 I. C. C. 11.
'Mexican Petroleum Corporation of La. Inc. Terminal Allowance,
209 I. C. C. 394; Celotex
Company Terminal Allowance, 209
I. C. C. 764; Great Southern Lumber Company-Bogalusa Paper
Company Terminal Allowance, 209 I. C. C. 793; Standard Oil
Company of Louisiana Terminal Allowance, 209 I. C. C. 68; Humble
Oil & Refining Co. Terminal Allowance, 209 I. C. C. 727; Magnolia
Petroleum Company Terminal Allowance, 209 I. C. C. 93; Texas
Company Terminal Allowance at Houston, Tex., 209 I. C. C. 767;
Gulf Refining Company Terminal Allowance, 209 I. C. C. 756; Texas
Company Terminal Allowances at Port Arthur, Texas, 213 I. C. C.

.583.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

tice of making an allowance out of the rate to the owner
of the plant for the performance of the spotting service
was unlawful and should be discontinued.
The appellees, in their complaints, asserted that in
making its orders the Commission exceeded the powers
conferred upon it by the Interstate Commerce Act. These
contentions are the same as those considered in United
State8 v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S.
402, and. are foreclosed by the decision therein.
The appellees charged that the Commission's findings
and orders were not supported by substantial evidence.
The District Court held with them upon this point. We
have examined the record and are of opinion that in each
case there is substantial evidence to support the Commission's findings. No useful-purpose will be served by
a. detailed recital of the evidence and it must suffice to
say that, while tie conditions iin
the various plants differed, in all of the cases the Commission had before it
maps exhibiting the character and extent of the plant
trackage, its relation and accessibility to the main line
tracks of the carriers concerned, and proofs as to the
volume and nature of intra-plant car movements, the
amount of engine service required and other relevant
facts. The value and weight of the evidence given by
railroad and plant executives, and the inferences to be
drawn from it, were for the Commission. In some instances the inconvenieuce and delay to the carriers in
performing plant services were more obvious than in
others but, we are unable to say that in any case the
Commission's orders were not based upon substantial
evidence, The orders. should not have been set aside,
and .the decrees must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and. ML JUnTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

