GARMENT WORKERS v. DONNELLY CO.

243

Syllabus.

INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION ET AL. v. DONNELLY GARMENT
CO. ET AL.
APFEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 801.

Argued April 27, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. A suit by an employer and a union of his employees to enjoin
another labor organization from picketing, boycotting and other
interferences with his business, upon the ground that the acts
complained of are in furtherance of a conspiracy in violation of
the Sherman Anti-Trust and Clayton Acts, is triable before a
single district judge, and a decree of interlocutory injunction
granted therein is appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals and
not directly to this Court. P. 247.
2. The provision of § 3 of the Act of Aug. 24, 1937, for a determination by three judges and direct appeal to this Court, does
,not apply where an Act of Congress is merely "drawn in auestion"; but only where there is an application to restrain enforcement of an Act of Congress. P. 248.
In the present case, the contention of plaintiffs that the NorrisLaGuardia Act (limiting jurisdiction to issue injunctions in labor
disputes) was not applicable to the conduct of defendants and
would be invalid if otherwise interpreted, was but an anticipation of a defense and did not constitute an application for injunction in any proper sense of the term as used in § 3.
3. This Court in cases of decrees purporting to have been entered
under § 3 of the Act of Aug. 24, 1937, has jurisdiction to determine whether the court below has acted within the authority
conferred by the statute and to make such corrective order as
may be appropriate to the enforcement of the limitations which
the statute imposes. Where appeal has erroneously been taken
to this Court and the time for appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals has expired, the decree will be vacated and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings to be taken
independently of that section. P. 251.
Decree in 21 F. Supp. 807 vacated.

241.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of tne Court.

APPEAL

304 U. S.

from a decree of the- District Court, three

judges sitting, denying a motion to dismiss, and granting
an interlocutory injunction. The suit, brought by the
Donnelly Garment Company, in which the Donnelly
Garment Workers' Union joined as plaintiff, was to enjoin the International Union from perpetrating alleged
violations of the Sherman and Clayton Acts. For opinions below, see 21 F. Supp. 807, 814, 817; 20 id. 767.
Mr. Frank P. Walsh, with whom Messrs. Jerome Walsh
and Roy W. Rucker were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. James A. Reed, Robert J. Ingraham, and
William S. Hogset were on a brief for appellees Donnelly
Garment Co. and Donnelly Garment Sales Co.
Messrs. Frank E. Tyler and Alfred N. Gossett were ona brief for Donnelly Garment Workers' Union.
PER CURIAM.

This is a direct appeal to this Court from a decree of the
District Court, three judges sitting, denying a motion to
dismiss the complaint and granting an interlocutory injunction. The question arises whether such an appeal
lies.
Appellants rely upon the Act of August 24, 1937, r. 754,
50 Stat. 751. Section 3 of that Act, the full text of which
is quoted in the margin,1 provides that "no interlocutory
The first three sections of the Act of August 24, 1937, are as
follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That whenever the
constitutionality of any Act of Congress affecting the public interest
is drawn in question in any court of the United States in any suit

or proceeding to which the United States, or any agency thereof, or
any officer or employee thereof, as such officer or employee, is not a

party, the court having jurisdiction of the suit or proceeding shall

GARMENT WORKERS v. DONELLY CO.
243

245

Opinion of the Court.

or permanent injunction suspending or restraining the enforcement, operation, or execution of, or setting aside, in
whole or in part any Act of Congress upon the ground that
such Act or any part thereof is repugnant to the Qonsticertify such fact to the Attorney General. In any such case the
court shall permit the United States to intervene and become a part
for presentation of evidence (if evidence is otherwise receivable in
such suit or proceeding) and argument upon the question of the
constitutionality of such Act. In any such suit or proceeding the
United States shall, subject to the applicable provisions of law, have
all the rights of a party and the liabilities of a party as to court
costs to the extent necessary for a proper presentation of the facts
and law relating to the constitutionality of such Act.
"Sec. 2. In any suit or proceeding in any court of the United States
to which the United States, or any agency thereof, or any officer or
employee thereof, as such officer or employee, is a party, or in which
the United States has intervened and become a party, and in which
the decision is against the constitutionality of any Act of Congress,
an appeal may be taken directly to the Supreme Court of the United
States by the United States or any other party to such suit or proceeding upon application therefor or notice thereof within thirty
days after the entry of a final or interlocutory judgment, decree, or
order; and in the event that any such appeal is taken, any appeal
or cross-appeal by any party to the suit or proceeding takbn previously, or taken within sixty days after notice of an appeal under
this section, shall also be or be treated as taken directly to the
Supreme Court of the United States. In the event that an appeal
is taken under this section, the record shall be made up and the case
docketed in the Supreme Court of the United States within sixty
days from the time such appeal is allowed, under such rules as may
be prescribed by the proper courts. Appeals under this section shall
be heard by the Supreme Court of the United States at the earliest
pos8ible time and shall take precedence over all other matters not of
a like character. This section shall not be construed to be in derogation of any right of direct appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States under existing provisions of law.
"Sec. 3. No interlocutory or permanent injunction suspending or
restraining the enforcement, operation or execution / of, or setting
aside, in whole or in part, any Act of Congress upon the ground that
such Act. or any part thereof is repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States shall be issued or granted by any district court of

246

OCTOBER TERM. 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

tution of the United States" shall be granted by a district
court."unless the application for the same" shall be heard
and determined by three judges. When there is an application for such an injunction, three judges are to be conthe United States, or by any judge thereof, or by any circuit judge
acting as district judge, unless the application for the same shall be
presented to a circuit or district judge, and shall be heard and determined by three judges, of whom at least one shall be a circuit judge.
When any such application is presented to a judge, he shall immediately request the senior circuit judge (or in his absence, the presiding circuit judge) of the circuit in which such district court is
located to designate two other judges to participate in hearing and
determhi. g such application. It shall be the duty of the senior
circuit judge or the presiding circuit judge, as the case may be, to
designate immediately two other judges from such circuit for such
purpose, and it shall be the duty of the judges so designated to
participate in such hearing and determination. Such application
shall rot be heard or-determined before at least flye days' notice of
the hearing has been given to the Attorney General and to such other
persons as may be defendants in the suit: Provided, That if of opinion that irreparable loss or damage would result to the petitioner
unless a temporary restraining order is granted, the judge to whom
the application is made may grant such temporary restraining order
at any time before the hearing and determination of the application,
but such -temporary restraining order shall remain in force only until
such bearing and determination upon notice as aforesaid, and such
temporary restraining order shall contain a specific finding, based
upon evidence submitted to the 6ourt making the order and identified
by reference thereto, that such irreparable loss or damage would
result to the petitioner and specifying the nature of the loss or damage. The said court may, at the time of hearing such application,
upon a like finding, continue the temporary stay or suspension, in
whole or in part, until decision upon the application. The hearing
upon any such application for an interlocutory or permanent injunction shall be given precedence and shall b in every way expedited
and be assigned for a hearing at the earliest practicable day. An
appeal may be taken directly to the Supreme Court of the UniLed
States upon application therefor or notice thereof within thirty days
after the entry of the order, decree, or judgment granting or denying,
after notice abd hearing, an interlocutory or permanent injunction
in such case. In the event that an appeal is taken under this section,

GARMENT WORKERS v. DONNELLY CO.
243

247

Opinion of the Court.

vened and the hearing of the application is to be expedited.
An appeal may be taken directly to this Court from a
decree "granting or denying, after notice and hearing, an
interlocutory or permanent injunction in such case."
We are of the opinion that the instant case does not
fall within these provisions. This is not a suit to restrain
the enforcement of an Act of Congress and no application
was made for such an injunction.
This suit was brought on July 5, 1937, by the appellees,
Donnelly Garment Company and Donnelly Garment Sales
Company, to obtain an injunction restraining the appellants, International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, its
officers and agents, from committing certain acts alleged
to be in furtherance of a conspiracy in violation of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act and the Clayton Act (15 U. S. C.,
c. 1). The conduct sought to be restrained consisted of
picketing, boycotting and certain interferences with plaintiffs' business, their employees and customers. Appellee,
Donnelly Garment Workers' Union and its representatives were permitted to intervene and sought similar
relief. Their petition in intervention alleged that the
defendants [appellants] had not been and were not engaged in a labor dispute within the meaning of the Act
of Congress of March 23, 1932, c. 90, 47 Stat. 70, known
as the Norris-LaGuardia Act, nor within the meaning of
the Act of Congress of July 5, 1935, c. 372, 49 Stat. 449,
known as the National Labor Relations Act, and that no
labor dispute was involved in this litigation. They
the record shall be made up and the case docketed in the Supreme
Court of the United States within sixty days from the time such
appeal is allowed, under such rules as may be prescribed by the
proper courts. Appeals under this section shall be heard by the
Supreme Court of the United States at the earliest possible time and
shall take precedence over all other matters not of a like character.
This section shall not be construed to be in derogation of any right
of direct appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States under
existing provisions of law."

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

further stated that "if the actions and course of conduct
of the defendants" were construed to be a "labor dispute"
within the meaning of those statutes, the latter would be
unconstitutional, as so interpreted, because in contravention of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States and of Article II, § 30, of the Constitution of the State of Missouri. By their amended bill
of complaint, appellees, the original plaintiffs, made
similar allegations as to the inapplicability of the NorrisLaGuardia Act and its invalidity if held applicable.
On the presentation of the bill, the District Judge
granted a temporary restraining order enjoining the defendants' conduct of which complaint was made. A motion to dissolve the restraining order and to dismiss the
complaint was denied on August 13,1937. 20 F. Supp. 767.
After the passage of the Act of August 24, 1937, the District Judge certified to the Attorney General that the
constitutionality of the Norris-LaGuardia Act and of the
National Labor Relations Act had been "drawn in question." On the request of the District Judge, a court of
thr~e judges was constituted. The motion of the defendants to dismiss the bill and to vacate the temporary restraining order and. the motion of the plaintiffs for an
interlocutory injunction restraining the defendants from
committing the alleged unlawful acts in pursuance of a
conspiracy in violation of the Anti-Trust Acts, were then
heard. The motion to dismiss was denied and the interlocutory injunction was granted as prayed. 21 F. Supp.
807.
There was no application before the District Court for
an injunction restraining the enforcement of any Act of
Congress. In considering the application for an injunction restraining defendants from picketing, boypotting,
etc., the Distiict Court found that the groun of defense
was the defendants' contention that the Norris-LaGuardia
Act deprived .t
District Court of jurisdictibn. The

GARMENT WORKERS v. DONNELLY CO.
243

Opinion of the Court.

court held that that Act had no application to the controversy and that it was unnecessary to resolve the constitutional question presented as to its validity. Id., pp. 811,
814.
The Act of August 24, 1937, carefully distinguishes between the different situations to which its provisions are
addressed. Section 1 applies "whenever the constitutionality of any Act of Congress affecting the public interest
is drawn in question" in any court of the United States
in -any suit or proceeding to which the United States, or
its ,agency, officer or emp~loyee as such, is not a party.
The fact that such a question is involved must be certified
to the Attorney General and the United States mutt be
permitted to intervene with all the rights of a party. Tomake that provision applicable it is enough that a question as to the constitutionality, of an Act of Congress is
involved, however it may arise. The question may be
raised by any party and the section is not limited to cases
where an injunction is sought to restrain the enforcement
of the Act. Apart from providing for intervention, and
the right of the United States to present evidence and
argument, § 1 does not require any change in procedure
in the hearing of the cause or in relation to appeal.
Section 2 applies to a suit or proceeding, in. which the
United States, or its agency, officer or employee as. such,
is a party -or in which the United States has intervened
and in which "the decision is against the constitutionality.
of any Act of Congress." In that event, an appeal may
be taken directly to this Court. .That section applies,
however the question of constitutionality may arise, provided the United States is or has become a party and the
decision is against the validity of the Act. That section
does not require a court of three judges, and no provision
is made for a direct appeal to this Court if the decision
is in favor of the constitutionality of the Act.

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

The provision in § 3 for a determination by three judges
and for a direct appeal to this Court is limited to the particular class of cases there described. Section 3 does not
provide for a case where the validity of an Act of Congress
is merely drawn in question, albeit that question be decided, but only for a case where there is an application
for an interlocutory or permanent injunction to restrain
the enforcement of an Act of Congress. The careful choice
of language in the different sections of the Act points
clearly to a distinction in categories. Had Congress intended the provision in § 3, for three judges and direct appeal, to apply whenever a question of the validity of an
Act of Congress became involved, Congress would naturally have used the familiar phrase "drawn in question,"
as in the first section of the Act. While there are some
variations in text, the provioion in § 3 has a manifest analogy to that of § 266 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C.
380) providing for three judges and a direct appeal to this
Court in case of an application for an injunction restraining the enforcement of a state statute by restraining the
action of state officers. That provision is hinged on an
application for injunction, and not on the mere drawing in
question of the constitutionality of a state enactment.
Compare Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388, 391; Stratton v.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 282 U. S. 10, 15.
The entire procedure prescribed in § 3 turns on the
presentation of an application for an injunction to restrain the enforcement of a federal statute. It is when
"such application" is presented to a judge that the participation of two other judges is to be requested. It is
"such application" which is not to be heard or determined
before at least five days' notice , i the Attorney General.
The judge to whom "the application is made" may grant
a temporary restraining order, and the court "at the time
of hearing such application" may continue the temporary
stay. And it is the hearing "upon any such application

GARMENT WORKERS v. DONNELLY CO.
243

251

Opinion of the Court.

for an interlocutory or permanent injunction" that is to
be given precedence and expedited. Appeal is to be
taken directly to this Court where the decree grants or
denies "an interlocutory or permanent injunction in such
case."
The contention of plaintiffs that the Norris-LaGuardia
Act was not applicable to the conduct of defendants and
would be invalid if otherwise interpreted was but an anticipation of a defense and did not constitute an application for injunction in any proper sense of the term as
used in § 3. Tie only application for an injunction was
one to restrain the defendants from committing acts in
pursuance of the alleged conspiracy in violation of the
Anti-Trust Acts. The statute did not require a decision
by three judges upon that application or authorize a direct
appeal to this Court.'
But although the merits cannot be reviewed
here, this
Court, by virtue of its appellate jurisdiction in cases of
decrees purporting to be entered under the Act of August
24, 1937, as in cases of decrees purporting to be entered
under § 266 of the Judicial Code, necessarily has jurisdiction to determine whether the court below has acted
within the authority conferred by the statute and to make
such corrective order as may be appropriate to the enforcement of the limitations which the statute imposes.
We have said that such a case is analogous to those in
which this Court, finding that the court below has acted
without jurisdiction, exercises its appellate jurisdiction
to correct the improper action. Gully v. Interstate
Natural Gas Co., 292 U. S. 16, 18; Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386. 392;
Wall v. McNee, 296 U. S. 547; United States v. Corrick,
298 U. S. 435, 440. As appellants by mistakenly appealing directly to this Court have lost their opportunity to
have the decree reviewed on its merits, as the time for
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals has expired, our

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

appropriate action, without passing upon the merits, is
to vacate the decree below and to remand the cause to the

District Court for further proceedings to be taken independently of § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937. Gully v.
Interstate Natural Gas Co., supra; Oklahoma Gas &
Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., supra.
Judqment vacated.
MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE CO. ET AL. V. CITY
OF REDDING ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 976.

Motion to dismiss.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. A suit before a district court of three judges, convened under § 3,
Act of Aug. 24, 1937, to enjoin enforcement of federal statutes on
the ground of unconstitutionality, is without jurisdiction, if no
substantial federal qu.btion is presentedi and in the absence of such
question the court can not proceed to the determination of local
questions but must dismiss the bill. P. 254.
2. Lack of a substantial federal question which thus defeats the jurisdiction of the district court may appear from a decision of this
Court in another Qase rendered after the filing of the bill in the.
district court and after presentation of a motion for preliminary
injunction. P. 255.
3. A water service company sued to enjoin a city from receiving a
grant of federal funds under Title II of the National Industrial
Recovery Act, and from using proceeds of city bonds, for the
purpose of -constructing a municipal water plant, claiming that
the grant was in violation of the federal Constitution and federal
statutes, and the bond issue in violation of the Constitution and
statutes of California. Held, that in view of this Court's later
decision in Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464, there was
no substantial federal question; and that the question of the bond
issue was distinct and local. P. 255.
22 F. Supp. 641, affirmed.

