ALLEN v REGENTS.
430

Syllabus.

an English appellate court. -It was doubted by eminent judges in .Burnand v. Rodocanachi Sons & Co.,
[1882] L. R. 7 App. Cas. 333, 342, and in Thames & Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. British & Chilean S. S. Co., [1915]

L. R. 2 K. B. 214, 221. Its reasoning, conflicting as it
does with established principles of maritime insurance
law, and found to be incapable of consistent application
both in The St. Johns, supra, 474-475, and in The Livingstone, supra.750, should be rejected here.
-

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

ALLEN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.

REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM-OF
GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 882. Argued April 28, 29, 1938.-Decided May 23, 1938.
1. Substitution of the official successor to a collector of internal revenue who resigned and died pending a r;fit to restiain collection
of a tax assessment, held proper under § 11, Act of February
13, 1925. "P. 444.
2. R. S. § 3224, providing that "no suit for the purpose of restraining the collection or assessment of any tax shall be maintained in
any court," is inapplicable in xceptibnal cases where there is no.
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. P. 445.
3. A c6rporation, created by a State as an instrumentality of 'the
State, and having control and management of state educational
institutions, sought to restrain collection by distraint of sjms .assessed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in consequence
of neglect to collect and pay over the federal tax, Revenue Act of
1926, § 500 (a) (1), as amended, on 'admissions t5 intercollegiate
football games played at those institutipns. The corporation con-

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

304 U. S.

tended that the exaction would unconstitutionally burden a governmental activity of the State. The tickets of admission to the
games in question bore printed notices to the effect that the corporation was not liable for any admission tax, but that an amount
equivalent thereto was being collected as part of the price of admission and would be retained as such, unless it should later be
determined that the corporation was liable for the tax. Held,
the suit was within the equity jurisdiction of the federal court.
Pp. 445, 448.
The State was entitled to a determination of the question whether
the statute as construed and applied imposed an unconstitutional
burden, and the issue could not adequately be raised by any other
proceeding.
4. A corporation created by the State as an instrumentality of the
State and having control and management of state educational
institutions, at which athletic exhibitions are held and the public
are charged for admission, may constitutionally be required to collect, make return of, and pay to the United States the admissions
tax imposed by Revenue Act of 1926, § 500 (a) (1), as amended
by Revenue Act of 1932, § 711. P. 449.
5. The tax immunity implied from the dual sovereignty recognized
by the Constitution does not extend to business enterprises conducted by the States for gain. P. 453.
93 F. 2d 887, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 634, to review the affirmance of a
decree enjoining a United States collector of internai
revenue from distraining bank deposits representing moneys claims by the Regents of the Universit, System of
Georgia, a state instrumentality, respondent in this case.
See also 10 F. Supp. 901; 18 id. 62; 81 F. 2d 577.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Carlton Fox were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Marion Smith, with whom Messrs. M. J. Yeomans,
Attorney General of Georgia, M. E. Kilpatrick and Hamilton Lokey vere on the brief, for respor dent.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. William S. Ervin, Attorney General of Minnesota,
John H. Mitchell, Attorney General of Iowa,'Gaston L.
Porterie, Attorney General of Louisiana, Richard C.
Hunter, Attorney General of Nebraska, and Henry H.
Foster, Attorney for University of Nebraska, Orland S.
Loomis, Attorney General of Wisconsin, Raymond W.
Starr, Attorney General of Michigan, Clarence V. Beck,
Attorney General of Kansas, Roy McKittrick, Attorney
General of Missouri, A. A. F. Seawell, Attorney General
of North Carolina, Alvin C. Strutz, Attorney General of
North Dakota, and Herbert S. Duffy, Attorney General
of Ohio, on behalf of their respective States; by Messrs.
Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General, Nat Tipton, Assistant
Attorney General, of Tennessee, and Mr. Henry B.
Witham, on behalf of that State and its University; by
Messrs. *Otto Kerner, Attorney General of Illinois, and
Sveinbjorn Johnson, on behalf of that State; and by
Messrs. E. W. Mullins, Harold Major, D. W. Robinson,
Jr., and James F. Dreher, on behalf of the University
of South Carolina, and other educational institutions
of that State; all in support of respondent.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question on the merits is whether the exaction
of the federal admissions tax, in respect of athletic contests in which teams representing colleges conducted by
the respondent participate, unconstitutionally burdens a
governmental function of the State of Georgia. The petition also challenges the respondent's ability to maintain
a suit to enjoin the collection of the tax and to substitute
as defendant the successor in office of the Collector originally impleaded. The court below decided all the ques-

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

tions involved against the petitioner.' Because of their
importance we granted certiorari.
Section 500 (a) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1926,2 as
amended by § 711 of the Revenue Act of 1932' imposes
"a tax of 1 cent for each 10 cents or fraction thereof of
the amount paid for admission to any place . . . to be
paid by the person paying for such admission; . . .
Subsection (d)commands that the price (exclusive of the
tax to be paid by the person paying for admission) at
which every admission ticket is sold shall be conspicuously printed, stamped, or- written on the face or back
of that portion of the ticket which is to be taken up by
the management and imposes a penalty for failure to
comply with its terms. Section 502 requires the person
receiving payments for admissions to collect the tax and
make return in such form as the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue may prescribe by regulation. Section 1102 (a) 5
imposes the duty on persons who collect the tax to keep
records and render statements, under oath, and to make
returns as required by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Section 11141 (b) and (d) fixes penalties for failure to
collect or pay over and subsection (e) provides for the
personal li;pbility of one collecting the admission charge
'The defendant in the District Court was W. E. Page, the petitioner's predecessor in office. That court dismissed the bill. 10 F.
Supp. 901. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 81 F. 2d 577.
After answer and a hearing on the merits the District Court awarded
an injunction. 18 F. Supp. 62. The Circuit Court of Appeals permitted the substitution of the petitioner for Page and affirmed the
decree by a divided court. 93 F. 2d 887.
c.27, 44 Stat. 9, 91; U. S. C. Tit. 26, §§ 940-944.
8
c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, 271; U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 940 (a) (2).
'Exemptions touching admissions of certain persons and all admissions to specified types of entertainment or exhibitions are not involved. Subsection (e), 47 Stat. 271.
'44 Stat. 112; U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 960.
'44 Stat. 116; U. S. C. Tit. 26, §§ 494, 856, 921.
2

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

Opinion of the Court.

and for distraint by the Collector of Internal Revenue for
taxes and penalties. Section 607 of the Revenue Act of
1934 1 requires the person charged with the collection of
the tax to hold the amount collected as a special fund in
trust for the United States, confers the right to assess him
with the amount so collected and withheld, including penalties, and, in connection with R. S.3187,8 authorizes the
Collector of Internal Revenue to distrain therefor.
The respondent is a public corporation, created by
Georgia as an instrumentality of the State, having control
and management .of The University of Georgia and the
Georgia School of Technology. Athletics at these institutions are conducted under the respondent's authority
by two corporations, the University of Georgia Athletic
Association and the Georgia Tech. Athletic Association.
The expense of physical education and athletic programs
at each school is defrayed almost entirely from the admission charges to athletic contests and students' athletic.
fees collected for the purpose. During September and
October 1934 football games were played at the institutions, for which admissions were charged and collected
by the associations. Each ticket showed on its face the
admission price, the amount of the tax, and the total of
the two, and also carried the following printed notice:
"The University of Georgia [or Georgia School of Technology] being an instrumentality of the government of
the State of Georgia, contends that it is not liable for any
admission tax. The amount stated as a tax is so stated
because the University is required to do so by Treasury
regulations pending a decision as to its liability in this
respect. This amount is collected by the University as
a part of the admission and will be retained as such unless
it is finally determined that the University is itself liable
for the tax."
'c. 277, 48 Stat. 680, 768; U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 1551.
8

U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 1580.

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Each association deposited the total collected as the
disputed tax in a separatez.bank account, apart from its
other funds, but made no return thereof. The Collector
prepared returns for the amounts. In consequence of
the associations' neglect to -pay the amounts so returned,
the Commissioner assessed each association in the amount
shown by return made for it and certified the assessments
to the Collector, who made demands for payment. These
were ignored and the Collector filed liens, issued warrants,
and levied upon the deposit accounts. The respondent
then brought suit in which it prayed a decree that, as an
agency of the State performing an essential governmental
function in the conduct of the games, it was immune from
the tax, and sought injunctions, temporary and permanent, to restrain the Collector from proceeding further
to collect the sums demanded. From a decree awarding
a final injunction the Collector appealed; but, pending
appeal, he resigned and, before the hearing, died. Over
objection the Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the. petitioner substituted as appellant and affirmed the decree.
We are of opinion that the court below rightly decided
the procedural questions but erred as to the merits.
First. If the suit was maintainable against his predecessor in office the substitution of petitioner was lawful.
We are not unmindful of the principle that suits against
officers to restrain action in excess of their authority or
in violation of statutory or constitutional provisions are
in their nature personal and that a successor in office is
not privy to his predecessor in respect of the alleged
wrongful conduct.' As a result of the inconvenience resulting from the lack of power to substitute one who succeeded to the office of an alleged offending official, to
'Pennoyer v. Mct'onnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 10; United States ex rel.

Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600, 603-604; PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 620-621; Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S.
219, 222.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

Opinion of the Court.

which this court has called attention,"° Congress adopted
the Act of February 13, 1925,11 which provides:
" .
Where, during the pendency of an action,
proceeding brought by or against an officer
or
other
suit,
of the United States . . . and relating to the present
or future discharge of his official duties, such officer dies,
resigns, or otherwise ceases to hold such office, it shall be
corapetent for the court wherein the action, suit, or proceeding is pending, whether the court be one of first instance or an appellate tribunal, to permit the cause to be
continued and maintained by or against the successor in
office of such officer,
The motion to substitute the petitioner asserted that,
unless restrained, he would continue in the course pursued by his predecessor. The answer did not deny this
allegation but relied upon the claim that the present Collector is not privy to the acts of the former one. In Ex
parte La Prade, 289 U. S. 444, this court reserved the
question whether in such a situation the successor might
be substituted. As the present case is within the letter
of the Act and within the inconvenience intended to be
obviated by its adoption, the substitution was properly
permitted.
Second. If the tax, the collection of which was threatened, constituted an inadmissible burden upon. a governmental activity of the State, the circumstances
disclosed render the cause one of equitable cognizance
and take it out of the prohibition of R. S. 3224." The
respondent has long been of opinion that exaction of
the tax in respect of games played under the auspices of
The University of Georgia and the Georgia School of
Technology constitutes an unconstitutional burdei upon
an essential governmental activity of Georgia. At first
See Ex parte La Prade,289 U. S. 444, 456-459.
c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, U. S. C. Tit.. 28, § 780.
U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 1543,

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304U.S.

the respondent collected the tax as required by the Act,
paid it over to the Treasury, and made claim for refund.
The claim was rejecied on the ground that the tax was
paid by the patron of the game, and that the athletic
associations and the respondent were mere collecting
agents having no interest in the fund which would justify
repayment to them if it had been illegally collected.
Believing the basis of the Commissioner's refusal to refund was sound,"' the respondent then resorted to the
expedient of collecting the amount of the tax under the
reservation printed upon the tickets.
The bill, after reciting the facts as above summarized,
alleges that the statute imposes a tax upon the individuals
who purchase tickets, but, properly construed, is inapplicable to those purchasing tickets to the football games
in question. It further asserts that, in respect of tlose
games, neither the respondent nor the athletic associations collected any tax from purchasers of admissions;
that if the statute be construed to justify the Collector
in seeking-to force respondent to pay sums representing
alleged taxes due from numerous individuals it is unconstitutional as an attempt to interfere with and control and to burden the state's educational activities and
unlawfully to impose on the state government"the duty
of collecting taxes for the federal government; that the
action of the petitioner in issuing warrants of distraint
is either an attempt to collect from respondent taxes
alleged to be due from various individuals, or to impose
upon the. respondent penalties, criminal and punitive in
nature.
The petitioner insists the bill shows the tax was in fact
collected from the patrons of the games, and the allegaCompare Shannopin Country Club v. Heilner, 2 F. 2d 393; Lafayette Worsted Co. v. Page, 6 F. 2d 399; Union Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Bowers, 33 F. 2d 102; Wourdack v. Becker, 55 F. 2d 840; but see
Builders' Club v. United States, 14 F. Supp. 1020.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

Opinion of the Court.

tion that no tax was collected is a mere conclusion of law
which the court should ignore; that the trial court was
without jurisdiction to determine in this suit for injunction whether or not taxes had been collected by respondent; that the Revenue Act imposes no liability for the
tax upon the vendor of the tickets who fails to collect,'
although it does impose a penalty for wilful failure to
collect the tax and other penalties; that, as the respondent collected the tax, it has no standing in its capacity as
a collecting agent to deny the validity of the exaction,
and, as a collecting agent, could not create a right to
resist collection by the government by forcing a stipulation upon purchasers of tickets that the amount collected
should belong to the agent if it were able to defeat the
government; that, as such agent, respondent has no interest adverse to the United States; that the stipulation
in question did not amount to an, assignment of a ticket
purchaser's claim for refund or, if it did, the purchaser
has thereby lost his right to recover the tax by rea.on
of the prohibition of assignment of claims against the
United States embodied in R. S. 3477; 14 that respondent
or the athletic associations would have had an adequate
remedy at law for recovery of the amounts assesied
against them had they paid the assessments; and fintlly
that R. S. 3224 15 prohibits the issue of an injunction
against collection.
To these contentions respondent replies that whiE it
placed the required information on the ticket and seiregated the equivalent of the tax from the proceeds of tickets sold to avoid the impositiori of penalties on its personnel, the notation on the tickets shows that it did aot
undertake to collect and did not in fact collect the t ,x;
- U. S. C. Tit. 31, § 203.
" No suit for. the purpose of restraining the assessment or coUec-

tion of any tax shall be maintained in any court."

§ 15.43.

U. S. C. Tit. 26,

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

that, by refusal to collect, it took itself out of the category
of an agent who voluntarily acted on behalf of the government; that, while the statute places no liability upon
respondent for the tax as such, it imposes upon the respondent civil and criminal penalties for refusal to collect
it; that respondent is not an assignee of the claims of its
patrons, but, if the tax is invalid, is owner in its own right
of the entire amount paid by each purchaser; that respondent has no remedy at law because if it had paid the
tax out of its own funds it could not have claimed refund
of payment thus voluntarily made for its patrons' accounts; that state officials may not be required to collect
an illegal tax as a condition precedent to contesting its
validity; that § 3224 has no application to this suit.
The dispute as to the propriety of a suit in equity must
be resolved in the light of the nature of the controversy.
The respondent in good faith believes that an unconstitutional burden is laid directly upon itb transactions in
the sale of licenses to witness athletic exhibitions conducted under authoiity of the State and for an essential
governmental purpose. The State is entitled to have a
determination of the question whether such burden is
imposed by the statute as construed and applied. It is
not bound to subject its public officers and their subordinates to pains and penalties criminal and civil in order
to have this question settled, if no part of the sum collected was a tax, and if the assessment was in truth the
imposition of a penalty for failure to exact a tax on behalf of the United States. And if the respondent is right
that the statute is invalid as applied to its exhibitions,
it ought not to have to incur the expense and burden of
collection, return, and prosecution of claim for refund of
a tax upon others which the State may not lawfully be
required to collect. These extraordinary circumstances
we think justify resort to equity.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
Opinion of the Coutt.

439

What we have said indicates that R. S. 3224, supra,
does not oust the jurisdiction. The statute is inapplicable
in exceptional cases where there is no plain, adequate,
and complete. remedy at law." This is such a case, for
here the assessment is not of a tax payable by respondent but of a penalty for failure to collect it from another.
The argument that no remedy need be afforded the respondent is bottomed on the assumption that it is a mere
collecting agent which cannot be hurt by collecting and
paying over the tax; but this argument assumes first,
that respondent did in truth collect a tax and, second,
that the imposition of the tax on the purchase of admissions cannot, burden a state activity. This is arguing in
a circle, for these are the substantial matters in controversy. We hold that the bill states a case in equity
as, upon the showing made, the respondent was unable
by any other proceeding adequately to raise the issue of
the unconstitutionality of the Government's effort to enforce payment.
.Third. We come then to the merits. For present purposes we assume the truth of the following propositions
put forward by the respondent: That it is a public instrumentality of the state government carrying out a part of
the' State's program of public education; that public
education is a governmental function; that the holding
of athletic contests is an integral part of the program of
public education conducted by Georgia; that the means
by which the State carries out that program are for determination by the state authorities, and their determination is not subject to review by any branch of the
federal Government; that a state activity does not cease
to be governmental because it produces some income;
that the tax is imposed directly on the state activity and
Miller v. Standard Nut Margarine Co., 284 U. S. 498, 509.
81638°-38----29

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

directly burdens that adtivity; that the burden of collecting the tax is placed immediately on a state agency.
The petitioner stoutly combats many of these propositions. We have no occasion to pass upon their validity
since, even if all are accepted, we think the tax was lawfully imposed and the respoiident was obligated to collect,
return and pay it to the United States.
The record discloses these undisputed facts: The
stadium of the University of Georgia has a seating capacity of 30,000, cost $180,000, and was paid for by borrowed
money which is being repaid by the Athletic Association,
whose chief source of revenue is admissions to the contests
in the stadium. $158,000 of the amount borrowed has
been repaid since the stadium was completed in 1929.
The student enrollment is about 2,400. Each student
pays an annual athletic fee of $10.00 which confers the
privilege of free admission to all the school's athletic
events. All admissions collected, and the tax paid on
them, are paid by the general public, none by the students." The total receipts of the Athletic Association
from all sources for the year ending August 31, 1935,
were $91,620.25 of which $71,323.27 came from admissions to football games.
The stadium of the Georgia School of Technology has
a seating capacity of 29,000. It cost $275,000 and was
paid for by a gift of $50,000 and from admissions charged
and student fees. The enrollment is about 2,000 students, each of whom pays an annual athleic fee of $7.50
which gives the privilege of free admission to all games.
All admissions collected, and the tax paid on them, are
paid by the general public, none by the students." The
total receipts of the Athletic Association for the six
months ended December 31, 1934, were $119,436.75 of
which $74,168.51 came from admissions to football games.
Student athletic fees are not treated as admissions subject to the
tax. See Cumulative Bulletin XI-2 (July-December 1932), p. 522.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

Opinion of the Court.

It is evident that these exhibition enterprises are comparatively large and are the means of procuring substantial aid for the schools' programs of athleticd and
physical education. In final analysis the question we
must decide is whether, by electing to support a governmental activity through the conduct of a business comparable in all essentials to those usually conducted by
private owners, a State may withdraw the business from
the. field of federal taxation.
When a State embarks in a business which would
normally be taxable, the fact that in so doing it is exercising a governmental power does not render the activity
immune from federal taxation. In South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U. S. 437, it appeared that South
Carolina had established dispensaries for the sale of
liquor and -prohibited sale by other than official dispensers. It was held that the United States could
require the dispensers to take licenses and to pay license
taxes under the Internal Revenue laws applicable to
dealers in intoxicating liquors, and this notwithstanding
the State had established the dispensary system in the
valid exercise of her police power. In Ohio v. Helvering,
292 U. S.360, it was shown that Ohio, in the exercise of
the same power, had created a monopoly of the distribution and sale of intoxicating liquors through stores owned,
managed, and controlled exclusively by the State. It
was sought to enjoin the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and his subordinates from enforcing against the
State, her officers, agents, and employes, penalties for
the nonpayment of federal excises on the sale of liquor.
Relief was denied and the views expressed in the South
Carolina case were reaffirmed. In Helvering v. Powers,
293 U. S.214, the court found that Massachusetts, in the
exercise of the police power, had appointed a Board of
Trustees to operate a street railway company's properties for a limited time. It was held that though the

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

trustees were state officers, their salaries were subject to
federal income tax because the State could not withdraw
sources of revenue from the federal taxing power by engaging in a business which went beyond usual governmental functions and to which, by reason of its nature,
the federal taxing power would normally extend.
The legislation considered in South Carolinav. United
States, supra, provided for a division of the profits of the
dispensary system between the state treasury and cities
and counties. Thus the enterprise contributed directly
to the sustenance of every governmental activity of the
State. In the present instance, instead of covering the
proceeds or profits of the exhibitions into the state treasury, the plan in actual operation appropriates these
monies in ease of what the State deems its governmental
obligation to support a system of public education. The
difference in method is not significant. The important
fact is that the State, in order to raise funds for public
purposes, has embarked in a business having the incidents of similar enterprises usually prosecuted for private
gain. If it be conceded that the education of its prospective citizens is an essential governmental function of
Geor ia, as necessary to the preservation of the State as
is the maintenance of its executive, legislative, and judicial
branches, it does not follow that if the State elects to
provide the funds for any of these purposes by conducting a business, the application of the avails in aid of
necessary governmental functions withdraws the business from the field of federal taxation.
Under the test laid down in Helvering v. Gerhardt,
ante, p. 405, however essential a system of public education
to the existence of the State, the conduct of exhibitions
for admissions paid by the public is not such a function
of state government as to be free from the burden of a
non-discriminatory tax laid on all admissions to public
exhibitions for which an admission fee is charged.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

STONE, J., concurring.

The opinion in South Carolinav. United States, supra,
at pages 454-457, points out the destruction of the federal power to tax which might result from a contrary decision. 8
Moreover, the immunity implied from the dual sovereignty recognized by the Constitution does not extend
to business enterprises conducted by the States for gain.
As was said in South Carolinav. United States, supra, at
p. 457: "Looking, therefore, at the Constitution in the
light of the conditions surrounding at the time of its
adoption, it is obvious that the framers in granting full
power over license taxes to the National Government
meant that that power should be complete, and never
thought that the States by extending their functions could
practically destroy it." Compare Helvering v. Therrell,
303 U. S. 218. The decree is
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE

STONE,

concurring in the result.

Congress, by R. S. § 3224, has declared that "No suit
for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any tax shall be maintained in any court." While
"Mingling the thought of profit with the necessity of regulation
may induce the State to take possession, in like manner, of tobacco,
oleomargarine, and all other objects of internal revenue tax. If one
State finds It thus profitable other States may follow, and the whole
body of internal revenue tax be thus stricken down."- (p. 454.)
"The same argument which would exempt the sale by a State of
liquor, tobacco, etc., from a license tax would exempt the importation
of merchandise by a State- from import duty." (p. 455.) (Compare Board of Trustees v. United States, 289 U. S.48, 59.)
"Obviously, if the power of the State is carried to the extent suggested, and with it is relief from all Federal taxation, the National

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
REED, J., concurring.

304 U. S.

I agree with the decision of the Court on the merits, I
am not persuaded that this statute does not mean what
it says, or that the suit is-not one to restrain collection
of the tax. I can only conclude, as I did in Miller v.
Standard Nut Margarine Co., 284 U. S. 498, 511, that
the statute deprived the district court of jurisdiction to
entertain respondent's suit, and that the judgment should
be reversed with direction that the cause be dismissed.
MR. JksTicE REED concurring in the result.
Except for the holding that injunction is a proper
remedy to test the position of the Regents, I agree with
the opinion of the Court. As even a small breach in
the general scheme of taxation gives an opening for the
disorganization of the whole plan, it seems desirable to
express dissent from the conclusion that the Regents may
utilize the summary remedy of injunction, over the objection of the Government, as a means of testing the applicability of a tax law to them.
Th.e facts set out in the opinion of the circumstances
and agreement under which the money threatened to be
distrained was collected make it quite clear, it seems to
me, that the Regents collected tax moneys from the
spectators. Any allegation in the petition to the contrary is an erroneous conclusion of law. The Collector
sought to cover this money into the Treasury. Section
502 (a) of the Revenue Act of 19261; § 607 of the RevGovernment would be largely crippled in its revenues. Indeed, if all
the States should concur in exercising their powers to the full extent,
it would be almost impossible for the Nation to collect any revenues.
In other words, in this indirect way it would be within the competency of the States to practically destroy the efficiency of the
National Government." (p. 455.)
''Sec. 502 (a). Every person receiving any payments for such' admission, dues, or fees shall collect the amount of the tax imposed by
section 500 or 501 from the person making such payments. Every
club or organization having life members shall collect from such

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

REED,

J., concurring.

enue Act of 1934 2 and § 3224 of the Revised Statutes8
make it clear that no injunction will lie to restrain such
actibn.4
Section 3224 was enacted in 1867, and until recent
years was followed by the courts without deviation. Exceptions were made to protect taxpayers against collection of penalties." In an exceptional case of "special and
extraordinary" circumstances,' where a "valid
tax could by no legal possibility have been assessed
against respondent . . ." this Court permitted an injunction. "Special and extraordinary" circumstances
have multiplied. Here the lower court found them
"demonstrated by the fact that the Regents had actually
paid the tax in former years, and filed a claim for refund which was denied on the ground that they had not
members the amount of the tax imposed by section 501. Such persons shall make monthly returns under oath, in duplicate, and pay
the taxes so collected to the collector of the distrio in which the
principal office or place of business is located. (U. S. C., Title 26,
§§ 955, 956.)
S'Sec. 607. Enforcement of Liability for Taxes Collected. Whenever any person is required to collect or withhold any internal revenue
tax from any other person and to pay such tax over to the United
States, the amount of the tax so collected or withheld shall be held
to be a special fund in trust for the United States. The amount of
such fund shall be assessed, collected, and paid in the same manner
and subject to the same proisions and limitations (including penalties) as are applicable with'respect to the taxes from which such
fund arose. (U. S. C:, Title 26, § 1551.)
'See. 322. No suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment
or collection of any tax shall be maintained in any court. (U. S. C.,
.Title 26, § 1543.)
'Gouge v. Hart, 250 F. 802 (W. D. Va.), appeal dismissel, 251
U. S. 542; Ralston v. Heiner, 24 F. 2d 416 (C. C. A. 3d); Calkins v.
Smietanka, 240 F. 138 (N. D. Ill.); Seanma v. Guaranty Truat Co.,
1 F. 2d 391 (S. D. N. Y.).
'Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557; Regal Drug Corp. v. Wardell,
.260 U. S.386.
Miller v. Nut Margarine Co., 284 U. S.498.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
REm, J., concurring.

304 U. S.

borne the burden of any part thereof." It may be assumed, and petitioner admits, that respondents may not
pay the moneys and then sue to recover them. The
fallacy underlying the opinion of the Court is the assumption that some remedy is necessary. Respondents,
being merely collectors of tax moneys, are not entitled
either to enjoin collection of these moneys or to pay and
sue to recover them.
There is no reason why the State of Georgia should
risk or ask its agents to risk penalties to determine
whether this tax is collectible. Respondents would lose
nothing by collecting the tax and turning it over to the
United States. If they desire to stand upon their own
conception of the law and refuse to collect the -tax, they
must take the risks of such action. Every other taxpayer or collector of admission taxes must make the
same choice.
The prompt collection of revenue is essential to good
government. Summary proceedings are a matter of
right.7 The Government has been sedulous to maintain
a system of corrective justice.' Any departure from the
principle of "pay first and litigate later" threatens an
essential safeguard to the orderly functioning of government. Here an injunction is approved when the petitioner below had little more legitimate interest in the
collection of the tax than a curiosity to know whether
the customers of its athletic spectacles, the real taxpayers,
were constitutionally subject to such an exaction.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs
in this opinion. MR. JusTICE BLACK concurs in this opinion except in so far as it approves the reasoning of the
Court on the question of state immunity from interference by federal taxation.
8 Cheathiam v.

United States, 92 U. S. 85, 88, 89.
oml ,re Anniston Mig. Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 337.

ALLEN v. REGENTS.
439

MR. JUSTIcr

BURum,

J., dissenting.

BuTER, dissenting.

I am of opinion that the District Court had jurisdiction.
So far as concerns the validity of the tax, the University is the State. It is an instrumentality carrying on the
state's program of public education. The holding of the
athletic contests in question is an integral part of that
program and does not cease to be such because it pro.
duces income. The tax is imposed directly on and burdens that activity of the State. The Court assumes the
facts above stated and decides the case on that basis.
The tax is laid on the charge paid for admission, is to be
borne by the person paying for admission, and is to be
collected by the State and handed over to the United
States. It is hard to understand how the collection by
the State of fees for the privilege of attendance brings,
even for the purpose'of federal taxation, its work of education to the level of selling intoxicating liquor, South
Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, operating a railway, Helvering v.
Powers, 293 U. S. 214, or conducting any other commercial activity. The tax seems plainly within the rule of
state immunity from federal taxation as hitherto understood and applied. I would affirm the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

