CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.

159

Syllabus.

CROWN CORK & SEAL CO. v. FERDINAND GUTMANN CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 72. Argued December 13, 1937.-Decided May 2, 1938.
1. Review on certiorari is confined to the questions presented by the
petition for the writ. P. 161.
2. Abandonment, as a defense in a suit for patent infringement,
must be pleaded or noticed, under.R. S. § 4920. P. 165.
An applicant for patent does not abandon an invention by
withdrawing the disclosure of it, and a corresponding claim, from.
an earlier application, when the same disclosure is kept continuously before. the Patent Office through his successive divisional
applications.
The continuity so maintained shows an intention to retain, not
to abandon, the invention.
3. W applied for and obtained patent for a method of applying
"center spots" to the cork cushions of crown caps used to seal
bottles containing beverages under pressure, the center spots serving to prevent contact of the liquid with the cork. The patented
method required simultaneous application of pressure and heat
to the center spot to make it stick to the cork cushion in the cap
at the time of assembly. A disclosure of the means of applying
the heat by preheating the crown caps was eliminated from the
application before the patent issued, but was preserved in divisional applications. Before the patent issued, .T filed applicatiion
claiming this means of preheating and later obtained patent. A
year thereafter, but more than two years after the date of his
own patent, W copied J's claims in a divisional application, upon
which, after interference proceedings, he was awarded a patent.
Held: That, in the absence of intervening rights, the delay of more
than two years needed no special excuse and did not invalidate
the divisional patent. Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co., 264 U. S. 63,
distinguished. P. 165.
4. In the absence of abandonment or intervention of adverse rij;hts,
mere delay of not more than two years in filing divisional application after an intervening patent or publication, does not operate

.160

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

to enlarge the patent monopoly beyond that contemplated by the
patent law. R. S. § 4886. P. 167.
86 F. 2d 698, reversed.
CERTIOR I, 302 U, S. 664, to review the reversal of a
decree, 14 F. Supp. 255, sustaining two patents and enjoining infringement.

Mr. John J. Darby, with whom Mr. Thomas G. Haight
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William E. Warland, with whom Mr. Nathaniel L.
Leek was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner sued respondent in the district court for
eastern New York to enjoin infringements of patents,
two of which are here involved. One is Warth Reissue
Patent, No. 19,117, dated March 20, 1934. The other is
Warth Patent, No. 1,967,195, dated July 17, 1934, a divisional patent. Both relate to methods for applying
small disks of paper or foil, known as center spots, to
cork cushions of crown caps. These caps are used to seal
bottles containing pressure beverages. The center spot
prevents contact of the liquid with the cork. The district
court adjudged both patents valid and infringed. 14 F.
Supp. 255. The circuit court of appeals reversed, holding the reissue patent not infringed and the divisional
one invalid because of laches in filing the application on
which it was granted. 86 F. (2d) 698.
The questions presented by the petition for the writ,
granted 302 U. S. 664, are these:
1. "Does this Court's decision in Webster Co. v. Splitdotn Co. [264 U. S. 463] mean that, even in the absence
of intervening adverse rights, an excuse must be shown
for a lapse of more than two years in presenting claims in

CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.
159

161

Opinion of the Court.

a divisional application regularly filed and prosecuted in
accordance with patent office rules?"
2. "Where there has been more than two years delay
in asserting specific claims in a divisional application, is
it an excuse for the delay that there were claims in the
parent patent which, on their face, covered and were reasonably believed to cover, the subject-matter of the divisional claims, even if a Court later interpreted the parent
patent claims not to cover such subject-matter?"
Our consideration of the case will be limited to these
questions. Washington Coach Co. v. Labor Board, 301
U. S. 142, 146. Morehead v. N. Y. ex rel. Tipaldo, 298
U. S. 587, 604, 605. Clark v. Williard, 294 U. S. 211, 216.
Alice State Bank v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240,
242. The first calls for decision upon a single point. It
specifically assumes the absence of intervening rights and
that the application was appropriately made. There is
no question as to the validity of either the original or
reissue patents.
Warth filed his first application January 7, 1927, and
his second November 7, 1930.1 From these came the original patent, January 6, 1931. It was to correct an error
in the specification that the reissue patent was granted.
Before issue of the original paterit Johnson, November 26,
1929, filed application on which a patent issued April 5,
1932. April 4, 1933, two years and three months after the
original patent was granted Warth, he carved f:'om his
second application a divisional one in which he copied
the claims of the Johnson patent. In the interfere;nce declared upon the conflict, the patent office held Warth's
1

The first application extended to materials to be used in making

center spots as well as to methods for applying them. Tie second
application, because of a requirement of the patent office:, omitted
disclosures as to materials but included those as to method3 that the
first contained.
81638°-38---11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

04 U. S.

divisional application entitled to the filing date of his first
one, and awarded the claims of the Johnson patent to
him as prior inventor. These are the claims held too late
by the circuit court of appeals.
The claims of the reissue patent involved are shown in
the margin.2 The important feature is simultaneous application of pressure and heat to the center spot to make
it stick to the cork cushion in the cap. Neither these
nor any other claims of the patent specify means to be
employed to furnish the heat. The 'claims in suit of the
divisional patent 8 cover means to supply heat to be ap'Claim 1. "The improved method of manufacturing caps of the
type having an interior disc of cushion material provided on its
exposed face with a center spot, which comprises providing spot
material in strip form having one surface formed of an exposed
continuous coating of water resistant adhesive which is normally
hard at room temperature but becomes tacky upon the application
of heat and having another surface to be exposed to the contents
of a capped container, cutting from said strip a facing spot having
one surface completely coated with said adhesive with a cap disposed beneath the portion of the strip from which the spot is cut,
whereby the cutting operation positions the spot upon the cushion
material with the coating between the spot and the cushion material,
and upon assembly applying simultaneously to the spot pressure
and sufficient heat to render the adhesive tacky, thereby causing the
spot to adhere to the cushion material, and thereafter permitting the
adhesive to cool and harden."
Claim 3 repeats the words of claim 1 and adds these words,
"while subjecting the assembled unit to pressure."
'These claims are fully indicated immediately below. The insertions in brackets give equivalent terms used, in the claims of the
Reissue patent.
Claim 1. "The method of assembling linings [center spots] for
sealing pads [cushion material] in receptacle closure caps, consisting in providing caps with sealing pads therein and a web of
lining material arranged with an adhesive surface non-viscous at
normal temperature, heating the pads in the caps, severing linings
from the web of lining material and assembling the linings as they
are severed from the web in the caps with the adhesive surface

CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.
159

163

Opinion of the Court.

plied to the center spots when subjected to pressure.
The important feature is "heating the pads [cork cushions] in the caps" before placing the spots upon them.
The first application, January 7, 1927, stated: "It may
be desirable to secure the metal foil spot in position, prior
to the heat and pressure steps, sufficiently to prevent dislodgement of the spot during any interval between assembling and final sticking. This may be accomplished,.
for example, by preheating the assembled crown, to soften
the coating as soon as the metal foil spot is deposited."
That application contained claims, construed by the circuit court of appeals to be broad enough to cover that
disclosure. The patent office called for drawings to illustrate means for carrying out the method claimed. Accordingly, Warth showed, by way of illustration, that
heat might be furnished by the punch used to cut the
spots from the adhesive material and place them upon
the cork in t;he cap, where by the same stroke of the
plunger, they might be subjected to pressure. When he
filed the drawings, Dedember 3, 1930, he canceled from
the first application the statement just quoted and canceled the claims originally filed. The second application
had already been filed. Both contained another statement: "In carrying out the invention according to what
is now considered the best practice, the coating will be
softened by heat after the crown is assembled. This may
be accomplished in any suitable manner, as by a heated
plunger or a plunger and heated table. The heat softens
in contact with the heated pads to render the adhesive viscous and
effect adhesion of the linings to the pads.'
Claim 2 repeats the words of claim 1 and adds these words, "and
then placing the linings in the caps under heat and pressure to
effect an intimate adhesion between the linings and pads."
Claim 3 repeats the words of claim 1 and the addition of claim 2
and adds these words, "and then placing the linings assembled in
the caps under pressure during the cooling thereof."

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the coating and renders it adhesive. . . ." So far as concerns the question under consideration, it is broad enough
to include means for supplying heat by the punch as
shown by the drawings, and the preheating method
claimed in the divisional application.
The district court found no adverse use of the preheating method prior to the filing date of the application for
the reissue patent. The circuit court of appeals did not
disturb that finding. It found that Warth's disclosure of
the preheating method was continuously before the patent
office from the date of his first application, but that there
was no claim for the preheating method on file from December 3, 1930, until April 4, 1933, when he filed applicaI-ion for the divisional patent. It held, citing Webster Co.
v. Splitdorf Co., supra, that prima facie the two year limit
applies to divisional applications, and that 'an applicant
who waits longer before claiming an invention disclosed
;In his patent must justify his delay by proof of some
-excuse. It said, 86 F. (2d) 702, "No such excuse appears
'here. Had Warth chosen to retain in his parent application broad generic claims which might cover the preheating method, then indeed the Splitdorf rule might not
be applicable . . . But . . . for a period of more than
two years Warth apparently did not wish to claim the preheating method, having deliberately canceled the preheating specification from his original application and shaped
his claims so as to exclude it and his patent having been
granted January 6, 1931. He made no claim for preheating until more than two years thereafter, namely, April 4,
1933. In the meantime a patent containing claims for the
preheating method had been granted to Johnson on April
5, 1932, and it was Warth's discovery of this fact which
stirred him to action. As in the Splitdorf case, had it not
been for this competitor, Warth might never have considered the subject worth claiming as an invention." The
court meant that Warth had really abandoned his inven-

CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.
159

165

Opinion of the Court.

tion. See Western Electric Co. v. General Talking Pictures Co., 91 F. (2d) 922, 927.
But, as abandonment was not pleaded as a defense,
R. S. § 4920, and as Warth's disclosure was continuously
before the patent office, clearly without any significance
adverse to the petitioner is the fact that Warth formally
canceled one disclosure from his first application and with
it claims thought by the circuit court of appeals broad
enough to cover the disclosure. The continuity so maintained shows that Warth intended to retain, not to abandon, the disclosed invention. See Godfrey v. Eames, 1
Wall. 317, 325-326. Clark Blade & Razor Co. v. Gillette
Safety Razor Co., 194 Fed. 421, 422.
This case is not like Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co., supra.
In that case, there came here the question of the validity
of claims of a patent issued to Kane in 1918. In 1910
Kane had filed his first application, on which patent issued in 1916. In 1913 a patent covering the same subject-matter issued to the Podlesaks, to whom a reissue
patent was granted in 1915. Later in 1915, Kane filed
a divisional application which copied the claims of the
Podlesak patent. They were decided in favor of the
Podlesaks. Thereafter, June 17, 1918, Kane amended his
divisional application by adding claims which were allowed, and September 24, 1918, patent issued to Webster
Electric Company, Kane's assignee. In 1915, it had
brought the suit against the Splitdorf Company. October
25, 1918, it filed'a supplemental bill bringing in claims of
the patent issued September 24, 1918.
This Court pointed out (p. 465) that the claims in
question "were for the first time presented to the Patent
Office, by an amendment'to a divisional application eight
years and four months after the filing of the original application, five years after the date of the original Podlesak patent, disclosing the subject matter, and three years
after the commencement of the present suit." We sug-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

gested that it was doubtful whether the claims were not so
enlarged as to preclude allowance under the original application; we found that Kane, deeming their subjectmatter not invention, did not intend to assert them, and,
prior to 1918, did not entertain an intention to have them
covered by patent. During all of this time their subject
matter was disclosed and in general use; Kane and his
assignee simply stood by and awaited developments. It
was upon the reasons so stated that this Court declared
(p. 466) "We have no hestitation in saying that the delay
was unreasonable, and, under the circumstances shown by
the record, constitutes laches, by which the petitioner lost
whatever rights it might otherwise haye been entitled to."
Upon a review of earlier cases we condemned the lower
court's statement (283 Fed. 83, 93) that Chapman v.
Wintroath, 252 U. S. 126, fixed the time within which
application for a divisional patent might be made at two
year, from date of the issue of the parent patent. We
showed that the Chapman case held that an inventor,
whose application disclosed but did not claim an invention later patented to another, was not required within
one year after issue of the other.patent, to file divisional
application claiming the invention and so to raise issue
of interference, but that, by analogy, the two-year period
under R. S. § 4886' applied rather than the one-year
'R. S. § 4886, as amended March 3, 1897 (29 Stat. 692): "Any
person who has invented or discovered any new and useful art,
machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and
useful improvements therof, not known or used by others in this
country, before his invention or discovery thereof, and not patented
or described in any printed publication in this or any foreign country,
before his invention or discovery thereof, or more than two years
prior to his application, and not in public use or on sale in this
country for more than two years prior to his application, unless
the same is proved to have been abandoned, may, upon payment
of the fees required by law, and other due proceeding had, obtain

CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.
159

167

Opinion of the Cour.

period of R. S. § 4594, ' and that the opinion did not fix
a hard and fast rule to be applied in every case of a
divisional application. Then we said (p. 471): "Our
conclusion, therefore, is that, in cases involving laches,
equitable estoppel, or intervening private or public rights,
the two-year time limit prima facie applies to divisional
applications, and can only be avoided by proof of special
circumstances justifying a longer delay. In other words,
we follow in that respect the analogy furnished by the
patent reissue cases." That statement is not directly
applicable to the precise question of laches upon which
the case turned, but was made in reference to the question arising upon the lower court's erroneous interpretation of Chapman v. Wintroath. See Wagenhorst v.
Hydraulic Steel Co., 27 F. (2d) 27, 29-30. Wirebounds
Patents Co. v. Saranac Corp., 37 F. (2d) 830, 840-841.
Utah Radio Products Co. v. Boudette, 78 F. (2d) 793,
799.. It is clear that, in the absence of intervening adverse rights, the decision in Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co.
does not mean that an excuse must be shown for a lapse
a patent therefor." [The statute has since been amended, but not
to change the two-year period. See 35U. S. C. § 31.]
Cf. R. S. § 4887 (35 U. S. C. § 32), relating to inventions patented
abroad; R. S. § 4897 (35 U. S. C. § 38), relating to renewal application after failure to comply with requirement as to payment of
final fee; R. S. § 4920 (35 U. S. C. § 69), relating to defense of prior
invention.
'R. S. § 4894, as amended March 3, 1897 (29 Stat. 693). "All
applications for patents shall be completed and prepared for examination within one year after the filing of the application, and in
default thereof, or upon failure of the applicant to prosecute the
same within one year after any action therein, of which notice
shall have been given to the applicant, they shall be regarded as
abandoned by the parties thereto, unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Patents that such delay was unavoidable." [The statute has since been amended to reduce the period
to six months. See 35 U. S. C. § 37.]

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

of more than two years in presenting the divisional application. Where there is no abandonment, mere delay
in filing a divisional application for not more than two
years after an intervening patent or publication, does
not operate to enlarge the patent monopoly beyond tha
contemplated by the statute. By R. S. § 4886, delay-i
filing an application for not more than two years after
an intervening patent or publication does not bar a patent-unless the invention "is proved to have been abandoned." See Wirebounds Patents Co. v. Saranac Corp.,
37 F. (2d) 830, 840, 841; 65 F. (2d) 904, 905, 906.
And, as none need be shown, there is no occasion to decide
whether the facts stated in the second question are sufficient to constitute an excuse for the delay referred to.
As our decision is limited to the first question presented, the judgment of the circuit court of appeals will
be reversed and the case will be remanded to that court
for decision of the other issues in the case in accordance
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

CARwozo ar-, MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK, dissenting.

This Court declared in Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co.,
264 U. S.463, 466, 471:
"In suits to enforce reissue patents, the settled rule of
this Court is that a delay for two years or more will
'invalidate the reissue, unless the delay is accounted for
and excused by special circumstances, which show it to
have been not unreasonable.'
"Our conclusion, therefore, is that in cases involving
laches, equitable estoppel or intervening private or public
rights, the two-year limit prima facie applies to divisional
applications and can only be avoided by proof of special

CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.
159

169

BLACK, J., dissenting.

circumstances justifying a 'longer delay. In other words,
we follow in that respect the analogy furnished by the
patent reissue cases." (Italics supplied.)
The rule announced in the Splitdorf case was based upon
a long line of decisions of this Court extending from
Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350, decided in 1882.
The majority opinion abandons the principle of the
Splitdorf case that either laches or equitable estoppel or
intervening private rights or intervening public rights-in the absence of proved special circumstances-barsa,
divisional patent after a lapse of an unreasonable length
of time-prima facie two years. It is now held that
neither laches nor equitable estoppel may alone invalidate
a patent without proof of "intervening adverse rights."
The authorities relied on in the Splitdorf case emphasized
the right of the public-apart from provable adverse use
by individuals-to require an applicant to pursue his
right to a patent diligently and without enlargement of
1 "Any pracclaims after filing an original application.
tice by the inventor and applicant for a patent through
which he deliberately and without excuse postpones beyond the date of the actual invention, the beginning of
the term of monopoly, arid thus puts off the free public
enjoyment of the useful invention, is an evasion of the
statute and defeats its benevolent aim." 2
There is a further departure from the Splitdorf case in
the holding that two years delay in filing a divisional application after an intervening patent does not-in the
absence of actual abandonment of the invention-bar the
right to a "divisional" patent. Abandonment is but one
of many grounds for invalidating a patent. Equitable
'See, Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350, 355; James v. Campbell,
104 U. S. 356, 371; Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, 360; Ives v.
Sargent, 119 U. S. 652, 662; Topliff v. Topliff, 145 U. S. 156, 170,
171; Wollensak v. Sargent & Co., 1.51 U. S. 221, 228.
'Woodbridge v. United States, 263 U. S. 50. ,56

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

estoppel, intervening public rights, or unjustified and unexplained laches were considered in the Splitdorf case
and cases there relied on to be individually sufficient
bars, without proof of abandonment. Unjustified delay
and abandonment are separate defenses. If proof of
abandonment is to be a prerequisite, laches as a separate
defense is destroyed, although it has been recognized for
more than fifty years. Unreasonable delay which serves
to postpone the beginning of the seventeen year monopoly limitation, not only is possible without abandonment
of the invention, but is highly probable, With the destruction of the defense of laches the public loses the
benefit of the principle that "An inventor cannot without
cause hold his application pending during a long period
of years, leaving the public uncertain, whether he intends ever to prosecute it, and keeping the field of his
invention closed against other inventions." 8
The Court of Appeals following this settled principlenow abandoned-said: ' "We think they [claims in the
patent] are invalid for laches in filing the application
for them. [Citing Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co.] ...
These circumstances [facts of this case] invite operation
of the two-year limitation designed to protect the public against obtaining in effect an extension of a patentee's monopoly by apathy and unexcused delay 'in
bringing forward by divisional or reissue applications
claims broader than those originally sought." (Italics
supplied.)
While "divisional" applications have never been expressly authorized by statute the courts have long recognized their use as a part of Patent Office procedure. Petitioner's patent which the Court of Appeals found barred
by laches was granted on a "divisional" application.
Patent Office regulations which have limited each application for a patent Lo a single invention and have re'Planing-Machine Co. v. Keith, 101 U. S. 479, 485.
'86 F. (2d) 698, 702.

CROWN CORK CO. _v. GUTMANN CO.
159

171

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

quired a "division" of an application containing claims
for two separate and distinct inventions, apparently gave
rise to the procedural device of "divisional applications."
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia acting
in a special appellate capacity5 and the Patent Office,
have treated a "divisional," properly used, in some respects, as a substitute for an amendment. In accordance
with this conception "divisionals" have been for certain
purposes, treated as "continuations" of original applications and given the priority of original applications. The
logical conclusion was reached that after an original application merged in a patent, a "divisional" application
could not be attached to, or considered as a "continuation" of it, because "there was nothing to be continued." '
After a patent is granted it passes "beyond the control
and jurisdiction" of the Patent Office; the proceedings are
closed and the application can neither be amended nor
serve as the basis for a new "divisional" or "continuing"
application.!
Here an application for a process patent was filed in
1927. November, 1930, in response to Patent Office re'Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1, 9, 10; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112
U. S. 50, 60.
"In re Spitteler, 31 App. D. C. 271, 274, 275.

"...

'it is well

established that for one application to be a division, within the
meaning of the law, of another, the two must at some time be
co-pending,' . . .Sarfert v. Meyer, 1902 C. D. 30; In re Spitteler,
31 App. D. C. 271, 1908 C. D. 374; . . .Wainwright v. Parker, 32

App.
D. C.431, 1909 C.D. 379....
S". ..
An application cannot be considered as a continuance
of a
patent granted prior to the filing thereof, since after the application has eventuated into a patent there is nothing left pending
before the Patent Office upon which it could act or to which the
later application could attach. In re Spitteler, 31 App. D. C. 271,
134 0. G. 1301; Wainwright v. Parker, 32 App. D. C. 431, 142
0. G. 1115, 1909 C. D. 379." Fessenden v. Wilson, 48 F. (2d)
422, 424.
'See, McCormick Machine Co. v. Aultman, 169 U. S. 606, 608,

,172

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

quirement, a "divisional" application was filed for a
product patent. January, 1931, a process patent was
granted on the original application. More than two years
after the original application had merged into a process
patent another application designated as a "divisional"
was filed (April 4, 1933), for a second process patenthere involved. The Court of Appeals found this delay of
six years to be without justification or excuse. Disregarding the previously recognized requirement that justification and excuse must be proven for such delay, the majority now hold that an applicant can, for six years, delay
his claim for an alleged discovery without excuse, justification, or reason for the delay. This is permitted despite
the fact that unclaimed disclosure of the alleged invention had been made in the 1927 process application and in
the 1930 product application.
Congress--given the power by the Constitution-has
fixed the statutory limit of a patent monopoly at seventeen years.8 By the procedural device of a "divisional"
application, designed to protect rights granted an inventor
by statute, petitioner has carved for itself priority monopoly rights, beginning in 1927 and lasting until 1951twenty-four years, or seven years more than Congress has
authorized.
In the remedy of reissue provided by statute for applicants whose claims fail to protect their entire discoveries,9
Congress has been alert to protect the public from such an
extension of monopoly. A reissue patent must be based
on oath that an applicant's original patent failed to cover
its actual invention as a result of accident, inadvertence or
mistake, and runs only for the unexpired portionof a seventeen year patent grant. The use of "divisionals" or
"continuations," no longer subject to the defense of laches
'35 U. S. C., c. 2, § 40.
'35 U. S. C., c. 2, § 64.

CROWN CORK CO. v. GUTMANN CO.
159

173

BLACK, J., dissenting.

or unreasonable delay, will permit an applicant to obtain,
by a nonstatutory procedural device, monopoly privileges
denied by the reissue statute.
The essential additional claim in petitioner's 1934 "divisional" patent was only mentioned in the 1927 original
application and the 1930 "divisional" application by way
of casual suggestion and incidental illustration.

°

Even

this casual suggestion was stricken from the 1927 application in December, 1930. These suggestive illustrations
did not constitute parts of the inventions which the 1927
and 1930 applications sought to cover or secure." The
speculative suggestions--from separate applications for
different inventions--are pieced together and held sufficient to "continue" the 1927 application (after its merger
in a patent) and the 1930.application, as support for the
retroactive operation of a claim made for the first time in
10The essential additional claim of the 1934 divisional process
patent was for "preheating" cork used in making bottle caps. The
,incidental reference to preheating in the 1927 'pplication was as
follows:
"It may be desirable to secure the metal foil spot in position,
prior to the heat and pressure steps, sufficiently to prevent dislodgment of the spot during any interval between assembling and
final sticking. This may be accomplished, for example, by preheating the assembled crown, to soften the coating as soon as the metal
foil spot is deposited. Or the coating may be softened by moistening slightly with a solvent, such as benzol. In either case the coating
becomes tacky enough to hold the metal foil from getting out of
position during ordinary passage through assembling apparatus."
The 1930 divisional application for a product patent merely suggested that "It may be desirable to secure the spot in position,
prior to the heat and pressure steps, sufficiently to prevent dislodgemeit of the spot during any interval between assembling and final
sticking. This may be accomplished, for example, by preheating
the assembled crown, to soften the coating, as soon as the metal
foil is deposited." (Italics supplied.)
'Cf., Corbin Cabinet Lock Co. v. Eagle Lock Co., 150 U. S. 38,
42, 43.

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLmcK, J., dissenting.

304 U. S.

1933. As a result of the destruction of the defense of
laches in applying for "divisional" applications, those familiar with a given field of industry may now insert speculative conjectures as disclosures in various applications
and permit them to lie dormant until a competitor reduces speculation to practicality. Then, by the device of
a "divisional," or if need be, as here, by "divisional" on
"divisional," such a competitor can be pursued with
infringement suits and harassed into surrendering his business to an ingeniously dilatory applicant."' Thus, sweeping, indefinite and unclaimed disclosures, and adroit use
of "divisionals"-which laches and unreasonable delay are
no longer sufficient to bar-are permitted to extend a patent's statutory life and to increase a patentee's reward
beyond that granted by Congress.
."'The patent laws are founded in a large public policy
to promote the progress of science and the useful arts.
The public, therefore, is a most material party to, and
should be duly considered in, every application for a
patent. . . . But the arts and sciences will certainly not
be promoted by giving encouragement to inventors to
withhold and conceal their inventions for an indefinite
time, or to a time when they may use' and apply their inventions to their own exclusive advantage, irrespective
of the public benefit, and certainly not if the inventor is
allowed to conceal his invention to be brought forward in
some after time to thwart and defeat a more diligent and
active inventor, who has placed the benefit of his invention within the reach and knowledge of the public.' "18
Cf., Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200.
Woodbridgev. United States, supra, 61.

