ST. LOUIS ETC. RY. v. BROWNSVILLE DIST.

295

Syllabus.

282

296 U. S. 300, 306; Elmhurst Cemetery Co. v. Commissioner,300 U. S. 37, 40.
Fifth. The court expressed the opinion -that the Board
failed to consider relevant and controlling facts, that it
relied upon improper evidence in reaching its conclusion,
and that it failed to make the findings required by the
statute. There is nothing in the record to justify that
view. The findings quoted above are specific. The Board
was not obliged to accept as true Kohl's statement of his
intention and purposes; or to accept as sound the opinion
of his experts. It was error to reverse the decision of the
Board. There is no occasion to remand the case to it for
further consideration.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE McREYNoLWS and MR.JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the judgment below should be
affirmed.

MP. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR.JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

ST. LOUIS, BROWNSVILLE & MEXICO RY. CO. ET
AL. v. BROWNSVILLE NAVIQATION DISTRICT
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 300. Argued March 2, 1938.-Decided May 16, 1938.
1. Though not bound to furnish cars for transportation in Mexico,
carriers may not discriminate unreasonably between shippers,
places, or classes of traffic within the United States in the furnishing of equipment for transportation beyond the boundary.
P. 300.
2. The rail connection of the' Port of Brownsville, Texas, with
Matamoros, Mexico, was over line of carrier A to line of con-

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

necting carrier B; over B to a bridge, and across the Rio Grande
to lines in Mexico. A owned no cars but confined itself to
switching service; B was engaged in traffic between other Texas
ports and Mexico, but participation in traffic between Port of
Brownsville and Mexico was confined to intermediate switching
service, the charge for which was specified in its tariff. There
was no joint rate applicable over the tracks of A and B, the bridge
and any railway in Mexico, nor did the tariffs of A and B contain any provision relating to the furnishing of cars for such
transportation. B furnished cars for line hauls from the other
ports but refused to permit cars delivered by it to A to be reloaded for shipment into Mexico, or to deliver cars to A for loading at the Port of Brownsville, or, if loaded there, to switch them
en route to Mexico. In an action of mandamus by the Port of
Brownsville, and shippers, held:
(1) That the District Court was without jurisdictio:a to require
either A or B to furnish cars for transportation between that Port
and Mexico. Pp. 299-300.
(2) The question of discrimination by B between that and other
ports, was an administrative question for the Interstate Commerce
Commission. Id.
91 1. 2d 502, reversed.
CERTioRAi, 302 U. S. 669, to review a judgment which

reversed a judgment of the District Court dismissing a
petition for mandamus, for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Robert H. Kelley, with whom Mr. John P. Bull-

ington was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Carl B. Callaway, with whom Messrs. A. B. Cole

and A. L. Reed were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondents applied to the United States court for the

southern district of Texas to obtain a writ of mandamus'
'AA defining jurisdiction, respondent3 rely on Judicial Code, § 24(8),
28 U. S. C. § 41: "The district courts shall have original jurisdiction . . . (8) Of all suits and proceedings arising under any
law regulating commerce",, and on 49 U. S. C. § 49: "The district

ST. LOUIS ETC. RY. v. BROWNSVILLE DIST.
295

297

Opinion of the Court.

commanding petitioners to transport certain traffic and to
furnish and continue for all time to-furnish cars for transportation of freight between the Port of Brownsville,
Texas, and Matamoros, Mexico. Petitioners by pleas to
courts . . . shall have jurisdiction upon the relation of any person
or . . . corporation, alleging such violation by a common carrier, of
any of the provisions of chapter 1 of this title [Interstate Commerce
Act], as prevents the relator from having interstate traffic moved
by said common carrier at the same rates as are charged, or upon
terms or conditions as favorable as those given by said common
carrier for like traffic under similar conditions to any other shipper,
to issue a writ . . . of mandamus against said common carrier, commanding such common carrier to move and transport the traffic, or
to furnish cars or other facilities for transportation for the party
applying for the writ . .
As imposing duties for the enforcement of which the proceedings
were instituted, respondents rely on the Interstate Commerce Act,
49 U.S. C. § 1 (3):
"... The term 'transportation' as used in this Act shall include
locomotives, cars, and other vehicles . .. irrespective of ownership
or of any contract, express or implied, for the use thereof, and
all services in connection with the ... handling of property
transported."
§ 1 (4) "It shall be the duty of every common carrier . . . engaged in the transportation of . . . property to provide and furnish
such transportation upon reasonable request therefor,... and to
provide reasonable facilities for operating through routes . . ."
§ 1 (11) "It shall be the duty of every carrier . . . to furnish safe
and adequate car service and to establish, observe, and enforce just
and reasonable rules, regulations, and practices with respect to car
service; and every unjust and unreasonable rule, regulation, and piactice with respect to car service'is prohibited and declared to be
unlawful."
§ 6 (1) "Every common carrier . . . shall file with the Commission . . . schedules showing all the rates, fares, and charges for
transportation between different points on its own route and between
points on itd own route and points on the route of any other carrier. . . . If no joint rate over the through route has been established, the several carriers in such through route shall file . . . the
separately established rates, fares, and charges applied to the through
transportation . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

the jurisdiction asserted that the questions raised were
essentially administrative and that therefore resort must
first be had to the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The district court heard evidence on the issues tendered
by the pleas, sustained the petitioners' contention and
dismissed the case. The circuit court of appeals reverspd
91 F. 2d 52. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
The city of Brownsville is on the north side of the Rio
Grande opposite Matamoros. The respondent Navigation District, called the "Port of Brownsville," was incorporated under Texas law; 2 it includes a channel extending from the Gulf of Mexico about 17 miles to a turning
basin which is located Outside, and about five miles from
the center of, Brownsville. The Port has no locomotive
or cars; it has facilities at the basin to load and unload
vessels, and a railroad track extending from the basin
about a mile, to junction, at the boundary of the district,
with a short branch or spur of petitioner, the Port Isabel
& Rio Grande Valley Railway Company. Each of the
other two respondents is engaged in business at 1he port
as stevedore, freight broker, and forwarding agent. All
the respondents are directly interested in the transportation of freight between the Port of Brownsville and
points in Mexico via Matamoros.
Petitioner Thompson, as trustee in proceedings urder
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, operates the St. Louis,
Brownsville & Mexico Railway and other lines of the
Missouri Pacific System for transportation between gulf
ports in Texas and Rio Grande crossings into Mexico.
The Port Isabel, in all about 26 miles long, extends from
the gulf to tracks operated by the trustee in the city of
Brownsville. The Brownsville & Matamoros Bridge
Company has a bridge and railroad tracks connecting
the trustee's tracks in Brownsville with the National Rail2

Ch. 192, House Bill 724, 41st Legislature, Regular Session.

ST. LOUIS ETC. RY. v. BROWNSVILLE DIST.
295

299

Opinion of the Court.

ways of Mexico in Matamoros. Shipments between the
Port of Brownsville and Matamoros must move about a
mile over the tracks of the Navigation District, 7.4 miles
over the Port Isabel, 2.49 miles over the trustee's tracks
and 1.24 miles -over the Bridge Company's rails.
There is no joint rate applicable to transportation between the Port and Matamoros or any other point in
Mexico over the tracks of petitioners, the Bridge Company and any railway in Mexico. The service performed
by each petitioner is covered by a switching charge specified in its tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. P'either the tariff of the Port Isabel nor that of
the trustee contains any rule, regulation or provision relating to the furnishing of cars for the transportation in
question. The Port Isabel performs the initial movement
of traffic from the Port; it has no cars or means to acquire
any. The Mexican National Railways are the initial carriers of traffic in the other direction; they refuse to permit
their cars to leave Mexico.
The trustee furnishes cars for transportation from the
ports of Corpus Christi and Houston to gateways at Rio
Grande crossings, including Laredo and Brownsville; in
all that transportation he has substantial line hauls. But
he refuses to permit cars delivered by him to the Port
Isabel and taken by the latter to the basin for unloading
to be reloaded for shipment into Mexico, and refuses to
deliver to the Port Isabel cars under his control to be
loaded at the Port; and if loaded there for transportation
into Mexico he refuses to switch them en route. Without
regard to ownership, control or distribution, the Port
Isabel is willing to switch cars between the Port and its
junction with the trustee's tracks.
After the district court dismissed this case, respondents
filed with the Commission a complaint alleging that petitioners, principally by their failure to furnish equipment,
refused to permit traffic to move between the Port and
Matamoros, i violation of §§ 1 and 6 of the Interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Commerce Act, and that the trustee's refusal to permit
such use of his equipment, while permitting it between
other ports and Mexico, violates § 3 of the Act. They
prayed an order requiring petitioners to furnish equipment and to remove the prejudice and preference alleged.
After hearing by the Commission but before its report,
the circuit court of appeals announced its decision, in
which it held that the district court has jurisdiction to
grant mandamus, notwithstanding the petition for the
writ alleged unreasonable and prejudicial discrimination
against the Port of Brownsville. After this Court granted
the writ of certiorari, respondents filed a petition with
the Commission asking it to defer acting upon their allegations of violation of §§ 1 and 6. And the Commission
did limit its decision to alleged violations of § 3. It held
that the refusal of the trustee to furnish cars was not
unduly prejudicial or preferential.
The respondents do not complain that petitioners refuse to switch cars furnished by other carriers or by the
Port itself. Their grievance is not that petitioners refuse
to do the switching covered by their tariffs at the specified
rates; it is that in applying their tariffs, they discriminate
against the Port of Brownsville in order to divert traffic
to other ports and gateways so that the trustee may obtain substantial line hauls. The Act extends to transportation only so far as it takes place in this country.
Petitioners are not bound by any law, regulation, or tariff
to furnish cars for transportation in Mexico. But that
freedom from obligation does not imply that, in furnishing equipment for transportation beyond the boundary,
petitioners may unreasonably discriminate between shippers, places, or classes of traffic within the United States.
.Cf. Lewis-Simas-Jone8 Co. v. Southern Pac. Co., 283
U. S. 654.
As the Port Isabel does not own or control any freight
cars, respondents may not have relief on the ground that
the failure of that carrier to furnish them is'unreasonabre

ST. LOUIS ETC. RY. v. BROWNSVILLE DIST.
295

301

Opinion of the Court.

discrimination. As the trustee participates in traffic between the basin and points in Mexico only to the extent
of an intermediate switching movement, he is not, as a
matter of law, bound to furnish cars even for the part of
the transportation that is performed within the United
States. The question, whether the discrimination in the
application of his tariff covering the switching movement
is unreasonable, is an administrative one. Appropriate
consideration of it may extend to many facts and circumstances, including the influence, if any, of the discrimination upon the trustee's line hauls between other Texas
ports and points in Mexico, and to the broad field of
competition legitimately available to carriers, shippers
and commodities seeking transportation between the
United States and Mexico. And the ascertainment of
appropriate remedy for discrimination condemned calls
for another administrative determination involving, it may
be, investigation of numerous conditions affecting transportation between the two countries. And as determination of reasonableness of petitioners' refusal to furnish cars
for the transportation in question and the prescribing of
change in the service, if any is to be ordered, are primarily
within the regulatory powers of the Commission, tb . district court rightly held that it was without jurisdiction
and dismissed the cause. Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co.,'204 U.S. 426. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
U. S. ex rel. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481, 493. Morrisdale Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 230 U. S. 304, 3.13.
Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. American Tie Co., 234 U. S. 138,
146. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co.,
259 U. S. 285, 291. Cf. PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Clark Coal
Co., 238 U. S. 456, 468. The decree of the circuit court
of appeals must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE C~mozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case:

