252

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

appropriate action, without passing upon the merits, is
to vacate the decree below and to remand the cause to the

District Court for further proceedings to be taken independently of § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937. Gully v.
Interstate Natural Gas Co., supra; Oklahoma Gas &
Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., supra.
Judqment vacated.
MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE CO. ET AL. V. CITY
OF REDDING ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 976.

Motion to dismiss.-Decided May 16, 1938.

1. A suit before a district court of three judges, convened under § 3,
Act of Aug. 24, 1937, to enjoin enforcement of federal statutes on
the ground of unconstitutionality, is without jurisdiction, if no
substantial federal qu.btion is presentedi and in the absence of such
question the court can not proceed to the determination of local
questions but must dismiss the bill. P. 254.
2. Lack of a substantial federal question which thus defeats the jurisdiction of the district court may appear from a decision of this
Court in another Qase rendered after the filing of the bill in the.
district court and after presentation of a motion for preliminary
injunction. P. 255.
3. A water service company sued to enjoin a city from receiving a
grant of federal funds under Title II of the National Industrial
Recovery Act, and from using proceeds of city bonds, for the
purpose of -constructing a municipal water plant, claiming that
the grant was in violation of the federal Constitution and federal
statutes, and the bond issue in violation of the Constitution and
statutes of California. Held, that in view of this Court's later
decision in Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464, there was
no substantial federal question; and that the question of the bond
issue was distinct and local. P. 255.
22 F. Supp. 641, affirmed.

WATER SERVICE CO. v. REDDING.

253-

Opinion of the Court.

252

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, dismissing*a bill for an injunction.
APP

L

Messrs. WarrenOlney, Jr., A. Crawford Greene, Seth W.
Richardson, and Francis Carr were on a brief for
appellants.
Messrs. George Herrington and W. H. Orrick were on a
brief for appellees.
PER CTRIAM.

This suit was brought by appellants, California Water
Service Company and Carlo Veglia, to enjoin the City of
Redding, California, from receiving a grant of $162,000,
allotted by the Federal Administrator of Public Works
under Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act
and supplemental legislation,' to aid the City in the construction of a municipal water works system; and also
to enjoin the City from expending the proceeds of the sale
of $200,000 of the City's bonds for the. purpose of constructing such a plant. •The bill of complaint alleged that
the grant of federal funds and the legislation said to authorize it were invalid under the Federal Constitution
(Article I, §§ 1, 8 and 9; Article II, §§ 1 and 3; and the
Tenth Amendment), and also that the grant was in violation of the federal statutes cited. The suit was brought
prior to the decision of. this Court in the case of Alabama
Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464. The bond issue of the
City was alleged to'be invalid under the constitution and
statutes of California.
Temporary and permanent injunctions were sought and
the District Court, composed of three judges, convened
under § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 751,
752), decided that the bill of complaint stated no cause
'Acts of June 6, 1933, c. 90, 48 Stat. 200-210; April 8, 1935, c. 48,
49 Stat. 115, 119; June 29, 1937, c. 401, §§ 201-207, 50 Stat. 352.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U.S.

of action within the cognizance of the court. The temporary restraining order was dissolved and the complaint
was dismissed. The case comes here on appeal. Appellees
move to dismiss or affirm.
The District Court held that the federal question
sought to be raised was identical with that presented in
Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, supra; that the asserted
distinction that the proposed action of defendants, the
Federal Administrator not being a party, was motivated
by a desire or purpose to injure or coerce the plaintiff
Company, was of no avail, as the City was free to bargain with the plaintiff and to construct a rival system
if the plaintiff chose not to sell its plant and the motive
actuating the City in the exercise of its rights was immaterial. See Isbrandtsen-Moller Co. v. United States,
300 U. S. 139, 145. In the absence of a substantial federal question, the court ruled that the charge that the
bonds of the City were invalid under the state law
presented a purely local issue which the court was not
required to consider.
We are of the opinion that these rulings were correct.
We have held that § 266 of the Judicial Code does not
apply unless there is a substantial claim of the unconstitutionality of a state statute or administrative order
as there described. It is therefore the duty of a district
judge, to whom an application for an injunction restraining the enforcement of a state statute or order- is made,
to scrutinize the bill of complaint to ascertain whether a
substantial federal question is presented, as otherwise
the provision for the convening of a c6urt of three judges
is not applicable. Ex parte Buder, 271 U. S.461, 467;
Ex parte Poresky, 290 U. S. 30. We think that a similar
rule governs proceedings under § 3 of the Act of August
24, 1937, as to the participation of three judges in passing upon appications for injunctions restraining the en-

WATER SERVICE CO. v. REDDING.
252

Opinion of the Court.

forcement of federal statutes upon the ground of constitutlonal invalidity. Had the decisions in the cases of
Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, supra, and of Duke Power
Co. v. Greenwood County, 302 U. S. 485, been rendered
prior to the filing of the bill of complaint in the instant
case, no substantial federal question would have been
presented. The lack of substantiality in a federal question may appear either because it is obviously without
merit or because its unsoundness so clearly results from
the previous decisions of- this Court as to foreclose thb
subject. Levering & Garigues Co. v. Morrin, 289 U. S.
103,105, 106. And, here, although the bill of complaint had
been previously filed, and a motion for an interlocutory
injunction presented, it was apparent after our decisions
in the cases cited that the federal question was without
substance and it became the duty of the District Court
to dismiss the bill of complaint upon, that ground.
In Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing
Co., 292 U. S. 386, 391, we had occasion to observe that
"the three judge procedure is an extraordinary one, imposing a heavy burden on federal courts, with attendant
expense and delay"; that "that procedure, designed for
a specific class of cases, sharply defined, should not be
-lightly extended"; and that restrictions placed upon
appellate review in this Court "would likewise be measurably impaired were groundless allegations thus to suffice.".
We concluded that "when it becomes apparent that the
plaintiff- has no case for three judges, though they may
have been properly convened, their action is no longer
prescribed."
It is also clear that the presentation of a local question in the instant case as to the invalidity of the City's
bonds under the state law did not suffice to save jurisdictioi. While, if the court had jurisdiction by reason
of the presence of a substantial federal question, it could

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

proceed to pass upon the local issue (Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 303; Davis v. Wallace, 257 U. S. 478, 482; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S.
378, 393, 394; Railroad Commission v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co., 302 U. S. 388, 391), it was the presence of
the federal question which gave the court that authority,
and in its absence, through lack of substance, the court
was not entitled to go further. In Norumbega Co. v.
Bennett, 290 U. S. 598, the District Court of three judges,
considering that a federal constitutional question was involved, passed upon the question of the construction of
the state statute and, denying a motion to dismiss for
lack of jurisdiction, dismissed the bill of complaint for
want of equity. 3 F. Supp. 500, 502. This Court reversed the decree and remanded the cause with directions
to dismiss the bill of complaint for the want of jurisdiction because of the absence. of i substantial federal
question.
We think that the Act of August 24, 1937, did not
contemplate that a court of three judges should be convened, or, if convened, should continue to act, merely
for the decision of a local question where no substantial
federal question is involved. We agree with the District Court that the attempt to blend the contention as
to the validity of the bond issue under state law with
the question as to the authority to make the federal
grant under the federal statutes, so as to give the former
the aspect of a federal question, is unavailing. The local
question and the federal question are distinct. See Hur.
v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238, 245, 246.
The court below rightly dismissed the bill of complaint
and the motion to affirm its decree is granted.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideratien or decision of this case.

