430

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

304 U. S.

proposition that, although the federal tax may increase
cnst of state governments, it 'may be imposed if it does
not curtail functions essential to their existence. Expressly or sub silentio, it overrules a century of precedents. Cf. James v. Dravo Contracting Co. (December

6, 1937) 302 U. S. 134, 152, 161; Helvering v. Mountain
Producers Corporation (March 7, 1938) 303 U. S. 376.
As they stood when the cases now before us were in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, our decisions required it
to hold that the salaries paid by the Port Authority to
respondents are not subject to federal taxation. I would
affirm its judgments.
.MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs concurs in

this opinion.

AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 773.

Argued April 25, 26, 1938.-Decided Mgy 23: 1938.

1. The purpose of a stipulation fixing the value of the vessel in a
marine hull insurance policy undertaking to indemnify insured irrespective of the actual value is to dispense with proof of value in
establishing the extent of liability assumed on the policy. P. 434.
2. Such a valuation clause, beyond its controlling effect in determining the insurance liability, does not operate, either as an estoppel or by agreement, to exclude* proof of actual value, when
relevant. P. 435.
3. The valued policy, like an open policy, is a contract of indemnity; in either case the indemnitor is entitled to share in
the insured's recovery of damages for loss of the ship only by
*Together with No. 774, Union Marine & General Ins. Co. v.
United Fruit Co., and Do. 775, Boston Insurance. Co. v. Same, also
on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

.,ETNA INS. CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO.
430

431

Statement of the Case.

way of subrogation, the sole object of which is to make indemnity to the insured up to the amount of the policy the measure
of the liability of the insurer. P. 436.
4. There is no analogy between the insurer's right to be subrogated
to the fruits of the insured's recovery from a wrongdoer and the
insurer's right to a wreck which is his by abandonment. P. 437.
5. Underwriters insured the hull of a vessel by policies in which the
value of the hull was agreed upon at an amount stated, and each
of which provided for a stipulated indemnity to the owrer irrespective of the actual value of the vessel. The agreed value was
less than the actual value of the hull, so that the owner was uninsured for the difference. As protection against the risk, the
owner procured from English underwriters additional P. P. I.
(policy proof of interest) policies, which waived all right of subrogation and were "honor" policies payable only at the option of the
insurers because unenforceable under the applicable Act of Parliament. Upon a total loss of the vessel by collision with a vessel of
the United States, all the policies were paid in full. Thereafter the
owner and the underwriters upon the valued policies joined in
pressing their claims against the United States, and, in a suit under
a special Act of Congress not allowing recovery of interest, there
was recovery of the value of the vessel, much exceeding the total
insurance. Held that in the adjustment, the insurers upon the
valued policies were entitled by way of subrogation to no more
than the amounts they had paid on their policies, without interest,
less their respective, shares of the expenses attending the recovery.
North of England Iron S. S. Ins. Assn. v. Armstrong, (1870)
L. R. 5 Q. B. 244, disapproved. P. 438.
The insurers submitted no interest computations and made no
effort 'to sustain the burden of proving that the owner had received more than indemnity for the delay in payment of so much
of the loss as was not covered by insurance.
92 F. 2d 576; affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 631, to review affirmances, with
modifications, of judgments for interest and expenses recovered by three marine insurance companies in actions at
law against the owner of a lost vessel. By agreement,
the actions were tried together to the court and one
juror. The trial court directed verdicts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Messrs. T. Catesby
Jones, Oscar R. Houston, and Martin Detels were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Cletus Keating, with whom Mr. Richard Sullivan
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question for decision is how far hull in,urers upon
a valued marine insurance policy are entitled, in case of
total loss, to participate by way of subrogation in a recovery by the insured against a tortfeasor responsible for
the loss.
In 1918 petitioners, with several other underwriters, insured the hull of respondent's vessel, the "Almirante," by
policies in which it was agreed that the value of the hull
was $632,610, materially less than its true value. The
policies provided for a stipulated indemnity to the owner
"irrespective of the value of the vessel," and that the
owner was free to effect other insurance to any amount
and without disclosure of the amounts so insured. As
the total of the valued policies was $582,002.25, respondent was co-insurer for about $50,000; and so far as the
valued hull policies were concerned it was uninsured, to
the extent of any loss, in excess of the stipulated value.
As protection against these risks, respondent procured
from English underwriters additional P. P. I. (policy
proof of interest) insurance, aggregating £65,105, partly
upon hull and partly against other losses incidental to
total loss of the vessel. The P. P. I. policies waived
all rights of subrogation and were "honor" policies, concededly payable only at the option of the insurers because
unenforceable under the Act of Parliament of December
31, 1906, § 4. Edwards & Co. v. Motor Union Ins. Co.,
[1922] 2 K. B. D. 249.

ETNA INS. CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO.
430

433

Opinion of the Court.

In 1918 the "Almirante" became a total loss as the
result of a collision with the S. S. "Hisko," a vessel
belonging to the United States Government. The underwriters of both the valued policies and the P. P. I. policies.
paid them in full. The former joined with respondent
in retaining attorneys to press the claims for collision
damages against the United States. Suit brought against
the United States under a special act of Congress, resultedin a recovery which included $1,750,000 as the value of
the vessel, but without interest since the act did not
authorize allowance of interest. Compare Boston Sand
c& Gravel Co. v. United States, 278 U. S. 41, 47. Distribution of the proceeds of the suit was made in accordance with a computation by insurance adjusters who
apportioned the expenses of the suit among respondent
and the underwriters, and allotted to the latter the
amounts they had paid on their policies without interest, less their respective shares of the expenses.
Petitioners, who are underwriters on some of the
valued- hull policies, brought the present suit in the
district court for southern New York to participate in
respondent's recovery against the United States. Relying on the valuation clause, of their policies as conclusively fixing the value of the vessel for all purposes
of the adjustment, they contest the allotment, insisting
that they should bear no part of the expenses, and that
they are entitled to interest on the amounts of their
policies from the several dates on which they were paid.
They also make, but do not stress here, the point that
the hull insurers are entitled to the whole recovery. The
district court gave judgment for the full amount which
petitioners had paid on their policies without deduction
for expenses, but without addition of interest. 18 F.
Supp. 441. On- appeal by both parties, the Court of,
Appeals held that petitioners were entitled to neither
81638*-88-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion bf the Court.

304 U. S.

interest nor expenses, and modified the judgment accordingly. 92 F. 2d 576. We granted certiorari, 303 U. S.
631, because of the admitted conflict of the decision below with that of the Court of Queen's Bench in North of
England Iron S. S. Ins. Assn. v. Armstrong (1870) L. R.
5 Q. B. 244. See Queen Insurance Co' v. Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co., 263 U. S. 487, 493; Gulf Refining Co.
v. Atlantic Mutual Ins. Co., 279 U. S. 708, 715.
Petitioners' argument turns upon their contention that
the valuation clause, either by estoppel or by contract, is
conclusive between the parties for all purposes and that
as respondent has recovered from the Government more
than the stipulated value of the vessel, petitioners are
entitled to the benefit of the recovery, at least to the full
extent of the payments on their policies with interest.
We think that the valuation clause in its usual form does
not operate as an estoppel or by agreement to foreclose
proof that actual value exceeds agreed value when the
question is of the insurer's right to subrogation. The application of the agreed value to the insurance adjustment
does not depend upon estoppel, Gulf Refining Co. v.
AtTantic Mutual Ins. Co., supra, 712; British & Foreign
Marine Ins. Co. v. Maldonado & Co.; 182 F. 744, and
there can be no basis for an estoppel at least where, as
here, the policy provisions undertake to indemnify the
insured irrespective of the value of the vessel and contemplate that the insured may effect other insurance. The
valuation stipulation fixes in advance of loss the value of
the vessel, so as to avoid the necessity -of proof of value in
order to establish the extent of the liability assumed on
the policy. The agreed value, honestly arrived at, thus
stands in the place of prime value-under an open -marine
policy, Gulf Refining Co. v. Atlantic Mutual Ins. Co.,
supra, 711; St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Cb. v.-Pure Oil
Co., 63 F. 2d 771, and resembles, in its practical operation,
a stipulation for liquidated damages.

,ETNA INS. CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO.
430

435

Opinion of the Court.

But beyond its controlling effect in determining the insurance liability, the clause does not operate to exclude
proof of actual value when relevant. Even in an action
on the policy the actual rather than the agreed value has
been held to be controlling for the purpose of determining whether there is a constructive total loss. Bradlie v.
Maryland Ins. Co., 12 Pet. 378, 399; Irving v. Manning,
6 C. B. 391 (H. of L.). In the case of partial insurance
of cargo under a valued policy the insured is treated as a
co-insurer and is allowed to recover on the policy only
such proportion of the loss as the insured value bears to
the actual value, a computation which necessarily requires proof of the actual value in order to establish the
co-insurance relationship. Gulf Refining Co. v. Atlantic
Mutual Ins. Co., supra, 710-711; see International Navigation Co. v. Atlantic Mutual Ins. Co., 100 F. 304, 318,
aff'd per curiam 108 F. 987; Arnould on Marine Insurance, 11th Edition, § 340; Eldridge on Marine Policies,
2nd Edition, p. 90. It is true, as was pointed out in Gulf
Refining Co. v. Atlantic Mutual Ins. Co., supra, that in
case of valued hull policies losses resulting in repairs are
customarily paid in full, not because of. agreement or
estoppel but because partial losses to hull usually result
in repairs without any valuation of the hull and the rule
that the recovery shall be measured by repairs has been
found more convenient in practice than one requiring
determination of the sou nd value of the ship. See Lohre
v. Aitchison, L. R. 2 Q. B. D. 501, 507. The same rule as
in the case of cargo insurance has been applied when
repairs were not made, and value was established by the
sale of the vessel, Pitman v. Universal Marine Ins. Co.,
L. R. 9 Q. B. D. 192, and in the case of general average
contribution by the hull. S. S. "Balmoral" Co. v. Marten,
[1902] App. Cas. 511, 514, 515. The peculiar rule of the
insurer's liability for partial loss to hull when repairs are
made does not depend on the valuation clause and,affords

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. 0.

no basis for treating it as excluding the insured as coinsurer when there is a to' d loss.
These variations in the effect of the valuation clause, in
fixing the liability of the insurer, do not alter the character of the valued policy as a contract of indemnity, or
afford any basis for alteration of his rights as an indemnitor. Whether upon a valued or an open policy, he is
entitled to share in the insured's recovery of damages only
by way of subrogation, whose sole object and justification
is to make indemnity to the insured up to the amount of
the policy, the measure of the liability of the insurer.
Standard Marine Ins. Co. v. Scotish Metropolitan Assurance Co., 283 U. S. 284, 288; Aetna Casualty & Surety
Co. v. Phoenix National Bank & Trust Co., 285 U. S. 209,
214; Chapman v. Hoage, 296 U. S. 526, 531. The doctrine now contended for, would require a radical departure from the principle on which subrogation is founded.
Consistently applied, it would in some cases deprive the
insured of indemnity, and indeed might enable thel insurer to make a profit by recovering more from the insured
than the amounts paid on the policy. We are unable to
sanction a doctrine involving such consequences.
No question is raised by the petition for certiorari or
appears to have been raised below as to the correctness
of the adjustment statement, if the valuation clause does
not foreclose proof of actual value and if- respondent is
therefore to be regarded as a co-insurer of the hull in
event of total loss. Petitioners make no contention that
respondent, if so regarded, has received more than appropriate indemnity after the distribution of the proceeds
of the collision suit. The total insurance received by respondent from the insurers in 1918 and 1919, aggregating
$886,068, was approximately $863.932 less than the prime
value of the vessel, which some thirteen years later it recovered in the collisiQn suit, without allowance of interest and after the expenditure of more than $300,000 as

,ETNA INS. CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO.
430

437

Opinion of the Court.

costs of the litigation. Petitioners submit no interest
computations and have otherwise made no effort to sustain the burden of proving that respondent has received
more than indemnity for the delay in payment of as much
of the loss as was not covered by insurance.
Since the expenses have been apportioned by charging
the insured with a proportion greater than its share of
the risk, and the apportionment is not assailed except as
it may be wholly precluded by the valuation clause, it is
unnecessary to consider whether the distribution of expense should be upon principles of co-insurance or
whether the insured should be fully indemnified for it
before the insurer is entitled to subrogation.
Petitioaers point to no practice of underwriters with
respect to the valued policy or its rate of premium as
compared with that for the open policy, which supports
the rule for which they contend. But they insist that it
has been adopted in England and has become so well settled in New York where the insurance was effected, that
it must ba taken to be an implied term of the policies.
It is true that North of England Iron S. S. Ins. Assn. v.
Armstrong, supra, lends support to petitioners' argument.
There, upon a total loss, the insu.ci had recovered as
collision damages an amount less than the agreed valuation and it was held that the insurer, who had paid the
policy in full, was entitled to have the benefit of the entire recovery. The court thought that the case was
analogous to that of abandonment in case of a constructive total loss where the underwriter, by virtue of the
abandonment, is entitled to the wreck and to such profit
from it as he can make. Pursuing the logic of its reasoning, the court declared that the insurer would have been
entitled to the insured's full recovery even if it exceeded
the agreed value. But it seems plain that there is no
analogy between the insurer's right to be subrogated to
the fruits of the insured's recovery from ,. wrongdoer

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

and the insurer's right to a wreck which is his by abandonment. The Potomac, 105 U. S. 630, 634, The St.
Johns, 101 F. 460, 472 (S. D. N. Y.); Arnould on Marine
Insurance, 11th Edition, §§ 1228-1230.
North of England Iron S. S? Ins. Assn. v. Armstrong,
supra, was cited in The Potomac, supra, 635, and in
Mobile & Montgomery Ry. Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584,
594, 595, neither of which involved the question now
presented. It was followed in The St. Johns, but not to
the extent of allowing a profit to the insurer. In The
Livingstone, 130 F. 746 (C. C. A. 2), the claim of a
valued hull insurer to the whole collision recovery, which
exceeded the agreed value, was denied upon reasoning
which rejected that of North of England Iron S. S. Ins.
A: -.. v. Armstrong, supra, and The St. Johns, supra, and
ca . . for affirmance of the judgment here. Interest was
allowed to the insurer, apparently because interest on
the full value of the vessel had been recovered in the'
damage suit. Without discussing the point the court by
its mandate directed payment to the underwriters of
the full amount of their-policies without deduction for
expenses. But as it considered that the insurer's right
of recovery rested upon subrogation unaffected by the
valuation clause, we cannot regard the case as an intentional departure from the rule that the insurer is entitled
to subrogation only after the insured is appropriately
indemnified, or as establishing any rule that the valuation
clause forecloses proof of actual value as a step in measuring the insurer's recovery by way of subrogation.
We recognize that established doctrines of English
maritime law are to be accorded respect here, Queen Ins.
Co. v. Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co., supra, 493; Gulf
Refining Co. v. Atlantic Mutual Ins. Co., supra, 715, but
the pronouncement in North of England Iron S. S. Ins.
Assn. v. Armstrong, supra, has never been adopted by

ALLEN v REGENTS.
430

Syllabus.

an English appellate court. -It was doubted by eminent judges in .Burnand v. Rodocanachi Sons & Co.,
[1882] L. R. 7 App. Cas. 333, 342, and in Thames & Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. British & Chilean S. S. Co., [1915]

L. R. 2 K. B. 214, 221. Its reasoning, conflicting as it
does with established principles of maritime insurance
law, and found to be incapable of consistent application
both in The St. Johns, supra, 474-475, and in The Livingstone, supra.750, should be rejected here.
-

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

ALLEN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.

REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM-OF
GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 882. Argued April 28, 29, 1938.-Decided May 23, 1938.
1. Substitution of the official successor to a collector of internal revenue who resigned and died pending a r;fit to restiain collection
of a tax assessment, held proper under § 11, Act of February
13, 1925. "P. 444.
2. R. S. § 3224, providing that "no suit for the purpose of restraining the collection or assessment of any tax shall be maintained in
any court," is inapplicable in xceptibnal cases where there is no.
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. P. 445.
3. A c6rporation, created by a State as an instrumentality of 'the
State, and having control and management of state educational
institutions, sought to restrain collection by distraint of sjms .assessed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in consequence
of neglect to collect and pay over the federal tax, Revenue Act of
1926, § 500 (a) (1), as amended, on 'admissions t5 intercollegiate
football games played at those institutipns. The corporation con-

