N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. JACKSON.
257

Opinion of the Court.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to that court for a determination of the merits.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONCE, MR. JUSTICE CARDozo and MR.
JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. JACKSON
ET AL.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 869.

Decided May 16, 1938.

Quest :ns of the construction of an insurance policy are to be dec;ded by the federal courts in accordance with the applicable
principles of state law. Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, ante,
p. 64.
Certiorari granted; 94 F. 2d 288, vacated.

PETITION for certiorari to review a judgment enforcing
an insurance policy, oii a cross bill, in a suit io set it aside.

Messrs. Rudolph J. Kramer, Bruce A. Campbell, and
Louis H. Cooke were on a brief for petitioner.
Mr. Arthur J. Freund entered an appearance for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

This suit was brought by petitioner, New York Life
Insurance Company, to cancel the reinstatement of an
insurance policy upon the ground that it was obtained by
fraud. The defendants, the insured and the beneficiary,
denied the responsibility of the insured for any misrepre-

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

sentations by reason of his mental incapacity at the time.
They also filed a cross bill seeking the payment of the
monthly disability benefits for which the policy provided.
Decree was rendered in favor of defendants on their
cross bill. The decree declared void the reinstatement of
the policy but held it to be in full force from the date of
its issue. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 94 F.
2d 288.
The stipulation of facts stated that the insured at the
time of the issue of the policy in 1927 was a resident of
Missouri and that the policy was delivered to the insured
in that State. Findings of the District Court followed
the stipulation.
The Circuit Court of Appeals considered the question
whether under the provisions of the policy the insurer was
liable for disability benefits to the insured who became
totally and permanently disabled during the period of
grace following the date on which a semi-annual premium
payment fell due where the premium was not paid until
after the expiration of the period of grace. The court
considered the question as one of general law. Its decision
should have been made according to the applicable principles of the state law which governed the interpretation
of the policy. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, ante, p. 64;
Ruhlin v. New York Life Insurance Co., ante, p. 202.
Certiorari is granted, tie judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is vacated, and the cause is remanded to that
court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Judgment vacated.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

