PETROLEUM CO. v. COMMN.
209

Syllabus.

kin8, does not present the disputants with duties difficult
or strange. The parties and the federal courts must now
search for and apply the entire body of substantive, law
governing an identical action in the state courts. Hitherto, even in what were termed matterE of "general" law,
counsel had to investigate the enactments of the state legislature. Now they must merely broaden their inquiry
to include the decisions of the state courts, just as they
would in a case tried in the state court, and just as they
have always done in actions brought in the federal courts
involving what were known as matters of "local" law.
The judgment is vacated and the cause remanded to
the District Court, for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion, with directions to permit such amendments of the pleadings as may be necessary for that purpose.
Judgment vacated.
MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION, INC. v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 705.

Argued April 4, 5, 1938.-Decided May 2, 1938.

1. The Act of May 14, 1934, restricting the jurisdiction of the federal
courts to enjoin enforcement of orders of state commissions affecting public utility rates, is inapplicable to an order of a commission
commanding a corporation to produce evidence on a certain date,
made without notice or hearing. P. 214.
2. In a suit to enjoin as unconstitutional a projected inquiry by a
state agency into the reasonableness of the rates of a gas company,
the expense to the company of complying with the order by showing the original and historical costs of its properties, cost of reproduction as a going concern, and other elements of value recog81638*°-38--14

210

OCTOBER TERM 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

nized 'y law in fixing rates, ib part of the amount or value in
controversy. P. 215.
3. The objection that a suit is not within equity jurisdiction because
of the existence of a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law
(Jud. Code § 267) may be taken by trial or appellate court aua
sponte. P. 216.
4. The adequate legal remedy which will defeat equity jurisdiction
must be a remedy available in the federal court. P. 217.
5. A gas corporation owning very valuable propert- and doing a
large business sought in a federal court to enjoin a state commission from carrying on proqeedings to fix the company's rates, in
alleged excess of thp commission's jurisdiction and in violation of
the company's constitutional rights. Held, that a loss of $25,000,
in preparing and presenting the company's case before the commission, would not constitute irreparable injury justifying equitable intervention. Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303
U. S. 41. P. 218.
When the *only ground for interfering with the state procedure
is the reasonable cost of preparing for a hearing, there is no
occasion for equlitable intervention. P. 221.
12 F. Supp. 254, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three

judges which dismissed a bill for an injunction.
Mr. W. J. Brennan, with whom Messrs. Edward C.
O'Rear, Allen Prewitt, and Charles N. Kimball were on

the brief, for appellant.
Mr. J. W. Jones, Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of -the Court.

This is an appeal from a final decree dismissing appel-

lant's bill of complaint for want of jurisdiction in equity.
It was entered by the United States District Court for the

Eastern District of Kentucky sitting with three judges
under Judicial Code, § 266. 21 F. Supp. 254. The appellant sought to enjoin the Public Service Commission of

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky from prosecuting an investigation of wholesale
rates for gas marketed by contract in Kentucky by appellant, on the ground that any regulation of the 'rates
charged by appellant to its customers would be beyond
the statutory power of the Commission, since the appellant was not a public utility, and would result in a deprivation of property without due process, a denial of equal
protection of the laws, and a violation of the contracts
clause of the Federal and State Constitutions, affecting
contracts entered into prior to the passage of the.regulatory act I of the General Assembly of Kentucky. As
grounds for equitable relief, it was alleged that there was
no adequate remedy and that irreparable injury would be
inflicted upon appellant by the large expense entailed in
preparation for the investigation.
Appellant is a corporation solely of the State of Maine,
engaged in the production and purchase of natural gas at
various fields in Kentucky and the transmission of that
gas through wholly intrastate pipe lines to distributing
agencies at the "city gates" of various municipalities of
that Commonwealth. Appellant sells to three distributing agencies: a partnership, a corporation entirely free
of connection with appellant, and a corporation i., which
appellant owns a dominant interest. It offers to sell and
sells its commodity by separate contracts only to the distributing agencies named in the bill. All of these agencies, with one immaterial exception, are the owners of unexpired franchises purcha3ed from the respective municipalities which they serve. Either by these franchises or
by supplementary contract, the rates are fixed for retail
sales of gas. Acting pursuant to statutory provisions
authorizing investigations of the rates of defined utilities,
the Public Service Commission of Kentucky issued on
May 29, 1937, an order, pertinent provisions of which
'Acts of 1934, c. 145, as amended by Acts of 1936, c. 92.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

are set forth in the margin,' reciting that appellant is an
operating utility subject to the Commission's jurisdiction,
setting a date for a public hearing, and ordering appellant
2"Notice

of Investigation and Order to Show Cause.

"Whereas, An examination of the reports of several wholesale and
retail gas utilities serving in this state, show that they purchase gas
at wholesale rates from the Petroleum Exploration, Inc., Lexington,
Kentucky; and
"Whereas, The Commission has found under Sections 3952-1-12-13,
and 14 that the Petroleum Exploration, Inc., is an operating utility
in the State of Kentucky, and subject to the jurisdiction of this
Commission; and
"Whereas, It is apparent from a comparison of these rates with
those of other companies rendering a similar class of service in Kentucky that these rates may be excessive; and"Whereas, These wholesale rates bear a definite relationship to
the cost of gas to consumers in the following towns and communities,
namely, Corbin, Somerset, Barbourville, Manchester, Burning Springs,
Richmond, Irvine-Ravenna, London, Winchester, Mt. Sterling, Cynthiana, Georgetown, Lexington, Paris, Frankfort, Versailles, Midway,
and North Middletown; and
"Whereas, Authority to initiate this investigation is vested in the
Commission by Sections 3952-12-13, and 14 of the Kentucky Statutes,'
"Now, Therefde, Notice is Hereby Given, That the Commission
has entered upon an investigation of the above matters and that a
public hearing will be held relative to said matters at the office of the
Commission dn June 29, 1937, at which time and place any person
interested may appear and present such evidence as may be proper
in the premises; and
"Whereas, Under such circumstances the Commission finds the
burden of proof upon the utility to show that rates and charges are
fair and reasonable, and not arbitrary,
"Now, Therefore, it is Ordered:
"1. That official representatives of the Petroleum Exploration, Inc.,
appear at such hearing and present evidence, if any it can, as will
show conclusively the fairness and reasonableness of its present rates
and- charges for gas which it is selling to companies that are in turn
.selling the same gas at wholesale or retail in this state, or submit

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

to appear at such hearing and present evidence of the
reasonableness of its rates and charges, and also to make
its records available for examination.
Appellant filed a plea to the Commission's jurisdiction,
in substance setting up the objections subsequently urged
in the bill under consideration. The Commission overruled this plea and reset the investigation for hearing on
the merits. The appellant filed an application for a rehearing of this order. Though the Commission has not
formally passed upon this application it admits that it intended and threatened to proceed with the investigation,
determine and fix a fair rate for appellant's gas, and that
it would have so proceeded but for the teipporary restraining order obtained by appellant upon the filing of the bill
in question.
Appellant's bill alleged that it was the obvious purpose
of the Commission to lower appellant's rates, that these
rates were not subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of
the Commission, that any reduction would violate the
Fourteenth Amendment, and impair the obligations of its
contracts, in contravention of the contracts clauses of the
State and Federal Constitutions. It was further alleged
that the investigation, and the orders entered therein, are
unlawful and unreasonable, and, if further prosecuted,
for the approval of the Commission such changes and revisions as
will make such rates or charges fair and reasonable."
[Sections 2 and 3 6mitted here relate to a requirement for the submission of information on contracts between appellant and other
parties. Existence of such contracts was denied by appellant, and
no evidence to establish them was offered.]
"4. That all books, accounts, records, correspondence and memoranda of the Petroleum Exploration, Inc., be made available for
examination by the Commission's representatives.
"Notice is Hereby Given to the Petroleum Exploration, Inc., of the
above order of the Commission.
"Dated 'at Frankfort, Kentucky, this 29th day of May, 1937."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

would put appellant to considerable unlawful and needless expense. The Commission filed an answer asserting
that appellant vas subject to its regulatory jurisdiction.
It denied any purpose on its part to attempt to lower the
contract price which appellant charged the distributing
agencies but averred that it would institute and conduct
a special investigation and proceeding to determine a fair
and reasonable price or rate to be charged by appellant
and to fix said price or rate.
The majority opinion of the District Court held that
as the order challenged could be enforced only by judicial
proceedings, there existed no immediately threatened irreparable injury or damage to the appellant within the
equity jurisdiction of the District Court. Without any
consideration of the merits, the bill was dismissed. The
assignments of error attack this conclusion. We affirm
the decree of the District Court.
First. The point is made by appellees that injunction
is prohibited by the Johnson Act of May 14, 1934, c. 283,
§ 1, 48 Stat. 775, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1). This act withdraws
from the district courts jurisdiction of any suit to enjoin
the enforcement of any order of a state administrative
commission where such order "(1) affects rates chargeable by a public utility, (2) does not interfere with interstate commerce, and (3) has been made after reasonable notice and hearing, and where a plain, speedy,
and efficient remedy may be had at law or in equity in
the courts of such State." The Johnson Act does not
apply here because the order complained of, i. e., that of
May 29, 1937, was entered without notice or hearing.
Though it is entitled a "Notice of Investigation and Order
to Show Cause," which would be an appropriate method
of initiating an investigation, in fact the order commands
appellant to produce certain evidence oil a designated
date, and not merely to show 'cause on that date why evi-

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

dence should not be produced. The order of June 29,
1937, overruling the plea to the jurisdiction, is not final
but is pending on an application for rehearing.
Second. This proceeding was begun under the provisions
of § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1).
Jurisdiction was challenged by the Commission on the
ground that the value of the matter in controversy was
not in excess of $3,000. To show the requisite amount,
appellant alleged that 'it would be necessary to expend
$25,000 to present the evidence required by the order.
It was found by the District Court from the testimony
at the trial that "the expense to plaintiff of complying
with said orders would be more than $3,000.00 in employing appraisers, geologists, engineers, accountants, etc., to
show-the original and historical cost of its properties, cost
of, reproduction as a going concern, and other elements of
value recognized by the law of the land for rate making
purposes."
The purpose of this proceeding is to stop the investigation of the rates under the order issued. Since the
necessary expense 'of producing the information demanded by the order exceeds the jurisdictional amount,
the value of the matter in controversy is at least this
sum. This purpose'or object is analogous to those sought'
in injunctions to restrain a continuing trespass, where the
value of the matter in controversy includes the cost of
remedying the condition as part of the value of the matter in controversy, namely, the prevention of interference
with plaintiff's rights.' Other examples are found in a
suit to enjoin the enforcement of a tax statute, where the
'Glenwood Light Co. v. Mutual Light Co., 239 U. S. 121, 125.
The pleadings and proof in the present case do not in terms raise
the question of the value of the right to conduct business free of
interference by the Commission. Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107;
cf. Glenwood Light Co. v. Mutual Light Co., supra, 124.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

amount of the tax is the value of the matter in controversy,' and in a suit to enjoin enforcement of an order to
install and maintain a track, where the value of the matter in controversy is the cost of compliance.' Where
"expenses incident to compliance" with a regulatory
statute exceed $3,000, the jurisdiction is clear.' There
is no contention here either that the Commission's order
left appellant with any less expensive alternative, or
that the worth of appellant's entire business is less than
$3,000. In undertaking to enjoin this investigation, the
cost incident to making a showing required by the Commission is not collateral or incidental to the purpose of
the injunction, but a threatened expense from which
relief is sought. Whether such irrecoverable cost is an
irreparable injury against which equity will protect is
considered later in this opinion. The District Court had
jurisdiction of the cause, as a federal court.
Third. We next consider whether the suit must be
dismissed pursuant to § 267 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S.
C. § 384, which declares that no suit in equity shall be
sustained "where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy
may be had at law." Though this contention was not
raised below by the Commission, "either the trial court
or the appellate may, of its own motion, take the objection."
For determination of the adequacy of this rem'Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263.
'Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 264.
' Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 142, 143.
'See Twist v. PrairieOil & Gas Co., 274 U. S. 684, 690. Although
the objection does not go to the jurisdiction of the court as a federal
court and may be waived and not considered if not timely raised
(Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, 395), if it be obvious that there
is an adequate remedy at law, the court acts sua sponte to preserve
the courts of equity as a forum for extraordinary relief, in accordance with the legislative direction of § 267 of the Judicial
Code. Parker v. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton & Woolen Co., 2 Black
545, 550; Wright v. Ellison, 1 Wall. 16, 22; Oelrichs v. Spain, 15

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

edy we must here assume the allegations of appellant
that, unless an injunction is granted, irreparable injury
will flow from its compliance with the order of May 29.
Itis settled that no adequate remedy at law exists, so
as to deprive federal courtA of equity jurisdiction, unles
it is available in the federal courts' If appellant ignores
the Commission's order, action for recovery of penalties
for the violation of the order may be instituted by tLe
Commonwealth of Kentucky. Ky. Stat. Ann. (Carroll's
8th ed., Baldwin's 1936 revision) §§ 3952-13 and -61.
But this proceeding could neither be begun nor removed
to the federal court. Apart from the difficulty of maiataining such an action in the federal courts, in view of its
penal nature, the State would be proceeding as.plaintiff to
enforce its laws; its complaint would not be grounded on
the Constitution or laws of the. United States, and there
would not be diversity of citizenship, the States not being
"citizens" within the Judiciar Code.' There is equitable
jurisdiction to enjoin the proposed investigation of appellant's rates, if the order of May 29, quoted above, carries
a threat of imminent, irreparable injury'
Fourth. The bill asks injunctive relief to restrain the
Commission from further prosecuting the "investigation"
into the price of gas sold under appellants. contracts to
the distributing agencies. Two decisions dealing with
Wall. 211, 228; Singer Seunng Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S.
481, 486; Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford County, 281 U. S: 121, 123,
128. Cf. Federal Trade Commission v. Claire Furnace Co., 274
U. S. 160. It is a question of "whether the case is one for the
peculiar type of relief" granted by courts of equity. Di Giovanni v.
Camden Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 69.
,Di Giovanni v. Camden Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 69, and cases
cited; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Osborne, 265 U. 8: 14, 16.
'Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, 487; Minnesota
v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 63; Arkansas v. Kansas &
Texas Coal Co., 183 U. S. 185, 188; City Bank Co. v. Schnader, 291
U. S. 24, 29.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

orders for furnishing information have recently been
handed down by this Court.1 In bbth cases this Court
dealt with the merits of the respective orders, determining that there was no constitutional basis for saying
that "any person is immune from giving information appropriate to a legislative or judicial inquiry." Here there
is no need to consider the validity of the challenged
order. To justify the use of the extraordinary power of
a court of equity something more must be involved than
an application of a statute in an unconstitutional manner
against complainant. There must be an allegation and
proof of threatened injury under some of the recognized
sources of equitable jurisdiction.1' The one most frequently relied upon in constitutional cases, and pleaded
here, is irreparable injury. " To furnish the information
required by the order will cost $25,000, arising from the
necessity of preparing for the hearing on rates. Is this
irrecoverable expense a threatened irreparable injury
which a court of equity will guard against by injunction?
Whether 'or not equitable relief will be granted rests in
the soind discretion of the court."
It is true that the injury.which flows from the threat of
enforcement of an allegedly unconstitutional, regulatory
state statute with penalties so heavy as to forbid the risk
of challenge in proceedings to enforce it, has been generally recognized as irreparable and sufficient to justify an
°Natural Gas Co. v. Slattery, 302 U.. S. 300, 306; Arkansas
Louisiana Gas Co. v. Department of Public Utilities, ante, p. 61.
"Dows v. Chicago,.11 Wall. 108; Cruickshank v. Bidwell, 176 U.S.
73, 81; McChord v. Louiville & Nashville R. Co., 183 U. S. 483,.'
495; Shelton v. Platt, 139 IT.S..591, 596; Boise Artesian Water Co.
v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276, 281.
ISee
Irreparable Injury in Constitutional Cases, 46 Yale Law
Journal 255 (1936)-

' Di Giovanni v. Camden Ins. Asn., 296 U.S. 64, 70.

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

injunction." The Commission urges that since there is
ample opportunity for the appellant to contest in a state
court any effort to regulate or punish for disobedience of
orders, with ultimate ,review by this Court, there- is no
irreparable injury, and that the dangers of lowered rates

and threatened punishments can be overcome by opposition when an effort is made to enforce them. The case
of Federal Trade Commission v. Claire Furnace Co., 274
U. S. 160, where an effort was made to secure an 'injunction against enforcement of a Federal Trade Commission
order to produce information, has been cited as a precedent. There were heavy penalties for violation of that
order "" but the opinion discussed the issues from the

standpoint of failure to exhaust administrative remedy.""
Appellant here insists that it is compelled to choose between compliance, at a heavy cost, or non-compliance
with obvious risks of severe, though non-recurring and

non-cumulative, penalties;

17

and that to stand by sub-

,Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 165; Terrace v. Thompson, 263
U. S. 197, 215, 216; Packard v. Banton, 264 U..S. 140,143.
15§§ 9 and 10 of the Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat.
722, 15 U. S.C. §§ 49, 50.
"Cf. Dalton Adding Machine Co. v. State Corporation Comm'n,
236 U. S.699.
" Ky. Stat. Ann. § 3952-61 provides: "Penalties.-Every officer,
agent or employee of any utility as enumerated in section 1 hereof,
or other person who shall willfully violate any provisions of this
act, or who procures, aids or abets any violation of this act by any
such uiility shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars,
or be confined in jail not more than six (6) months, or both; and if
any such utility shall be a private corporation and shall violate any
of the provisions of this act, or shall do any act herein prohibited,
or shall fail and refuse to perform any duty imposed upon it under
this act for which no penalty has been provided by law, or who
shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful requirement or order
made by the commission, for every such violation, failure or refusal

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

jects appellant to the further risk that the Commission
will fix its rates on the Commission's evidence alone.18
We may assume, without deciding, that the risk of these

penalties would be sufficiently great to require the interposition of a court of equity to protect appellant against a
regulatory order.

Compliance with this order, however, subjects appellant only to an expense in preparing for and carrying out

an investigation. - It is not suggested that the expense is
disproportionate to the business of appellant, valued by
the District Court as in excess of $1,500,000, and involving sales of about one billion cubic feet per annum, at a
price of $350,000. No order has been entered fixing rates

or regulating conduct. The necessity to expend for the
investigation or to take the risk for non-compliance does
such utility shall forfeit and pay into the treasury a sum not less
than twenty-five .($25.00) dollars, nor more than one thousand
($1,000.00) dollars, for each such offense, said sum or sums to be paid
to the Treasurer and credited to the general fund. In construing
and enforcing the provisions of this section the act, omission or
failure of any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed
by any utility acting within the scope of his employment shall in
every case be deemed to be the act, omission or failure of such utility."
There is also provision for proceedings by mandamus or injunction
to compel obedience to the orders of the Commission. Ky. Stat. Ann.
§ 3952-13.
The minority opinion below construed this as follows: "When the
violator is an individual, the penalties for failure *to comply with
the orders of the Public Service Commission are not more than $1,000,
or confinement in jail for not more than six months, or both, and
if a corporation, not less than $25 or more than $1,000 for each
violation, the enforcement thereof to be by the Franklin circuit
court cd the commonwealth of Kentucky." 21 F. Supp. 254, at 259.
The appellant argues in this Court that failure to produce the
evidence may subject it to -a fine and its officers and agents to
criminal penalties. Neitlier the majority below nor the Commission in this Court expresses .a contrary view.
" Ky. Stat, Ann. § 3952-14.

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

not justify the injunction. It is not the sort of irreparable injury against which equity protects. 9
The weight to be given complaints of irrecoverable and
irreparable cost and damage in proceedings to enjoin hearings, initiated by a federal governmental agency in a matter alleged by complainants to be beyond the agency's
powers, was considered in Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41. In an effort to enjoin hearings by
the National Labor Relations Board, the Corporation alleged (see 303 U. S. at 47):
"that hearings would, at best, be futile; and that the
holding of them would result in irreparable damage to the
Corporation, not only by reason of their direct cost and
the loss of time of its officials and employees, but also because the hearings would cause serious impairment of the
good will and harmonious relations existing between the
Corporation and its employees, and thus seriously impair
the efficiency of its operations."
Further allegations pointed out similar substantial
damages in preceding investigations. See Note 4 idem.
While other grounds were factors in our conclusion to
reverse the decree for an injunction, we said (p. 51):
"Lawsuits also often prove to have been groundless; but
no way has been discovered of relieving a defendant from
the necessity of a trial to establish the fact."
It may be suggested that in the Bethlehem Shipbuilding case the employer had not presented to the Board
its contention of constitutional immunity, and that proof
of that immunity would have constituted no greater injury if presented to the Board than the courts, whereas
here the appellant has already been overruled by the
Commission on the question of appellant's constitutional
immunity, and so would be subject to greater expense by
presenting further evidence on another matter before the
10Cf. Lawrence v. St. Louis-S. F. Ry. Co., 274 U. S. 588, 592.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

304 U. S.

Commission than by proceeding in an equity court and
there contesting the Commission's jurisdiction. This was
the argument presented to the Court, but not discussed, in
United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 244 U. S. 82, 8586. The situation is still controlled by the abiding and
fundamental principle of this aspect of the Bethlehem
Shipbuilding case, that the expense and annoyance of
litigation is "part of the social burden of living under
government." 20 The authority in other courts is in
2
accord.
Fifth.' Our conclusion that this is not a threatened
injury justifying intervention is strengthened by a balancing of conveniences. By the process of'injunction the
federal courts are asked to stop at the threshold, the effort
of the Public Service Commission of Kentucky to investigate matters entrusted to its care by a statute of that
Commonwealth obviously within the bounds of state authority in many of its provisions. The preservation of the
autonomy of the states is fundamental in our constitutional system. The extraordinary powers of injunction
should be employed to interfere with the action of the
"'Bridley Lumber Co. v. Labor Board, 84 F. (2d) 97, 100
(C. C. A. 5).
Whether expense, in this instance, may be avoided by a challenge
of the interlocutory orders of the Commission on the plea of appellant to the jurisdiction (see Ky. Stat. Ann. § 3952-44), is not
within our province to decide.
" The suggestion that an administrative agency be enjoined from
further, and expensive, proceedings after its allegedly erroneous
determination of jurisdiction was considered and rejected in Chamber of Commerce v. Federal Trade Commission, 280 Fed. 45, 48-49
(C. C. A. 8); Pittsburgh & W. Va. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 52 App..D. C. 40; 280 Fed. 1014,1015-6; Paramiw Lumber

Co. v. Marshall, 18 F. Supp. 645, 647 (D. Wash.). Compare State
ex rel. Carrau v. Superior Court, 30 Wash. 700; 71 P. 648; Edward
Hines Yellow Pine Trustees v. Knox, 144 Miss. 560, 572-573; 108
So. 907.

PETROLEUM CO. v. COMM'N.
209

Opinion of the Court.

state or the depositaries of its delegated powers, only
when it clearly appears that the weight of convenience is
upon the side of the protestant.2 2 "Only a case of manifest
oppression will justify a federal court in laying such a
check upon administrative officers acting colore officii in
a conscientious endeavor to fulfill their duty to the
state."

2'

The Kentucky statute in question contains de-

tailed provisions for hearings and judicial review.24 These
include notice, procedural rules before the Commission,
right to counsel, production of evidence, service of orders,
rehearing, process for parties and witnesses, depositions,
record of proceedings, review of orders by court and appeal to the state court of last resort. The compulsory
and punitive powers of the Commission are exercised
through judicial process. When the only ground for interfering with the state procedure is the cost of preparing
for a hearing, there is no occasion for equitable intervention.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs, except that he expresses
no opinion on the applicability of the Johnson Act.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
Gilchrist v. Interborough Co., 279 U. S. 159, 207; Pennsylvani t
v. Wdliams, 294 U. S. 176, 185; Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521,
525; cf. Harrisonville v. Dickey Clay Co., 289 U. S. 334, 338.
Hawks v. Hamill, 288 U. S. 52, 61.
" Ky. Stat. Ann. §§ 3952-33 to -51 inclusive.

