FLAMM v. REAL-BLT, INC.

1313

Opinion in Chambers

FLAMM v. REAL-BLT, INC.,
ACRES
ON

DBA

PONDEROSA

APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-731 (75-6263).

Decided February 25, 1976

Application to stay Montana Supreme Court's judgment reversing
trial court's judgment that applicant tenant was entitled to certain rights under the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment
before being evicted from respondent landlord's federally subsidized low-income housing project, is denied in view of lease provision that either party to lease may terminate it by giving 30
days' written notice to other party, thus making it unnecessary
to reach any due process issue.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant requests that I stay the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Montana in this proceeding contesting
her eviction. As matters currently stand, that court has
denied a stay and applicant will be evicted on February 29.
Applicant lives in federally subsidized low-income
housing which was built and is operated by respondent.
On September 26, 1974, respondent sent to applicant a
notice to quit, pursuant to the lease which provided that
"[e]ither party may terminate this lease . . . by giving
30 days written notice in advance to the other party."
Applicant sued in the Montana state trial court claiming that respondent's project was so intertwined with
the Federal Government that its action in evicting her
was subject to the limitations of the Due Process Clause
of the Fifth Amendment. She further contended that
these limitations entitled her to a statement of reasons
amounting to a showing of "good cause," and to a hearing before she could be evicted.
The state trial court agreed. The Supreme Court of
Montana reversed, holding that the project was suffi-

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U. S.

ciently independent of the Federal Government as to
make it subject only to those laws regulating private
landlords. The Supreme Court described the abovequoted lease provision, but did not rely upon it in its
decision.
In view of the express provision of the lease, it seems
to me that this Court, if it were to hear and decide the
case, would find it unnecessary to reach the question of
whether respondent's activities are subject to the Due
Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. I conclude,
therefore, that four Justices of this Court would not vote
to grant certiorari in this case. Accordingly, I deny the
stay.

