OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

MARQUETTE, .HOUGHTON, AND ONTONAGON1
RAILROAD COMPANY v. -UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF 3IICHIG-A.
Argued December 6,187.-Decided December 19, 1887.

Construing the clause in the internal revenue act of July 14, 1870, which
imposed a tax for the year 1871 of 21 per cent on all undivided profits of
corporations accrued and earned and added to a surplus, contingent, or
other fund, in connection with the previous internal revenue statutes, it
is plain that it was the intention of Congress not to subject to that tax
profits of a railroad corporation during that year, which were not divided.
but were used for construction.

ACTION at law to recover an'unpaid ilternal revenue tax.
Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this Writ of error.
'The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. T4. P. fHealy for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. Solicitor Generalfor defendant in error.
MR. C IEF JUSTICE

IWAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The single question in this case is, whether a railroad company is liable, under the act of July 14, 1870, c. 255, § 15, 16
Stat. 260, for a tax of two and one-half per centum on its
profits for 181, not divided, but used for construction during
that year.
The ection referred to, so far as material, is as follows:
"That there shall be levied and collected for and during the
year eighteen hundred and seventy-one a tax of two and onehalf per centum

.

.

.

on all undivided profits of any such

corporation which have accrued and been earned and added to
any surplus, contingent, or other fund."
Th6 railroad company of which the Marquette, Houghton
and Ontonagon Company is the successor, and for whose debts
it is liable, earned, in 1871, $102,,738.30, as profits, which were

MARQUETTE RAILROAD CO. v. UNITED STATES. 723
Opinion of the Court.

not divided, but were used during the year in-the construction
of new works, and in creating new facilities for business. This
amount was never in fact placed to the account of any particular fund, but it was taken from the money in the treasury to
pay for the new structures and additions as they were made.
The act of 1870 was entitled, "An act to reduce internal
taxes, and for other purposes." It is proper, therefore, to construe this particular provision in connection with the provisions of like character in the statutes imposing internal taxes
which preceded that of 1870.
By the act of July 1, 1862, c. 119, 12 Stat. 432, which was
the first of the series of internal revenue statutes, with which
that of 1870 was directly connected, railroad companies were
required to pay a tax of three per centum on all payments of
interest on their bonded debt; and on all dividends declared
due or payable to stockholders "as part of the earnings, profits, or gains of said companies." § 81, p. 469. And by § 82,
p. 470, of the same act, banks, trust companies, savings institutions, and insurance companies were required to pay the same
tax on all dividends "declared, due, or paid to stockholders, to
policy holders, or to depositors, as part of the earnings, profits,
or gains of said . . . companies, and on all sums added to
their surplus or contingent funds."
Following this was the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat.
.223, which provided (§ 120, p. 283) for a tax of five per centum
on the dividends of banks, trust companies, savings institutions,
and insurance companies as in the act of 1862, and "on all
undistributed sums, or sums made or added during the year to
their surplus or contingent funds." As to railroad companies,
it was provided (§ 122, p. 284) that they should pay the same
tax on the amount of the interest on their bonded debt, on
dividends to stockholders "as part of the earnings, profits,
income, or gains of such company, and on all profits of such
company carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction." Sections 120 and 122 were amended in some respects by the act of July 13, 1866, (c. 184, 11 Stat. 98, 138,)
but these particular provisions were retained in substantially
the same language.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

That the tax here levied was not necessarily a tax on all the
profits of these companies, but only on such as were used or
disposed of in the ways specified, is shown by § 121 of the act
of 1864, (13 Stat. 284,) which provided that if any bank legally
authorized to issue notes as ciiculation neglected to "make
dividends or additions to its surplus or contingent fund as often
as once in six months" the tax should be on "the amount of
profits which have accrued or been earned or received by said
bank during the six months next preceding the first days of
January and July." And that profits "used for construction"
were not looked upon as profits "carried to the account of any
fund," or "added to any surplus or contingent or other fund,"
is evident from the fact that it was thought necessary when
the taxes were increased in 1864 to make special mention of
them as something more than had been already provided for,
that is to say, in "profits carried to the account of any fund."
When, therefore, profits "used for construction" were left out
in the act of 1870, it is evident to our minds that Congress
intended to reduce the tax on railroad corporations to that
extent. The question is not what would have been the meaning of "profits carried to the account of any fund," or "added
to any surplus, contingent, or other fund," if this special provision in respect to profits "used for construction" had never
been made, but what the meaning is with that provision left
off after it had once been added. This is to be ascertained not,
by inquiry into the manner of keeping railroad accounts, but
by interpreting th6 language used by Congress at different
times to give expression to its will; not by determining
whether as matter of book-keeping it is usual to carry undivided profits used- for construction to &'construction fund, but
by studying the several statutes to see if it was intended that,
if so used, they should be taxed under the act of 1870. In our
opinion it was not, and consequently the current earnings of
the company for the year 1871, used as earned in new construction, were not taxable as profits of that year.
Tle judgmet of the Circuit Court is 'eversed, and the cause
remanded w'itk instructions to enter a judgment in favor
of the railroadcomicany on the factsfound.

