*CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREE COURT OF TIE STATE OF FLORIDA.
Argued April 20, IS$7. - Decided October 17, 18$7.

Grants of laud made by a government, in territory over which it exercises
political jurisdiction de facto, but which does not rightfully belou' to it.
tire invalid as against the government to which the territory rightfully
belongs.
Where a disputed boundary between two states is adjusted and settled.
grants previously made by either state, of lands claimed by it, and over
which it exercised political jurisdiction, but which, on the adjustment of
the boundary, are found to be within the territory of the other state.
are void, unless confilrmed by the latter state; and such confirmation
cannot afltct the titles of the same lands previously granted by tll,.
latter state itself.
The boundary between Georgia and Florida was long in dispute; Gcorgia
claiming to a line called Watsu'. line, and exercising political jur Idiction, and making grants of land to that line; whilst Florida claimed to
a line called Ae'eXil's line, further north than Watson's. Upon running
the true line, as finally agreed upon by the two states, it was found to
be further north than MeNi's line : - Held, I, That the grant made by
Georgia of the land in dispute, which was south of McNeil's line, though
made whilst Georgia exercised the powers of government de fcto over
the territory there, was nevertheless void; 2, That the confirmation by
Florida of the grants made by Georgia, did not invalidate or disturb the
grant of the land in dispute previously made by itself.
rhe history of the Florida boundary stated.
VOL. C.Xm-1

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

EJECTcENT for lands in s[adison County, Florida. Judgment for plaintiffs, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the state. This writ of error was sued out to review the
judgment in affirmance. The case is stated in the opinion of
the court.

3L. Angus Patersonfor plaintiff in error.
31r. C. IF. Stevens for defendant in error.
was with him on the brief.

.A&. S. Pasco

M . JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment for ninety-seven acres of land
in Madison County, Florida, situated near the boundary line
between that state and Georgia. The plaintiffs were James
11. Groover and others, heirs at law of Charles A. Groover,
and now defendants in error; the defendant was Andrew J.
Coffee, the present plaintiff in error. Judgment was first rendered by the court of first instance in favor of the defendant
below; but being reversed by the Supreme Court of Florida,
a new trial was had, and judgment was given for the plaintiffs, and affirmed by the Supreme Court. The last judgment
of the Supreme Court is brought here for review on two
grounds; first, that the matter in controversy had been tried
and determined by the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Florida, in favor of the defendant,
Coffee, in a suit between him and the executrix of Charles A.
Groover, the ancestor under whom the plaintiffs claim title;
secondly, on the ground that the defendant's title to the land
in controversy was claimed by him under a grant made by
the United States to the State of Florida, and by the State
of Florida to the defendant, which title was set aside by the
state court in favor of the plaintiff's title derived under a conflicting grant from the State of Georgia.
The first ground of error is not raised on the record in such
a manner as to avail the defendant. The matter of defence
involved therein Was set up by two pleas: first, a plea of
former recovery; and, secondly, a plea to the jurisdiction

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the court. These pleas were overruled on demurrer, but
for what reason is not stated. The Supreme Court of Florida,
however, in its opinion, very properly says: "In 'ejectment all
legal defences may be made under the plea of not guilty, and
the special denials mentioned in the statute. McClelland's Dig.
481. Special pleas of matter affecting the legal title, or in
estoppel, only encumber the record and tend to embarrassment. Wade v. -Doyle, 17 Fla. 522; .Healev. Spooner, June
Term, 1883 [20 Fla. 38]. They should be struck out by the
court sa9 !ponte, or on motion, or on demurrer, because they
are not proper pleas; but a judgment sustaining a demurrer
will not preclude proof, on the trial, of the facts so improperly
pleaded." Cqfee v. G'oover, 20 Fla. 64, 78. The pleas being
overruled, no attempt was made, on the trial, to set up the
defence by proof of the former judgmnent relied on. This
branch of the case, therefore, may be laid out of view.
The second ground for reversal is stated in duplicate form
in the assignment of errors, as follows, to wit:
(1) "In the record and proceedings aforesaid there is manifest error, to wit: That the Supreme Court of the State of
Florida in the above stated cause decided that a grant for
land issued by the State of Georgia is superior to a patent
issued by the United States for the same land, the said land
being situate within the territorial limits of the State of
Florida.."
(2) "There is manifest error in this, to wit, that the Supreme
Court of the State of Florida in the above stated cause, [as] by
the record aforesaid it appears, held that the plaintiff in error
should be ousted from certain lands embraced within the territory of the State of Florida, he holding title through the
State of Florida derived from the United States, and that the
defendants in error should be put in possession, they claiming
under a grant issued by the State of Georgia."
By ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes, where the decision of the
state court is against a title claimed under the Constitution, or
any treaty or statute of, or a commission held, or authority
exercised under, the United States, this court has jurisdiction
to review the decision. We think it will sufficiently appear

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

from the facts of the present case, and the points of law arising thereon, that it satisfies the conditions of the section. The
title claimed by the defendant rested, not only on a grant of
the United States, but on a delimitation of territory under a
treaty between the United States and Spain.
The case is one of conflicting grants of the same land lying
near the boundary line between Georgia and Florida. The
fact that the land in controversy was covered by both grants
was settled by the jury. It is conceded to lie within the
bounds of Florida according to the line recently agreed upon
by the two States.
The occasion of conflicting grants being made was the uncertain location, at the time, of the true boundary line referred
to, and the fact that Georgia claimed one line and the United
States and Florida claimed another.
The plaintiffs, to maintain their title to the land in dispute,
gave in evidence, on the trial, two patents from the State of
Georgia to one James Groover, each bearing date the 1st day
of January, 1842; one for 226k acres of land, described as
situate in the fifteenth district of Irwin County (Georgia), and
known and distinguished in the plan of said district by the
number 199, and having the shape, form, and marks shown
by a plat annexed; the other patent being for 250k acres of
land, situate in the same district and county, known and distinguished by the number 200, and having the shape, form,
and marks shown by a plat annexed. The plats showed that
the two lots joined each other east and west, and that they
were both bounded on the south by a common line called on the
plats ".Ilorida line "; and it was testified that the line thus
marked on the plats was a line known as the "Watson line."
Mfesne conveyances" were then given in evidence showing that
said lots were conveyed by James Groover to Thomas A.
Groover by deed dated December 31st, 1855; and by Thomas
A. Groover to Charles A. Groover by deed dated July 8th,
1860; and it was further shown that Charles A. Groover died in
1866, and that the plaintiffs were his heirs at law. Evidence
was also given tending to show that the said patentee and
grantees respectively had possession of said lands under and

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

in conformity with their said titles until the plaintiffs were
ousted by the defendant in 1876.
Evidence was further given to show that another line,
called the "McNeil line," ran about 14 chains north of the
Watson line and parallel thereto, and that the land in controversy lay between the said two lines, having the Watson
line on the south and the McNeil line on the north. Also,
that a third line, called the "Orr and Whitner line," ran still
farther north than either of the aforesaid lines, which Orr and
'Whitner line was conceded to be the boundary line between
the States of Georgia and Florida, as recently fixed by mutual
agreement between the two States, by certain laws and resolutions of their respective legislatures, confirmed by act of
Congress.
The plaintiffs also introduced evidence tending to show
that the Watson line was formerly considered the State line
between Georgia and Florida; that Georgians worked the
Georgia roads to the Watson line, and Floridians worked
the Florida roads to that line; that as far back as one of the
witnesses could remember,.he being for many years a lawyer
and judge in one of the border counties of Georgia, that State
had claimed and exercised jurisdiction to the Watson line,
until the Orr and Whitner line was agreed upon as the
boundary between the .two States; that the people living
north of the Watson line did jury duty and voted in Georgia;
that the wills of people dying there were probated in the
Georgia courts, and their estates were administered upon in
those courts; that the Georgia courts took jurisdiction of
offences committed as far south as the Watson line, and tried
cases in which people living there were interested; that the
officers of the Georgia courts executed writs as far south as
that line; that persons were tried in Georgia for offences
committed between that line and the Orr and Whitner line.
And, on the other hand, as correctly stated by the Supreme
Court of Florida in its opinion, there is nothing in the record,
nor in the history of the .government of the Territory or of
the State of Florida, showing that the authorities of the latter exercised any of the powers of government north of the

OCTOBER TERM, 188
Opinion of the Court.

Watson line prior to the said settlement of the boundary
between the two States.
The defen4 btr, to maintain the issue on his part, gave in
evidence, first, a certified copy of a patent from the United
States to the State of Florida, bearing date July 6th,_ 1857,
issued under and in pursuance of the act approved September
28th, 1850, known as the act for granting to certain states the
"swamp and overflowed lands" therein; by which patent
there was granted to said State, as swamp and overflowed
lands, certain designated fractional sections of- land, amongst
others "the whole of fractional section 29," in township'3
north, range 9 east; which fractional section was proved to
be bounded on the north by Mc3~eil's line, and to include the
land in controversy. The defendant also produced in evidence
a certificate of sale issued by the register of public lands for
the State of Florida to one McCall and one Stripling for
said fractional section 29, and other land named in said
patent, which certificate bore date September 2d, 1857, and
acknowledged the receipt of one hundred dollars in cash, and
of certain bonds for the remainder of the purchase money of
said lands, as provided by the land laws of Florida. The
defendant further gave in evidence a deed from McCall and
Stripling to himself, bearing date November 12th, 1858, conveying to him all the lands included in said certificate of sale,
with a covenant that they were free from incumbrances; also
a deed of grant and conveyance of the same lands to the
defendant from the Trustees of the Internal Improvement
Fund of the State of Florida - the proper authority for that
purpose-which last deed bore date September 12th, 1874.
The defendant, being sworn as a witness, testified that M cCall
and Stripling paid all the purchase money for the lands to the
State; but that the certificate was lost, and he, the defendant,
afterwards made proof of it, and had the Trustees of the
Improvement Fund make him a deed: but that the original
receipt had since been found. lie also testified that he had
lived near the Georgia line for over forty years and never
heard of the Watson line until about .en or twelve years ago.
He worked the public roads up to the McNeil line, and the

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

Georgians worked their roads down to the McNeil line and no
further; that the MrcNeil line was understood by citizens
living near the line in both states to be the boundary line
between the two states.
The defendant also gave in evidence the testimony of one
Lanier, county surveyor of Madison County, Florida, who
testified that he had surveyed the lands in controversy, and
gave it as his opinion that the plats of land annexed to the
plaintiffs' grants did not cover the said land, not having marks
thereon for ponds, swamps and streams which he found on
the premises; that the Watson line at the place in controversy
runs through a large swamp not shown in said plats; that,
untit the establishment of the Orr and Whitner line, the
Mc eil line was always considered as the boundary line
between Georgia and Florida; that he had frequently surveyed on the Georgia line, and always surveyed to the McNeil
line; that he never heard of the Watson line until the controversy that led to this suit.
The court charged the jury that if they believed from the
evidence that the State of Georgia, anterior to the year 1842,
considered the land in controversy within her territorial limits,
and incorporated within one of her counties, over which the
authorities of said State exercised the usual powers of government; and that in 1842 the Governor of Georgia granted the
identical lands in controversy to James Groover; and that
said James Groover conveyed the same lands to Thomas A.
Groover in 1855; and that said Thomas A. Groover conveyed
the same lands to Charles A. Groover in 1860; and that said
Charles A. Groover was dead, and that the plaintiffs were his
heirs

-

then they must find for the plaintiffs:

-

But that if

the evidence failed to induce the jury to believe that the lands
sued for were the same as those described in the said grants
and conveyances; or that the Georgia grants included- the
lands to the Watson line, they must find for the defendant.
Under this charge the jury .found for the plaintiffs, thus
establishing the fact that Georgia, anterior to 1842, did claim
jurisdiction to the Watson line, and that the lands in controversy adjoining that line were included in the grant of Georgia to James Groover in 1842.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Florida sustained the charge of the
court below, it being in accordance with its own opinion
given when the case was first before it, as reported in 19 Fla.
61. The position assumed is, that grants in a disputed territory, by a government exercising therein sovereign jurisdiction
de facto, are valid and to be sustained, notwithstanding that,
by a subsequent settlement of boundaries, the disputed territory is conceded to the other contesting sovereign. Georgia,
undoubtedly, at the time of the grant to James Groover, exercised the powers of government de facto over the territory in
which the land in controversy was situated; and it is assumed
by the Supreme Court of Florida that the boundary line subsequently agreed upon, by which said land was conceded to
lie in the State of Florida, was a mere arbitrary line, adopted
by way of compromise, and was never acknowledged to be
the true legal line established by previous treaties and laws.
The argument is, that, whatever may be the law with regard
to grants made by a government clearly beyond its lawful
boundaries and jurisdiction, it is certain that grants made
within its jurisdiction, being lawful when made, are not invalidated by a subsequent cession of the territory to another sovereign; because, in such case, the rights of sovereigonty only,
and not those of private property, are changed. It is then
assumed that, in cases of disputed boundary, where a line is
finally fixed by compromise, the portions of territory previously possessed by either of the contracting parties, and
'conceded by the adopted line to the other, are to be regarded
and treated as ceded territory, and not as territory that
always really belonged to the sovereign who gets it by the
compromise. The Supreme Court of Florida, speaking of the
decision of the lower court, (which it affirmed,) says: "What
they did decide was, that grants by a government de fado of
parts of a disputed territory in its possession are valid against
the State which had the right, De la, Croix v. Chamberlain,
12 Wheat. 599, 600; and that, when a territory is acquired by
treaty, cession, or conquest,, the rights of the inhabitants to
property are respected and sacred. Phode Zsla'ad v. .Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 749; 4 How. 591, 639; United States v.

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

Cla'ke, S Pet. 4.36, 445. And the principle applies to the
states of this Union. 1)oole v. ]lMeeger, 11 Pet. 185, 209. In
the latter case, the court says p. 210): 'Although, in the
compact, Walkers line is agreed to be in future the boundary
between the two States, it is not so established as having been,
for the past the true and rightful boundary.' We decided
this to ba the rule in the present case when it was before us
on the former appeal, 19 Fla. 61, and the case was tried
the second time under the influence of the opinion and judgment of this court. We find no reason for modifying that
judgment, and the error assigned is not sustained." Cofee v.
(roover, 20 Fla. 04, 81.
Whether this view of the case thus taken by the Supreme
Court of Florida is the correct one, regard being had not only
to the facts found by the jury, but also to the treaties and
acts of the Federal government, as well as of Georgia, in
regard to the line in question; and whether the rule of law
relied on by the court is a sound one, and rightly applicable
to the case in hand, axe the questions to be determined.
It is no doubt the received doctrine, that in .cases of ceded
or conquered territory, the rights of private property in lands
are respected. Grants made by the former government, being
rightful when made, are not usually disturbed. Allegiance is
transferred from one government to the other without any
subversion of property. This doctrine has been laid down
very broadly on several occasions by this court, -particularly in cases arising upon grants of land made by the
Spanish and other governments in Louisiana and Florida
before those countries were ceded to the United States.
It is true that the property rights of the people, in those
cases, were protected by stipulations in the treaties of cession, as is usual in such treaties; but the court took broader
ground, and held, as a general principle of international
law, that a mere cession of territory only operates upon the
sovereignty and jurisdiction, including the right to the
public domain, and not upon the private property of individuals which had been segregated from the public domain
before the cession. This principle is asserted in the cases of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

[5Lited States v. Avrredondo, 6 Pet. 691; United States v.
IPe'hernan, 7 Pet. 51, 86-89; .Delassus v. United States, 9
Pet. 117; Strothei-v. Ziucas, 12 Pet. 410, 428; Doe v. Eslava,
9 How. 421 ; Jones v. .3Afasters, 20 How. 8, 17 ; and Leitensdofer'v. Tfebb, 20 How. 176. In United States v. Pereheman,
Chief Justice Marshall said: "It may not be unworthy of
remark, that it is very unusual, even in cases of conquest, for
the conqueror to do more than to displace the sovereign and
assmne dominion over the country. The modern usage of
nations, which has become law, would be violated ; that sense
of justice and of right which is acknowyledged and felt by the
whole civilized world would be outraged, if private property
should be generally confiscated, and private rights annulled.
The people change their allegiance; their relation to their
ancient sovereign is dissolved; but their relations- to each
other, and their rights of property, remain undisturbed. If
this be the modern rule even in cases of conquest, who can
doubt its application to the case of an amicable cession of territory? Had Florida changed its sovereign by an act containing no stipulation respecting the property of individuals, the
right of property in all those who became subjects or citizens
of the new government would have been unaffected by the
change." 7 Pet. 86, 87.
But whilst this is the acknowledged rule in cases of ceded,
and even conquered territory, with regard to titles acquired
from a former sovereign who had undoubted right to create
them, it does not apply (as we shall see) to cases of disputed'
boundary, in relation to titles created by a sovereign in possession, but not rightfully so. In the latter case, when the
true boundary is ascertained, or adjusted by agreement, gTants
made by either sovereign beyond the limits of his rightful
territory, whether he had possession, or not, (unless confirmed
by proper stipulations,) fail for want of title in the grantor.
This is the general rule. Circumstances may possibly exist
which would make valid the grants of a government defacto;
as, for example, where they contravene no other rights.
Grants of public domain made by Napoleon as sovereign de
facto of France, may have had a more solid basis of legality

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

than similar grants made by him as sovereign de facto of a
Prussian province, derogatory to the rights of the government
and King of Prussia.
As the case before us depends upon a disputed boundary
between two states, it cannot be properly understood or determined without adverting to the historical facts connected with
that boundaey. Some of these are referred to by the Supreme
Court of Florida in its opinion, but several others are necessary
to be stated in order to show the circumstances under which
the boundary between Georgia and Florida was finally settled,
and to determine whether the assumption of the court, that
the territory containing the land in controversy was ceded by
Georgia to Florida, is well founded. The case, if it can be
avoided, ought not to be decided upon a narrow selection of
facts which might determine the question one way, before one
jury, to-day, and another way, before another jury, to-morrow; but upon a broad view of all the historical events which
relate to this boundary line. We shall proceed, therefore, to
review these events as far as they have come to our krnowledge
from public documents.
In early colonial times, there were always mutual complaints
of encroachment between the British provinces and the Spanish province of Florida, sometimes resulting in military conflicts; and no boundary was ever settled between them. The
difficulty was finally removed by the treaty of 1763, by which
Florida was ceded to Great Britain. See Treaty, Arts. VII,
XX, 1 Chalmers's Collection of Treaties between Great Britain
and other Powers, 473, 479. Soon after this event, on the
7th of October, 1763, King George III, by proclamation,
erected governments in the newly acquired territories 'of
Canada and the Floridas, and established the boundaries of
the latter as follows, to wit: "The government of East
Florida, bounded to the westward by the Gulf of Mexico and
the Appilachicola River; to the nortltward by a line drawn
form that part of said river where the Chattahoochteeand Flint
rivers meet to the source qf St. Afary's River, and by the course
of the said river to the Atlantic Ocean." West Florida was
bounded north by the parallel of 310 north latitude, from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Mississippi to the Chattahoochee River. See Proclamation in
Amer. State Papers 1 Pub. Lands, 36; and 1 Bioren's Laws
U.S. 443. On January 20, 1764, the province of Georgia was
limited to the north of the line thus prescribed for Florida.
1 Bioren's Laws, 448-9.
The above defined line, from the junction of the Chattahoochee and Flint rivers to the source of the St. Mary's, has from
1763 to the present time been the recognized boundary line
between Georgia and Florida. The land in controversy is
situated about midway between its extremities.
By the definitive-treaty of peace with Great Britain in 1783
the line above described was adopted as the sputhern boundary
line of the United States, and the Floridas were at the same
time, by another treaty, ceded to Spain. See Treaties and
Conventions between the United States and Other Powers,
Washington, 1873, pp. 315, 316; 2 Chalmers's, 232

'-- Treaties

of 1783. By the treaty of October 27th, 1795, between the
United States and Spain, this boundary was confirmed, and it
was provided that a commissioner and a surveyor should be
appointed by each party to meet at Natchez within six months
from the ratification of the treaty, and proceed to run and
mark the boundary line, and make'plats and keep journals of
their proceedings, which should be considered as paq. of the
treaty. Our Government appointed Andrew Ellicott, Esq., as
commissioner, in May, 1796, and a surveyor to assist him, and
they proceeded to Natchez, and after much 'procrastination on
the part of the Spanish authorities, a Captain Stephen. Minor
was appointed on the part of Spain, and the joint commissioners of the two countries, in 1798 and 1799, ran and
marked the boundary line from the Mississippi to the Chattahoochee, and determined the geographical position of the
junction of the Chattahoochee and Flint rivers to be in N.
latitude 300 42' 42.8" and W. longitude 840 53' 15".

The

hostility of the Creek Indians prevented them from running
the line east of the Chattahoochee; but they sailed around
the coast of Florida, and up the river St. Mary's, and fixed
upon the eastern terminus of the straight line prescribed in
the treaties at the head of the St. Mary's, where it issues from

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

the Okefenoke Swamp, and erected a mound of earth to
designate the spot. This was in February, 1800. The mound
is still in existence, and is called Ellicott's Mound, and appears
on all the principal maps of that. part of the country. The
commissioners, supposing that the true head of the river was
located in the swamp, agreed that it should be considered
as distant two miles northeast from the mound, and that in
running the boundary line from the Chattahoochee it should be
run to the north of the mound, and not nearer to it than one
mile. The point fixed upon as the head of the St. Mary's was
determined by observations to be in N. latitude 300 21' 30k",
W. longitude 820 15' 45". The distance by straight line, or
great circle, from the junction of the Chattahoochee and Flint
rivers to the head of the St. Mary's, was calculated at 155y
miles, and the initial course, for running the line from each
terminus, was given, with the proper corrections to be made
at intervals in order to follow the great circle. The commissioners signed a joint report of their proceedings, and transmitted the same to their respective governments. All these
particulars are set forth in Mr. Ellicott's journal, and are
matters of public history. See Ellicott's Journal: Philadelphia, 1803.
It thus appears that, by authority of the United States and
Spain, the termini of the line in question were fixed and settled in February, 1800. It only remained for any competent
surveyor to follow the directions of the commissioners in order
to trace the actual boundary line on the ground.
The country in the region traversed by this line was occupied, in the early part of the century, by the nation of Creek
Indians, and there was no immediate demand for having it
ran and marked. And as, under the Constitution, no state
could enter into a treaty with the Indians, it became the
interest of Georgia to make some arrangement with the
Government of the United States to take measures for
the gradual removal of Indian occupancy. A convention was
accordingly entered into between Georgia and the United
States, on the 24th of April, 1802, by which the former ceded
to the latter all her territory between the Chattahoochee and

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the Aississippi rive-s, and the United States ceded to Georgia
all their right to aiiy public lands south of Tennessee and the
Carolinas, and east of the Chattahoochee, not within the
proper boundaries of any state; and agreed to extinguish
the Indian title within the State of Georgia as early as could
be peaceably lone. (See Agreement, 1 Bioren's L. 488.) In
pursuance of this agreement-the title of the Creek Nation was
extinguished throughout mast of the southern part of the state
by the treaties made with the nation in 1802, 1805, and 1814.
7 Stat. Q8, 96, 120.
The State being now desirous of disposing of her lands and
introducing settlers thereon, naturally turned her attention to
the question of the true location of the boundary line between
her own territory and that of the Spanish province of Florida.
Some person, professing to be better posted than others as to
the topography of the country about the head of St. Mary's
River, asserted that the commissioners, Ellicott and Minor, in
seeking its source, had ascended the wrong branch -namely,
the north branch; whereas the true St. Mary's, or main
stream, came from the west and took its source many miles
further south than the point fixed upon by them. The legislature of Georgia took up the matter, and in December, 1818,
the Senate passed a resolution requesting the Governor to
appoint proper persons to proceed, without delay, to ascertain
the true head of St. Mlary's river; and if it should appear
that the mound thrown up by Ellicott and Minor was not at
the place set forth in the treaty with-Spain, that they make
a special report of the facts, and that the Governor communicate the same to the President of the United States, with a
request that the lines *might be run agreeably to the true
intent and meaning of the treaty. Ex. Doe. No. 77, 1 Sess.
23d Cong., pp. 11, 86.
In pursuance of this request the Governor appointed three
eminent engineers, Generals Floyd, Thompson and Blackspear,
to make the examination suggested, and immediately, by a
letter dated February 17, 1819, communicated the fact to the
Executive Government at Washington. The engineers made
a careful reconnaissance of the country about the head streams

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the St. Mary's, accompanied by the person who had made
the supposed discovery, and became satisfied that his information was at fault, and reported that, after a careful examination, they found the head of the river to agree with the report
made by Mr. Ellicott. This result was also communicated to
the Executive at Washington; and thus ended, for the time
being, the claim on the part of Georgia to have the eastern
terminus of the boundary line readjusted and changed. Soon
after this proceeding, in 1819, the state employed one J. C.
Watson to ran and mark the line. ,This is the origin of the
line called Watson's line; and to this line the State laid out
its counties and townships, surveyed its public lands, and made
grants to settlers. But it hiowhere appears that this line ran
to Ellicott's mound, or near to it: on the contrary, it would
seem from other conceded facts, that it ran considerably south
of it. As we have already seen, the lanias in controversy in
the present case adjoin this line, being situated on the north
side of it.
Florida was ceded to the United States in 1819, and possession of the territory was taken by General Jackson in July,
1821. In 1825, the Surveyor General of the Government for
the Territory of Florida, preparatory to a survey of the public
lands therein, caused the boundary line between Georgia and
Florida to be run out and marked by D. F. McNeil, a deputy
surveyor, and the line so run was called .Jfc.Afeil's line. At
the point in controversy, which (as before said) is about mid-'
way between the two extremities of the straight line called
for by the treaty, it ran, according to the testimony, 14 chains
to the north of Watson's line; but how near it approached
Ellicott's mound at the eastern extremity does not appear.
The government surveys in Florida were made to bound on
this line; and, of course, overlapped, more or less, the Georgia
surveys and grants extending to Watson's line,
The State of Georgia, about this period, perhaps in consequence of the location of McNeil's line, by a communication
of her Governor to the Government of the United States,
requested that joint measures should be undertaken for a
mutual and final settlement of the boundary. The matter

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

being referred to Congress, an act was passed on the 4th of
Mlay, 1820, by which the President, was authorized, in conjunction with the constituted authorities of the State of Georgia, to cause to be run and distinctly-marked the line dividing
the Territory of Florida from the State of Georgia, from the
junction of the rivers Chattahoochee and Flint, to the head of
St. Mary's River; and for that purpose, to appoint a commissioner or surveyor, or both: " Provided, that the line so to be
run and marked shall be run straight from the junction of
said rivers Chattahoochee and Flint, to the point designated
as the head of St. Mary's River by the commissioners appointed under the third article of the treaty" [with Spain
made October 27th, 1795]. 4 Stat. 157. This act, it will be
seen, adopted the eastern terminus of the line as settled by
Ellicott and MNinor.
The President thereupon appointed ex-Governor Thomas
M. Randolph, of Virginia, as commissioner under the act, and
the Executive of Georgia appointed Thomas Spalding; and
the commissioners entered upon their joint duties in February,
1827, and appointed John McBride as their common surveyor.
They contiiued their operations for over two months; but the
Georgia commissioner having, as he supposed, notwithstanding
the report of the commissioners of 1819, discovered that the
western branch of the St. Mary's River was the largest and
longest stream, and, therefore, the true river, the Governor of
the State suddenly brought the survey to a close by recalling
the assent of Georgia and withdrawing the powers of her
commissioner. Ex. Doe. 77, 1st Sess. 23d Cong., pp. 31, 97.
From this time onward, for many years, a controversy was
carried on between Georgia, on the one side, and the United
States and Fl 9 rida, on the other, with regard to this boundary
line; Georgia contending that the line should be rum to Lake
Randolph, the head of the western or southern branch of the
St. Mary's, and the United States and Florida contending that
it should run to the head of the northern branch, as settled
and determined by the commissioners, Ellicott and M[inor,
under the treaty. lb., and Ex. Doe. 152, 1st Sess. 23d Cong.
In 1845 Florida was admitted ato the, Union as a state,

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

embracing all the territories of East and West Florida, as
ceded by Spain to the United' States by the treaty of 1819.
5 Stat. 742, '743. R~enewed efforts were soon afterwards made
by Florida and Georgia to effect a settlement of the boundary,
but without success.
In 1850 the State of Florida filed a bill in this court against
the State of Georgia, to procure a determination of the controversy. In December Term, 1854, the Attorney General
was allowed to intervene on the part of the United States.
Fflorida v. Georgia, 17 How. 478. Evidence was taken by the
parties, but in consequence of the war, and the final settlement of the controversy by mutual agreement, the cause was
never brought to a hearing.
In 1857 the governors -of the two states had a conference
which resulted in an agreement by which Georgia relinquished
her pretensions to have the eastern terminus of the line
changed, and the termini fixed by the commissioners, Ellicott
and Minor, were substantially adopted. The.,following resolutions and enactments of the legislatures of the two states
will show the course of the negotiation, and the terms of the
arrangement finally concluded between them.
On the 24th of December, 1857, the following resolution
was adopted by thu Legislature of Georgia, to wit:
"Whereas in the matter of controversy now pending in the
Supreme Court of the United States, between the State of
Florida and the State of Georgia, touching the boundary line
of the two States, we deem it of much importance that this
protracted and expensive litigation should cease; and whereas,
with a view to the settlement of the question, a Pegotiation
has been progressing between the late Executives of the aforesaid States, the result of which was an agreement to adopt
the terminal points of the present recognized line as the true
terminal points of the boundary line to be re-surveyed, corrected and marked, provided it is shown by either party, that
the present line is incorrect, the agreement aforesaid being
made subject to the ratification of the legislatures of the two
States.
"6Resolved,1st, That we do hereby ratify the action of the
VOL. cxxni-2

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

late Executive of ths State, in accepting the proposition (if
the Governor of Florida, to adopt the terminal points of the
present recognized line as the true terminal points of the
boundary line, and will regard, adopt, and act upon the present line, as run and recognized between those points, as the
settled boundary of the two States, or will so recognize and
adopt any other line between those points which may be ascertained and established on a re-survey and re-marking of the
boundary, provided said boundary correction is made by virtue
of law, and by joint action of the States aforesaid.
"2d. Be itfurtee'l 'esolved by lhe cuthoiriq p'esl) d, That
should it be deemed essential or important by either State to
have the boundary line between the terminal points of the
present recognized boundary re-surveyed and re-marked, the
Governor of this State is hereby authorized to appoint a competent surveyor, to join any such surveyor appointed on the
part of 1lorida, to run out and mark distinctly such a line from
one to the other terminal point herein indicated, to be known
as the line and settled boundary between the two States, the
surveyor on the part of Georgia to bc paid such compensation
as may be determined on by the present or any future legislature.
"3d. And be itfqrtwer resolved, That the Governor of this
State shall, so soon as the same shall have passed both branches
of the present General Assembly,. transnita certified copy to
the Governor of Florida.
"Approved December 24th, 1857." Laws, 1857, Georgia,
326.
This resolution was responded to by the Legislature of Florida- on the 12th of January, 1859, by passing a resolution in
precisely the same terms, mutatis notaandis; and on thb 15th
of the same month an act was passed by the Legislature of
Florida for bringing into market, as seon as the line should be
settled, all state lands bordering thereon, that had not been
disposed of, giving, to the occupants, whose right vas not disputed, five months to purchase the lands occupied by "them at
their appraised valuation.
As one, or both, of the parties desired to have a re-survey

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

made between the terminal points, the State of Georgia appointed George F.Orr and the State of Florida B. F. Whitner,
surveyors, to ran and mark the line hccordingly. They commenced their work in 1859, and it is referred to in the subsequent acts and resolutions. legislature of Georgia on the 16th
An act was passed by the
of December, 1859, referring to the fact that the joint surveyors
were running their first trial line, and agreeing to adopt it as
conclusive, if Florida would do the same; provided that, oil
the eastern terminus, it did not depart exceeding one-fourth of
a mile from Ellicott's mound; but that if it was not accepted
by Florida, and if, therefore, a new line would have to be run
so as to get a straight line from the mouth of Flint River to
Eilicott's mound, that then, the line thus designated and
marked by the surveyors, should be the permanent boundary
between the two states. The act also proposed the passage of
laws to quiet the titles of bona Xde holders of lands under
grants of- either Georgia or the United States. The response
made by the legislature of Florid* to this proposition was the
passage of an act on the 22d of December, 1859, substantiall
adopting the proposition made by Georgia, declaring "That
the line now being ran by B. F. Whitner, Jr., on the part of
Florida, and G. J.Orr, on the part of Georgia, be and the
same is hereby recognized and declared to be the permanent
boundary line between the two states, so soon as the same
shall be permanently marked by said surveyors: ]Pi-ovided.
that said line, at its eastern terminus, does not depart from, or
miss, Ellicott's mound more than one-fourth of a mile or 20
chains ;" and declaring, secondly, "that the titles of bonaftdi.
holders of land under any grant from the State of Georgia,
which land may fall within this state by the foregoing line.
are hereby confirmed and conveyed to said holders, so far as
any right nmay accrue to this state: JPeovieied, nothing herein
shall apply to lands to which citizens of this statte may claim
title south of wbat is known as the McNeil line."
It turned out that the line run by Orr and Whitner ran even
farther north than the McNeil line; but it came within
the stipulated distance from Ellicott's mound -namely, with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

in a quarter of a mile - in fact, within 37 links, or less than
25 feet, north of the mound. (See Code of Georgia, 1868, ยง 19.)
This was more favorable to Georgia than the line agreed on
by Ellicott and Minor, which was to run at least one mile
north of the mound.
On the 14th of December, -1860, the Legislature of Georgia,
probably considering that its last proposition was not fully
accepLed, passed a resolution, directing the Governor to reopen
negotiations with the authorities of Florida in regard to the
boundary line, and to urge its adjustment so as to protect the
rights of citizenship and the titles of lands held under grants
from Georgia; and, if practicable, so as to retain and keep
the fractional lots sold by Georgia within the jurisdiction of
the state. In response to this resolution, the Legislature of
Florida, on the Sth of February, 1861, passed the following
resolution, to wit: "Wl]ereas [by] an act approved by the
Governor 22d December, 1859, it was by the General Assembly enacted that the line then being run by B. F. Whitner, Jr.,
on the part of Florida, [and] G. J. Orr, on the part of Georgia, should be, and was thereby, recognized and declared to be
the permanent boundary line between the States of Georgia
and Florida as soon as the same should be permanently
marked by said surveyors: Provided, the said line at its eastern terminus did not depart from or miss Ellicott's mound
more tlan one-fourth of a mile, or twenty chains; and
w,],ereas, the said line has been rpn and marked by said surveyors on the part of the two states, the eastern terminus of
which, so run and marked, is within the distance prescribed in
said proviso: Therefore, Resolved, That the line run and
marked by B. F. Whitner, Jr., on the part of Florida, and G.
[. Orr, on the part of Georgia, be, and the same is hereby declared to be, the permanent boundary line between the two
States of Georgia and Florida, and that the Governor be, and
he is hereby, requested to issue his proclamation that the said
line, so run and marked, has been and is declared to be the
permanent boundary line between the two states: Provided,
the State of Georgia shall have on its part declared the said
line to be the boundary between that state and Florida. Be

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

it farther 'esolved, That the Governor be requested to forward a copy of these resolutions to the Governor of Georgia,
with a request that similar steps be taken by Georgia, so that
the question of boundary may be fn.fflly settled." Bush's Digest, 103; McClelland's Digest, 952.
By a long and argumentative resolution, passed by the Legislature of Georgia on the 11th of December, 1861, after stating the respective positions taken by the two states, it was
proposed as follows: "The General Assembly, to avoid further dispute, proposes to her sister state, Florida, that what
is denominated the Watson line (which will leave in the limits
of this state the fractional lots of land heretofore sold under
an act of her legislature) shall be adopted as the boundary
line. The settlement upon this basis will not interfere -with
the rights of citizenship, as claimed by the citizens of either
state." Florida made no answer to this proposition.
Finally, by a resolution passed on the 13th of December,
18A6, the Legislature of Georgia, referring to the act of 16th
December, 1859, and recognizing the fact that the Orr and
Whitner line, as run, did not depart exceeding one-fourth of
a mile from Ellicott's mound, and referring also to the action
of the Florida legislature of February Sth, 1861, adopted the
Orr and Wbiuner line as "the permanent boundary line between the States of Georgia and Florida." And this agreement, thus finally arrived at by.the two states, was recognized
and confirmed by an act of Congress approved April 9th, 1872.
entitled "An act to settle and quiet the title to lands along
the line between the States of Georgia and Florida," by wbich
it was declared "that the titles to all lands lying south of the
line dividing the States of Georgia and Florida, known as
the Orr and Whitner line, lately established as the true boundary between said states, and north of the line run by Georgia, known as the W atson line, being all the lands lying between said lines, be, and the same are hereby, confirmed, so
far as the United States has title thereto, in the present
owners deriving titles from the State of Georgia.""
This historical review is sufficient, it seems to us, to show
that the agreement come to by the two states was not in fact,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and cannot be construed as, a cession of territory on the part
of Georgia. It was simply the correction of the boundary
line. Georgia had inadvertently extended her jurisdiction to
a line run by her surveyor too far south. The agreement recited in the resolution of December 24th, 1857, "to adopt the
terminal points of the present recognized line as the true terminal points of the boundary line," carried out by a re-survey
of such line from one of its terminal points to a point sufficiently near the other to satisfy both parties, must be construed to be the carrying out of an intent to settle and establish the true line between the two states, and not an intent to
adopt a line different from the true one, with a cession of the
territory out off by it. Two lines had been contended for.
Florida and the United States contended for the line established by the joint commission under the treaty with Spain;
Georgia, for a different line, having a widely different terminus at its eastern extremity. Each claimed that its line was
the true one. Georgia finally yielded the point, and accepted
the commissioners' line. This was tantamount to an acknowledgment that it was the true line. We do not say that the
result would have been different if the parties had adopted a
compromise line -as, for example, the Watson line, which
was proposed by Georgia.. When a boundary is in dispute
the adoption of a line by compromise may be considered as
an agreement that the adopted line is the true line, or that it
shall be considered as the true line. Where territories are coterminous, they must have a common boundary. That boundary, whether ascertained by astronomical observations, or
discovery of old monuments, or mutual agreement of the parties, is to be regarded and treated as if it had always been
known as the true line. The present case, at all events, can
only be regarded as one in which the boundary line finally
agreed to was always the true line, even though, and even
when, a differentline (Watson's) was temporarily adopted by
Georgia, and acquiesced in by Florida.
Then what becomes of the titles granted by Georgia outside
of that line, or south of it? She had no title there herself.
Could she confer title by the mere exercise de facto of juris-

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

diction and government there- such exercise being in derogation of the successive rights of Spain, the United States,
and Florida? What authority can be found to justify such a
pretension.? It is the common usage, it is true, in mutual
adjustments of disputed boundaries, to stipulate that private
titles shall not be disturbed. Such stipulations are dictated
by a humane consideration for those who have innocently
inve.Led their fortunes on the faith of the good title of their
government. In the present case, as we have seen, the titles
granted by Georgia were confirmed both by Florida and by
the United States, so far as either had any right or title to be
affected. But those confirmations cannot avail the plaintiffs
in the present case; for the United States had parted with all
their interest in the lands in controversy, by a grant to Florida
in July, 1857; and Florida had disposed of all her interest
therein by a regular sale in September of the same year.
Neither the United States nor Florida, therefore, had any
interest remaining, when the confirmatory acts were passed,
which they could transfer by release or confirmation, or in
any other mode.
The case, then, stands upon the original validity of the
Georgia grants; and the question may well be asked, how
does a land holder who obtains title from a sovereign that has
none, stand in any better position than one who obtains title
from an individual that has none? Georgia had no title to
the land. Previous and subsequent historical events abundantly show this. Her grants have nothing to rest on but her
actual possession of the disputed territory and her exercise of
government de facto therein. The question is, whether this
is sufficient.
The general subject is not a new one in the jurisprudence of
this court. Before the treaty of amity and limits made with
Spain in 1795, that government had claimed hnd oecupied, as
a part of West Florida, a large extent of country on the east
side of the Mississippi, to the north of north latitude 31ยฐ _
including a large portion of the present State of Mississippi.
This claim was based on an extension of the province of West
Florida to the northward by the Government of Great Britain

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

prior to the lRevolutionary war.

See 1 Bioren's Laws U. S.,

pp. 449-453; 2 Pitkin's Hist. U. S., 434-6. It was abandoned
by the treaty referred to, and the parallel of 31' was adopted
as the boundary line between the territories of the United
States and those of Spain. But prior to that treaty the Spanish authorities had made grants of land in the territory
referred to. This court invariably held those grants, not confirmed by our Government, to be invalid, on the ground that
the territory did not belong to Spain, though she occupied it
and claimed to own it. This point is decided in flendersen v.
Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 530; followed by Ifickey v. Stewart,
3 Hlow. 750; Robinson v. Minor, 10 How. 627; and other
cases. In Hlenderson v. Poindexter, Chief Justice Marshall
carefully examined the question of the right of Spain to the
territory, and showed that it was untenable, and strenuously
argued that the treaty of 1795 was an acknowledgment on the
part of Spain that she had no such right;-or, why did she
give it up? The idea of a. grant deriving any validity from
national occupancy, and government de facto over the territory, was not even hinted at, although Mr. Webster and Mr.
Coxe argued the cause for the party claiming under the
Spanish grant. The view taken by this court on the subject
was accurately expressed by M[r. Justice McLean, in delivering
the opinion in Pobiqison v. Minor, 10 flow. 643, where he
says: "The treaty with Spain established [i.e. settled] a
disputed boundary; there was no cession of territory. The
jurisdiction exercised by Spain over the country north of the
31st degree of north latitude was not claimed or occupied by
force of arms against an adversary power; but it was a naked
possession, under a misapprehension of right. In such a case,
Georgia, within whose sovereignty the country was situated,
was nLot bound to recognize the grants or other evidence of
title by the Spanish government."
The same view was taken by the court with regard to the
grants made by Spain in the disputed territory of West Florida
after the cession of Louisiana to the United States in 1803.
Spain had held possession of Louisiana and the Floridas; but,
by the secret treaty of St. Ildefonso, made in 1800, had ceded

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana to France, "with the same extent that it now has in
the hands of Spain, and that it had when France possessed
it;" and, in 1803, France ceded it to the United States in the
same terms. But as formerly possessed by France, Louisiana
included West Florida as far as to the river Perdido, and our
government claimed to the same extent. Spain, wih a good
deal of plausibility, contended that West Florida, extending
from the Mississippi to the Perdido, was held as a distinct
province by Great Britain prior to 1783, and was not embraced
in the cession, and refused to surrender it, and kept possession
of it in the exercise of full sovereignty until 1810, when the
United States took forcible possession of it. Here was another
case of disputed boundary. The United States claimed the
river Perdido; Spain, the rivers Mississippi and Iberville, as
the true boundary between Louisiana and the Floridas; and
the latter was in possession of the disputed territory, exercising
all the powers of government therein from 1803 to 1810.
During this period the Spanish governors made many grants
of land in the territory, which often came before this court
for adjudication ; and the decision was invariably against their
validity.
The first case in which the question arose was that of Tfosteqv. 3.eilson, 2 Pet. 253, in which the grant was made in 1804,
for land in the district of Feliciana, east of the Mississippi.
The principal questions argued were, first, the true interpretation of the treaties of 1800 and 1803, as to what territory was
ceded to the United States; and, secondly, the effect of the
confirmation of Spanish grants contained in the treaty of 1819.
Mr. Coxe, it is true, took the ground that the acts of a sovereign power over territory it has ceded are lawful until possession has been transferred, and, therefore, that the grants of
spain whilst still in possession and exercising the powers of
government defacto should be held to be valid. 11r. Webster,
who was on the same side with Mr. Coxe, did not allude to
this argument, and the court took no notice of it, but placed
its decision on the ground that, by the true construction of the
treaties, Louisiana included West Florida to the Perdido, and.
therefore, that tho territory in question did not belong to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Spain when the grant was made, and so the grant was invalid; but that if this were not a clear proposition (and the
court admitted that it was a question of doubtful construction),
the jud:cary would nevertheless follow the action of the
political department of the government, charged with the
management of its foreign affairs, which had always contended for the line of the Perdido, and had finally taken full
possession of the country.
The case of Foster v. Neilson, was followed in the subsequent cases of Garcia v. Lee, 12 Pet. 511; United States v.
]?eynes, 9 Hlow. 127; United States v. D'Autei'ive, 10 how.
609;.United States v. Philadelphia& Vezo Orleans, 11 How.
609; 3fontault v. United States, 12 How. 47; Unitecl States
v. Castant, 12 How. 4,37; all of which are referred to, and the
history of the controversy is given, in United States v. Zynde,
11 Wall. 632.
It may, however, be said that the decision in these cases

was controlled by the act of Congress approved March 26th,
1804, 2 Stat. 283, 287, the 14th section of which declared void
all grants for lands within the territories ceded by the French
Republic to the United States by the treaty of 30th April.
1803, the title whereof was, at the date of the treaty of St.
Ildefonso, in the crown, government or nation of Spain;
'saving, however, the titles of actual settlers, acquired before
December 20th, 1803.
It is doubtless true that this act did have a controlling
influence in the cases referred to; but the court discu.sed the
question upon general principles also, and no hint is dropped
that the existence of a government defacto would have any
influence on the decision.
In Garciav. Lee, Chief Justice Taney expressly argues that,
in a case of disputed boundary, titles must stand or fall with
the right of the government creating them. His language is:
Indeed, when it is once admitted that the boundary line,
according to the American construction of the treaty, is to be
treated as the true one in the courts of the'United States, it
would seem to follow as a, necessary consequence, that the
grant now before the court, which was made by the Spanish

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

authorities within the limit of the territory which then belonged to the United States, must be null and void; unless it
has been confirmed by the United States by treaty or otherwise. It is obvious that one nation cannot grant away the
territoly of another; and if a proposition so evident needed
confirmation, it will be found in the case of Toole v. ,leer,
11 Pet. 210. In that case there had been a disputed boundary
between two States, and the parties claimed the same land
under grants from different States. The boundary line had
been ascertained by compact between the States after the
grants were made. And in deciding between the claimants
in that case the court said: ' In this view of the matter it is
perfectly clear that the grants made by North Carolina and
Tennessee, under which the defendant claimed, were not rightfully made, because they were originally beyond her territorial boundary; and that the grant under which the claimants
claim was rightfully made, because it was within the territorial
boundary of Virginia.' And again, 'If the States of North
Carolina and Tennessee could not rightfully grant the land in
question, and the States of Virginia and Kentucky could, the
invalidity of the grants of the former arises, not from any
violation of the obligation of the grant, but from an intrinsic
defect of title in the States.'"
The case of Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Pet. 185. quoted by Chief
Justice Taney, is much to the purpose. The northern boundary of North Carolina (including Tennessee) was fixed by
the charter of 1065, and by the constitutions of that State and
Virginia, adopted in 1776, on the paralld of 36' 30' north
latitude. In 1779 an attempted survey of the line was made
by commissioners of the two States, who failed to agree; but
a line run by Dr. Walker, one of the commissioners, was
practically used as the boundary of jurisdiction. It was afterwards found to be too far north by several miles, and a line
was run on the true parallel by Professor Matthews, of Transylvania, University. Tennessee laid out her counties and
exercised all sovereign jurisdiction up to the Walker line, and
both North Carolina and Tennessee made grants of land up
to that line and north of the true parallel. On the other

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

hand, Kentucky made grants south of that line and up to
Matthews' line. In 1820, Kentucky and Tennessee agreed to
adopt Walker's line as the -boundary of the two States; but
it was stipulated that all private rights and interests of land
between the two lines,. theretofore derived from either State,
should be considered as rightfully emanating therefrom; but
all vacant and unappropriated lands within those limits were
declared to belong to Kentucky and subject to her disposal.
iNo provision was made for cases of conflicting grants of the
same land made by Virginia or Kentucky, on one side, and
by North Carolina or Tennessee, on the other. The case
before the court was one of that kind, the plaintiffs claiming
under a Virginia warrant and a grant made by Kentucky in
pursuance thereof, in 1796; the defendants claiming the same
land under North Carolina grants made in 1786, 1792, 1797,
and Tennessee grants of subsequent years; and the lands in
controversy being situated between the two lines before mentioned. This court held that the parallel of 36 ยฐ 30' was
always the true line until altered by agreement of the two
States in 1820, and that the grants made by North Carolina
and Tennessee, north of that line, were void, and that the
Virginia and Kentucky grants were good, notwithstanding
the actual occupation of the disputed territory by Tennessee.
The adoption of Walker's line in 1820 was held to have
changed the true and original boundary only for the purpose
of future jurisdiction. Evidence of the previous exercise of
jurisdiction by Tennessee up to Walker's line was not allowed
to affect the question of title; although the defendants proved
that North Carolina and Tennessee had claimed to Walker's
line as the true line from the time it was run to the time of
the treaty or agreement of 1820; that the county lines of
Tennessee were Walker's line on the north; that in her legislative, judicial and military capacity, Tennessee always claimed
possession and acted up to said line as the northern boundary
of the State; that process was executed, criminal acts were
punished, taxes were paid, militia was enrolled, and all 6ther
acts done in subordination to the laws and government of
Tennessee up to that line; and corresponding jurisdiction was
exercised by Kentucky to the same line on the other side.

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

Here was a case of mistaken boundary, and when the error
was discovered, the States concerned agreed to adopt it as the
permanent political boundary for the future, conceding, on
both sides, that it was not the true original boundary. "2Mr.
Justice Story, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"Although, in the compact, Walker's line is agreed to be in
future the boundary between the two States, it is not so established as having been for the past the true and rightful boundary; on the contrary, the compact admits the fact to be the
other way. While the compact cedes to Tennessee the jurisdiction up to Walker's line, it cedes to Kentucky all the
unappropriated lands north of the latitude of 36' 30' north."
Then, after further remarks of the same purport, follows the
passage quoted by Chief Justice Taney, to the effect that the
grants of North Carolina and Tennessee were not rightfully
made, because they were originally beyond their territorial
boundary.
The case of Poole v. Fleger covers the case now under
consideration. It was a case of disputed boundary, and
Tennessee exercised sovereign jurisdiction de facto up to a
certain line (Walker's) which she claimed to be the true boundary line, and made grants of land to that line, just as Georgia
(lid in the present case to Watson's line. Walker's line, like
Watson's, was found not to be the true line, and the grants.
made by Tennessee were found to be for lands in territory
belonging to Kentucky; just as the grants of Georgia, next
to Watson's line, were found to be for lands in the territory
belonging to the United States and Florida. This court
decided that the Tennessee grants were void, notwithstanding
the exercise of sovereign jurisdiction de facto by that State
over the territory in dispute, when the grants were made.
If that decision was correct, the grant made by Georgia of
the land in controversy must be held to be invalid for the
same reason. The only difference between the cases is, that
Kentucky and Tennessee adopted the erroneous line as their
permanent boundary, though recognizing the fact that it was
not the true original line; whilst in the present case Georgia
and Florida adopted the nearest practicable approach to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

true line as their permanent boundary. This difference does
not affect the question, except to make the present case the
stronger of the two.
The only authority cited by the Supreme Court of Florida
for the proposition that a government de facto can make a
valid grant, is a d'cthi. of "Mr.Justice Baldwin, in delivering
the opinion of the court in the case of Rhode lslawd v. Massachusette, 12 Pet. (357, at page 748. The question there was,
whether the people whose lands would be affected by the
change of state line involved in that case ought to be made
parties to the suit. Justice Baldwin says: "It is said that
the people inhabiting the disputed territory ought to be made
parties, as their rights are affected. It might with the same
reason be objected that a treaty or compact, settling boundary,
required the assent of the people to make it valid, and that a
decree under the ninth article of confederation was void, as
the authority to make it was derived from the legislative
power only." The same objection was overruled in Pen v.
Baltimoee; and in J'oole v. Pleeger, this coart declared that,
an agreement between States, consented to by Congress, bound
the citizens of each State." Thus far, the reasoning of the
court was unanswerable. Settlements of boundary belong to
the sovereign power, and cannot be questioned by individuals.
But the learned Justice proceeds to lay down,what he supposes
to be two princilples of the law of nations, which were entirely
unnecessary to the decision of the questioi of parties which
he was considering. He says: -'There are two principles of
the law of nations, which would protect them [private citizefis] in their property: 1st, That grants by a government die
facto, of parts of a disputed territory in its possession, are valid
against the State which had the right; 19 Wheat. 600, 601;
2d, That when a territory is acquired by treaty, cession, or
even conquest, the rights of the inhabitants to property are
respected and sacred. 8 Wheat. 589, &c." This is the passage
quoted and relied on by the Supreme Court of Florida.
The second of these propositions is in accordance with what
we have already stated to be the received rule of international
law; but the first is opposed to the cases which we have

COFFEE v. GROOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

already cited in relation to Spanish grants in Mississippi and
West Florida, and to the case of Poole v. Fleeger. As to the
authority referred to, 12 Wheat. 599, 600, 601, it is a mere
dictunz of Mr. Justice Trimble in Do la Croix v. C/,amberlain,
clearly inconsistent with the decision made at the same term
in flen&derson v. Poindexter's Lessee, and with all the subsequent decisions above referred to, and as Mr. Justice Catron,
in a manuscript note upon this part of Justice Baldwin's
opinion, justly remarks, "no such question was raised in that
case, and Poole v. FYleeger is certainly to the contrary."
We think that the decision of the Supreme Court of Florida
is erroneous in deciding against the title of the plaintiff in
error. That title is claimed under a grant from the United
States, of land acquired by treaty with Spain, identified as
such by the former treaty of limits and the proceedings of the
commissioners appointed to carry out that treaty. The decision of the Supreme Court of Florida, in effect, is, either
that the land was not embraced in the treaty of cession, or, if
it wvas, that the possession of Georgia gave a superior right.
We think it clear that the land was embraced in the treaty,
and that the possession of Georgia did not give a superior
right. The judgment is therefore reversed, and the cause
remanded, with instructions to proceed according to law, in
conformity with this opinion.
A point was made in the brief of counsel for defendants in
error which was not raised in the courts below, and cannot, as
now presented, be properly passed upon by us; namely, that
the Register had no power under the state law to make the
bargaini with McCall and Stripling for the sale of the land, at
the time lie issued his certificate to them. This is a question
of state law, and involves an issue of fact, and, if deemed
important, may be raised on a new trial of the cause, which
will necessarily be awarded as a consequence of the reversal
of the judgment.
Judgment reversed.

