COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

this deed proved insufficient, by more than the whole of the
fund in court, to pay the debt of Hitz to Jenks, secured by this
deed; it was rightly held that Mrs. Hitz had no right as against
Jenks to any part of this fund. This view disposes of the
case, independently of the application of part of the find to
the payment of taxes accrued during the pendency of-this suit;
and even if the rents originally belonged to Mrs. Hitz, and not
to her husband as ten-ant by the curtesy, which is by no means
clear.
.itz v. "Vational.itetropolitan Bank, 111 U. S. 722.
Decrees fflrmred.

COLORADO COAL AND IRON COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAT FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

STATES FOR

Argued November 2, 1887.-Decided November 21, 187.

To a bill in equity to cancel a patent of land from the United States to a
preamptor, solely on the gouid thiat there was no actual settlement and
improvement on the land; as falsely set out in affidavits in support of the
preEmption claim, the defence of a bona Jde purchaser without notice is
perfect.
In a suit by the United States to cancel a patent of public land the burden
of producing the proof and establishing the fraud is on the Government,
from which it is not relieved although the proposition which it is bound
to establish may be of a negative nature.
When a plaintiff's right of action is grounded on a negative allegation,
which is an essential element in his case, or which involves a charge of
criminal neglect of duty or fraud by an official, the burden is on him to
prove that allegation, the legal presumption being in favor of the party
charged.
In a proceeding in equity against an innocent purchaser to set aside a patent
of public land for fraud in which it is charged that an officer of the
United States, who was concerned in its issue, participated, the burden
of establishing his title is not cast upon the defendant by raising a suspicion, however strong, of the alleged fraud and wrongdoing of the
officer, if the officer could have been examined and was not.
In this case the United States sought to cancel a number of patents to preemptors, the lands having passed into the hands of an innocent purchaser,
on the ground that there were no actual settlements and improvemonts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
but that the alleged pre~inrors were fictitious persons, who did not
exist, and that these facts were known to the register and receiver,
through whose fraudulent act in this respect the patents were obtained.
Having established that there were no such settlements and improvements, the plaintiffs introduced'the evidence of many witnesses residing
in the vicinity that the persons named in the patents had not resided
there and were unknown to the witnesses, but did not call the register
and receiver, or the solicitor through whom some of the patents were
obtained from the Land Office, or the officers who had witnessed and
taken acknowledgmenf of deeds purporting to convey the interest of the
patentees to the defendant. Held, that the burden was on the Government to produce so much of this further evidence as could be obtained.
and that in its absence the United States had not made all the proof of
which the nature of the case was susceptible, and which was apparently
within their reach.
En order to constitute the exemption of coal lands contemplated by the preemption act under the head of "known mines," there must be ascertained
coal deposits upon the land, of such an extent and value as to make the
land more valuable to be worked as a coal mine, under the conditions
existing at the time, than for merely agricultural purposes.
The mere fact that there are surface indications of coal on public land will
not of itself prevent the acquisition of title to the land under the- preemption laws; nor will the fact alone that after acquisition of such a
title the surface indications prove to be veins which are, by a change of
circumstances, profitably worked, invalidate such a title.

IN equity. The bill was filed in the name of the United
States by the attorney general on January 22, 1880,the object
and prayer of which were to declare void and cancel sixty-one
patents for as many distinct pieces of land, situated at different places in Las Animas County, in the State of Colorado,
amounting in the aggregate to 9565-&& acres. To the original
bill the Southern Colorado Coal and Town Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Colorado, was the sole
defendant. The patents in question were issued at different
times between October, 1873, and October, 1874, upon preemption claims, under the act of 1841. In each case there
appeared to be filed all the necessary and proper affidavits,
duly verified before the register or receiver of the land office
at Pueblo, showing that the 'preemptors had entered and
settled in person upon the land on a day named, and had made
improvements thereon, the nature of which was set out in
detail, and that the lands in question were non-mineral lands,

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

309

Statement of the Case.

and subject to preemption under the acts of Congress relating
thereto. Between May, 1873, and December, 1875, warranty
deeds in the names of the preemptors and patentees were
made, acknowledged, and recorded, apparently conveying the
premises to William S. Jackson, as trustee, who represented a
number of individuals who had deposited money in his hands
to be used in the purchase of lands in Colorado. On June 1,
1876, by deed duly acknowledged and recorded, but without
covenant of warranty, Jackson conveyed and released all these
lands to the defendant, the Southern Colorado Coal and Town
Company. On January 20, 1880, that corporation was consolidated with other corporations under the name of the Colorado Coal and Iron Company, to which, upon that date, the
lands in question were conveyed. Under date of February 1,
1880, the Coal and Iron Company made a mortgage covering
the premises in question, with others, to Louis H. Mleyer, as
trustee, to secure an issue of bonds amounting to $3,500,000.
On January 7, 1882, an amendment to the bill was filed, making the Colorado Coal and Iron Company, the consolidated
corporation, together with Mreyer, the trustee in the mortgage,
parties defendant. The purchase price of the lands to the
Government was $11,997.45, which was paid at the time to
the proper officer, $1813.14 in cash, and the remainder in certificates known as agricultural college scrip, which by law was
receivable for that purpose.
It was charged in the bill that these patents were procured
by means of a fraudulent conspiracy entered into by and
between Irving W. Stanton, register of the land office, Charles
A. Cook, receiver for the land district, at Pueblo, in Colorado,
Alexander C. Hunt, and others unknown, who, it was alleged,
organized and had incorporated the Southern Colorado Coal
and Town Company. In furtherance of this conspiracy, and
as the means of accomplishing its purpose, it was alleged "that
neither of the supposed preemptors of the land as aforesaid
described by their names, as stated in said several proofs of
preemption, or in the said certificates of location, ever settled
upon the said lands or improved the same, as represented in
said several proofs of pr~e~nption, and that no person or per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

sons whatsoever, as represented in either of said certificates of
location, appeared or presented himself befpre said Stanton
or Cook, or either of them, at any time, and made proof of
preemption or agricultural college scrip location, either as
prefmttor or as witness for any preemptor as aforesaid described, as in and by said proofs of pregmption and location
certificates, or either of them, as aforesaid, is supposed, but
that the same, and each of them, are false and fraudulent, and
were designed, made, and executed by said Stanton and Cook
and said Hunt, and the said persons to your orator unknown,
or some one or more of them, in the manner aforesaid, and for
the purpose of fraudulently depriving your orator of its title
to the said pieces of land."
It was further alleged that all the said supposed pregmptors
were fictitious persons, and their names were fictitious names,
and that the supposed names that appeared as witnesses to the
said several proofs of preemption were fictitious names, and
that no such person or persons, either as preemptors or as
witnesses, had ever lived or been known in the county of Las
Animas, where said pieces and parcels of land were located,
and, in fact, that no such persons existed.
It was further alleged in the bill "that the aforesaid pieces
and parcels of land are not agricultural land, and are not suitable for agricultural or grazing purposes, and are of no value
for any purpose except for the coal deposits therein contained.
That the said several pieces and parcels of Land contain large and valuable deposits of coal, and that the said
deposits of coal were known to the said Stanton and Cook
and said Hunt, and to the said person or persons to your orator unknown, who wrote out, signed, and executed, or caused
to be written out, signed, and executed, the several proofs of
preemption and non-mineral affidavits at the time the said
several pr6ofs of preemption and non-mineral affidavits were
made out, signed, and executed."
it was also charged in the bill that the saia Hunt was a
stockholder in the Southern Colorado Coal and Town Company, and general manager of its business, and that the incorporators of said company and the trustees thereof, including

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

311

Citations for Appellants.

William S: Jackson, "knew at the time the aforesaid described
land was conveyed to said company by said William S. Jackson, as hereinbefore described, that the several patents to said
several pieces and parcels of land had been fraudulently obtained from your orator, anfd knew that the said several supposed preimptors and patentees were myths and fictitious
persons, and knew that the said Jackson had no right, title, 'or
interest in said land, or any part thereof."
The answer of the Southern Colorado Coal and Town Company, filed November 2, 1881, specifically denied all the allegations of the bill alleging fraud, and denied that the said lands
or any portion of them were mineral lands in the sense of not
being lands capable of being acquired under the preemption
law, and set up by way of further defence that it was a purchaser of all the said lands in good faith for a valuable consideration without any knowledge or notice whatever of any or
either of the pretended fraudulent acts and conspiracies in the
bill alleged. Louis H. Mleyer, on June 5, 1882, answered to
the same effect, and by a stipulation the answer of the Southern Colorado Coal and Town Company was directed to stand
as the answer of the Colorado Coal and Iron Company. :Replications were duly filed, and the cause was heard on a large
amount of proofs, resulting in a decree in favor of the complainant, declaring all the patents in the bill mentioned, and
the subsequent conveyances of the land therein described to
the defendants, to be fraudulent and void, and decreeing that
they should be held for naught and be delivered up to be cancelled. The present appeal was from that decree.
It was held by the Circuit Court that the charge in the bill,
that the supposed prebmptors and patentees were fictitious
persons, having no existence, was sufficiently proved; that,
consequently, there being no grantees, no legal title passed
from the United States; and that, as the defendants acquired
no legal title by virtue of the supposed conveyances to them,
they could not claim protection as bona .flde purchasers for
value without notice of the fraud. 18 Fed. Rep. 273.
M . Benjamin H. Bristow (with whom were -Y2-. Lyman

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Citations for Appellants.

. Bass and 11L'. David Tillox on the brief), for appellants,
cited: Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Grafar v. Burgess, 117
U. S. 180; Insurance Co. v. lYewton, 22 Wall. 32; Alexander
v. Pendleton, 8 Cranch, 462; Cole v. Gourlay, 79 N. Y. 527;
White v. .XTeGarry, 2 Flipp. 572; Ch-opman, v. Sims, 53 Mississippi, 154; Games v. Dunn,14 Pet. 322; .3illerv. Sherry, 2
Wall. 237, 250; 3Lurray v. Balou, 1 Johns. Ch. 566; Fletcher
v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 133; Dexter v. Harris,2 Mason, 531;
Wood v. Kason, 1 Sumner, 506; United States v. Ifinor, 114
U. S. 233; Defe ack v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392; WVestern Pacific
Railroad Co. v. United States, 108 U. S. 510; WIestmoreland
Coal Co.'s Appeal, 85 Penn. St. 344; Bell v. WTilson, L. R. 1
Ch. 303; 3fullan v. United States, 118 U. S. 271; Reynolds v.
Iron Silver Afining Co., 116 U. S. 687; Sullivan v. Iron Silver
Xining Co., 109 U. S. 550; .fortor v. Tebraska, 21 Wall. 660;
Smelting Co. v. Kermp, 1041 U. S. 636; Steel v. Smelting Co.,
106 U. S. 447; .3-axcwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 379;
United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; United States v.
Stone, 2 Wall. 525; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; MIloor'e
v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; _2larquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473;
United States v. Atherton, 102 U. S. 372; Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330; Atlantic IDelaine Co. v. James, 94 U. S. 207; Stockbridge Iron Co. v. Hudson Iron Co., 107 Mass. 290; .feader v.
-Norton, 11 Wall. 442; Thomas v. Wyatt, 31 Missouri, 188;
S. C. 77 Am. Dec. 640; Boyce v. .Danz,29 Mich. 146; Hatch
v. Bayley, 12 Gush. 27; Calais Steamhoat" Co. v. Scudder, 2
Black, 372; Carpenter v. Longan, 16 Wall. 271 .
xo County
v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539; Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484;
Ifarcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Stearns v. Page,7 Hlow. 819;
Wagner v. Baird,7 How. 234; Burke v. Smith, 16 Wall. 390;
Preston v. Preston, 95 U. S. 200; Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall.
87; Xirk v. Hlamilton, 102 U. S. 68; Twin Lick Oil Co. v.
_Afarlury, 91 U. S. 587; United States v. Smith, 9-4 U. S. 214;
.fclnight v. United States, 98 U. S. 179; State v. X[ilk, 11
Fed. IRep. 389; Commonwealth v. Pejeyscot Proprietors,10
Mass. 154; State v. Ober, 34 La. Ann. 359; United States v.
Beelee, 17 Fed. Rep. 36; H1arwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall.
78; Willard v. Taylor, 8 Wall. 557; Polk v. Wlendall, 9 Cranch,

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

87; Utterback v. Binns, 1 McLean, 242; United States v.
.AcGraw, 12 Fed. Rep. 449, 452; United States v. Marshall
Xfining Co., 17 Fed. Rep. 108; X iner v. Beekman, 50 N. Y.
337, 345; Canrr v. Wallace, 7 Watts, 394; Smith v. Drake, 8
0.- E. Green (23 N. J. Eq. ), 302; Bomberger v. Turiner, 13
Ohio St. 263; S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 438; .Xc~oughlinv. Barnum,
31 Maryland, 425; Toost v. Davis, 31 Ind. 34; Bacon v.
Cottrell, 13 Minn. 194; Green V. Dixon, 9 Wis. 532; Attorney
General v. Balliol College, 9 Mod. 407.
.iEr.Solicitor General for appellee cited: Zerbe v. .Ailler, 16
Penn. St. 488, 495; Stauffer v. Young, 39 Penn. St. 455;
Garwood v. Dennis, 4 Binney, 314; Stephens Ev. Art. 96; 1
Wharton Ev. § 356; .Mofat v. United States, 112 U. S. 24;
Gaussen v. United States, 97 U. S. 584, 590; United States v.
Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 238; Sampeyreac v. United States, 7
Pet. 222; Oliver v. Piatt,3 How. 333; Diamond v. Lawrence
County, 37 Penn. St. 353; S. C. 78 Am. Dec. 429; .forton v.
.Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660, 674; Polk v. W1'endall, 9 Cranch, 87;
Minter v. C'rommelin, 18 How. 87; -Iullan. v. United States,
118 U. S. 271, 277.

MR.

JUSTICE MAT

nEws, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is fully established by the evidence that there were in fact
no actual settlements and improvements on any of the lands
as falsely set out in the affidavits in support of the preemption
claims and in the certificates issued thereon. This undoubtedly
constituted a fraud upon the United States sufficient in equity
as against the parties perpetrating it, or those claiming under
them with notice of it, to justify the cancellation of the patents issued to them. But it is not such a fraud as prevents
the passing of the legal title by the patents. It follows that
to a bill in equity to cancel the patents upon these grounds
alone the defence of a bona flde purchaser for value without
notice is perfect.
In reference to such a case, it was said by this court, in
United States v. -Afinor,114 U. S. 233, 243: "Where the patent
is the result of nothing but fraud and perjury, it is enough to

OCTOBER TERM1,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

hold that it conveys the legal title, and it would be going quite
too far to say that it cannot be assailed by a proceeding in
equity and set aside as void, if the fraud is proved and there
are no inujocent holders for value." YIeader v..L-ortonI,
11 Wall.
442, 458. It is, indeed, an elementary doctrine of equity that
where a grantor has, been induced by fraud to part with the
legal title to his property, he cannot reclaim it from subsequent innocent purchasers for value. Hence it becomes necessary, to support the decree of the Circuit Court, to maintain
as that court declared, that the legal title to the lands in question did not pass from the United States by virtue of the
patents, because there were in fact no grantees. And it was
that proposition of'fact which by the proofs introduced into
the cause the United States undertook to establish. The evidence on that point is found in the depositions of fourteen persons examined as witnesses. They were called to prove, and
did prove, in the first place, in respect to the several tracts of
land in controversy, the facts that they had not been settled
upon, and that no improvements had been made upon them by
any person. They also testified, in substance, that they were
acquainted at the time of the transactions with the lands, and
were acquainted with the people then living in Las Animas
County, some of them stating that they knew every white
man residing at that time therein; that with the exception of
one person, named Martinb, there were no persons in the
couinty at the time bearing the names specified as preemption
claimants, and no persons bearing the names subscribed as
witnesses to their statements; and that they never saw or
heard of persons residing in the county having such names.
This is the extent of this description of evidence, the weight
of which is to be estimated in connection with the fact that
the county of Las Animas, although sparsely settled, embraces
an area extending about 150 miles from east to west and about
40 miles from north to south. In corroboration of it testimony
was introduced, on behalf of the United States, of experts in
handwriting, with a view of establishing, by a comparison of
the documents, that they were fabricated, which, however,
was met by the opposing opinions of other experts called on

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

315

Opinion of the Court.

the part of the defendants. This evidence we think not only
inconclusive, but entitled to no weight, not at all supporting
the inference soughi to be drawn that the same handwriting
is traceable in the signatures of the various names. The conclusion, if warranted at all, must depend upon the statements
of the other witnesses, the substance of whose testimony has
already been given, and such presumptions of fact or law as
legitimatelj arise thereon.
It is charged in the bill that these title papers were falsely
and fraudulently made by the register and receiver combining
with Hunt and others unknown in a conspiracy for that purpose, but there is no direct proof of such a conspiracy. It is
sought to be inferred from the fact that the preumption statements were falsely made, and from the evidence tending to
show that the persons named were fictitious. There is no
proof to connect the register and receiver with such a conspiracy, except the fact that the affidavits purport to have
been made before them, and werq certified to by them.
Hunt's connection with it rests upon the fact that he procured
(leeds from the supposed patentees, conveying the lands to
Jackson in pursuance of a bargain with him. It may well be
admitted that if there were no actual persons who made applications as preemption settlers, none who made and signed the
necessary declarations and affidavits, ana no persons as witnesses who attested the same, the register and receiver must
have known the fact; but the fact of the conspiracy depends
upon prior proof that the alleged transactions were mere fictions. The proof necessary to justify that conclusion is supposed to be found in the facts testified to by the witnesses, a
summary of which has been given.
It certainly does not follow that no such persons in fact existed, as a necessary conclusion from the testimony of these
witnesses that they knew no such persons as named in these
papers. The utmost that can be said, as was said by the
learned judge of the Circuit Court in delivering judgment in
the case, is, that "if none of them were ever in the county,
and no improvements were ever made upon the land, then the
proofs upon which the patents issued were false, and the infer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ence that the papers were manufactured without the presence
of any persons bearing or assuming the names of the patentees
is not more unreasonable than would be the inference that
sixty-one actual persons committed perjury themselves, and
suborned as many others to perjure themselves as witnesses, in
order to acquire the title." This, it is argued, establishes at
least that it is more probable that the grantees were fictitious
than that they were real persons, and that, in view of the
difficulty, if not the impossibility, of proving the negative
proposition that no such persons existed, and of the fact that
the defendants connect their title and right with a transaction
which must have occurred with these grantees if they bad an
actual existence, the burden of proof is shifted from the United
States to the defendants, and that, as the latter introduced no
evidence tending to show the fact as they claimed it to be, the
case of the complainants must be considered as established by
a preponderance of proof.
We have had recent occasion to consider the question of the
character and degree of proof necessary in such cases to invalidate titles held by purchasers in good faith for value, and
without notice, under patents issued by the United States. In
The 2Jlfxwell 1and Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 379, 381, it is
said: "The deliberate action of the tribunals to which the law
commits the determination of all preliminary questions, and
the control of the processes by which this evidence of title is
issued to the grantee, demands that, to annul such an instrument and destroy the title claimed under it, the facts on which
this action is asked for must be clearly, established by evidence
entirely satisfactory to the court, and that the case itself must
be entirely withiff the class of causes for which such an instrument may be avoided. . . . W6 take the general doctrine
to be, that when in a court of equity it is proposed to set aside,
to annul, or to correct a written instrument for fraud or mistake in the execution of the 4nstrument itself, the testimony on
which this is done must be clear, unequivocal, and convincing,
and that it cannot be done upon a bare preponderance of 6videuce which leaves the issue in doubt. If the proposition, as
thus laid down in the cases cited, is sound in regard to the

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

317

Opinion of the Court.

ordinary contracts of private individuals, how much more
should it be observed where the attempt is to annul the grants,
the patents, and other solemn evidences of title emanating
from the government of the United States under its official
seal ? In this class of cases, the respect due to a patent, the
presumptions that all the preceding steps required by the law
had been observed before its issue, the immense importance
and necessity of the stability of titles dependent upon these
official instruments, demand that the effort to set them aside,
to annul them, or to correct mistakes in them should only be
successful when the allegations on which this is attempted are
clearly stated and fully sustained by proof. It is not to be
admitted that the titles by which so much property in this
country and so many rights are held, purporting to emanate
from the authoritative action of the officers of the government,
and, as in this case, under the seal and signature of the President of the United States himself, shall be dependent upon the
hazard of successful resistance to the whims and caprices of
every person who chooses to attack them in a court of justicebut it should be wbll understood that only that class of evidence which commands respect, and that amount of it which
produces conviction, shall make such an attempt successful."
It thus appears that the title of the defendants rests upon
the strongest presumptions of fact which, although they may be
rebutted, nevertheless can be overthrown only by full proofs
to the contrary, clear, convincing, and unambiguous. The
burden of producing these proofs and establishing the conclusion to which they are directed rests upon the government.
Neither is it relieved of this obligation by the negative nature
of the proposition it is bound to establish. It is, indeed, sometimes said that a negative is incapable of proof, but this is not
a maxim of the law. In the language of an eminent text
writer: "When the negative ceases to be a simple one - when
of this
it is qualified by time, place, or circumstance -much
objection is removed; and proof of a negative may very reasonably be required when the qualifying circumstances are the direct
matter in issue, or the affirmative is either probable in itself,
or supported by a presumption, or peculiar means of proof are

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

in the hands of the party asserting the negative." Best on the
Law of Evidence, Am. ed. Boston, 1883, § 270. So also Ibid.
§ 273: "When a presumption is in favor of the party who
asserts the negative it only affords an additional reason for
casting the burden of proof on his adversary; it is when a
presumption is in favor of the party who asserts the affirmative that its effect becomes visible, as the opposite side is then
bound to prove his negative." Also Ibid. § 276: "This appears from the case of Doe d. Bridgerv. 1llitelhead, 8 A. & E.
571, which was an ejectment by a landlord against a tenant
on an alleged forfeiture by breach of a covenant in his lease to
insure against fire in some office in or near London, in which
it was contended that it lay on the defendant to show that be
had insured, .that being a fact within his peculiar knowledge.
The argmnent ab in eon venienti was strongly urged, viz., that
the plaintiff could not bring persons from every insurance office
in or near London to show that no such insurance had been
effected by the defendant, and R. v. Turner [5 M . & S. 206],
The ApothecarWo' Co. v. Bentley [Ryan & Moody, 159], and
some other cases of that class, were cited. But Lord Denman,
C. J., in delivering judgment, said: I I do not dispute the cases
on the game laws which have been'cited; but there the
defendant is in the first instance shown to have done an
act which was unlawful unless he was qualified, and then the
proof of qualification is thrown upon the defendant. Here the
plaintiff relies on something done or permitted by the lessee,
and takes upon himself the burden of proving that fact. The
proof may be difficult where the matter is peculiarly within
the defendant's knowledge, but that does not vary the rule of
law.' And in the same case Littledale, J., said: 'In the cases
cited as to game, the .defendant had to bring himself within
the protection of the statutes; and a like observation applies
to Te _Apothecav.ie' Co. v. Bentley. But here, where a landlord brings an action to defeat the estate granted to the lessee,
the onus of proof ought to lie on the plaintiff.' And this ruling has been upheld by subsequent cases. Toleman v. Portbury, L. R. 5 Q. B. 2S8; Wledgwood v. -art, 2 Jurist, N. S.
288; Price v. lForwood, 4 HI. & N. 512."

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

319

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Greenleaf states the rule in equivalent terms. He says,
1 Greenleaf on Evidence, § '8: "To this general rule, that
the burden of proof is on the party holding the affirmative,
there are some exceptions, in which the proposition, though
negative in its terms, must be proved by the party who states
it. One class of these exceptions will be found to include
those cases in which the plaintiff grounds his i-ight qf action
.rpana negative allegation,and where, of course, this negative
is an essential element in his case." And in § 80: "So, where
the negative allegation involves a charge of criminal neglee.t
of duty, whether official or otherwise; or fraud; or the wrongful violation of actual lawful possession of property; the party
making the allegation must prove it; for in these cases the
presumption of law, which is always in favor of innocence
and quiet possession, is in favor of the party charged."
In the present case the facts shown are, in our opinion, not
sufficient to overcome the presumption of innocence on the
part of the register and receiver of the land office. It is quite
consistent with these facts that real persons, whether under
their own or under assumed names, did actually appear before
them and make preemption claims. There is no testimony
whatever tending to establish directly any complicity on their
part with the fraud which may have been practised upon them
and not through them. It is certain that there were real
persons acting in the matter. The purchase price due on the
entry of the lands was in fact paid. There is no proof of any
actual fabrication of the papers, the genuineness of which is'
not negatived by any internal evidence. The allegations in
the bill, that they were in fact manufactured by the register
and receiver and Hunt, or by any one with their connivance.
are entirely unsupported by direct evidence.
It is alleged in the bill also that "by the rules and regulations which then and since have governed it in the issue of
patents for land located with agricultural college scrip, no
patent was issued by your orator except on presentation at its
General Land Office, by the person making such location, his
agent, or his assign, of the duplicate certificate as aforesaid
delivered to the locator for the land for which a patent is

OCTOBER TERMf, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed," and "that after the forwarding by the said Stanton
and Cook of said supposed proofs of preemption, said agricultural college scrip, said. money, said non-mineral affidavit, and
said duplicate certificate, in each of the said pretended preemption claims -as aforesaid mentioned, to your orator's
General Land Office at Washington, the sai~l Alexander C.
Hunt, pretending to act as agent of each of said supposed preemptors, presented to the officers of the General Land Office
such other duplicate certificate of location, and requested said
officers to cause a patent for each of the said several pieces of
land to issue from your orator to the said supposed persons in
each case purporting to claim and apply for the same." And
it is added that the officers of the General Land Office, confiding in the honesty of the register and receiver, and believing
the statements contained in the proofs to be true, did issue its
patents therefor. The allegation is that the patents were
issued to Hunt. In point of fact, it appears from the evidence
that a number of patents were delivered to Britton & Gray,
W. P. Dunwoody, and W. W. Cowling, respectively, through
whom the duplicate certificates were presented to the General
Land Office for that purpose. There is no allegation that
these were not real persons, Eor are any charges made against
them as participants in tlie fraud. They professed to represent
the parties entitled to the patents; they must have known for
whom in fact they were acting. There is nothing to show
that they were not accessible as witnesses. From the correspondence in the record it appears that Britton & Gray were
transacting business in the city of *Washington, and that
Cowling was also a resident of the District of-Columbia.
None of these parties were called by the government as
witnesses. Whatever may be said as an excuse for the failure
to call Hunt and Stanton and Cook, on the ground that they
are charged with being the a9tual conspirators in the fraud,
no reason can be assigned for not calling Britton & Gray,
Dunwoody and Cowling.
Neither do we think the reason assigned, as an excuse on
the part of the government for not calling the register and
receiver as witnesses, is valid or satisfactory. One of them, it

COLORADO COAL CO. V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

was said at the bar, had died. But the other might and ought
to have been examined. :e was one of its own officers,
through whom the government had received the price of the
lands sold, and which it has ever since retained. If his official conduct was impugned, nevertheless his misconduct, if
proved, was not imputable to the defendants, and they should
not be prejudiced by the odium of an accusation against him.
The United States had trusted him, and, inspired by that
confidence, the defendants also had relied upon his official
acts. In this faith they had paid full value for what they had
reason to believe was a perfect title. They were not accused
of any complicity with, nor had they any knowledge of, the
fraud charged. In the absence of direct proof of his guilt
the government could not properly treat the defendants as his
confederates, nor deprive them of any defence which as a
witness he might be able to make for himself. The United
States had no higher interest at stake than to establish the
truth and justice of the transaction. It was due from it to
these parties, whose estate this suit was instituted to defeat, to
produce and examine as witnesses those who must have had
the best knowledge of the facts, so as not to force the defendants to explanations which, by the very theory of their innocence and ignorance, they were incapable of making. To raise
a suspicion, however strong, of the fraud and wrong-doing of its
own officers is not enough to justify the government in casting
upon the defendants the burden of establishing their title.
In addition,. warranty deeds, made to Jackson as trustee,
were put in evidence by the government, reciting a consideration in each case, amounting in the aggregate to $52,200, to
the payment of which Jackson also testifies. Each of these
deeds was executed, acknowledged, and recorded in conformity with law. They were regular on their face, the acknowledgments purporting to have been taken by public officers
before whom, it is recited, the grantors severally appeared
and acknowledged their execution. These officers, if called
and examined as witnesses, would probably have thrown some
light upon the transaction, and should have been examined
.upon the points in issue. It is to be presumed that they could
VOL. cxx-u-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

have testified whether any persons in fact appeared before them
at the times and places named in their certificates, and whether,
if so, they were identified as being the persons named as
grantors in the deeds. INone of them were in fact called on
the part of the United States, and no reason is assigned for
not having done so. It thus appears that the government did
not make all the proof of which the nature of the case was
susceptible, and which was apparently within its reach.
On the other hand, the defendants, by their evidence, have
fully established all- the steps by which they became connected
with the transaction. The lands were bought and paid for at
their full value by William S. Jackson, acting for himself and
associates, who united together for the purpose of making purchases of land in that region, upon Jackson's belief and assurance of its ultimate value, expecting it to increase by the
building of railroads and general growth of the country. He
arranged with Hunt, who was engaged in dealing in lands,
and had been Governor of the Territory, to pay for titles to
such lands as he might accept. Hunt submitted to him descriptions of lands which he said he could control, from which
Jackson made selections. For these Runt sent to Jackson
deeds duly executed, attested, and acknowledged, accompanied
by receiver's certificates in regular form, showing that the
party named as grantor was entitled to a patent. These he
was advised by counsel to accept, and did accep. in good faith,
as being equivalent to patents. In many instances the patents were issued before the deeds were executed. Jackson bad
no connection whatever with making the proofs of pre~m!tion, and had no knowledge in reference thereto, except such
as was disclosed by the deeds and certificates, in reliance upon
which, and without visiting the lands or having them examined, he bought. The deeds to Jackson were duly acknowledged before competent officers by persons certified to be the
grantors therein named. The transactions were several, &s
regards the various tracts of land, and successive, during more
than two years, the deeds being delivered within a period extending from May 2, 1873, to May 21, 1875. The circumstance
that many of the acknowledgments of the deeds were taken

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

323

Opinion of the Court.

in Arapahoe County before a notary in Hunt's office, while
the grantors purported to be residents of Las Animas County,
was not calculated to raise any suspicion of fraud, as Jackson
supposed that Hunt was dealing with the preemptors, and was
procuring their deeds to be executed for delivery to him, and
it was natural to expect that this would be done at Hunt's
own office. In fact, fourteen of the acknowledgments were
taken before other officers, and some of them in Las Animas
County. That Jackson and his assigns, the Coal and Town
Company, and its successor, the Coal and Iron Company, in
good faith believed that they had acquired a valid title to
these lands, is manifest from their subsequent dealing with
them. They not only paid full value for the lands in the condition in which they were, but they made large investments
thereon in the way of improvements. At the time of the
organization of the consolidated company there were upon the
premises described in the bill coke-ovens and machinery in
connection therewith, buildings constituting the town of El
Moro, and coal-mine improvements, consisting of entries, rooms,
gangways, tracks, chutes, repair-shops, houses, and store buildings. Coal was then, between six and seven years after Jackson's purchase, being mined upon one quarter section, and the
town of El Moro covered thirty or forty acres, comprising
twenty to twenty-five buildings, erected by various individuals,
to whom the company had sold lots, in accordance with a regular survey and map of the town site. The entire value of
the mine and coke improvements was estimated to be about
$250,000. The property was used by the company in connection with works which they had established at South Pueblo
for the manufacture of iron and steel, on which there had been
an expenditure of from one to two millions of dollars, the
coal and coke necessary for carrying on which was obtained
from the coal mines on part of the premises in dispute. As
against interests of this magnitude and value vested upon a
claim of title, the good faith of which on the part of the defendants is absolutely unimpeached, the proof of a fraud which
renders their title absolutely void should be stronger than the
legal presumptions on which it may rightfully rest.

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It is urged in argument by the Solicitor General that this
case cannot be distinguished from that of 2loftzat v. United
States, 112 U. S. 24. The two cases are undoubtedly similar
in their general aspects, but, nevertheless, differ in some particulars most material to the decision. It is stated in the report
of the case cited that "the testimony taken fully established
the truth of the allegations and charges, except as to the
knowledge by Moffat and Car of the alleged frauds." The
charges proven, or to be taken as proven, therefore, as set
forth in the bill, were, that the title papers in the case were
manufactured by a clerk in the office of the receiver, and that
the receiver was also the owner of the agricultural college
scrip used to pay for the lands located, and that, for the purpose of locating the land with it in the name of Quinlan, the
register and receiver had inserted in a blank endorsement his
fictitious name and residence, and in that name had located
the scrip on the land, there being no such person, nor any settlement and improvement on the land; and that tile duplicate
certificate on which the patent issued was presented to the
General Land Office by the defendant himself, who was thus
brought into direct connection with the officers who had committed the fraud, and with the transaction before the issue of
the patent. In that case Aloffat did not offer his deed in evidence, was not examined as a witness, and attempted no proof
either of his own innocence or of the payment of value, but
stood without explanation as to who his hnmediate gTantors
were, or how he came in contact with them. The receiver was
examined as a witness, but wholly failed to meet the charges
alleged against him. There was further proof tending.to show
that the acknowledgments of the deeds to AMoffat had been
taken without identification of the grantors from whom Moffat
received his deeds directly, and in respect to whom he must
have had some knowledge. These circumstances, in our opinion, clearly distinguish that case from the present one.
There is, however, another ground on which it is contended
by the government that the patents described in the bill are
void. It is alleged that the lands in controversy were not subject to settlement and sale under the prefmption laws, being

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

325

Opinion of the Court.

"known mines" within the description of those laws. The act
of September 4, 1841, 5 Stat. 455, c. 16, § 10, provided that
no preeiption entry should be made on "lands on which are
situated any known salines or mines." By the act of July 1,
1864, 13 Stat. 343, c. 205, § 1, it is enacted: "That where any
tracts embracing coal beds or coal fields constituting portions
of the public domain, and which as 'mines' are excluded from
the preemption act of 1S11, and which under past legislation
are not liable to ordinary private entry, it shall and may be
lawful for the President to cause such tracts, in suitable legal
subdivisions, to be offered at public sale to the highest bidder.
after public notice of not less than three months, at a minimum
price of twenty dollars per acre; and any lands not thus disposed of shall thereafter be liable to private entry at said minimum.')
The language of the preemption act of 1841 is preserved in
§ 2258 of the IRevised Statutes. The act of 1864 and its
supplemental act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 529, c. 107, were
substantially re6nacted by the act of Mfarch 3, 1873, 17 Stat.
607, c. 279, now embodied in § 2347 of the Revised Statutes,
and the sections immediately following. The force and meaning of the original legislation remain unchanged. The subsequent provisions relate to the classification and terms and mode
of entry and sale of the coal lands excluded from preemption
by the laws on that subject. In reference to coal lands, which
are noted on public surveys and plats as such, of course it is not
to be disputed that their character is thereby made known so
as to withdraw them from entry under the preg'mption and
homestead acts. Where this is not done it remains, as in the
present case, to determine how the character of the lands is to
be ascertained, so that they may be classified as those "on
which are situated any known salines or mines."
It is argued by the Solicitor General, upon the facts as disclosed by the evidence in this record, that the lands covered
by these patents embraced "known mines" of coal, and that,
'as such lands were expressly excepted out of the preemption
laws, the patents issued therefor were void for want of power
on the part of the officer to issue them, as decided in Polk v.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Wermdall, 9 Cranch, 87; . ifnter v. Cromimeli, 18 How. 87;
Reichart v. Feps, 6 Wall. 160; .Morton v. .Yebraska, 21 Wall.
660. In the last named case,. .forton; v. Yelraska, it was said
(page 674): "The salines in this case were not hidden as mines
often are, but were so encrusted with salt that they resembled
Csnow-covered lakes,' and were consequently not subject
to
pre~mption." In .Akclaugdinv. United States, 107 U. S. 526,
the decree of the Circuit Court cancelling the pa-ent, on the
ground that it purported to convey lands as part of a railroad
grant, which were excepted therefrom as mineral lands, was
affirmed. The court say (page 528): "It is satisfactorily
proven, as we think, that cinnabar, the mineral which carries
quicksilver, was found there as early as 1863; that a man
named Powell resided on the land and mined this cinnabar at
that time, and in 1866 established some form of reduction
works there; that these were on the ground when application
for the patent was made by the defendant McLaughlin, as
agent of the Western Pacific Railroad Company, and that
these facts were known to him. He is not, therefore, an innocent purchaser." See W-ester Paaiiec Railroad Co. v. United
States, 108 U. S.510.
In the case of .Xullan/ v. United States, 118 U. S.271, after
referring to the acts of Congress above recited, the com:t,
speaking of the act of July 1, 1864, say (page 277): "This is
clearly a legislative declaration that 'known' coal lands were
mineral lands within the meaning of that term as used in statutes regulating the public lands, unless a contrary intention of
Congress was clearly manifested. Whatever doubt there may
be as to the effect of this declaration on past transactions, it is
clear that after it was made coal lands were to be treated as
mineral lands. That the land now in dispute was ' known'
coal land at the time it was selected, no one can doubt. It
had been worked as a mine for many years before, and it had
upon its surface all the appliances necessary for reaching,
taking out, and delivering the coal. That Barnard knew what
it was when he asked for its location for his use is absolutely
certain, because he was one of the agents of the coal company
at the time, and undoubtedly acted in its behalf in all that he

COLORADO COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

did. If Mullan and Avery were ignorant of the fact when
they acquired their respective interests in the property, it was
because they wilfully shut their eyes to what was going on
around them, and purposely kept themselves in ignorance of
notorious facts. But the evidence satisfies us- entirely that
they were not ignorant."
It will thus be seen that, so far as the decisions of this court
have heretofore gone, no lands have been held to be "known
mines" unless, at the time the rights of the purchaser accrued,
there was upon the ground an actual and opened mine which
had been worked or was capable of being worked.
In the case of Dfeback v. Ilrawke, 115 U. S. 392, the legislation oh the subject was reviewed at length. It was there held
that no title from the United States to land known at the time
of sale to be valuable for its minerals of gold, silver, cinnabar,
or copper can be obtained under the preemption or homestead
laws, or the town-site laws, or in any other way than as prescribed by the laws specially authorizing the sale of such land,
except in the States of Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Missouri, and Kansas. The court say (page 404): "We say ' land
known,at the time to be valuable for its minerals,' as there are
vast tracts of public land in which minerals of different kinds
are found, but not in such quantity as to justiff expenditures
in the effort to extract them. It is not to such lands that the
term 'mineral' in the sense of the statute is applicable.
We also say lands known at the time of their sale to be thus
valuable, in order to avoid any possible conclusion against the
validity of titles which may be issued for other kinds of land
in which years afterwards rich deposits of mineral may be discovered. It is quite possible that lands settled upon as suitable
only for agricultural purposes, entered by the settler, and patented by the government, under the preemption laws, may be
found, years after the patent hhs been issued, to contain valuable minerals. Indeed, this has often happened. We therefore
use the term know.n to be valuable at the time of sale to prevent any doubt being cast upon titles to lands afterwards found
to be different in their mineral character from what was supposed when the entry of them was made and the patent issued."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not sufficient, in our opinion, to constitute "known
mines" of coal, within the meaning of the statute, that there
should merely be indications of coal beds or coal fields of greater
or less extent and of greater or less value, as shown by outcroppings. The act of 1864 evidently contemplates a distinction between coal beds or coal fields excluded from the preemption act
of 1841 as "known mines," and other coal beds or coal fields
not coming within that description. We hold, therefore, that to
constitute the exemption contemplated by the preemption act
under the head of "known mines," there should be upon the
land ascertained coal deposits of such an extent and value as
to make the land more valuable to be worked as a coal mine,
under the conditions existing at the time, than for merely
agricultural purposes. The circumstance that there are surface
indications of the existence of veins of coal does not constitute
a mine. It does not even prove that the land will ever be
under any conditions sufficiently valuable on account of its
coal deposits to be worked as a mine. A change ia the conditions occurring subsequently to the sale, whereby new discoveries are made, or by means whereof it may become profitable
to work the veins as mines, cannot affect the title as it passed
at the time of the sale. The question must be determined
according to the facts in existence at the time of the sale. If
upon the premises at that time there were not actual "knon
mines" capable of being profitably worked for their product,
so as to make the land more valuable for mining than for agriculture, a title to them acquired under the preemption act cannot be successfully assailed. In the present case, the testimony,
in our opinion, does not justify us in finding that at the time
Jackson acquired his title there were upon any part of the
premises in controversy any "known mines" of coal, in the
sense of the statute.
For these reasons the decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed, and the cause remanded with a direction to di8miss the bil1; and it.isso ordered.

