OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND NORTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. SIMMONS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA,
Submitted October 11, 1887. -Decided

CENTRAL DIVISION.
October 24,1887.

A decree in a suit in equity to foreclose a mortgage, which determines the
validity of the mortgage, and, without ordering a sale, directs the cause
to stand continued for further order and decree upon the coming in of a
master's report, is not final for the purposes of an appeal.
Parsons v. Robinson, 122 U. S. 112, and First National Bank of Cleveland
v. Shedd, 121 U. S. 74, distinguished.

THIS was a motion to dismiss an appeal because the decree
appealed from is not final, but interlocutory only. The case
was in substance this:
A bill was filed by a junior mortgagee against the mortgagor and a prior mortgagee to foreclose his mortgage and to
establish his right to redeem the prior mortgage. The defence was that under certain proceedings had for the foreclosure of the prior mortgage his right to redeem bad been
cut off, and the mortgaged property sold free of his lien. The
decree appealed from found: 1. That the junior mortgage was
still a valid and subsisting lien, and that the right of its
trustee and beneficiaries to redeem had not been cut off by
the proceedings for the foreclosure of the earlier mortgage.
2. That those claiming title under the sale upon the foreclosure of that mortgage, and certain other parties, were entitled
to redeem the junior mortgage "by paying off the amount
due" thereon, "at such time as shall hereafter be fixed and
determined by a further order or decree to be entered in this
cause." 3. In case none of the parties claiming under the
prior mortgage redeem the junior mortgage, and the junior
mortgagee redeems the prior one, then that the junior mortgage shall be foreclosed, and a sale of the property "shall be
had under a decree to be entered by this court," and the
proceeds shall be applied, first, "to paying off the amount

BURLINGTON, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. SIMMONS.

53

Argument against the Motion.

paid to redeem from the first" mortgage; second, he amount
found due on the second mortgage

and the balance, if any,

paid to the mortgagor. 4. "In the event that none of these
parties shall redeemk. from the others, . . . then a sale" of the
mortgaged property "shall be had pursuant to such decree as
may hereafter be entered herein, and from the proceeds shall
be paid off, first, the amount which it may be hereafter determined is due on the first" mortgage; ,'second, . . . the
amount which it may hereafter be determined is due on the
second" mortgage; and, third, the balance, if any, to the
mortgagor.
It was then ordered that, "for the purpose of determining
the' amount necessary to be paid by any of the parties in
making redemption, as herein provided," the cause be referred
to a master " to find and report" the amount due on both the
first and the second mortgages, in accordance with certain
principles of accounting which were specifically stated. The
whole then concluded as follows: "This decree being interlocutory, it is ordered that said cause stand continued for further order and decree." From this decree the appeal was
taken.
The case is reported as Simmons v. Taylo-, 23 Fed. Rep.
849.
Xr.. I 1. L. Lee for the motion. Mr. HUerbert B. Turner
and 3f,. B. F. Zee were with him on the brief.
.MrTh. Thomas F.

ithurow, opposing.

The appeal was taken in this case for the reason that a difference of opinion has been expressed in the court below as to
the character of the decree. There is apparent warrant for
this difference in the decisions of the courts. For example:
This court held, in .The _ational Bank v. Sliedd, 121 U. S.
74, that the decree appealed from in that case, which ordered
a sale of mortgaged property "before the rights of the parties
under the several mortgages had been fully ascertained and
determined," was a final decree, from which an 'appeal could
be taken. In the later case of Parsansv. Robinson, 122 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

112, the decree was held to be interlocutory "as it now stands,"
because "it does not terminate the litigation between the
parties on the merits of the case," and that a decree is final
only "lwken it leaves nothing to be done but to make the sale
and pay out the proceeds." The decree appealed from in this
case leaves for determination the defences which affect the
income and equipment bonds, all equities of the first mortgage
bondholders, the amounts due on the income and equipment
bonds, and on the first mortgage main line bond, after applying the rents and profits arising from the operation of the
railway through a period of several years. That these cases
are not in entire accord, in the judgment of the learned counsel who make this motion, is indicated by the fact that they
cite the one last mentioned and omit the first.
MR. CHiEF JusTicE WArE, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The rulings at the last term in Parsonsv. Robinson, 122
U. S. 112, are decisive of this motion. The right of the junior
mortgagee to redeem the prior mortgage has been established
by the decree appealed from, but the amount he must pay has
not been determined. The validity of his lien as security for
the amount due on his mortgage has been declared, but what
that amount is has not been fixed. His right to a sale of the
mortgaged property in case the debt is not paid has been
settled, but such a sale cannot be made until a further order
to that effect is entered. The litigation has not been ended;
the terms of the redemption have not been fixed, and the
foreclosure sale awaits the farther judicial action of the court.
In short, nothing can be done towards carrying the decree
into effect until the "further order or decree" for which the
cause was continued. This is shown more than once on the
face of the decree, and consequently the decree is in fact, what
the court took care to say it was, "interlocutory" only, and
not final for the purposes of an appeal.
It is suggested in the brief of counsel for the appellant that
the cases of First National Bank of Cleveland v. Shedd, 121

BURLINGTON, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. SIMMONS.

55

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 74, and P rsons v. Robinson, saupra, are in conflict, but
this is a mistake. In Shedd's case there was a decree of sale
absolutely and without reserve, which could be carried into
execution at once, and when a 'purchaser acquired title under
it, he would have held as against all the parties to the suit,
no matter what might be the rulings on the other questions in
the case which were reserved for further adjudication. Tlae
language of the decree, as shown at page 84, was to the effect
"that the whole property be sold as an entirety, . . . and
that upon a confirmation of the sale the purchaser be entitled
to a conveyance freed and discharged of the lien of the mortgages, receiver's certificates, costs, expenses, &c." Such a
decree was surely final for the purposes of an appeal within
the rule as stated in Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, where it
issaid, at page 204: "When the decree decides the right to
the property in contest, and directs it to be delivered up by
the defendant to the complainant, or directs it to be sold, or
directs the defendant to pay a certain sum of money to the
complainant, and the complainant is entitled to have such a
decree carried immediately into execution, the decree must
be considered as a final one to that extent, and authorizes an
appeal to this court, although so much of the bill is retained
in the Circuit Court as is necessary for the purpose of adjusting by a further decree the accounts between the parties pursuant to the decree passed." To the same' effect are Bay v.
Zaw, 3 Cranch, 179; Bronson, v. Railroad Co., 2 Black, 524,
531; and Dtomson v. Dean, 7 Wall. 342, in which last case it
is said, page 345: "In this case the decree directs the performance of a specific act, and requires that it be done forthwith.
The effect of the act when done is to invest the transferees
with all the rights of ownership. It changes the property in
the stock as absolutely and as completely as could be done by
execution on a decree for sale. It looks to no future modification or change of the decree." If a sale had been made
under the decree as it is stood in Shedd's case, "the title of
the purchaser would not have been overthrown or invalidated,
even by a reversal of the decree; and consequently the title
of the defendants to the lands would have been extinguished,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Counsel for Parties.

and their redress, upon the reversal, would have been of a different sort from that of a restitution of the land sold." Such
was the language of this court, speaking through Mr. Justice
Story, in Wliting v. Bank of the United States, 13 Pet. 6, 15,
in reference to the effect of a sale under a decree qf foreclosure and sale, and there cannot be a doubt of its correctness.
It was for this reason the decree in Shedd's case was held to
be final in the sense of a court of equity for the purpose of
an appeal.
But in Parsons v. Robinson we held there was no decree
of sale which could be "carried immediately into execution ;"
that no order of sale could issue until the court had "given its
authority in that behalf;" and that "further judicial action
must be had by the court before its ministerial officers" "could
proceed to carry the decree into execution." In this consists
the difference between the two cases: in Shedd's case there
was actually a decree of sale; in Parsons' case there was not.
So, here, there has been no -actual decree of sale, and
Tie motion to dismiss is granted.

XOREY v. LOCKHART.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted October 18, 1887.-Decided October 24,18S2.

Since the Act of 1887, c. 373, took zffect, this court has no power to review
on appeal or in error an order of a Circuit Court remanding a cause to
a state court.

THIs was a motion to dismiss an appeal from an order of
the Circuit Court, remanding a cause to the state court from
which it had been removed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
.Mr.Assistant Attorney General .A4ury on behalf of XAr.
Eugene D. Saunders and .Mr.
E.D. White, for the motion.
-Mr. . D. Rouse and Afr. William Grant opposing.

