LITCHFIELD v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

by this branch of the cases, and there was no error in the
decision of that involved in the other, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Iowa in each of the cases is

LITCHFIELD v. GOODNOW'S ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1,1837.-Decided December 5,1887.

Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527, applied as to the effect of Wolcott v. Des Moines
Co., 5 Wall. 681.
The plaintiff in error's intestate was not a party to Homestead Company v.
Vialley Ratlroad,nor in privity with those who were parties, and was not
bound by the proceedings; and, as estoppels to be good must be mutual,
the Homestead Company and its assignees were not bound.

THIs was a suit to recover taxes paid under circumstances
which are set forth in Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527. The
cause was argued with Stryker v. Goodnow. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
2l&f. C. f. Gatek for plaintiff in error. .M. William Conr"
was with him on the brief.
.Af&. Gearge Crane for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by Edward K. Goodnow, assignee of
the Iowa Homestead Company, in his lifetime, against Grace
H. Litchfield, in her lifetime, to recover the amount of taxes
for the years 1864 to 1871, both inclusive, paid by the Homestead Company on certain tracts of Des Moines River lands
held and owned by her, by and through conveyances from the
Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company. For a genera]
statement of the facts reference is made to Stryker v. Crane,
ante, 527. The taxes were paid-before the decree in Homestead

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Cofrfanzy v. Valley Rairoad,17 Wall. 153, and the assignment
was made to Goodnow afterwards. As defences to the action,
the prior adjudication in that case was pleaded in bar, and also
the statute of limitations based on the decision as to title in
'rolcott v. Des Afoines Conpany, 5 Wall. 681, the same as in
Srtyker v. Crane.
Both these defences were overruled by the Supreme Court
of the State, and judgment was entered in that court for the
amount of taxes paid and interest. Goodnow v. Li-fteld, 63
Iowa, 275.
As to the Federal question arising on the statute of limitations, it is only necessary to refer to What was said on that
subject in Stryker v. Crane, ante, 527. There was no error in
the decision of the court below on that point.
The defence of prior adjudication is disposed of by the fact
that Mrs. Litchield was not a party to the suit in which the
adjudication relied on was had. At the time of the commencement of the suit she was the owner of her lands, an4 they were
described in the bill, but neither she nor any one who represented her title was named as a defendant. She interestgd
herself in securing a favorable decision of the questions involved as far as they were applicable to her own interests, and
paid part of the expenses; but there was nothing to bind her
by the decision. If it had been adverse to her interest, no decree could have been entered against her personally either for
the lands or the taxes. Her lands were entirely separate and
distinct from those of the actual parties. A decree in favor of
or against them and their title was in no legal sense a decree
in favor of or against her. She was indirectly interested in the
result, but not directly. As the questions affecting her own
title and her own liability for taxes were similar to those involved in the suit, the decision could be used as a judicial precedent in a proceeding against her, but not as a judgment
binding on her and conclusive as to her rights. Her rights
were similar to, but not identical with, those of the persons
who were actually parties to the litigation.
Greenleaf, in his Treatise on the Law of Evidence, Vol. I, ยง
523, states the rule applicable to this class of cases thus;

LITCIIFIELD v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

"Under the termparties,in this connection, the law includes
all who are directly interested in the subject matter, and had a
right to make defence, or to control the proceedings, and to
appeal from the judgment. This right involves also the right
to adauce testimony, and to cross-examine the witnesses adduced on the other side. Persons not having these rights are
regarded as strangers to the cause. But to give full effect to
the principle by which parties are held bound by a judgment,
all persons who are represented by tle parties and claim 'under
them, or in privity with them, are equally concluded by the
same proceedings. We have already seen that the term _prioity denotes mutual or successive relationship to the same rights
of property. The ground, therefore, upon which persons
standing in this relation to the litigating party are bound
by the proceedings to which. he was a party is, that they are
identified with him in interest; and when6ver this identity is
found to exist, all are alike concluded. Hence, all privies,
whetherin estate, in blood, or in law, are estopped frbm litigating that which is conclusive on him with whom they are in
privity." The correctness of this statement "has been often
affirmed by this court: Lovejoy v. Xiurray, 3 Wall. 1, 19;
Roobins v. Chicago City, 4 Wall. 657, 673; and the principle
has been recognized in many cases. Indeed, it is elementary.
Hale v. Finehi, 104 U. S. 261, 265; Railroad Company .v.
National Bank, 102 U. S. 14, 22; Butterfleld v. Smith, 101
U. S. 570.
In the condition of parties to the record during the whole
course of the litigation between the Homestead Company and
those who were named as defendants, Mrs. Litchfield had no
right to make a defence in her own name, neither could she
control the proceedings, nor appeal from the decree. She
could not in her own right adduce testimony or cross-examine
witnesses. Neither was she identified in interest with any one
who was a party. She owned her lands; the parties to the
suit owned theirs; her rights were all separate and distinct
from the rest, and there was no mutual or successive relationship between her and the other owners. She was neither a
party to the suit, nor in privity with those who were parties;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

consequently she was in law a stranger to the proceedings and
in no way bound thereby. As she was not bound, the Homestead Company and its assigns were not. Estoppels to be good
must be mutual. This was in effect the decision of the court
below, and it was right.
It follows that there is no error in the record, and
The judgment is aprmed.

DES MOINES NAVIGATION AND RAILROAD .COMPANY v. IOWA HOMESTEAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPItEME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1, 1887.-Decided December 5, 1887.

The Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, in deciding this cause, held, and
so stated in its opinion, that the question of prior adjudication of the
issue by this court in Homestead Valley v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall..153,
was not raised before it by counsel for defendant, and therefore was not
in the case; and it decided the case without considering that point. On
examining the opinion of that court, and the record and briefs, and the
briefs in the court below in this case and in the case of Litchfield v. Goodnow, ante, 549, this court is of opinion that the point was raised and discussed in the Supreme Court of Iowa, and holds that the action of that
court in respect of it was equivalent to a denial of the Federal right so
set up.
If a cause is removed in a regular manner from a state court to a Circuit
Court of the United States, on motion of one or more of several defendants who have a right to have it removed as to him or them, and the Circuit Court takes jurisdiction, and all parties defendant appear, and no
objection to the jurisdiction is made, and the cause proceeds to final
judgment, the judgment remains in force and of binding effect upon all
the parties, until judicially vacated, although it appears on the face of
the record that some of the defendants, who did not join in the petition
for removal, were citizens of the same State with the plaintiff.

IN equity. Decree for the plaintiff. The defendant appealed.

The cause was argued with Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. . H. Gatch for plaintiff in error. -r.
was with him on the brief.

iliam Connor

