CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Syllabus.

We do not see how it is possible to misunderstand the two
sections when read together, as it is necessary to read them.
One section authorizes a disclaimer to be filed in certain cases;
the other enables patentees to maintain suits in those cases,
provided a disclaimer is filed without unreasonable delay.
They are parts of one law, having one general purpose, and
that purpose is to obviate the inconvenience and hardship of
the common law, which made a patent wholly void if any
part of the invention was wrongfully claimed by the patentee,
and which made such a defect in a patent an effectual bar to
a suit brought upon it.
There is no such difference in the phraseology of the two
sections as to make them apply to different classes of cases.
They refer to the same class, and, being read together, throw
mutual light on each other. And viewed in that mutual light,
we think it clear that there is no authority for amending a
patent by means of a disclaimer in the manner in which the
appellants have attempted to amend their patent in the
present case.
The deoree of the Circuit Court is afirned.

CRAWFORD 'v. IIEYSINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES .FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 29, 187.--Decided December 12, 1887.

Assuming that claims I and 2 of Teissued letters-patent No. 9803, granted
July 12, 1881, to George W. Heyl, assignee of Henry R. Heyl, the inventor, for an "improvement in devices for inserting metallic staples," are
valid, they are not infringed by the ,' Victor tool," made under and in accordance with letters-patent No. 218,227, granted to William J. Brown,
Jr., August 5. 1879. and a second patent, No. 260,365, granted to the
same person, July 4, 1882.,
As to claims 1 and 2 of that reissue, namely, "1. -The combination of the
stationary staple-support or anvil A', and the sliding staple-guide B, with
the reciprocating slotted or recessed hammer, operating to insert a staple

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
through layers of stock to be united, and simultaneously bend over its
projecting ends, substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 2. In a
device for inserting metallic staples, the combination of the staple-guide
B, anvil At, spring D, and reciprocating driver, provided with the knob
G, the whole arranged to operate substantially as and for the purpose set
forth,"it must, in view of the language of the claims, and of the state of
the art, and of the limitations imposed by the Patent Office, in allowing
those claims, be held, that the staple-support or anvil is required to be
stationary, and the slotted or recessed hammer or driver to be reciprocating.
In the "Victor tool" the anvil is movable and the hammer or driver is stationary.

BILL ix EQuITY to restrain alleged infringement of letterspatent, and for an accounting. Decree for complainants. Respondent appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.

31r. Hector . Fenton for appellant.
3Dr. Joshua Ptsey for appellees.
MR. JusTicE BLATCHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by Isaac W.
Heysinger, Christian H. Hershey, and J. Loren Heysinger,
against James P. Crawford, founded on the alleged infringement of reissued letters-patent No. 9803, granted July 12, 1881,

to George V. Heyl, assignee of Henry R. Heyl, the inventor,
for an "improvement in devices for inserting metallic staples,"
the application for the reissue having been filed May 10, 1881.
and the original patent, No. 195,603, having been granted to
Henry R. Heyl, September 25, 1877, on an application filed
September 20, 1877. Henry R. Heyl assigned the original
patent to George V. Heyl, March 20, 1878, and George V.
Heyl assigned the reissued patent to the plaintiffs, November
23, 1881. This bill was filed June 9, 1883. The answer of the
defendant sets up as defences the invalidity of the reissue, want
of novelty, and non-infringement. After issue joined, proofs
were taken, and the Circuit Court, in November, 1883, entered

CRAWFORD v. IIEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

an interlocutory decree, adjudging the reissued patent to be
valid as respects claims 1 and 2, and that those claims had
been infringed by the defendant, and awarding a perpetual injunction, and referring it to a master to take an account of
profits and damages. On his report, a final decree was entered, in May, 1884, in favor of the plaintiffs, for $225.75 damages and for costs.
In order to consider any question involved as to the reissue,
it is necessary to compare the specifications of the original and
reissued patents. They are here placed in parallel columns,
the parts of each which are not found in the other being in
italics, the drawings in the two being substantially alike, with
only immaterial differences in the lettering:
Original.
"To all whom it may concern: Be it known tha'; I,
Henry R. Heyl, of the city
and county of Philadelphia
and State of Pennsylvania,
have invented a new and useful improvement in paper-fasteners, which improvement is
fully set forth in the following
specification and accompanying drawings, in which Figures
1 and 5 are side elevations of
the fastener embodying my
invention. Fig. 2 is a vertical
section in line x x,Fig. 1. Fig.
3 is a side elevation, partly sectional. Fig. 4 is a horizontal
section in line y y, Fig. 1.
Similar letters of reference
indicate corresponding ,parts
in the several figures.
"1My invention consists of
an implement of the form of

Reissue.

"To all whom it may concern: Be it known that !,
Henry R. Heyl, of the city
and county of Philadelphia
and State of Pennsylvania.
have invented a new and useful improvement in paper-fasteners, which improvement is
fully set forth in the following
specification and accompanying drawings, in which Figures
1 and 5 are side elevations of
the fastener embodying my
invention. Fig. 2 is a vertical
section in line x x,Fig. 1. Fig.
3 is a side elevation, partly sectional. Fig. 4-is a horizontal
section in line y y, Fig. 1.
Similar letters of reference
indicate corresponding parts
in the several figures.
"M y invention consists of
an implement of the form of

592

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Fl r-61L=j

-Rff-7

-mg-8.

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

a hand-stamp, by which metallic staples may be forced
through sheets of paper documents, and secured by clinchingd.the legs on the reverse
side.
"Referring to the drawings,
A represents a stationary anvil, which is secured to or
formed with an arm rising
from a suitable stand of convenient form for use upon a
writing-desk; and B represents a sliding guide-block
fitted to the anvil A by a
sliding joint, and having
grooves C C, which match
with the tongue of the anvil,
the upper face 'of the block
being fiat. The normal position of the guide B is elevated,
and, in order to keep it in this
position, or from dropping
prematurely, I employ a
spring, D, which may press
up under the guide, or a
spring, DI, which may press
against it, and thus produce
the necessary friction. E represents a reciprocating driver,
whose under face is fiat, and
in the same is a c6ncave recess, F, said driver having a
knob, G,. for receiving the
blows of the hand, and provided with a spring, H, for
causing the return or elevation of the driver.
voL. cxxm-38

a hand-stamp, by which metallic staples may be forced
through sheets of paper or
documents, and secured by
clinching the legs on the reverse side.
"Referring to the drawings,
A trepresents a stationary anvil, which is secured to or
formed with an arm rising
from a suitable stand of convenient form for use upon a
writing-desk; and B represents a sliding guide-block
fitted to the anvil A' by a
sliding joint, and having
grooves C 0, which match
with the tongue of the anvil,
the upper face of the -block
being fiat. The normal position of the guide B is elevated,
and, in order to keep it in this
position, or from dropping
prematurely, I employ a
spring, D, which may press
up under the guide, or a
spring, D', which may press
against it, and thus produce
the necessary friction. E represents a reciprocating driver,
whose under face is fiat, and
in the same is a concave recess, F, said driver having a
knob, G, for receiving the
blows of the hand, and provided with a spring, H, for
causing the return or elevation of the driver.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"The operation is as follows:
A staple is placed within the
grooves C C, with its crown
resting on the anvil A, the
points thus being upward.
The papers to be united are
now placed upon the face of
the guide B over the staplepoints, and, by a sharp blow
of the hand upon the knob G,
the driver is forced downward
upon the papers. -he guide
B gives way, and the staplelegs come up through the papers into the recess F, where
they are bent overpreparatory
to the f#nal clinching. The
hand is now releasedfrom the
knob of the driver, the latter
then rising, and the papers
are drawn somewhat forward,
.until the staple-crown rest&
,upon thefave of the guide B,
when another blob is imparted
to the driver, and the ftat portion of its face descendsforcibly on the staple-legs, so as to
bend the latter close to the paper, thus completing the operation.
"It will be seen that the
grooves G C serve to support
and guide the staple-legs during their penetration through
the papers, and the recess F is
so shaped that, as the staplelegs enter thereinto, they will
strike the concave or slanting

"The operation is as follows:
A staple is placed within the
grooves C C, with its crown
resting on the anvil A', the
points thus being turned toward the bending recess F.
The papers to be united are
now placed beneath the di-iver,
and, by -a sharp blow of the
hand upon the knob G, the
driver is forced downward
upon the papers. The staplelegs come through the papers
into the recess F, where they
are bent over by the slanting
ends thereof.

"It will be seen that. the
grooves C C serve to support
and guide the staple-legs during their penetration through
the papers, and the recess F is
so shaped that, as the staplelegs enter thereinto, they will
strike the concave or slanting

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

walls of said recess, and thus walls of said recess, and thus
be bent inward toward each
other sujflciently to insure
their being bent down properly
wzhen again struck between the
faces of the guide B and driver
E. A plate, a, may be advantageously employed to overlap'
the staple-crown, for preventing the latter from bizding
while the legs are being forced
through the papers.

be bent inward toward each
other, as shown in Figs. 2 and
3. A plate, a, may be advantageously employed to overlap
the staple-crown, for preventing the latter from bending
while the legs are being forced
through the papers.

"It will be seen that the
staple-suportor anvil A', with
the slotted or recessed hammer, operates to insert a staple
through layers of stock to be
united, and simultaneously
bends over its projecting ends.
"In my original speoifieation I described the further
separate operationof completely fattening down the ends of
the staple thus bent over, by a
second blow between the uffer
and lower jaw of the implement, believing that tde same
was new; but I* have since
learned that the same result
was obtained by devices described in previous letterspatent of the United States.
Should the legs of the staple,
when bent over by the same
bloo which drives the same, as
is hereinabove described, be
found not to lie sufticiently
close to -the surface of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

,paper,the same may befurther
flattened down by a second blow
between jlt surfaces in front
of the stapl-channel and bendingrecessrespectivelyprovided
therfor.

"Figs. 1, 2, and 3 show a
hand-stamp embodying my invention, in which the driver
recprocatesin axfixed head in
the manner of ayplunger, while
Fig.5 shows the same invention
embodied in a hand-stamp, in
which the driver is mounted
at the end of a vibrating arm
pivoted at its rear extremity
to the base, which Pests upon,
the table. -It will be seen that
the devices which constitute my
invention are to be found in
both these modifications, and
that both operate in _preisely
the same manner, to insert by
a blow upon the knob G of the
hand-stamp, the staple through
layers of stock to be united, and
simultaneously bend over the
projecting ends in the opposite
bendiftg recess provided therefor.

"Having thus described my
invention, what I claim as new',
and desire to secure by letterspatent, is"1. The rec procatingdriver
, constructed with aflat face
recessed, substantially as described, whereby the _projecting

"Having thus described my
invention, what I claim as new,
and desire to secure by letterspatent, is"1. The combination of the
stationary staple-support o'r
anvil A', and the sliding stapleguide B, with the rec procat-

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

ends of staples may be first ing slotted or recessedhammer,
bent over by ente;ing the recess operating to insert v, staple
and then flattened down by through layers of stock to be
united, and simultaneously
pressurefrom thefat face.
bend over its projecting ends,
substantially as and for the
purpose setforth.
". In a device for inserting
"2. 7e seof-adjustingguidestaples, the combinametallic
staple-guiding
having
B,
block
the staple-guid B,
of
tion
face,
flat
a
and
grooves CC
ipon which to complete the anvil A', spring -D, and reci4clinchingof the staple, substan- rocatingdriver,provided with
tially as and for the PuTose the knob G, the whole arranged
to operate substantially as and
set forth.
for the purpose setforth.
"3. A staple-inserting im"3. The combination of the
stationary staple-svpport oir' plement having two opposite
anvil A with the slidingguide jaws arrangedwith relation to
B, grooved toyartiallyembrace each, other, substantially as
and guide the staple-legs, sub- shown, one of whieh is prostantially as andfo'r the pur- vided with, a recess, the other
with a vertically channelled
pose set forth.
staple-guide, an anvil, and a
-pring,so that, when the jaws
are separated, after driving a
staple, the guide will be open
for the receptionof the succeed-

i ng staple, substantially as
"4. The combination of the
stationary staple-support or
anvil A with the reciprocating
slotted or recessed hammer,
operating to insert a stple
through layers of stock to be
wunited, and simultaneously
bend over its projecting ends,
substantially as and for the

described.
"4. An implementfor inserting metallic staples, consisting

of two opposite jaws, one of
which is providedwith a staplebending recess, and the other
with staple-guidinggrooves and
an anvil fitted thereto, in combinationwith a knob to receive
the blow of the hand and insert

OCTOBER TERM3,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose setforth."

a staple by a suddenpercussion,
substantially as described.
"6. In, a staole-inserting
machine constructed to operate
substantially as described, the
staple-guiding block B, having
staple-holding grooves CC,
formiing side exeMnsions of the
vertical slot , substantially as
shown and described.
"6. An implementfor inserting metallic staples, consisting
of two opposite jaws, one of
which isyrovided'with a staplebending recess, and the other
withastaple-guidinggrooves and
an anvil ftted therein, the said
jaws being arrangedto be separated and stand apart, to
admit the requisite manipulation for conveniently placing
a staple in the open end of the
staple-guidinggrooves, substantially as set forth.
"7. .Te combination of the
stationary staple-support or
anvil A' with the sliding-guide
B, grooved topartiallyembrace
and guide the staple-legs, substantiallyas and for the purpose set forth.
"8. In an, implement for
inserting metallic staples, a
reciprocating driver provided
'with a knob to receive the blow
of the hand, in, combination
with a grooved staple-guiding
block and an anvil attached to

CRAWFORD v. iIEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

a stand of conenientformfor
se zpon a writing-desk, the
said stand having an arrn
arising therefrom, and over
and above it a guide for the
-urpose of guiding the said
driver to the said anvi, substantialb/ as and for the purpose set forth."
The differences which thus appear in the descriptive parts of
the specification are these:
In the original, in stating the operation of the machine, it is
said that the points of the staple point "upward" when the
staple is within the grooves. In the reissue, it is stated that
those points are "turned toward the bending recess F."
In the original, it is said that the papers to be united are
"placed upon the face of the guide B over the staple-points:"
In the reissue, it is said that the papers to be united are placed
"beneath the driver."
In the original, it is said that "the guide B gives way, and
the staple-legs come up though the papers into the recess F,
where they are bent over preparatory to the final clinching."
In the reissue, it is said that "the staple-legs come through the
papers into the recess F, where they are bent over by the
slanting ends thereof."
The original then contains the following statement, which
is wholly omitted in the reissue: "The hand is now released
from the knob of the driver, the latter then rising, and the
papers are drawn somewhat forward, until the staple-crown
rests upon the face of the guide B, when another blow is imparted to the driver, and the flat portion of its face descends
forcibly on the staple-legs, so as to bend the latter close to the
paper, thus completing the operation."
The reissue omits the statement of the original, that, as the
staple-legs strike the slanting walls of the recess, they will be
bent inward toward each other sufficiently to insure their being
bent down properly when again struck between the faces of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the guide B and driver E, and substitutes the statement, that,
when the staple-legs strike the slanting walls of the recess they
will be bent inward toward each other, as shown in Figures 2
and 3.
The following sentence, not in the original, is found in the
reissue: "It will be seen that the staple- upport or anvil A',
with the slotted or recessed hammer, operates to insert a staple
through layers of stock to be united, and simultaneously bends
over its projecting ends."
The specification of the reissue then states that the separate
operation described in the original, of flattening down by a
second blow the ends of the staple when bent over, was not
new, but that the legs of the staple, if not laid sufficiently
close to the surface of the paper, when bent over by the driving blow, may be further flattened down by a second blow
between flat surfaces.
Figure 5 of the drawings, though contained in the drawings
of the original patent, was not described or referred to in the
original specification, but the reissued specification speaks of
Figures 1, 2, and 3 as showing a hand-stamp in which the
driver reciprocates in a fixed head in the manner of a plunger,
while Figure 5 shows a hand-stamp in which the driver is
mounted at the end of a vibrating arm, pivoted at its rear
extremity to the base which rests upon the table; that the
devices which constitute the invention are found in both of
these modifications; and that both operate to insert, by a blow
upon the knob G of the hand-stamp, a staple through layers
of stock to be united, and to simultaneously bend over the projecting ends in the opposite bending recess provided therefor.
On the question of novelty, the alleged prior invention principally relied upon is a patent of the United States, No.
187,189, granted to George L. Ward and Orianna S. Smyth,
assignees of James 0. Smyth, February 6, 1877, for an
improvement in machines for stitching books with staples."
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, accompanying the record,
held that the patented invention was not anticipated by that
of Smyth; that claims I and 2 of the reissue were substantially the same as claim 4 of the original patent, when the

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

latter claim was read in the light of the specification; and that
the defendant's device infringed claims 1 and 2 of the reissue.
Claim 1 of the reissue is for a combination of (1) the stationary staple-support or anvil; (2) the sliding staple-guide; and
(3) the reciprocating slotted or r.cessed hammer or driver; the
conjoined operation of the three being to insert a staple
through layers of stock to be united, and to simultaneously
bend over its projecting ends. Claim 2 of the reissue is for a
combination with the same three elements, of (4) the spring ID,
and (5) the knob G. Claim 4 of the original patent was for a
combination of only two of these elements, namely, (1) the
stationary staple-support or anvil and (2) the reciprocating
slotted or recessed hammer or driver. It left out the sliding
staple-guide, and yet the claim stated that the combination of
the two elements, without the staple-guide, would operate to
insert the staple and shnultaneously bend over its projecting
ends. It would, however, wholly fail to so operate without the
use of the sliding staple-guide. The use and operation of the
sliding staple-guide, its arrangement so as to slide, the use of
the spring D to keep it in its normal elevated position, so that
it will not drop prematurely, and the use of the knob G, with
which to impel the driver, are fully set forth in the original
specification, and described as necessary, 1- combination with
the stationary staple-support and the reciprocating slotted or
recessed hammer, to insert a staple through layers of stock.
and simultaneously bend over its projecting ends; and the
invention is stated, in the original specification, to consist in a
hand-stamp by which metallic staples may be forced through
sheets of "paper documents" and secured by clinching the
legs on the reverse side. We do not find it necessary, however, to decide whether the reissue is to be considered a proper
one, so far as claims 1 and 2, rightly construed, are concerned,
on the view that it'iwas an inadvertence, accident, or mistake
to have left out of claim 4 of the original the elements which,
by the description in the original specification, were made
necessary to the performance of the operatioA specified in that
claim. We dispose of the case on the assumption that the
reissued patent is valid as respects claims 1 and 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

What is the proper construction of those claims ? In claim
1, the staple-support or anvil is described as being "stationa1y," and the slotted or recessed hammer or driver as being
"reciprocating?' In claim 2, the anvil must be regarded as a
"stationary" anvil, and the hammer or driver is expressly
stated to be "reciprocating." In claim 4 of the original, the
staple-support or anvil is said to be "stationaxy," and the
slotted or recessed hammer to be "reciprocating." So in claim
1 of the original, the driver is said to be "reciprocating," and
in claim 3 of the original the staple-suppo{t or anvil is said to
be "stationary." In the description in the original specification, the anvil is described as being "a stationary anvil," and
the hammer or driver as being "a reciprocating driver." In
the specification of the reissue, the staple-support is described
as being "a stationary anvil," and the driver or hammer as
being "a reciprocating driver."
The file-wrapper and contents in the matter of the reissue
are part of the evidence in the case, and throw light upon
what should be the proper construction of claims 1 and 2. The
application for the reissue was filed May 10, 1881. In the application as then presented eleven claims were proposed, the
first and ninth of which were as follows:
"1. The staple-guide B, driving head A', operating therein,
recessed bendifig block E, spring D, and knob G, combined and
operating substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
"9. The combination of the anvil or driving head A' with
the reciprocating slotted or recessed hammer, operating to insert a staple through layers of stock to be united, and simultaneously bend over the projecting ends, substantially as and for
the purpose set forth."
On the 12th of May, 1881, the applicant cancelled claims 1
and 9, and converted claim 9 into a new claim 1, and claim 1
into a new claim 2, as follows:
"1. The combination of the stationary staple-support or anvil A' with the reciprocating slotted or recessed hammer,
operating to insert a staple through layers of stock to be
united, and simultaneously bend over its projecting ends, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

CRAWFORD

v. HEYSINGER.

Opinion of the Court.

"2. In a device for inserting metallic staples, the combination of th6 staple-guide B, anvil A', operating therein, spring
D, recess F, and knob G, the whole arranged to operate substantially as and for the purpose described."
On the 14th of May, 1881, the examiner notified the appJicant as follows: "Upon further consideration of this matter,
in connection with amended specification, applicant is advised
that the 1st clause of claim does not present an operative combination of mechanical devices for the purpose stated. It is
obvious that without a staple-holding device the parts enumerated would be inoperative, in view of which a staple-holding
device should be included. In reference to the 2d and 3d
clauses of claim, the statement that the anvil operates in the
guide-block is unwarranted, inasmuch as the anvil is stationary
and the guide-block slides up and down upon the anvil. With
proper correction as to this point, the 2d and 3d clauses of
claim may be allowed."
On the 31st of May, 1881, the applicant adopted the suggestions of the examiner and amended claim 1 by inserting after
the words "stationary staple-support or anvil A," the words
"and the sliding staple-guide B," and amended claim 2 by cancelling the words "operating therein," so that claims 1 and 2
then read as follows:
"1. The combination of the stationary staple-support or
anvil A' and the sliding staple-guide B with the reciprocating
slotted or recessed hammer, operating to insert astaple through
layers of stock to be united, and simultaneously bend over its
projecting ends, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"2. In a device for inserting metallic staples, the combination of the staple-guide B, anvil A', spring D, recess F, and
knob G, the whole arranged to operate substantially as and for
the purpose described."
On the 4th of June, 1881, the examiner notified the applicant as follows: "Upon further consideration of this matter,
in connection with the last amendment, it is obvious that the
' recess F' should not form an element of the mechanical combination, 4s such recess is a provision of the ' hammer' referred
to in the first clause of claim, and such recess is not an operative element independent of such hammer."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 14th oit June, 1881, the applicant made further
amendments, leaving claim 1 as last recited, and as it is
found in the reissued patent, and amending claim 2, as last
recited, by striking out the words "recess F," so that it read
as follows :
"2. In a device for inserting metallic staples, the combination of the staple-guide B,anvil A', spring D, and knob G,the
whole arranged to operate substantially as and for the purpose
described."
On the 15th of June, 1881, the examiner notified the applicant as follows: "Upon further consideration of this matter,
with a view to final action, the 2d clause of claim is found defective, in the absence of any mechanical combination between
the 'knob G' and the other elements included in the combination. To obviate this objection a 'reciprocating driver' should
be added to the combination."
On the 18th of June, 1881, the applicant amended claim 2
by substituting for the words "and knob G" the words "and
reciprocating driver provided with the knob G," so that the
claim, as thus amended, read as follows, the same as claim 2 in
the reissued patent:
"12. In a device for inserting metallic staples, the combination of the staple-guide B, anvil A', spring D,, and reciprocating driver provided with the knob G, the whole arranged to
operate substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
From these proceedings in the Patent Office, in regard to the
allowance of claims 1 and 2 of the reissued patent, it is apparent that the applicant carefully limited himself, in those claims,
to a stationary staple-support or anvil and a reciprocating
slotted or recessed hammer or driver. This result must also
follow in view of the devices existing in the various prior
patents introduced in evidence, showing the state of the art.
The various elements entering into the combinations of claims
1 and 2 of the reissue were old, considered singly. The recessed
clinching base was old; the driver in the staple case was old;
the combination of those two devices in a power machine was
old. The J. 0. Smyth machine was a hand-lever machine, and
contained in combination all the elements of the Heyl device,

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.

Orinion of the Court.

though differently arranged. In both the Smyth and the Heyl
devices there are means of forcing out a staple from a case by
a contained plunger, and bending the legss against a concave
recess. In view of this Smyth machine, the plaintiffs' expert
stated that the novelty of the Heyl devices consisted particularly "in the automatic adjustment to various thicknesses of
paper, by means of which, without any added parts, the jaws
are adapted to grip and hold all thicknesses of paper while being stapled and clinched; in their capacity for being opened to
allow the eye to see the staple while being inserted by hand at
the open end of the staple case, whereby a length of staple
may be adapted or selected to suit the material; in the retracting spring to keep the staple case constantly open for a new
staple; in a hand knob for driving down the plunger; and in
the general construction and adaptation of all the parts to be
used as a light, portable desk tool, low in price, simple in construction and operation, and of universal use."
In prior devices, the clinching part was the base and the inserting device was above it. This arrangement did not permit
of the proper support of the staple in the tube. ileyl-reversed
the position of the parts, and placed the inserting device on
the base, so that the staple could be inserted by hand into the
open mouth of the tube, and be supported, until it should be
driven, by the tube and its contained driver, this reversal of
the parts necessitating the use of a spring underneath, to support the tube and keep it above the end of the driving blade,
or of a spring at the side to press against the guide and keel)
it in place by friction. Claims 1 and 2 of the reissued patent
must, therefore, be limited to the specific combinations and arrangements of parts described and shown in the specification
and drawings, and enumerated in those claims. The staplesupport or anvil must be stationary, and the slotted or recessed
hammer or driver must be reciprocating.
In the defendant's device, called the "Victor tool," the
anvil or staple blade is movable, and the recessed clinching
base is fixed or stationary. It is a device constructed under
and in accordance with letters-patent No. 218,227, granted to
William J. Brown, Jr., August 5,1879, and a second patent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 260,365, granted to the same person Xuly 4, 1882.
drawings of No 260,365 are as follows:

The

7?~h

An expert for the plaintiffs testifies, that he regards the
lower part of the defendant's device, which is fixed or stationary and contains the clinching cavity, and resists the driving
and clinching blow of the hand from the opposite part of the
tool, as the equivalent for the "reciprocating driver provided
with the knob G," mentioned in claim 2 of the reissue. As
the defendant's tool is constructed with the stationary recessed
clinching base made to rest upon a table, and to receive the
impact from above of the detached driving tool, it is a misnomer to say that such stationary base is the mechanical
equivalent of the reciprocating driver E of the IHeyl patent.
The patentee having imposed -words of limitation upon himself in his claims, especially when so required by the Patent
Office in taking out his reissue, is bound by such limitations,
in subsequent suits on the reissued patent. Such have been
the uniform decisions of -his court, in like cases. Leggett v.
Avery, 101 U. S. 256; Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Co. v.

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

-Davis, 102 U. S. 222, 228; Fay v. Cordesman, 109 U. S. 408;
JIa]tn v. Harwood, 112 T. S. 354, 359; Cartb4dge Co. v. Cartridge Co., 112 U. S. 624, 64.4; Sargent v. HZall Sa e & Lock
Co., 114 U. S. 63; hepardv. Carrigan,116 U. S. 593; 1Ehite
v. 2)2unbar, 119 U. S. 47; Sutter v. Robinson, 119 U. S. 530;
Bragg v. Fitch, 121 U. S. 418 ; Snow v. Lake aore Railway
Co., 121 U. S. 617.
Assuming, therefore, that claims 1 and 2 of the reissued
patent are valid, they are to be construed as covering only
the precise combinations enumerated in them and described in
the specification and shown in the draiwings; and they do not
cover the defendant's device, which has a stationary recessed
clincher and a movable detached staple-inserting tool, because
claims 1 and 2 of the reissued patent expressly call for a
reciprocating clincher and a statiohary staple-supporting anvil.
Those elements, in those forms, in claims I and 2, were made
necessary by the requirements of the Patent Office, before it
would grant the reissue, and the applicant, having voluntarily
made the limitations, is bound by them.
Although, in the proofs, the plaintiffs undertook to show
that three other claims of the reissued patent, in addition to
claims 1 and 2, were infringed by the "Victor tool," the Circuit
Court, in its interlocutory decree, states that it considered only
claims 1 and 2; and, as the decree holds those claims alone to
be valid and to have been infringed, and the master's report
and the finat decree apply only to those claims, and the counsel for the plaintiffs does not contend, in his brief, that any
other claim is infringed, we necessarily have confined our consideration of the case to those two claims, leaving all questions
as to every other claim of the reissued patent entirely open
for consideration in a case which may involve them.
The decree of the Circuit Court is 'eversed, and the case is
remanded to that court with a direction to dismiss the bill
of cwnpaint.

