LE SASSIER v. KENNEDY.
Syllabus.

court as the equivalent of the assignment required by the
statute.
The brief contains no specification of errors such as is
required by the rule, and there is no statement of the case
presenting the questions involved, or the manner in which
they are raised. In the argument there is no reference to the
pages of the record relied on to support the points which are
made. Not only is there a failure to quote the full substance
of the evidence admitted or rejected, of which complaint is
made, but even the .names of the several witnesses upon
whose testimony the objections rest are not mentioned. In
short, to get at the matter which is complained of, we must
hunt through what is called a "proposed statement on appeal
and-motion for a new trial," filling thirty pages-of the record,
with nothing in the brief to aid us in the search. This we
are unwilling to do. In the present crowded state of our
docket, we must insist on a reasonable compliance with the
rules which have been adopted to facilitate the investigation
of cases and help us in our work.
We therefore dismiss the case, under ยง 5 of Rule 21, for
want of an assignment of errors and of a brief such as is
required by the rules.
.Dimissed.
LE SASSIER v. KENNEDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

Argued Xovember 7, 1887.- Decided December 5, 1837.
A sold to B shares in a national bank, and signed a transfer on the books of
the company, leaving the name of the transferee blank. After it was
known that the bank was embarrassed, B sold the shares to C, an irresponsible person, and filled his name in in the blank. A, being subse-quently adjudged liable as shareholder under the national banking law
in a suit brought by the receiver,
paid the judgment and brought
suit in the Supreme Court of Louisiana against B for neglect of duty
in failing to insert his name in the transfer. He7d, that the case did not
arise under the National Banking Act, and that therefore no Federal
question was involved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

TiE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
I&. Enoc. Totten for plaintiff in error.
ler filed a brief for same.

-Yr.HenY C. JMil-

Xr. IT, Hallett Pillipsfor defendant in error. -Mr. 7ames
efcConnell was with him on the brief.
M . CHIEF JusTiOn. WAiTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
At the hearing of this cause a motion was made to dismiss
the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that
no Federal question was involved in the decision below. This
motion will be first considered. The facts as disclosed by the
record are as follows:
On the 24th of February, 1873, Le Sassier & Binder sold
to Samuel H. Kennedy at New Orleans, through his broker,
E. .. Feinour, forty shares of the capital stock of the Crescent
City National Bank, and in accordance with the prevailing
custom at that place upon such sales, signed a transfer of the
shares, sold upon the transfer book of the bank, leaving the
name of the transferee blank. On the 15th of March Kennedy sold the same stock to Thomas A. Adams, a responsible
person, but at the request of the purchaser the transfer on the
books of the bank w:,- made to Morris Dyer, who was irresponsible, by writing his name in the blank left for the name
of the transferee in the assignment which had been signed by
Le Sassier & Binder. The bank was known to be embarrassed
March 14, and on the 17th of that month it closed its doors,
and soon afterwards a receiver was appointed, under the national banking act, by the Comptroller of the Currency. On
the 1st of August, 1874, the receiver, by direction of the Comptroller, brought a suit against the shareholders, to enforce their
individual liability for the debts of the bank, under ยง 5151 of
the Revised Statutes. To this suit Kennedy was made a party
as the holder of the shares which had been sold to him as above.
He appeared and filed an answer, setting up his sale to Adams
as a defence. Upon the hearing a final decree was rendered

LE SASSIER v. KENNEDY.
Opinion of the Court.

June 2, 18W6, dismissing the bill as to him. A suit was then
brought by the receiver against Le Sassier & Binder, alleging
that they were the owners of the stock at the time of the failure of the bank. They notified Kennedy that this suit had
been begun, and that if their defence failed they should fall
back on him, and hold him for whatever amount they might
be compelled to pay " on stock which, from February 21,1873,
they had ceased to own, and had transferred to him." In the
answer of Le Sassier & Binder they set up the sale to Kennedy as a defence to the action. At the final hearing a judgment was rendered against them on the pleadings and proofs,
May 16, 1879, for $2800, and interest at five per cent per
annum from July 23, 1874. This judgment they paid, and
then brought the present suit against Kennedy to recover from
him the amount of their payment.
In the petition it was alleged that, upon the sale of the
stock to Kennedy and the signing of the transfer on the books
of the bank, it became his duty to insert his name in the blank
left for that purpose, and that they had been compelled to pay
the judgment in favor of the receiver' owing to the conduct
of the said Kennedy in not causing his name to be inserted in
the transfer book aforesaid as transferee of said stock, and
preserving in said transfer book of said bank, contrary to his
obligation and duty, the said transfer in blank, with your
petitioners' name signed thereto, from the time of said saleto him until said . . . bank failed, and owing to the other
acts of the said . . . Kennedy in the premises by which
he subjected your petitioners to a liability which was his own,
and which he should have met; that his said conduct and acts
were violative of his obligations in the premises and your
petitioners' rights; were unlawful, illegal, and have caused to
your petitioners loss and damage to the extent of
said amount paid by them."
From this statement of the case it is apparent that the suit
was not brought against Kennedy to enforce any liability of
his under the national banking act. That liability was disposed of in the suit of the receiver against him for its enforcement. Neither do Le Sassier & Binder claim under the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1887.
Syllabus.

receiver, nor are they seeking to enforce the liability of Kennedy as a shareholder. Their claim, and their only claim,
against him is for his failure to insert his own name, or that
of some other responsible person, in the blank which had been
left by them in the transfer they signed on the books of the
bahk for the stock he had bought. His obligation to them, if
any there is, grows out of his cQntract with them as a purchaser, and not out of the banking law. That presents no
Federal question. There is nothing in that law which makes
it his duty to save his assignors from harm by reason of their
former ownership, or which required him to register his ownership for their protection.
Neither is it at all important that, in its opinion, the Supreme Court of the State expressed a doqbt as to the correctness of the judgment against le Sassier & Binder. That
judgment, as it stood, was conclusive on that point, and if
Kennedy had been liable to them at all, it would have been
for the amount adjudged, because he had been called upon to
defend if he desired to do so. He was discharged, not because
the judgment was wrong, but because he had not, in the opinion of the court, been guilty of any neglect of duty towards
those against whom it was rendered, which would make him
liable to them therefor.
The notion to d~sriss is granted.

NEW YORK, LAVKE ERIE AND WES't ERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. MADISON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT C&M.T OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

imHE

NORTHERN DIS'TRICT OF OHIO.Argued 'November 11, 1SS7.-Deelded Decembef5, 187.

If the jury return a verdict for the plaintiff after the court in its charge
instructs th"m to " disregard altogether" evidence on the plaintiff's part,
which had been improperly introduced and had been excepted to, the
defendant 6annot assign error here in this respect.

