OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

the passage hereof except as otherwise expressly provided in
this act."
This, in our opinion, relates only to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court and the disposition of the suit on its merits; and
has no reference to the jurisdiction of this court under the act
of 1S75 for the review by appeal or writ of error of an order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause. That was "expressly provided" for in the last paragraph of § 2 of the act
of 1887, in which it was enacted that "whenever any cause
shall be removed from any state court into any Circuit Court
of the United States, and fhe Circuit Court shall decide that
the cause was improperly removed, and order the same to be
remanded to the state court from whence it came, such remand
shall be immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or
writ of error from the decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such cause shall be allowed." This provision, when taken
in connection with the repeal by § 6 of the last paragraph of
§ 5 of the act of 1875, shows umnistakably an intention on
the part of Congress to take away all appeals and writs of
error to this court from orders thereafter made by Circuit
Courts, remanding suits which had been removed from a state
court, and this whether the suit was begun and the removal
had before or after the act of 1887.
The motion to dismiss is granted.

SANDS v. MANqISTEE RIVER IMPROVEMENT COM1PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued October 31, 1837.-Decided November 14, 1887.

The exaction of tolls, under a state statute, for the use of an improved natural waterway is not within the prohibition of the Constitution of the
United States that no State shall deprive a person of his property without due process of law.
The internal commerce of a State, that is, the commerce which is wholly

SANDS v. MANISTEE RIVER IBIP. CO.
Statement of the Case.
confined within its limits, Is as much under its control as foreign or interstate commerce is under the control of the national government; and to
encourage the growth of this commerce and render it safe, States may
provide for the removal of obstructions from their rivers and harbors, and
deepen their channels, and improve them in other ways, and levy a general tax or toll upon those who use the improvement to meet their cost;
provided the free navigation of the waters, as permitted under and by
the laws of the Us ited States, is not impaired, and provided any system
for the improvement of their navigation, provided by the general government, is not defeated.
There was no contract in the fourth article of the Ordinance of 1787 respecting the freedom of the navigable waters of the territory northwest of the
Ohio River emptying into the St. Lawrence, which bound the people of
the territory, or any portion of it, when subsequently formed into a State
and admitted into the Union; but from the very conditions on which the
States formed out of that territory were admitted into the Union, the
provisions of the Ordinance became inoperative, except as adopted by
them.
Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, affirmed.

THE plaintiff below was a corporation organized under a
statute of Michigan for the improvement of Manistee River,
a stream wholly within that State. The present action was
brought to collect from the defendant the amount of tolls
levied for the use, in the years 1878, 1879, 1880, and 1881, of
the river as improved. The improvements consisted in the
removal of obstacles to the floating of logs and lumber down
the stream, principally by cutting new channels at different
points, and by confining the waters at other points by embanlnents. The statute, under which the plaintiff below was
organized, contained various provisions to secure a careful consideration of the improvements proposed, of their alleged
benefit to the public, and, if adopted, of their proper construction, and of the tolls to be charged for their use. The
company must first obtain the assent of the Governor and
of the Attorney General to the proposed improvements, and
then submit to the Board of Control designated a map of the
sections of the stream which it proposed to improve, and plans
showing the nature and character of the improvements. If, in
the opinion of the Board, the construction of the proposed
improvements would be a public benefit, and the company
was a proper one to make them, the Board was required to
VOL. cxxnr-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

endorse its approval upon the map and plans, give the eonsent of the State to their construction, and fix the time for their
completion. Upon such approval, the corporation was authorized to make the improvements; and, whenever they had
been completed to the satisfaction of the Board of Control, and
accepted, that body was to fix the rates of toll which tb
company might charge for running vessels, boats, rafts,
timber, logs, or lumber through the improved stream. These
rates were to be graduated with reference to the distance run
upon the river, and were not to be increased or changed without the consent of the Board, and could not be increased at
any time, so that they would amount to more than fifteen per
cent of the cost of the improvements after deducting necessary expenses and repairs. The collection of tolls was to be
confined strictly to that part of the river improved, and to
the floatable material benefited by the improvements. The
streams improved under the statute were to be opened to all
persons for the passage of vessels, boats, logs, rafts, timber,
and lumber, upon payment of the prescribed tolls; and uniform rates were to be charged.
The declaration alleged a compliance by the plaintiff below
with the requirements of the statute in its incorporation; in
obtaining the consent of the Governor and of the Attorney
General of the State to its proposed improvement of -Manistee
River; in submitting to the Board of Control the maps and
plans of the improvements; in obtaining its opinion that their
construction, as thus shown, would be a public benefit; that
the plaintiff was a proper company to make the improvements; and, also, its consent to the same on behalf of the
State, and its designation of the time within which they were
to be constructed. The declaration also set forth that the
improvements were made pursuant to the plans and within
the time required, with such changes and exceptions as were
authorized by the Board under the statute, and that when
they were completed and accepted, that body fixed the rates
of toll for the use of the river as improved, in running logs
and timber for the years 1879 to 1881, inclusive, those rates
Varying from five to fifteen cents per thousand feet, board

SANDS v. MANISTEE RIVER IMP. CO.
qtatement of the Case.

measure, according to the distance that the logs were to run
through different sections of the improved stream; that during the years mentioned, the defendant below floated down
the river, through .the portions improved, seventy-eight million seven hundred and eleven thousand feet of logs, board
measure, and became liable for the tolls fixed upon them,
amounting to $9253, to recover which the present action was
brought.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and gave notice of
several special defences. On the trial, the plaintiff established
the matters alleged by him in the declaration, but the evidence
offered by the defendant only tended to show that the measurement of the logs was excessive, and that the tolls receivable
were less by ten per cent than the amount claimed.
The defendant, however, contended, and requested the court
to instruct the jury in substance as follows:
First. That the statute of the State, under which the plaintiff was organized and the tolls were fixed, was in conflict with
the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, which declares that no State shall deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law, in authorizingfthe Board of Control to fix the rates of
toll without notice to the parties interested, or affording them
any opportunity of contesting the validity or propriety of such
tolls, either in the first instance or afterwards.
Second. That the statute in authorizing the improvements
of rivers and the collection of tolls for them was in conflict
with the clause of the Constitution of the United States which
declares that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts, in that it impairs the contract contained in
the Ordinance of 1787, "for the government of the territory
of the United States northwest of the river Ohio," giving to
the people of that territory the right to the free use of the
navigable waters leading into the St. Lawrence, without any
tax, impost, or duty therefor. The fourth article of that ordinance declares that, "The navigable waters leading into the
Mississippi and Saint Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be common highways and forever free,

OCTOBER TERMT,

1887.

Citations for Defendant in Error.

as well to the inhabitants of the said territory as to the citizens of the United States, and those of any other States that
may be admitted into the confederacy, without any tax,
impost, or duty therefor." But the court refused to give
these instructions or either of them; and the defendant excepted. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff for
$8731.88; upon which judgment was entered. On appeal,
the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
53 Mich. 593; and the case was brought here on writ of error.
.Abr. X. J. Smiley for plaintiff in error cited: S&nds v.
Mlfanistee River Improvement Co., 53 Mich. 593 ; Benjamin v.
Manistee .River Inprovement Co., 42 iMich. 628; .Xanistee
River Improvement Co. v. -LanTort,49 Mich. 442; .Xoor v.
Veazie, 32 Maine, 343; S. C, 52 Am. Dec. 655; Lorman v.
Benson, 8 Mich. 18; S. C, 77 Am. Dec. 435 ; -lorgan v. ZKing,
35 N. Y. 454; S. C, 91 Am. Dec. 58; Thunder Bay Booming
Co.v. S&eechly, 31 Mich. 336; L-a PlaisanceBay ,Harbor Co.
v. -3fonroe, Walker Oh. (Mich.) 155; foore v. Sanborne,2 Mich.
519; S. C. 59 Am. Dec. 209; San -fateo County v. Southern
PacifA Railroad, 13 Fed. Rep. 722; Burns v. .Multomah
Rcqilroad, 15 Fed. Rep. 177; Santa Clara County v. Southern
Paift6 Railroad, 18 Fed. Rep. 385; Stuart v. Palmer, 74
N. Y. 183; Lavin v. IndustrialSavings Bank, 18 Blatchford, 1;'
Ames v. Port Hudron Log Co., 11 Mict. 139; S. C. 83 Am.
Dec. 731; .Munn v. illinois,94 U. S. 113; Chicago, &o., Rail,roadv. Iowa, 94 U. S.155 ; Railroad Commission Cases, 116
U. S. 307, 331; People v. Brooklyn, 4. N. Y. 419; S. C. 55
Am. Dec. 266; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S.
691; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S.444; Velson v.
Cheboygan 2avigation Co., 44 Mich. 7; Stoeckle v. .Ellees, 37
Mich. 261.
.Ar. T'. J Ramsdell for defendant in error cited: -Escanaba
v. Chicago, 107 U. S.678; Huse v. Glover, 15 Fed. Rep. 292;
S. C on appeal, 119 U. S.543; TFoodman v. .Kilbourne Mfg.
Co., 1 Bissell, 549; JKelly v. Pittsburg, 104 U. S.78; Pollard
v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84;

SANDS v. MANISTEE RIVER BIP. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Willson v. Blackbird Creek 2farshl Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilman.
v. Philadelia,3 Wall. 713; Pound v. Turk, 95 IT. S. 459,
462; .J[obile v. BT imball, 102 U. S. 691; Benjamin v..3fanistee .Piver Tniprovement Co., 42 Mich. 028; -Nelson v. Cheboygain Slack l1ater .Navigation,Co., 44 Mich. 7, 10; Manistee
River -inprovernent Co. v. Lamport, 49 Mich. 442; Wisconsin, River haprovement Co. v. .Manson,43 Wis. 255; Spooner v.
Jircronneli,1 McLean, 337, 352; Palmer v. Cuyahoga County,
3 McLean, 226; Icellogg v. Union Co., 12 Conn. 7; Tihames Bank
v. lavel, 18 Conn. 500; S. . 46 Am. Dec. 332; Commissioners
of Sinking Fund v. Green and Barren River .avigation Co.,
89 Ky. 73; .JAReynoldsv. Smallhwuse, 8 Bush, 447; Carondelet
Canal Aravigation Co. v. Parker,29 La. Ann. 430; Packet Co.
v. Ifeok-uk, 95 U. S. 80; Packet Co. v. St. Louis, 100 U. S. 423;
Vick-sburg v. Tobin, 100 U. S. 430; Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,107
U. S. 691; San Nfateo County v. Southern Paitc Railroad,
13 Fed. Rep. 722; Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacifie
Railroad, 18 Fed. Rep. 385; Sears v. Cottrell, 5 Mich: 251;
feirner v. Bunbury, 30 Mich. 201; unn v. illinois, 94 U. S.
113; Peik v. Chicago, cfe., Railroad,94 U. S. 164; Hagarv.
Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, 707-712; Davidson v.
New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; .. affillen.v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37.
Mr..

JusTcC

FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, the defendant below, misapprehends
the purport of the provision that no .State shall deprive one of
property without due process of law, when he considers the
exaction of tolls under a statute for the use of an improved
waterway as a deprivation of property within its meaning.
There is no taking of property from him by such exaction
within the prohibition, any more than there is a taking of
property from a traveller, in requiring him to pay for his lodgings in a public inn. There is in such a transaction only an
exchange of money for its supposed equivalent. The tolls
exacted from the defendant are merely compensation for bene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fits conferred, by which the floating of his logs down the
stream was facilitated.
There is no analogy between the imposition of taxes and the
levying of tolls for improvement of highways; and any attempt
to justify or condemn proceedings in the one case, by reference
to those in the other, must be misleading. Taxes are levied for
the support of government, and their amount is regulated by
its necessities. Tolls are the compensation for the use of another's property, or of improvements made by him; and their
amount is determined by the cost of the property, or of the
improvements, and considerations of the return which such
values or expenditures should yield. The legislature, acting
upon information received, may prescribe, at once, the tolls to
be charged; but, ordinarily, it leaves their amount to be fixed
by officers or boards appointed for that purpose, who may prec
viously inspect the works, and ascertain the probable amount
of business which will be transacted by means of them, and
thus be more likely to adjust wisely the rates of toll in conformity with that business.

This subject, like a multitude of

other matters, can be better regulated by them than by the
legislature. In the administration of government, matters of
detail are usually placed under the direction of officials. The
execution of general directions of the law is left, in a great
degree, to their judgment and fidelity. Any other course
would be attended with infinite embarrassment.
. In authorizing the Board of Control to fix rates of toll for
the floating of logs and timber over the improved portions of
the Manistee River certain limits are prescribed to its action;
but within those limits the matter is left to its judgment. No
notice can be given to parties, who may have occasion to use
the stream, to attend before the Board and present their views
upon the tolls to be charged. Such parties cannot be known
in advance. The occasion for using the improved stream may
arise at any time in the year; perhaps after the tolls have
been established. The whole subject is one of administrative regulation, in which a certain amount of discretionary
authority is necessarily confided to officers entrusted with its
execution. Should there be any gross injustice in the rate of

SANDS v. MANISTEE RIVER IMP. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tolls fixed, it would not, in our system of government, remain
long uncorrected.
The Manistee River is wholly within the limits of Michigan.
The State, therefore, can authorize any improvement which in
its judgment will enhance its value as a means of transportation from one part of the State to another. The internal
commerce of a State -that is, the commerce which is wholly
confined within its limits - is as much under its. control as foreign or interstate commerce is under the control of the general
government; and, to encourage the growth of this commerce
and render it safe, the States may provide for the removal of
obstructions from their rivers and harbors, and deepen their
channels, and improve them in other ways, if, as is said in
County of -fobile v. Kimball, the free navigation of those
waters, as permitted under the laws of the United States, is
not impaired, or any system for the improvement of their
navigation provided by the general government is not defeated.
102 U. S. 691, 699. And to meet the cost of such improvements, the States may levy a general tax or lay a toll upon all
who use the rivers and harbors as improved. The improvements are, in that respect, like wharves and docks constructed
to facilitate commerce in loading and unloading vessels.
Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 548. Regulations of tolls or
charges in such cases are mere matters of administration,
under the entire control of the State.
There was no contract in the fourth article of the Ordinance
of 178-7 respecting the freedom of the navigable waters of the
territory northwest of the Ohio River emptying into the St.
Lawreice, which bound the people of the territory, or of any
portion of it, when subsequently formed into a State and
admitted into the Union.
The Ordinance of 1787 was passed a year and some months
before the Constitution of the United States went into operation. Its framers, and the Congress of the confederation
which passed it, evidently considered that the principles and
declaration of rights and privileges expressed in its articles
would always be of binding obligation upon the people of the
territory. The ordinance in terms ordains and declares that

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

its articles "shall be considered as articles of compact between
the original States and the people and States in the said territory, and forever remain unalterable unless by common consent." And for many years after the adoption of the Constitution, its provisions were treated by various acts of Congress
as in force, except as modified by such acts. In some of the
acts organizing portions of the territory under separate territorial governments, it is declared that the rights and privileges
granted by the ordinance are secured to the inhabitants of
those territories. Yet from the very conditions on which the
States formed out of that territory were admitted into the
Union, the provisions of the ordinance became inoperative
except as adopted by them. All the States thus formed were,
in the language of the resolutions or acts of Congress, "admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original States
inall respectM whatever." Michigan, on her admission, became,
therefore, entitled to and possessed of all the rights of sovereignty and dominion which belonged to the original States, and
could at any time afterwards exercise full control over its navigable waters except as restrained by the Constitution of the
United States and laws of Congress passed in pursuance thereof.
Permoli v. ]First 3ffunipiality o" .N'w Orlean, 3 How. 589,
600; Pollardv. Eagan, 3 How.212; EscanabaCo. v. Chicago,
107 U. S.678, 688; -an Brooklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S.151,
159; Yuse v. Glove; 119 U. S.543, 546.
But, independently of these considerations, there is nothing
in the language of the fourth article of the ordinance respecting the navigable waters of the territory emptying into the
St. Lawrence which, if binding upon the State, would prevent
it from authorizing the improvements made in the navigation
of the Manistee River. As we said in ffuse v. Glover, 119 U. S.
543, decided at the last term: "The provision of the clause,
that the navigable streams shall be highways without any tax,
impost, or duty, has reference to their navigation in their natural state. It did not contemplate that such navigation might
not be improved by artificial means, by the removal of obstructions, or by the making of dams fir deepening the waters, or
by turning into the rivers waters from other streams to increase

HITZ v. JENKS.
Syllabus.

their depth. For outlays caused by such works the State may
exact reasonable tolls.' 119 U. S. 548. And again: "By the
terms tax, impost, and duty, mentioned in the ordinance, is
meant a charge for the use 6f the govermnent, not compensation for improvements." Ibid. 549.
We perceive no error in the record, and
The judgment of the Sup'reme Court of Afticldgan must be
aJfirmed; and it is so ordered.

RUGGLES V. MANISTEE RIVER

Error to the

IMPROVE)IENT Co.

Supreme Court of the State of Michigan.
The same questions are presented as in Sands v. The Ilfanistee
River Imlprovement Co.; and, in conformity with the decision there
rendered, the judgment herein is
Afflrmed.
Mr'. X. J. Smiley for plaintiff in error.
AIR.

JUSTICE FIELD:

11r. T. J. Bamsdell for defendant in error.

HITZ v. JENKS.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUIBIA.
Argued October 21, 18S7. -Decided

November 14, 18S7.

Real estate in the District of Columbia, belonging to a mar "led woman before the act of April 10, 1869, c. 23, may be conveyed, by ueed voluntarily
executed and duly acknowledged by her husband and herself, to secure
the payment of a debt of his.
Under §§ 450-452 of the Revised, Statutes of the District of Columbia, a

certificate of the separate examination and acknowledgment of a married
woman, made in the prescribed form, and recorded with the deed exe-

cuted by her, cannot be controlled or avoided, except for fraud, by extrinsic evidence of the manner in which the magistrate performed his
duty.
A receiver of a national bank, appointed by the comptroller of the currency,
is not tqccountable in equity to the owner of real estate for rents

