COX v. WESTERN LAND AND CATTLE CO.

375

Opinion of the Court.

tions of the same class of crimes or offences," and the consolidation of two or more indictments found in such cases. Under
the present statute three separate offences, committed in the
same six months, may be joined, but not more, and when
joined there is to be a single sentence for all. That is the
whole scope and meaning of the provision, and there is nothing whatever in it to indicate an intention to make a single
continuous offence, and punishable only as such, out of what,
without it, would have been several distinct offences, each
complete in itself.
27e motion for a 'ule isdenied and the etition dismissed.

COX v. WESTERN LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED. STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 16, 18S7. -Decided

November 21,1887.

It appearing that the amount in controversy does not exceed five thousand
dolars, the writ of error is dismissed.

THIS was a motion to dismiss.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
Jfr. Alexander ยฃ31ccoy for the motion.
.Mb'. P. A. eliilds opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. delivered

the opinion of the court.

This motion is granted on the ground that the record shows
that the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed five
thousand dollars. The suit was brought originally to recover
1215 head of Colorado steers, alleged to be worth $6000. At
the time of the judgment only 79 head were in dispute. As
to the rest, a settlement had been made during the pendency
of the suit. The court has found as a fact that the 79 head

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

were sold in open market the day after they were taken possession of under the writ in this case, and that the net proceeds
of the sale only amounted to $4526.15. There is nothing to
show that they were really any less valuable at the time of
the sale than when they were taken. Upon the facts as found
the recovery could not have exceeded five thousand dollars if
there had been a judgment in favor of Cox, the plaintiff in
error.
Disnziqsed.

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Argued November 18, 1887. - Decided December 5, 1837.

The provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 914 relating to the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in common law causes in Circuit and
District Courts of the United States do not apply to remedies upon judgments; but those remedies, being governed by the provisions of ยง 916,
are confined to such remedies as were provided by the laws of the State
in force when ยง 916 was passed or reUnacted, or by subsequent laws of
the State adopted by the Federal Court in the manner provided for in that
section.
A confirmation by the court of a sale under execution will not cure an
infirmity growing out of the nullity of the judgment under which it
was had.
EiEOTMENT.

Judgment for the plaintiff. Defendant sued

out this writ of error.
follows.

The case, as stated by the court, is as

This case comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
District of INebraska. It is an action of ejectment to recover
a parcel of land in the city of Lincoln, State of Nebraska.
The plaintiff below, the defendant in error here, traces title to
the premises from a purchaser at a sale under an execution
issued upon a judgment, extended by the clerk of the court so
as to include certain sureties, and among them the defendant

