COAN v. FLAGG.
Syllabus.

mony of the witness referred to (there is no other testimony
tending to prove it) is for you to determine. In submitting
this question, however, it is proper to say that, in the judgment of the court, it would be unsafe and therefore unjust to
find error in the assessment and settlement under the evidence
before you, and consequently to render a verdict against the
defendant for the large sum of money claimed, as the plaintiff
asks you to do. In other words, while the court does not desire to control your finding, but submits the question to you,
it is of opinion that you should not, under the circumstances,

find for the plaintiff."
Judgment afltrmed.
COAN v,.FLAGG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
Submitted October 20, ISS7. -Decided

October 31, 1857.

The entry and survey of lands in the Virginia military district in Ohio,
under which the plaintiff claims title, did not invest the owners of the
warrant, or their assignee, with an equitable interest in the lands surveyed, as against the United States, for the reason that the excess of
the land surveyed beyond that covered by the warrant was so great as
to make the survey fraudulent and void; and, consequently, Congress
could, by the act of February 1S, 1871, 16 Stat. 416, grant the lands at
its pleasure.
It was the purpose of the act of February 18, 1871, to grant to the State of
Ohio all the lands lit the Virginia military district in that State which
had not at that time been legally surveyed and sold by the United States.
in that sense of the word "sold" which conveys the idea of having
parted with the beneficial title; and the lands in controversy, having
been surveyed by a survey invalid against the United States, were within
that description.
The fourth section of the act of May 27, 1880, 21 Stat. 142, recognized and
ratified the title of the defendant in error to the lands in controversy as
a purchaser from the Ohio Agricultural and Iechanical College for a
valuable consideration.
Copies of official letters from the Commissioner of the General Land Office
to a person claiming title under a warrant and survey, reciting the date of
the filing of the survey in the office, being verified by the oath of the person who was a clerk in that division of the Land Office and at that time
bad charge of the matters relating to this subject, and in whose letters

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
to the parties interested were contained all the decisions of the Commis-

sioner relating to it, are competent evidence to show the time of the
filing.

Ix equity, in a state court in Ohio, to quiet title and to
restrain waste. The answer set up title in respondent. Judgment for complainant, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State on appeal. The defendant sued out this
writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Air. CharlesEing, .r. William B. Zing, Xr. .LY. IV. Evans,
and Xr. A. C. Thomjson, for plaintiff in error, cited: M1cArthur v. Dunn, 7 How. 262; Jackson v. Clark, 1 Pet. 628;
Parkerv. Wallace, 3 Ohio, 490; Stubblefield v. Boggs, 2 Ohio
St. 216; Thomas v. White, 2 Ohio St. 540; Pice v. Johnston,
1 Ohio St. 390; Taylor v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234; Holmes v.
Tr'out, 7 Pet. 171; Saum v. Latham, Wright, 0., 309; _'arquez v. Prisbie,101 II. S. 473; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall.
72; Bird v. Ward, 1 Missouri, 398; Shepley v. Cowan, 91
'U. S. 330; Daniforthb v. Afo'rical, 81Ill. 456; Brush.v. Ware, 15
Pet. 93; Polk v. Wendell, 5 Wheat. 293; Grijfn v. Reynolds,
17 How. 609; James v. Gordon, 1 Wash. C. C. 333; TWrinn v.
Patterson,9 ret. 663; Charles ?iver Bridge v. WarrenBridge,
11 Pet. 420; Dubuque &c. Railroadv. Litchfteld, 23 How. 66;
.XJills v. St. Clair County, 8 How. 569; fileox v. Jackson,
13 Pet. 498; YXtash v. Atherton, 10 Ohio, 163; Calhoun v.
Price,17 Ohio St. 96.
-Mr. 7. A. Hutchins and -31r. George 0. lVewman for defendant in error cited: .Fussellv. Gregg, 113 'U. S. 550; Jackson v* Clark, 1 Pet. 628; Taylor v. -Myers, 7 Wheat. 23;
Ioofnagle v. Anderson., 7 Wheat. 212; Stubblefield v. Boggs,
2 Ohio St. 216; Thomas v. White, 2 Ohio St. 540; Price v.
Johnston, I Ohio St. 390; Saunders v. Nifwauger, 11 Ohio
St. 298; Miller v. Zer,, 7 Wheat. 1.
]Mn.

JUsTicE

MATT Ews delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgzment sought to be reviewed on the present writ of
error was rendered by the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio

COAN v. FLAGG.
Opinion of the Court.

in a proceeding begun by Flagg, the defendant in error, to
quiet his title and possession to a certain tract of land lying in
Nile Township, Scioto County, Ohio, -within the Virginia military district, embraced within suriey No. 15,882. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio in, the case is reported as
Coan v. .Flagg,38 Ohio St. 156.
On the 18th of February, 1871, Congress passed an act to
cede to the State of Ohio the unsurveyed and unsold land in
the Virginia military district in said State, 16 Stat. 416, which
reads as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and louse of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assemled, That
the lands remaining unsurveyed and unsold in the Virginia
military district in the State of Ohio be, and the same are
hereby, ceded to the State of Ohio, upon the conditions following, to wit: Any person who at the time of the passage of
this act is a bona fide settler on any portion of said land may
hold not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, so by him occupied, by his preempting the same in such manner as the
legislature of the State 6f Ohio may direct."
The lands thus ceded were granted by the State of Ohio to
the Ohio Agricultural and Mechanical College. The college
claiming the lands in controversy to be embraced within this
cession, for a valuable consideration sold and conveyed the
same to Flagg, who entered into possession prior to the commencement of this suit. Coan, the original defendant, claims
title under:
1st. Exchange military warrant No. 494, issued by the State
of Virginia on the 16th day of June, 1840, to the children and
heirs of Francis Gordon, a child and heir of John Gordon, the
only heir of Thomas Gordon, who was a lieutenant of cavalry
in the Continental line of Virginia troops in the Revolutionary
War, for 500 acres of land, to be laid off in one or more
surveys;
2d. An entry No. 15,882, purporting to cover 00 acres of
land under the foregoing warrant No. 494, made on December
18, 18-49, by the said heirs of Francis Gordon and one David
F. Heaton, an assignee of part of said warrant;

OCTOBER TERM

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

3d. A survey under said entry No. 15,882, purporting to contain 400 acres, 375 acres for the heirs of Francis Gordon, and
25 acres for said leaton, made by said D. F. Heaton, a deputy
surveyor of the district, on April 10, 1851, giving the metes and
bounds of the lands surveyed, which was duly recorded on
December 23, 1851, in the district land office at Chillicothe,
4th. And inesne conveyances from the heirs of said Francis
Gordon and said Ieaton to Coan.
It is an undisputed fact, appearing on the record, that this
survey No. 15,882 embraces in fact 1682 acres.
The answer of Coan, the defendant below, contains the averment that "on the 26th of December, A.b. 1851, the said E.
P. Kendrick, surveyor for said district, duly certified said survey, being numbered (the same as said entry) 15,882, to the
General Land Office at 1IWashington, D. C., for patent, and
that said survey has ever since been on file in said office."
It is stated, however, in a letter addressed by the acting
Commissioner of the General Land -Office to L. C. leaton, the
executor of David F. Ieaton, then. claiming title, dated June
"1, 1873, and admitted in evidence, that survey 1o. 15,882 was
filed in that office for the purpose of obtaining a patent on the
2(th of April, 1852. The same fact is recited in a letter from
Willis Drummond, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, dated October 26, 1871, also admitted in evidence,
addressed to David F. Ieaton, then claiming title. No patent
has ever been issued on this entry and survey, for the reason,
among others, given in the correspondence between the officers
of the Land Department and Ieaton, "that the same contained
a large excess of land over and above the amount stated therein
and actually due in virtue of said warrant exchange No. 494;
the amount of that excess being stated at 1282 acres. This
was communicated in a letter from the Commissioner of the
General Land Office to L. C. Heaton, .dated June 18, 1873, in
which it was said that: "This office will not, of come, recognize the validity of any such survey as the foregoing, and
must refuse, if there were no other objections, to carry the
same into grant, and unless you deny the facts as above stated
and wish to offer rebutting testimony, and be heard in reply,

COAN v. FLAGG.
Opinion of the Court.

you will understand that the claim for patent in the case of
said survey, No. 15,882 is rejected. Should you, however, dispute the correctness of the said resurvey, &c., and will at once
advise this office of the fact, every reasonable opportunity will
be afforded you to be heard in the case with such evidence as
you may desire to present." On July 11, 1873, the Colmmissioner of the General Land
Office, by a letter of that date, addressed to L. C. Heaton,
informed him, in response to his application, made in a letter
of June 30, that ninety days from July 11th would be allowed
to establish his claim to a patent upon this survey.
On October 10, 1873, the Commissioner wrote to ileaton
a letter containing the following: "You were advised on the
18th of June last of the rejection of your application for a
patent in the case, but, at your request of the 30th of the
same month, the matter was held open for the period above
stated to afford you an opportunity to present rebutting
testimony, &c. The allotted time having expired and nothing presented on your part to sustain the validity of the
said survey, you are hereby advised that the rejection of the
case, as stated in my said communication of the 18th of June
last, is now made definite and final, so far as this office is
concerned." No further action was taken in the Department
on the subject.
It also appears that for the 100 acres not embraced in this
survey, to make the 500 acres called for by warrant No. 494,
another survey was made containing 517-%'- acres, so that
the whole amount of land embraced in the two surveys upon
that warrant, nominally for 500 acres, actually embraced an
excess of 1(W9L acres.
On the 27th of May, 1880, Congress passed an act to
construe and define the act of February 18, 1871. The first
and second sections of this act are as follows:
"Be rt enacted by the Senate and Jiouse of Pypresertatives
of the Ui ited States of A merica, im Congress as.em bled, That
the act ceding to the State of Ohio the lands remaining

"unsurveyed and unsold" in the Virginia aiilitary district
in the State of Ohio had no reference to lands which were

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

included in any survey or entry within said district founded
upon military warrant or warrants upon Continental establishment; and the true intent and meaning of said act was
to cede to the State of Ohio only such lands as'were unappropriated and not included in any survey or entry within
said district, which survey or entry was founded upon
military warrant or warrants upon Continental establishment.
"SEC. 2. That all legal surveys returned to the Land
Office on or before March third, eighteen hundred and fiftyseven, on entries made on or before January first, eighteen
hundred and fifty-two, and founded on unsatisfied Virginia
military Continental warrants, are hereby declared valid."
The fourth section is as follows:
"SEc. 4. This act shall not in any way affect or interfere
with the title to any lands sold for a valuable consideration
by the Ohio Agricultural and Mechanical College, grantee,
under the act of February eighteenth, eighteen hundred and
seventy-one." 21 Stat. 142.
On the 7th of August, 1882, Congress passed an act in
relation to land titles in the Virginia military district of
Ohio, as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the Uhited States of America in Congress assembled, That
any person in the actual, open possession of any tract of land
in the Virginia military district of the State of Ohio, under
claim and color of title, made in good faith, based upon or
deducible from entry of any tract of land within said district
founded upon military warrant upon Continental establishment, and a record of which entry was duly made in the
office of the principal surveyor of the Virginia military
district, either before or since its removal to Chillicothe,
Ohio, prior to January first, eighteen hundred and fifty-two,
such possession having continued for twenty years last past
under a claim of title on the part of said party, either as
entry-man or of his or her grantors, or of parties by or under
whom such party claims by purchase or inheritance, and they
by title based upon or deducible from such entry by tax sale

COAN v. FLAGG.
Opinion of the Court.

or otherwise, shall be deemed and held to be the legal owner
of such land so included in said entry to the extent and
according to the purport of said entry, or of his or her paper
titles based thereon or deducible therefrom.
"SEc. 2. That so much of the act approved February
eighteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy-one, entitled 'An
Act to cede to the State of Ohio the unsold lands in the Virginia military district in said State,' and of an act approved
May twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and eighty, construing
said act of February eighteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy-one, as conflicts with this act, be, and the same is hereby,
repealed." 22 Stat. 348.
The Supreme Court of Ohio, in sustaining Flagg's title, decided 1st. That the entry and survey under which Coan claimed
title did not invest the owners of the warrant, or their assignee, with an equitable interest in the lands surveyed as
against the United States, for the reason that 'he excess of
land surveyed beyond that covered by the warrant was so
great as to make the survey fraudulent and void, and that
consequently it was competent for Congress, at the date of
the act of February 18, 1871, to grant the lands at its
pleasure.
2d. That, without deciding the question whether the lands
were granted to the Ohio Agricultural and M1echanical College by the terms of the act of February 18, 1S71, the fourth
section of the act of May 27, ISSO, recognizes and ratifies
Flagg's title as a purchaser from the Ohio Agricultural and
Mechanical College for a valuable consideration.
These conclusions are contested by the plaintiff in error.
In support of his contention, in regard to the first proposition,
it is argued that a survey cannot be deemed void and of no
effect merely on the ground of an excess beyond the amnount
called for in the warrant, because a different effedt is required
to be given to it by the provisions of the act of Congress of
July T, 1838, 5 Stat. 262, the second section of which declares
that: "No patent shall be issued by virtue of the preceding
section for a greater quantity of land than the rank or term

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

of service of the officer or soldier, to whom or to whose heirs
or assignis such warrant has been granted, would have entitled
him to under the laws of Virginia and of the United States
regulating the issuing of such warrants; and whenever it appears to the Secretary of War that the survey made by any of
the aforesaid warrants is for a greater quantity of land than
the officer or soldier is entitled to for his services, the Secretary of War shall certify on each survey the amount of such
surplus quantity, and the officer or soldier, his heirs or assigns,
shall have leave to withdraw his survey from the office of the
Secretary of War and resurvey his location, excluding such
surplus quantity in one body from any part of his resurvey,
and a patent shall issue upon such resurvey as in other cases,"
&c.
We agree, however, with the Supreme Court of Ohio in
holding that this provision of the law does not meet the difficulty. Whatever application the section may have, according
to its terms, it is expressly limited to cases arising under
the preceding section of the act, which expired by its own
limitation on the 10th of August, 1840, and although extended and revived by the first section of the act of August
19, 1841, 5 Stat. 449, it contained the sole authority for
making and returning entries and surveys under Virginia
military land warrants, and ceased for that purpose to have
any operation on the 3d of March, 1857, by force of the
act of March 3, 1855, 10 Stat. 701. So that the right to
relief against excessive surveys granted by the second section of the act of July -7,1838, has not, at all events, existed since 1857. In addition, it is manifest that the second
section of the act of July 7, 1838, relied on, does condemn
and forbid the issuing of a patent upon a survey calling for a
greater quantity of land than the party is entitled to by virtue
of the warrant; and in such cases, it being the duty of the
department to refuse the patent, the right of the applicant is
merely to withdraw his survey, and resurvey his location,
excluding such surplus quantity. In the present i xtance, the
patent was refused, and for that reason; but the applicant
did not ask leave to withdraw his survey and cause a resur-

COAN v. FLAGG.
Opinion of the Court.

vey of the location, and so elected not to avail himself, if l
had such right, of the provisions of this section.
It was further contended, however, upon this point, that
Congress has recognized the validity of surveys within the
district, notwithstanding the quantity embraced in them was
excessive, by the proviso in the act of Afarch 2, 1807, 2 Stat.
424, 425, which reads as follows: "Provided, That no locations as aforesaid within the above-mentioned tract shall, after
the passage of this act, be made on tracts of land for which
patents had been previously issued, or which had been previously surveyed; and any patent which may nevertheless be
obtained for land located contrary to the provisions of this
section shall be considered as null and void."
But it was rightly considered, as we think, by the Supreme
Court of Ohio, that the effect of this proviso, which, it was
admitted, had been continued in force by subsequent enactments, was merely to withdraw, from subsequent entry and
survey, lands actually surveyed, until the previous survey
should be withdrawn or set aside, as between locators seeking
to appropriate the same tract, and that it cannot have the
effect of establishing excessive surveys, whether by mistake
or design, as binding upon the government so as to vest an
equitable estate in the holder of the warrant, and entitle him
to a patent for the whole or a part of the survey.
Counsel for the plaintiff in error, however, claim in argument that the Supreme Court of Ohio erred upon this point
in consequence of having overlooked the second section of
the act of May 20, 1826, 4 Stat. 189. This section, however,
as far as it goes, is identical with the second section of the
act of July 7, 1S38, above quoted, which is a reinactment of
it,
the act of May 20, 1826, having expired by its own limitation. The first section of this act extends the time for obwining warrants until June 1, 1829, to complete locations
thereon until June 1, 1832, and to return surveys and warrants to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, in
order to obtain patents thereon, until June 1. 1823; and the
second section is limited in its operation to cases provided for
by the preceding section. and, therefore, ceased to operate
lifter the dates therein menti,.ned.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for the plaintiff in error also refer to the decisions
of this court in Taylor v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234, 249, and
Iolmes v. Trout, 7 Pet. 171, as supporting the proposition
that surplus land will not vitiate a survey; but those cases
applied that principle only as between prior and subsequent
locators, and do not sustain the proposition that upon such
a survey the applicant is entitled, as of right, to obtain a
patent from the United States.
The next question is, whether the act of February 18, 1871,
taken in connection with the act of May 27, 1880, had the
effect of vesting a complete legal and equitable title to these
lands in Flagg. It is argued that the lands in question were
not embraced within the terms of the cession to the State of
Ohio used in the act of February 18, IS71. The lands ceded
to the State by virtue of that act are described as those "remaining unsurveyed and unsold in the Virginia military district in the State of Ohio." The word "unsold," as used in
the act, it is claimed, and may be admitted to be,-entirely inappropriate. No land within that district had ever been sold,
in the literal sense of that word, nor was it subject to sale.
It was held in trust by the United States, first, for the purpose of satisfying donations made by the State of Virginia to
her officers and soldiers in the Revolutionary War, to whom
warrants might be issued as a reward for services. The remainder, after the satisfaction of those bounties, was held by
the United States for their own use. All of this military tract,
therefore, not appropriated according to law to the first of
these uses, belonged to the United States, to be disposed of in
its discretion. It was competent for Congress to grant to the
State of Ohio any of these lands not subject to the trust, and
at the date of the act of February 1S, 1871, the time within
which it was competent to appropriate any of the lands to
the satisfaction of warrants issued by the State of Virginia
had expired. The trust had been satisfied, and may be regarded as having been extinguished. Whatever of these lands,
therefore, remained at that time, which had not been appr6priated in accordance with the terms of existing law, so as to
secure to the claimant a legal right to call for a patent, was

COAN v. FLAGG.
Opiijon of the Court.

subject to the disposal of the United States for its own use
and according to its own pleasure. It is in view of this
condition of things that the cession contained in the act of
February 18, 1871, must be considered and construed.
It is contended in argument by the plaintiff in error that
the lands embraced and conveyed by the cession contained
in the act of February 18, 1871, and therein described as
"unsurveyed and unsold," must be understood to mean those
which had not at that time been appropriated under existing
laws so as to prevent subsequent locations by other entries
and surveys upon Virginia military land warrants. And as
such appropriation was then forbidden, as respects subsequent
locators, by existing laws, wherever the land had been actually
surveyed, although the survey might have contained a surplus
which would deprive the locator of his right to call for a
patent for the whole quantity from the United States, the
Ohio Agricultural and Mlechanical College, claiming as grantee
under the State of Ohio, cannot be considered as having any
better or other rights than those of a subsequent locator.
And from this the conclusion is deduced that the lands in
controversy could not have passed by the terms of the act of
February 18, 1871. But this conclusion is not admissible.
The State of Ohio, under the act of February 18, 1871, was
not in the position of a subsequent locator under existing laws;
it was a grantee under the terms of a new law directly from
Congress itself, and was not in the attitude of an applicant to
the officers of the Land Department, under previous laws,
asking to make a location upon lands which had been already
withdrawn from subsequent location by an entry and an
actual survey. Congress had dominion and an absolute power
of disposal of all the lands in the Virginia military land district which at that time had not become legally appropriated
by entry and survey, so as to entitle the locator, by virtue of
his equitable estate actually vested under existing law, to call
upon the officers of the Land Department to complete his
legal title by the issue of a patent.
The meaning of the act of February 18, 1871, therefore,
seems to be to grant to the State of Ohio all the lands in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Virginia military district which had not at that time been
legally surveyed and sold by the United States, in that sense
of thle word which conveys the idea of having parted with a
beneficial title. The lands in controversy were within that
description. They had been surveyed, it is true, in point of
fact, but the survey was not lawful and valid as against the
United States,, although it might operate to prevent a subsequent location under existing law. In point of fact, the
officers of the Land Department refused to recognize the
survey as binding, and rejected the application for the issue
of a patent upon it. Upon this construction of the act of
P'ebruary 18, 1871, the officers of the Land Department undoubtedly acted, as is evident from the terms of the act of
.May 27, 1880. That act was passed expressly for the purpose
or construing and defining the act of February 18, 1871, in
order to change the interpretation which had in fact been put
upon it. It declared that "the lands remaining 'unsurveyed
and unsold' in the Virginia military district in the State of
Ohio had no reference to lands which were included in any
survey or entry within said district founded upon military
warrant or warrants" upon continental establishment," and
that - the true intent and meaning of said act was to cede to
the State of Ohio only such ]a(ls as were unappropriated and
not included in any Survey or entry within said district, which
survey or entry was founded upon military warrant or
warrants upon continental establishment."
Supposing this legislative interpretation to mean that the
unap)ropriatcd land referred to were such as had not been
included in any survey or entry founded upon a military warrant, whether that survey was legal or illegal under previous
laws. nevertheless, we are of the opinion, with the Supreme
Court of Ohio, that the fourth section of the act must be held
to have the legal operation and effect of confirming and
ratifying previous titles made by the Ohio Agricultural and
Mechanical College, under the act of February 18, 18'11. The
fourth section declares that "this act shall not in any way
affect or interfere with the title to any land sold for a, valuable
consideration by the Ohio Agricultural and Mechanical Col-

COAN v. FLAGG.
Opinion of the Court.

lege, grantee, under the act of February 18, 1871." If the
title of the Ohio Agricultural and Mechanical College, under
the act of February 18, 1871, was valid, the act of IMa* 27,
1880, giving for the future a new interpretation to that act,
could not have the effect of divesting its title. If, on the
other hand, the title to lands sold by the Ohio Agricultural
and Mechanical College, under claim of title by virtue of the
act of February is, 1871, was unsupported by the terms of
that act, then section 4 of the act of M[ay 27, iS80, can have
effect only as operating to confirm that title. This it was
competent for Congress to do --no vested rights intervening
- and this, in our opinion, is what they have done by the act
of May 27, 1880.
By the act of August 7, 1882, 22 Stat. 348, which, however.
does not affect the present case, Congress found it necessary
to go still farther and quiet the title of all persons claiming
lands in the Virginia military district who had been in actual
and open possession thereof for twenty years, under claim and
color of title made in good faith, based upon, or deducible
from, any entry founded upon a military warrant upon continental establishment, recorded in the offlce of the principal
surveyor within the district prior to January 1, 1852.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Supreme Court of
Ohio did not err in either of the propositions on which its
judgment was based.
There is another view which confirms this conclusion. It
was decided by this court in the case of Fisell v. Gregy, 113
U. S. 550, upon a careful and detailed review of all the legis-

lation on the subject, that it was essential to the vesting of
any interest under an entry and survey within the Virginia
military land district, made prior to January 1, 1852, that the
survey should be returned to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office at Washington, on or before that date, and that
the failure to do so discharged "the land from any claim
founded on such location and survey," and extinguished "all
right, title, and estate previously acquired thereby." Such
lands might, therefore, very properly be considered, in contemplation of law, as "unsurveyed." This continued to be the
VOL.

cx.n-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

law until the passage of the act of May 27, 1880, by the second
section of which it was declared, "that all legal surveys
returned to the land office on or before March 3, 1857, on
entries made on or before January 1, 1852, and founded upon
unsatisfied Virginia military continental warrants, are hereby
declared valid." The survey under which Coan claims title
in the present case, was not filed, as appears from evidence
in the record, in the General Land Office until April 26, 1852.
It is contended by the plaintiff in 'error that it is otherwise
admitted in the pleadings, on the ground that the answer of
Coan averred, that, "on the 26th of December, A.D. 1851.
the said E. P. Kendrick, surveyor for said district, duly certified said survey, being numbered (the same as said entry)
15,882, to the General Land Office at Washington, D. C., for
patent, and that said survey has ever since been on file in said
office." This is not a distinct and unequivocal averment of
the fact that the survey had been filed in the General Land
Office on or before January 1, 1852, but only that it had been
duly certified by the district surveyor prior to that date.
But, construing it as claimed, it, nevertheless, was not admitted
in the )leadings, the reply of the plaintiff expressly denying
the validity of the entry and survey.
Objection is also made and was taken in the court below to
the admission of the evidence on which the fact rests, that
the survey was not filed until April 26, 1852, in the General
Land Office. This proof consists in copies of official letters
written by the Commissioner of the General Land Office to
leaton, then claiming title under the warrant and survey,
reciting the fact, which copies were sworn to by a witness,
formerly a clerk in the General Land Office, and acquainted
with the facts, he having, as such clerk, in fact written the
ori(rinals himself for the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, by whom they were signed. We are not referred by
counsel in argument to any authority in support of the objection, and we do not see upon what principle it can be maintained. The witness testified that at the time the letters were
written he was the clerk in charge of the division relating to
the Virginia military district, and that all of the decisions of

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

the Commissioner of the General Land Office were contained
in letters written by him to the parties interested. We think
the evidence was competent, and in fact it was uncontroverted.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Ohio. It is therefore
Aflrwd.

SPIES v. ILLINOIS.
ORIGINAL.
Argued October 27, 28, 1887.-Decided November 2, 1887.
When application is made to this court, for the allowance of a writ of error
to the highest court of a State under Rev. Stat., ยง 709, the writ will not
be allowed if it appear from the face of the record that the decision of
the Federal question which is complained of was so plainly right as not
to require argument; especially if it accords with well considered judgments of this court.
It is well settled that the first ten articles of Amendment to the Constitution of the United States were not intended to limit the powers of the
States, in respect of their own people, but to operate on the national
government only.
Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430, affirmed to the point that when a challenge by
a defendant in a criminal action to a juror for bias, actual or implied, is
disallowed, and the juror is thereupon peremptorily challenged by the
defendant and excused, and an impartial and competent juror is obtained
in his place, no injury is done the defendant if, until the jury is completed, lie has other peremptory challenges which he can use.
Hay.s v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, affirmed to the point that the right to challenge is the right to reject, not the right to select a juror; and if from
those who remain an impartial jury is obtained, the constitutional right
of the accused is maintained.
A statute of Illinois passed March 12, 1874, Hurd's Stats. Ill. 1885, 752, c.
78, ยง 14, enacted that "in the trial of any criminal cause, the fact that a
person called as a juror has formed an opinion or impression, based upon
rumor or upon newspaper statements (about the truth of which he has
expressed no opinion), shall not disqualify him to serve as a juror in such
case, if he shall upon oath state that he believes he can fairly and impartially render a verdict therein in accordance with the law and the evidence, and the court shall be satisfied of the truth of such statement."
At a trial, had in that State, of apersonsaccused of an offence punishable,
on conviction, with death, the court ruled that, under this statute, "it is
not a test question whether the juror will have the opinion, which he has

