OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

consequently she was in law a stranger to the proceedings and
in no way bound thereby. As she was not bound, the Homestead Company and its assigns were not. Estoppels to be good
must be mutual. This was in effect the decision of the court
below, and it was right.
It follows that there is no error in the record, and
The judgment is aprmed.

DES MOINES NAVIGATION AND RAILROAD .COMPANY v. IOWA HOMESTEAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPItEME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1, 1887.-Decided December 5, 1887.

The Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, in deciding this cause, held, and
so stated in its opinion, that the question of prior adjudication of the
issue by this court in Homestead Valley v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall..153,
was not raised before it by counsel for defendant, and therefore was not
in the case; and it decided the case without considering that point. On
examining the opinion of that court, and the record and briefs, and the
briefs in the court below in this case and in the case of Litchfield v. Goodnow, ante, 549, this court is of opinion that the point was raised and discussed in the Supreme Court of Iowa, and holds that the action of that
court in respect of it was equivalent to a denial of the Federal right so
set up.
If a cause is removed in a regular manner from a state court to a Circuit
Court of the United States, on motion of one or more of several defendants who have a right to have it removed as to him or them, and the Circuit Court takes jurisdiction, and all parties defendant appear, and no
objection to the jurisdiction is made, and the cause proceeds to final
judgment, the judgment remains in force and of binding effect upon all
the parties, until judicially vacated, although it appears on the face of
the record that some of the defendants, who did not join in the petition
for removal, were citizens of the same State with the plaintiff.

IN equity. Decree for the plaintiff. The defendant appealed.

The cause was argued with Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. . H. Gatch for plaintiff in error. -r.
was with him on the brief.

iliam Connor

DES MOINES NAV. CO. v. IOWA HOMESTEAD CO. 553
Opinion of the Court.

11r. George Crane for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit w-as brought by the Iowa Homestead Company
against the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company to
recover the same taxes for the years 1864 to 1871, both inclusive, which formed part of the subject matter of the litigation
between the same parties in Home.tead Co. v. Valley Pirilroad,
17 Wall. 153, referred to in Stryker v. Crane, ante, 527. The
Railroad Company set up the decree in its favor in that suit as a
bar to the present action, and to this the Homestead Company
replied "that the decree or judgment referred to is null and
void, for the reason that the courts of the United States had
no jurisdiction of said suit, and no legal power or authority
to render said decree or judgment."
Upon this part of the case the facts admitted were substantially the same as are set forth in Stryker v. Crane, ante, 527,
with the addition of this stipulation made by the parties and
filed in the Circuit Court:
"And it is further stipulated that the defendants, Samuel
G. Wolcott, Edwin C. Litchfield, Edward Wade, and John
Stryker, each and every of whom are citizens of New York,
and the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, duly
appeared in this court and filed their joint and several answers
to complainant's bill, duly verified; that the said answers axe
not now found with the papers in this cause; that the said
answers of said defendants were substantially in all respects
like those of the defendants, William B. Welles and Albert
Tracy, on file herein and duly verified by them, respectively,
except such changes, variations, and alterations as were necessary to present the interests held by said defendants, respectively, in the land in this action."
Other defences were set up in the answer similar to those in
Styker v. Crane, ante, 527; Chapman v. Crane, ante, 540; and
Litdlflid v. Crane, ante, 549 ; but it is unnecessary to restate
them here.
The case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State on
appeal, and among the errors assigned there was this:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"The court erred in holding that plaintiff was not estopped
from prosecuting this suit by the former adjudication in said
former suit of the Iowa Homestead Company against The Des
Moines Navigation and Railroad Company and others."
At the hearing in the Supreme Court a final decree was
entered against the Navigation and Railroad Company for the
full amount of taxes paid and the interest. The opinion of
the court, so far as it related to the question of former adjudication, was in these words:
"The question of former adjudication, discussed in the fifth
point of the foregoing opinion, is not discussed by counsel for
defendant in this case in his printed brief, though it was
pleaded as a defence. Counsel for plaintiff in this case filed a
printed brief used in the former case, but upon the fifth point
it is not at all applicable, for the reason that the facts involved
in the pleas of former adjudication are not identical in each
case. The two cases were discussed at the oral argument
together, all the points involved in each case being, considered,
but we were left to the printed briefs and abstracts in order
to make application of the arguments properly to the separate
cases. Since the sabmission of the cases counsel for each
party has been called upon to express his understanding of
the points to be determined in the cases separately. Counsel
for defendant claims that the question of prior adjudication,
while not presented in his printed brief, was argued orally, and
is, therefore, in this case; counsel for plaintiff claims that it is
not. Certain is it that it is not made in the printed brief for
defendant, and we are unable to say that it was made on the
oral argument as applicable to this case. The counsel for
defendant having failed to present this point in his brief, he
cannot, according to the spirit of our rules, urge it in oral
argument. In view of the want of agreement between counsel, we are required to hold that the question of prior adjudication cannot be determined in this case." Iowa Home.stead
Co. v. Des .oines _a.vigation and Ptailroad Co., 63 Iowa,
285.
The "foregoing opinion" referred to was that in the case
of the Administr-ator of X2frs. Grace f LitchfelZd v. Crane,

DES MOINES NAV. CO. v. IOWA HOMESTEAD CO. 555
Opinion of the Court.

ante, 549. The record in that case, taken in connection with
that in this, shows that the answer setting up the former adjudication, the reply thereto and the assignment of errors on this
point, were the same in both cases. They differed in their
facts only in that Airs. Litchfield was not actually a party to
the former suit upon the face of the record, and the Navigation
and Railroad Company was.
We cannot look upon the reason given by the court below
for not considering the question of prior adjudication as
sufficient for avoiding the decision of a controlling Federal
question, fairly presented by the pleadings, proofs and assigninent of errors, and necessarily involved in the determination
of the case. That question stood in the very front of the
litigation, and, if decided in favor of the Navigation and
Railroad Company, ended the whole matter. To give a judgment the other way, without considering it, was simply to
ignore one of the most important elements of the case as it
stood in the record. There can be no escape from this conclusion.
It seems from the opinion, which, as part of the record, we
must take notice of, that this case was argue"d in connection
with that of the administrator of XMrs. Grace H. Litchfield.
The defence of prior adjudication was made in both, though
the facts in the case of Mrs. Litchfield were different from
those in this. Mrs. Litchfield was not an actual party to the
suit in which the prior adjudication was had, while the Navigation and Railroad Company was; but the question of the
jurisdiction of the court for the determination of the rights
of the parties was the same in both. In the oral argument,
there being but one for the two cases, this point was raised
and discussed, but in the printed briefs it was referred to only
in that entitled in the suit of the administrator of Mrs.
Litchfield. As it was the defence in this case, and, if sustained, made it unnecessary to consider anything else, we
cannot decide that the court was justified in holding that it
could not be determined. Such action was, in our opinion,
equivalent to a decision against the Federal right which was
actually set up and claimed, and thus our jurisdiction for the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

review of the judgment on this question, as well as the others,
is complete.
We proceed, then, to consider the only objection which has
been made to this defence, and that is, the alleged want of
jurisdiction in the courts of the United States-both this
court and the Circuit Court -to entertain and finally dispose
of the suit in which the prior adjudication was had. It must
-be conceded that the Homestead Company and the Navigation
and Railroad Company were both Iowa corporations, and,
therefore, in law, citizens of the same State; but the defendants, the Litchfields and Stryker, who caused the removal to
be made, as well as Wolcott, Burrows, McAlpine, Chapman,
the Tracys, and Wade, were citizens- of the State of New
'York. -After the removal was effected, all the above named
defendants, as well as Welles and -the Navigation and Railroad
Company, appeared, filed answers, and defended the action.
The Homestead Company took issue on all the answers, and
actually contested the matters in dispute with the Navigation
and Railroad Company, as well as the other defendants,, in
the Circuit Court, and in this court on appeal, without taking
any objection to the jurisdiction.
The precise question we have now to determine is, whether
the !Ldjudication by this court, under such circumstances, of
the matters then and now at issue between the Homestead
Company and the Navigation and Railroad Company was
absolutely void for want of jurisdiction. The point is not
whether it was err'or in the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction
of the suit, or of so much of it as related to the Navigation
and Railroad Company, originally, but as to the binding effect
of the decree of this court so long as it remains in force, and
is not judicially annulled, vacated, or set aside.
It was decided in H-anock v. Holbrook-, 119 U. S. 586, that
if a suit, in which there was but one controversy, between a
citizen of the State in which the suit was brought.and citizen
of another State, was removed from a state court to a Circuit
Court of the United States on the ground of "prejudice or
local influence," under sub-section 3 of ยง 639 of the Revised
Statutes, which is the reenactment, in the revision, of the ,act

DES MORTES NAV. CO. v. IOWA HOMESTEAD CO. 557
Opinion of the Court.

of March 2, 186, c. 196, 14 Stat. 558, in force when the
proceedings now under consideration were had, it was not
error in the Circuit Court to remand the suit if all the defendants were not citizens of different States from all the plaintiffs;
but here the question is, whether, if all the parties were actually
before the Circuit Court, the. decree of this court on appeal is
absolutely'void, if it appears on the face of the record that
some of the defendants who did not join in the petition for
removal were citizens of the same State with the plaintiff.
It was settled by this court at a very early day, that,
although the judgments and decrees of the.Circuit Courts
might be erroneous, if the records failed to show the facts
on which the jurisdiction of the court rested, such as that
the plaintiffs were citizens of different States from the defendants, yet that they were not nullities, and would bind the
parties until reversed or otherwise set aside. In S7iilern's
Executors v. -. ay'8 Executos, 6 0ranch, 267, the Circuit
Court had taken jurisdiction of a suit and rendered a decree.
That decree was reversed by this court on appeal, and the
cause remanded with directions to proceed in a particular
way. When the case got back it was discovered that the
cause was "not within the jurisdiction of the court)' and the
judges of the Circuit Court certified to this court that they
were opposed in opinion on the question whether it could be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction after this court had acted
thereon. To that question the following answer was certified
back: "It appearing that. the merits of the cause had been
finally decided in this court, and that its mandate required
only the execution of its decree, it is the opinion of this court
that the Circuit Court is bound to carry that decree into
execution, although the jurisdiction of that court be not
alleged in the pleadings." That was in 1810. In 1825,
.MoCtormiek v. &vllivant,10 Wheat. 192, was decided by this
court. There a decree in a former suit was pleaded in bar of
the action. To his a replication was filed, alleging that the
proceedings in the former -suit were coram non judice, the
record not showing that the complainants and defendants in
that suit were citizens of different States; but this court held

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

on appeal that "the courts of the United States are courts of
limited, but not of inferior, jurisdiction.

If the jurisdiction be

not alleged in the proceedings, their judgments and decrees
may be reversed- for that cause on a writ of error or appeal;
but until reversed they are conclusive between the parties
and their privies." "But they are not nullities." There has
never been any departure from this rule.
It is said, however, that thiese decisions apply only to cases
where the record simply fails to show jurisdiction. Here it
is claimed that the record shows there could be no jurisdiction,
because it appears affirmatively that the Navigation and Railroad Company, one of the defendants, was a citizen of the same
State with the plaintiff. But the record shows, with equal
distinctness, that all the parties were actually before the court,
and made no objection to its jurisdiction. The act of 1867,
under which the removal was had, provided that when a suit
was pending in a state court "in which there is a controversy
between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought and
a citizen of another State, . . . such citizen of another
State, ...
ifhe will make and file an affidavit stating that
he has reason to and does believe that, from prejudice or local
influence, he will not be able to obtain justice in such state
court, may . . . file a petition in such state court for the
removal of the suit" into the Circuit Court of the United
States, and, when all things have been done that the" act
requires, "it shall be
. ..
the duty of the state court to
proceed no further with the suit," and, after the
record is entered in the Circuit Court, "the suit shall then
proceed in the same manner as if it had been brought there
by original process."
In the suit .now under consideration there was a separate
and distinct controversy between the plaintiff, a citizen of
Iowa, and each of the citizens of New York, who were defendants. Each controversy related to the several tracts of land
claimed by each defendant individually, and not as joint owner
with the other defendants. Three of the citizens of New
York caused to be made and filed the necessary affidavit and
petition for removal, and thereupon, by common consent

DES MOINES NAV. CO. v. IOWA HOMESTEAD CO. 659
Opinion of the Court.

apparently, the suit as an entirety was transferred to the Circuit Court for final adjudication as to all the parties. The
plaintiff, as well as the defendants, appeared in the Circuit
Court without objection, and that court proceeded as if its
authority in the matter was complete. Whether in such a case
the suit could be removed was a question for the Circuit Court
to decide when it was called on to take jurisdiction. If it
kept the case when it ought to have been remanded, or if it
proceeded to adjudicate upon matters in dispute between two
citizens of Iowa, when it ought to have confined itself to those
between'the citizens of Iowa and the citizens of New York, its
final decree in the suit could have been reversed, on appeal, as
erroneous, but the decree would not have been a nullity. To
determine whether the suit was removable in whole or in part
or not, was certainly within the power of the Circuit Court.
The decision of that question was the exercise and the rightful exercise of jurisdiction, no matter whether in fator of or
against taking the cause. Whether its decision was right, in
this or any other respect, was to be finally determined by this
court on appeal. As the Circuit Court entertainqd the suit,
and this court, on appeal, impliedly recognized its right to do
so, and proceeded to dispose of the case finally on its merits,
certainly our decree cannot, in the light of prior adjudications
on the same general question, be deemed a nullity. It was,
at the time of the trial in the present case in the court below,
a valid and subsisting prior adjudication of the matters in controversy, binding on these parties, and a bar to this action.
In refusing so to decide, the court failed to give full faith and
credit to the decree of this court under which the Navigation
and Railroad Company claimed an immunity from all liability
to the Homestead Company on account of the taxes sued for,
and this was error.
For this reason, the judgment is reversed, and the cause is
,remandedfor further proceedings, not inconsistent with
this oinion.

