OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

their duty to sell those bonds at as early a time as possible,
and place the proceeds in the hands of Baring Bros. & Co., in
payment of the obligation of the bank to them. That this has
been done faithfully, and with the consent and aid of the complainants, is a sufficient answer to all that is alleged in the bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Afflmed.

TEAL v. BILBY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIR UIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued November 4, 7, 1S87.-Decided December 5, 1887.

The court below acted properly in ordering the consolidation and trial
together of an action of replevin and an action in contract, the parties
being the same in both, their rights depending upon the same contract,
and the testimony in each being pertinent in the other.
It is competent for parties who have contracted in writing with reference
to personal property to make a subsequent verbal agreement as -a substitute for a part of the written contract.
When testimony is permitted to go to the jury without any objection, tending to show that changes had been made orally in a written contract between the parties, which were substituted by them in the place of the
written contract, it is too late to contend that the jury cannot find, in
case it is so proved, that the rights of the parties, as defined in the written contract, have been varied by the verbal agreement.
The burden of proof to establish it is on the party who sets up an oral
change in a written agreement; and in determining it the reasons and
motives for the alleged change may be shown.
In an agreement to keep, ced, and care for a quantity of cattle, it was agreed
that the cattle should be of a certain average, of which fact A was to be
the judge.
Ield, that A's action in this respect was not conclusive on
the defendant if it was shown that he had been deceived by the plaintiff,
in not putting him in full possession of knowledge possessed by him, and
necessary for the proper discharge of A's duty.
In several other respects, referred to by the court in detail, it is found that
there was no error in the charge of the court below.

TEAL v. BILBY.
Opinion of the Court.

THE plaintiff below sued out these writs of error.
is stated in the opinion of the court.

The case

Mr. Attorney General for plaintiffs in error.
Botsford was with him on the brief.

James S.

h_3r. James Hagerman for defendant in error.
Warner and .-.
MR.

-r.

A&. William

0. H. Dean were with him on the brief.

JUSTICE M'ILLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

These are separate actions brought by the same plaintiffs
against the same defendant in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Missouri.
The first was an action of replevin, under which the plaintiffs got possession of 1232 head of cattle, and the second
was an action to recover damages for a failure on the part of
defendant to fulfil a contract of agistment with regard to the
same cattle. As the rights of the parties depended upon the
same contract,.and as the testimony in each case was pertinent
in the other, the court very properly ordered their consolidation and trial together before the same jury. The testimony
submitted to the jury on both sides of the controversy is embodied in a single bill of exceptions under the introductory
phrase that each party.offered testimony tending to prove such
and such facts. This bill of exceptions is very voluminous,
consisting of a great variety of evidence running through
twenty-eight pages of printed matter, and to none of it does
there appear to have been any objection offered by either
party. The questions presented in the record are exclusively
upon the ch-faige of the judge to the jury, on exceptions taken
by the plaintiffs below, who are also plaintiffs here, and to the
refusal of the court to grant such instructions as the plaintiffs'
counsel prayed for.
A verdict was rendered for the defendant, holding that he
was entitled to the return of the property replevied from him,
or to the sum of $23,835.12, which was found by the jury to
be the value of his interest in the property. In regard to the
other suit the verdict of the jury was simply for the defendant.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Judgments were rendered in accordance with these verdicts, to
which the present writs of error are prosecuted.
It seems from the evidence that the plaintiffs, under the
partnership style of J. Teal & Company, were owners of about
3000 head of cattle, which they had driven across the plains
from Oregon to a shipping point on the Union Pacific Railroad, called Rock Creek Station, in Wyoming Territory.
These cattle were shipped from this point to Council Bluffs,
in the State of Iowa, between the 14th day of October and
the 10th day of lNovember, 18S0. On the 3d day of November of that year Teal & Company entered into a written
contract with John S. Bilby, of Nodaway County, :Missouri,
by which Bilby agreed to keep, feed, and care for 1500 of
these cattle until December 1, 1881. By this instrument he
agreed that he would so feed and care for them that they
would increase in weight 450 pounds each, on an average, for
which the plaintiffs were to pay him, on their delivery to
them, at the rate of five cents per pound for such increase.
It also appears that before the terms of this agreement were
decided upon one lot of about 200 cattle had arrived at Council Bluffs, and had been seen by Bilby. It was a part of the
agreement that the remainder, as they arrived, should be average lots with those that Bilby had seen, of which fact Mr.
Bass, of the firm of Rosenbaum, Bass & Co., who resided at
Council Bluffs, was to be the judge. The expense of transporting the cattle to Dawsonvil]e, Missouri, where Mr. Bilby resided, was to be paid by plaintiffs; but if Mr. Bilby should pay
any of that expense, -he was to be repaid with ten per cent
interest upon his money on final settlement.
There is also evidence to show that Mr. Bilby was a.man oi
means, owning extensive lands in the neighborhood of Dawsonville, and accustomed to the business of feeding cattle;
and the agreement was that the cattle should be weighed at
.Dawsonville, or the nearest scales thereto, upon their arrival,
under circumstances minutely provided for, and that Bilby
contracted "to take the cattle and winter them well on hay,
straw and stalk fields until grass comes; to be kept in enclosed
pastures on good grass until the 15th of August, 1881, after

TEAL v. BILBY.
Opinion of the Court.

whichi date, on each and every day, they shall be fed all the
corn they will eat until delivered to J.Teal & Company ;"
and that the cattle were to be re-delivered to the plaintiff
between the 15th day of October and the 1st day of December, 1881, by giving ten days' notice. Bilby was also fo be
responsible for all cattle lost, strayed, or stolen, and for any
dying through his neglect or carelessness; but if any died
through causes which were unavoidable, the loss of such cattle
was to be borne by Teal & Company, and the loss of the feed
by Bilby.
Another provision to which some importance is attached is
in the following language: "If any steers die John S. Bilby
shall preserve the hides as evidence of death, and the ears if
there are any ear-marks."
It is agreed that 268 of these cattle were not recovered by
plaintiffs under the writ of replevin, nor were they tendered
by Bilby under the tender Which he sets up in his answer;
nor did the weight of the cttle at the time Bilby was ready
to deliver them, or offered to deliver them, or at the time they
were replevied, come up to that which was required to make
the increase of 450 pounds each on an average. It is on the
ground of this failure to bring the cattle up to the contract
weight, alleging that it was .the fault of Bilby in not giving
sufficient care and attention to them, as well as want of proper
feed according to the contract, by reason of which a part of the
268 died and were lost, that. the plaintiffs assume that they
have a right to recover possession of the property without
making any compensation to Bilby for his services.
A large amount of testimony was submitted to the jury on
both sides with regard to this question of proper feeding, care,
and attention, without objection apparently by either party,
as well as instructions asked of the court to the jury upon
these subjects, and the consequences of the supposed failure
on the part of Bilby to comply with his contract. The exceptions taken to the general charge of the judge are also numerous, and many of them too unimportant to receive special
notice at our hands.
A principal question, and the most important one in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

case, arises out of the fabt that Bilby gave testimony of a subsequent oral agreement changing very materially the terms of
the written contract. The bill of exceptions which relates to
the evidence introduced on this subject reads as follows:
"The defendant introduced evidence tending to show that
the appearance of the cattle when they were deliver ed to him
by the plaintiffs would not disclose the treatment they had
received previously, and that it required time to develop the
evil effects of such treatment; that although the cattle might
appear to be very thin and weak, yet it would not be apparent
that they were diseased; on the contrary, experienced cattle
men might well suppose that they would, upon the treatment
provided for in the contract, soon recover their flesh and
strength.
"He also introduced testimony tending to show, not only
the death of two hundred and sixty eight of the cattle as
aforesaid, butthat as to many of the others that survived the
winter of 1880 and 1881, although they were fed upon corn,
all they could eat during the winter, they always presented a
scabby appearance and did not thrive from their food, and
that when the spring came they were placed upon grass. They
did not shed their hair, but were, in the language of a number
of the witnesses, 'stuck cattle.'
"And that upon an examination of the cattle, it was considered by said Coleman and defendant that the cattle could not
be wintered on hay, straw, and stalk fields, and it was a few
days thereafter finally agreed upon between Coleman and
defendant that defendant should let the cattle into corn, and
whatever time they went into corn that winter should be
deducted off of the corn feed next year at the end of the next
grain feeding, and. that defendant should also be released from
the stipulation of the written contract requiring him to increase the average weight of the cattle four hundred and fifty
pounds per head."
While this testimony does not seem to have been objected
to at the time it was offered and permitted to go to the jury,
the counsel of plaintiffs in error, in several prayers for instructions to the jury, and in objections made to what the court said

TEAL v. BILBY.
Opinion of the Court.

to the jury, set forth the proposition, that this being an attempt
to substitute a verbal contract, or change of contract, for a
written one, it must be made clear that, so far as it changed
the obligation of Bilby, it was made upon a good consideration;
and they in various ways object to the rights of the parties being governed by this supposed change in the contract. It is an
answer to a very large amount of what is said on this subject
that the testimony in regard to it was permitted to go to the
jury, as given by Bilby on the stand. Coleman, one of the
plaintiffs, also testified in regard to this, and denied that the
agreement was as stated by Bilby; and a third witness was
introduced on this subject, who was present at the conversations in which the change in the agreement is said to have been
made. The whole testimony upon this subject was, therefore,
before the jury without objection.
It further appears that Coleman, whose interest in the cattle
was as large as any of the plaintiffs', substantially remained
with them during the .whole period from the time they were
delivered to Bilby until their replevin. Part of this time he
was at Bilby's house, and the remainder somewhere in the
neighborhood, giving his attention closely to the cattle, as one
of the plaintiffs, who were the real owners.
It is also manifest, from the testimony offered, that the cattle were not in good condition to go through the winter without other food than the hay, straw, and stalk fields, which was
all that Bilby was bound to furnish them, until grass came in
the spring, but that some other kind of food was necessary to
prepare them for this. Of this Coleman, who was present
superintending them and had a right to control the matter,
was the best judge, and the most interested. It must also have
been apparent to Bilby, that, if the cattle entered upon the
grass in the spring in an enfeebled condition, or if many of
them died during the winter, he would not be able to return
them in October or December with an average increase of 450
pounds, according to the contract. It was, therefore, to the
mutual interest of the parties to make some different arrangements, by which Bilby should furnish the cattle more nutritious food during the autumn and winter, and that he should
VOL. Cxxi--37

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

also, in consideration of that change, be relieved of his obligation to bring them up to an average increase of 450 pounds.
It is hardly pretended by counsel for plaintiffs that it was
not competent, after the written contract was made and signed
by the parties, for them to make another verbal contract in regard to some parts of it, which to that extent should be a substitute for the first one. There is nothing in the nature of the
contract itself requiring it to be in writing, nor is there any
principle making it necessary that the new one should be reduced to writing because the first was written. 1 Greenleaf oni
Evidence, ยง 303; Goas v. VYugcet, 5 B. & Ad. 58 ; ialtimorev.
J th sen, 14 Johns. 330; Munroe v. P erkins, 9 Pick. 298.

What the judge said to the jury on the subject of the modification of the contract is in substance as follows: that it was
set up by 13lby, and he was bound to prove it; that the written contract must prevail unless a change or modification of
its terms is proved to your satisfaction; you should inquire
whether there was a reason or necessity for the change; the
parties alike interested in preserving the cattle were upon the
ground; the cattle were dying in large numbers from some
cause; would a change of food suggest itself to meet the contingency? If so, there would be a reason and a motive for
that change. He then recites what ]3ilby says about the contract, and Coleman's denial of it, and that an unimpeached
witness was called by ilby to whom Bilby had repeated the
agreement in the presence of Coleman; that a number of witnesses testify the cattle were put upon corn about the time
that the change was claimed to have been made in the contract; and other testimony was given of the acts, conversations, and admissions of the parties, both for and against the
change. From all this, he says, you must determine whether
there was any change, and if you find that there was, what it
was; if you find, however, that there was no modification or
change, then the written contract remained in full force.
We are of opinion that this charge, the substance of which
only is given by us, fairly placed before the jury the law which
governed the proof and effect of that contract in the case, and
that no other instructions upon that subject were necessary to

TEAL v. BILBY.
Opinion of the Court.

enable them to arrive at a just verdict, so far as that was
affected by the supposed change of contract.
Another error is alleged in regard to the charge of the court,
and its refusal to grant prayers for instructions by the plaintiff
relative to the conclusiveness of Bass' action in passing upon
the cattle as they'airived at Council Bluffs, as being average
lots With the train load Which had already arrived and been
seen by Mr. Bilby. A portion of the testimony which "%ve have
already cited tended to show that, when the cattle were delivered to Bilby by the plaintiffs, their appearance would not disclose the bad treatment they had previously received, but that
it required time to develop the evil effects of such treatment.
Much other testimony was introduced on the same subject
tending to show that Bass was misled as to the real condition
of the cattle when he inspected them, and also that he was
influenced by partiality toward plaintiffs, who employed him,
not only in regard to the cattle now in controversy, but other
cattle, as a broker or agent.
To the reception of all this testimony there is no exception,
and it affords sufficient reason, in our opinion, why the court
should not have charged peremptorily, as-requested by plaintiffs, that Bass' examination of these cattle and passing them
was conclusive that they were in proper condition and came
up to the requirements of the contract. We think it was a
question for the jury, under all the circumstances, to decide
whether they were equal to the lot first examined by Bilby.
On that subject the judge said to the jury:
"It is only in ease Bass was himself deceived by plaintiffs,
in not putting him, Bass, in full possession of the kmowledge
possessed by them, and necessary for proper discharge of his,
Bass', duties as arbitrator, that you can go behind Bass' acts.
Then, if the cattle of the Teal herd were infected by a disease
incurred by careless handling, want of sufficient or proper food
or water, and such disease could not be discovered by a careful examination, which Bass is presumed to have made, in such
a case The plaintiffs were bound, if they knew of such disease,
to disclose it to Bass or Bilby, and their failure to do so was a
fraud upon Bilby; and if damages have resulted to him, Bilby,
in consequence, he is entitled to recover them in this action."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

We see no objection to this charge, which is the one complained of by plaintiffs in error.
A third question, to which some importance is attached,
arises out of the language of the contract, and the action of
Bilby under it, in regard to the hides of the cattle which
should die while they were under his control. This language,
which immediately succeeds the agreement as to the responsibility for cattle lost, strayed or stolen, or dying through the
neglect or carelessness of Bilby, is as follows: "If any steers
shall die, John S. Bilby shall preserve the hides as evidefice of
death, and the ears if there are any ear-marks." Of the 268
steers not on hand at the time Bilby proposed to deliver the
remainder of the cattle to the plaintiffs, the hides were not
produced. It is insisted by plaintiffs that the failure to produce these hides makes him responsible for the. value of the
steers. Evidence, however, was offered by Bilby tending to
show that during the winter in which these cattle died he had
produced the hides to Coleman, counted them to him, and
requested him to accept the delivery of them. There was
also testimony to prove that during the succeeding summer
the hides decayed and became offensive, and could not be produced at the time the cattle were to be delivered.
The question of these hides is considered in two aspects by
the court in its charge to the jury, and in both we think it is
justly treated. The first charge, which related to the evidence of the hides as tending to show the loss of the cattle
which Bilby was otherwise bound to account for, is in the
following language:
"Bilby, under the written contract, was to preserve
the
hides of the cattle which died and the ears of any which had
ear-marks. "Under this provision Bilby was bound-to preserve
the hides of all'the cattle which died; and unless he has done
so, he is bound to account for the whole of the 1500 cattle,
less such as he has preserved the hides of, or the preservation
of them was agreed to be waived.
"4There is testimony showing the number of hides preserved
by Bilby, and as to an agreement with plaintiff Coleman
waiving the preserving of some of them. If the whole of

TEAL v. BILBY.
Opinion of the Court.

the steers which-are claimed*to have died have thus been
accounted for to your satisfaction, Bilby cannot be held responsible, provided they all died through unavoidable causes,
and not through the neglect or carelessness of Bilby, as already
instructed. The offer to count the hides claimed by Bilby to
have been made to Coleman, if made as claimed, and the count
actually mad6 as testified to, if satisfactorily proven, may be
taken by you as showing that Bilby had the number of hides
claimed. There are no provisions in the contract where the
hides of cattle which haA died should be counted, and the
reasonable construction thereupon is, that the hides preserved
should be counted at the time, and with a view of making the
hides themselves available for use or sale."
In charging the jury in reference to the damages which
the plaintiffs might recover, he afterwards said : "Under the
written contract, the plaintiffs are entitled to the hides df the
cattle which unavoidably died. Unless you find that a tender
of these was made by defendant to plaintiffs, in which latter
case the defendant would not be liable for them, there is no
proof before you as to the value of the hides, and in order to
recover their value the plaintiffs would have to show it; the
hides seem to be out of the question even if defendant's tender
was invalid."
It is seriously urged in argument by counsel that this latter
charge concerning the value of the hides was misleading, as
tending to divert the jury from the consideration of the failure
to produce the hides as evidence of the death and loss of
the cattle, and exempting Bilby from responsibility for these
cattle. But it is too clear f6r argument, that, in that part of
the charge first cited, he points their attention to that aspect
of the failure to produce the hides, and to the considerations
which should govern the jury in that respect, in charging
Bilby or in releasing him from responsibility for their loss;
while in the second and later part of the charge, he is considering the mere moneyed value of the hides, and charges
the jury that the plaintiffs cannot recover for that, because
they have made no proof of such value.
While there are other assignments of error that have been
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

examined by us, we do not perceive that any of them are well
founded, nor do we think that they are worthy of an extended
inquiry. As these, to which we have adverted, are the most
important, and as we see no error in what the court charged
or refused to charge the jury on these subjects, and as we
have already said there is no exception to the introduction of
testimony, we see no error in the record, and the judgment
of the court below is, in each case,
Ajffled.

UAILES v. ALBANY STOVE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 28, 1887. -Decided

December 12,1887.

Under the patent laws a disclaimer cannot be used to materially alter the
character of the patented invention, or to effect such a change in it as
calls for further description or specification in order to make it intelligible: but its proper office is in the surrender either of a separate claim, or
of some distinct and separable matter, which can be exscinded without
mutilating or changing what is left.
The drawings cannot be used on a disclaimer to show that the patent, as
changed by the disclaimer, embraces a different invention from that
described in the specification.
Sections 4917 and 4922 of the Revised Statutes are parts of one law, having
one general purpose, and both relate to the case in which a patentee,
through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent
or deceptive intention, has included in his claims and in his patent inventions to which he is not entitled, and which are clearly distinguishable
from those to which he is entitled; the purpose of ยง 4917 being to authorize him in such case to file a disclaimer of the part to which he is not
entitled, and the purpose of ยง 4922 being to legalize the suits on the
patent mentioned in that section, and to the extent to which the patentee
can rightfully claim the patented invention.

BILL IN EQur to restrain alleged infringement of letterspatent, and for an accounting. The Circuit Court dismissed
the bill; from which decree the complainants took this appeal.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

