BULL v. BANK OF KASSON.
Statement of the Case.

BULL v. BANK OF KASSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNiITED STATES FOi THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted May 3, 1887.-Decided

October 31, 1887.

A bank check for the payment of "five hundred dollars in current funds"
Is payable in whatever is current by law as money, and is a bill of exchan ge, within the meaning of the aci of March 3, 1875, c. 137, defining
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
A bank check, presented by a bona fide indorsee for payment six months
after its date, the funds against which it was drawn remaining in the
hands of the drawee, and the drawer having been in no way injured or
prejudiced by the delay in presentment, is not overdue so as to be subject to equities of the drawer against a previous holder.

THIS case came before this court on a certificate of
division of opinion between the circuit and district judges
holding the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Minnesota. The action was upon two drafts, or bills of
exchange, (as they are termed in the record,) each for $500,
drawn by the First National Bank of Kasson in Minnesota
upon the Ninth National Bank in New York City, and
payable to the order of A. La Due, of which the following
were copies:
"The First National
Bank,
Kasson, :Minn., Oct. 15, 1881.
"$500.
"Pay to the order of Mr. A. La Due five hundred dollars
in current funds.
E. E. FAURcOHD; Cashier.
"No. 18956.
"To Ninth National Bank, New York City.
"Indorsed: Pay to the order of M. Edison, Esq. A. La Due.

M. Edison."
1"First

National Bank,
Kasson, Minn., Oct. 15, 1881.
"$500.
"Pay to the order of Mr. A. La Due five hundred dollars
in current funds.
E. E. FAmomD, Cashier.
" No. 18754.
City.
York
New
"To Ninth Nati6nal Bank,
Esq. A. La Due.
Edison,
"Indorsed: Pay to the order of M.
M. Edison."

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

The drafts or bills of exchange were immediately after their
execution transferred by indorsement of the payee to one M.
Edison, at Kasson, Minnesota. Edison was at the time
largely indebted, and on the following day he absconded
from Kasson, carrying the drafts with him. These drafts he
retained in his possession until March 24, 1882, when, at
Quincy, in Illinois, he sold and indorsed them for a valuable
consideration to the plaintiffs, who had no notice of any setoff to them. The plaintiffs then forwarded them to New
York City, where, on the 27th of March, they were presented
for payment to the drawee, the Ninth National Bank of New
York; and payment was refused by it. The drafts were then
protested for non-payment, and notice thereof given to the
drawer and indorsers.
In the meantime the First National Bank of Kasson, the
drawer of the drafts, had become the owner of certain demands against Edison, which, under the statute of Minnesota,
could be legally set-off against its liability on the drafts in the
hands of Edison, and also in the hands of the plaintiffs, unless
they were protected against such set-off as innocent purchasers of the paper before maturity, and without notice of the
set-off. At the time the drafts were drawn, and at the time
of their presentation for payment, the Ninth National Bank
of New York had in its hands money of the drawer sufficient
to pay them.
The action was tried by the court without the intervention
of a jury by stipulation of parties, and the facts stated above
are embodied in its findings. Upon these facts the following
question of law arose, viz.: Whether the said drafts, or bills
of exchange, were to be regarded as overdue and dishonored
paper at the time they were presentedby the plainiiffs to the
drawee for payment and payment iefused, so as to admit the
set-off.
Upon this question the judges were divided in opinion, and,
upon motion of plaintiffs, it was certified to this court for decision. The circuit judge who presided at the circuit, being
of opinion that the question should be answered in .the affirm.
ative, ordered judgment for the defendant. To review this

BULL v. BANK OF KASSON.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

judgment, upon the certificate of division of opinion, the case
was brought here on writ of error.
Z.r. T illlam .cFadon

for plaintiffs in error.

.31%'. C]harles C. Willson for defendant in error.
I. Togive the Circuit Court jurisdiction, in a case like this,
under the act of 1875, the instrument sued on must be either
a promissory note or a bill of exchange. These two instruments would have been perfect inland bills of exchange if the
words "in current funds" had been omitted. Those words
must have been used with a purpose of limiting or changing
the intent of the instrument. "Funds" is a more comprehensive word than " money." It includes securities and resources from which ready money may be realized. "Current
funds" are those securities which are current and used as
money in the place of payment. But they are not money, so
as to give negotiability to the instrument which is payable in
them. A bill of exchange payable in Bank of England notes
was held to be not negotiable. Ex pavarte Imesonr, 2 Rose Cas.
Bankr. 225. So of a bill payable in "Office notes of the Lurberman's Bank at Warren." Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Pet. 293.
So of a promissory note payable in current bank notes receivable at the counter of the Bank of Michigan. -7"j v.
Rousseau, 3 McLean, 106. So of a note "payable in -New
York funds or their equivalent." Hasbrook v. Palmer, 2 McLean, 10.- So of a note promising to pay "six hundred and
eighty dollars (Foreign Bills)." Jones v. Tales, 4 Mass. 245.
See also Texas Land & Cattle Co. v. Carroll,63 Texas, 48;
haddock v. Woods, 46 Iowa, 433; Conwell v. Pumphrey, 9
Ind. 135; .Lindsey v. .fcClelland, 18 Wis. 481; McCormick v.
Trotter, 10 S. & R. 94; Little v. Ptenix Bank, 2 Hill, 425;
Platt v. Sauk County Bank, 17 Wis. 222, 226; Note in 1 Am.
Leading Cases, 314.
II. Whatever mayr be the general rule of law elsewhere in
regard to a set-off against overdue and negotiable paper, in
Minnesota, where this case arose and where it was tried, it is
provided by statute that in an action arising on contract the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

defendant may set off any other cause of action arising also
on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.
Minn. Genl. Stats., 1878, c. 66, ยง 97, second; c. 65, ยง 40.
See 1inn v. Rugg, 19 Minn. 181; .3fartin v. Pillsbwtry, 23
Minn. 175; Bond v. _Fitzpatrick, 4 Gray, 89. The Federal
Circuit Courts follow the rule in the State where the action
was brought. Partridge v. Insurance Co., 15 Wall. 573.
The Circuit Pourt of the United States in Minnesota held that
the bank had the right to make the set-off when sued upon
these drafts. Bull v. Bank of Kfasson, 14 Fed. Rep. 612.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota also held, in a suit upon another of this series of drafts, that the set-off must be allowed.
_La Due v. Kaoson Bank, 31 Minn. 33.
III. By the law which prevails in Minnesota these drafts
were past due when Edison transferred them to plaintiff. A
demand draft becomes due after the lapse of a reasonable
time in which to present it for payment in the due course of
business. A statute of Minnesota provides that a reasonable
time shall not extend beyond sixty days from the date when
it is put in circulation. Minn. Gen. Stats., 1878, c. 23, ยง 11.
This statute was substantially copied from the Massachusetts
statute mentioned in Pice v. 11resson, 11 Met. 400. For cases
in which delay has been held fatal without a statutory rule,
see lfIalsh v. BDaIt, 23 Wis. 334; Phmo ix ns. Co. v. Gray,
13 Mich. 191 ; Sice v. Cunningham, 1 Cowen, 397; 1alt v.
Eastman, 7 Minn. 74; 2Xewark Bank v. Bank of Erie, 63
Penn. St. 404. For the construction put by the Supreme
Court of Iinnesota on this statute, see La Due v. Yasson
Bank, 31 Minn. 33.
A bill of exchange is the instrument by which the payee
transmits his funds to a distant creditor. Its sole purpose is
such transmission, and the parties to it, when it is drawn, contemplate a speedy mailing of it to the indorsee, and that such
indorsee will collect the bill of the drawee by due course of
mail and business. The parties all contemplate that no one
will hold the bill more than one day.
This being the expectation of the drawee when he sells the
bill, he only undertakes to have an agent or correspondent at

BULL v. BANK OF KASSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the place of payment with funds for a reasonable length of
time thereafter. He does not agree to maintain an agent and
hold funds at the distant place of payment forever. There
must come a time when the drawer's obligation to employ an
agent and intrust him with funds at the place of payment,
will end. It must end if the bill be not presented for payment within the time reasonably contemplated by the drawer
and payee at the time it was made, having regard to the
object of such bills and the usual course of business. It was
not contemplated by the drawer and payee that these bills
should be held as certificates of deposit with the drawee.
They were past due when a reasonable time for presentation
had elapsed. As they remained unaccepted, the drawer was
the debtor, and had the right of set-off under the Minnesota
Statutes.
IV. It is submitted that the certificate of division of opinion states a mixed question of law and fact, which, as a jury
was waived, was proper for the decision of the Circuit Judge,
but is not reviewable here on a certificate of division of
opinion.

"filiiamsortv. Enapp, 119 U. S. 357, 360.

M:R. JuswIca FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the record, the instruments upon which the action is
brought are designated as "drafts or bills of exchange." In
a general sense they may be thus designated; for they are
orders of one party upon another for the payment of money,
which is the essential characteristic of drafts or bills of
exchange. They are also negotiable, and pass by delivery,
and are whhin the description of instruments of that character in the act of March 3, 1875, prescribing the jurisdiction
of Circuit Courts of the United States. But, in strictness,
they are bank checks. They have all the particulars in which
such instruments differ or may differ from regular bills of
exchange. They are drawn upon a bank having funds of the
drawer for their payment, and they are payable upon demand,
although the time of payment is not designated in them. A
bill of exchange may be so drawn, but it usually states the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

time of payment, and days of grace are aliowed upon it.
There are no days ef grace upon checks.
The instruments here are also drawn in the briefest form
possible in orders for the payment of money, which is the
usual characteristic of cheeks. A bill of exchange is generally
drawn with more formality, and payment at sight, or at a
specified number of days after date, is requested, and that the
amount be charged to the drawer's account. When intended for
transmission to another state or country, they are usually drawn
in duplicate or triplicate, and designated as first, second or
third of exchange. A regular bill of exchange, it is true, may
be in a form similar to a bank check, so that it may sometimes
be difficult, from .their form, to distinguish between the two
classes of instruments. But when the instrument is drawn

upon a bank, or a person engaged in banking business, and
simply directs the payment to a party named of a specified
sum of money, which is at the time on deposit with the
drawee, without designating a future day of payment, the
instrument is to be treated as a check rather than as a bill of
exchange, and the .liability of parties thereto is to be determined accordingly. If the instrument designates a future day
for its payment, it is, according to the weight of authorities,
to be deemed a bill of exchange, when, without such desigonation, it would be treated as a check. Bowen v. -ewell, 4
Selden, 190.
The instruments upon which the action is brought being
bank checks, the liability of the parties is determinable by the
rules governing such paper. A check implies a contract on
the part of the drawer that he has funds in the hands of the
drawee for its payment on presentation. If it is dishonored
the drawer is entitled to notice, but, unlike the drawer of a
bill of exchange, he is not- discharged from liability for the
want of such notice unless he has sustained damage, or is prejudided in the assertion of his rights by the omission. In
.Xerckants' Bank -%.State Bank, 10 Wall. 604, this court said:
"Bank cheeks are not inland bills of exchange, but have many
of the properties of such commercial paper; and many of the
rules of the law merchant are alike applicable to both. Each

BULL v. BANK OF KASSON.
Opinion of the Court.

is for a specific sum payable in money. In both cases there is
a drawer, a drawee, and a payee. Without acceptance, no
action can be maintained by the holder upon either against
the drawee.1 The chief points of difference are that a check
is always drawn on a bank or banker. No days of grace are
allowed. The drawer is not discharged by the laches of the
holder in presentment for payment, unless he can show that he
has sustained some injury by the default. It is not due until
payment is demanded, and the statute of limitations runs only
from that time. It is by its face the appropriation of so much
money of the drawer in the hands of the drawee to the payment of an admitted liability of the drawer. It is not necessary that the drawer of a bill should have funds in the hands
of the drawee. A che~k in such case would be a fraud."
10 Wall. 647.
Similar language is used by Mr. Justice Story with reference
to the time when checks are to be regarded as due. In stating
the differences in point of law between checks and bills of exchange, he refers to the rule that a bill of exchange, taken after
the day of payment, subjects the holder to all the equities attaching to it in the hands of the party from whom he receives
it. "But," he adds, "this rule does not apply to a check; for
it is not treated as overdue, although it is taken by the holder
some days after its date, and it is payable on demand. On the
contrary, the holder in such a case takes it, subject to no equities of which he has not, at the time, notice; for a check is not
treated as overdue merely because it has not been presented as
early as it might be, or as a bill of exchange is required to be,
to charge the drawer, or indorser, or transferrer. One reason
for this seems to be, that, strictly speaking, a check is not due
until it is demanded." Story Promissory Notes, ยง 491. See
also Matter of B'own, 2 Story, 502, 513.
Accepting* these citations as correctly stating the law, the
question presented for our decision is readily answered. The
drawer was in no way injured or prejudiced in his rights by
1 This word is " drawer" in the original, and Mr. Wallace followed the
original in reporting the case; but it is evidently a clerical or typographical
error.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the delay of Edison to present the cheeks. The funds against
which they were drawn remained undisturbed in the hands of
the drawee, and, therefore, the drawer had no cause of complaint. The instruments in suit were not overdue and dishonored when presented for payment. Until then the plaintiffs,
as purchasers for a valuable consideration without notice of
any demand against Edison, in the hands of the drawer, were
protected against its set-off.
The certificate of division of opinion presents to us only one
question, and yet, to answer that correctly, we must consider
whether the negotiability of the instruments in suit was affected by the fact that they were payable "in current funds."
Undoubtedly it is the law that, to be negotiable, a bill, promissory note or check must be payable in money, or whatever
is current as such by the law of the country where the instrument is drawn or payable. There are numerous cases where a
designation of the payment of such instruments in notes of
particular banks or associations, or in paper not current as
money, has been held to destroy their"negotiability. I,'vine v.
Lowy, 1-4 Pet. 2193; Htiller v. Austen, 13 How. 218, 228. But
within a few years, commencing witli the first issue in this
countr of notes declared to have the quality of legal tender,
it has been a common practice of drawers of bills of exchange
or checks, or-makers of promissory notes, to indicate whether
the same are to be paid in gold or silver, or in such notes ; and
the term -currnt funds" has been used td designate any of
these, all being current and declared, by positive enactment,
to be legal tender. It was intended to cover whatever was
receivable and current by law as money, whether in the form
of notes or coin. Thus construed, we do not think the negotiability of the paper in question was impaired by the insertion
of those words.
It follows from these views that the question certified to us
must be answered in the negative. The judgment will, therefore, be
]?erersed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter
judgnentfor tl1e }cintffs upon. theftndings; and it is eo
ordered.

