IN RE AYERS.
Syllabus.

IN RE AYERS.
IN RE SCOTT.
IN

RE McCABE.
ORIGINAL.

Argued November 14, 15, 1S7.-Decided

December 5, 1887.

It is well settled in this court that, while the exercise of the power of punishment for contempt of their orders by courts of general jurisdiction is
not subject to review by writ of error, or by appeal, yet, when a court of
the United States undertakes, by its process of contempt, to punish a
man for refusing to comply with an order which that court had no
authority to make, the original order being void for want of jurisdiction,
the order punishing for contempt is equally void; and if the proceeding
for contempt result in imprisonment, this court will, by its writ of
habeas corpits, discharge the prisoner.
Whether a State is the actual party defendant in a suit within the meaning
of the l1th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, is to be
determined by a consideration of the nature of the case as presented by
the whole record, and not, in every case, by a reference to the nominal
parties of the record. Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
857, explained and limited.
In order to secure the manifest purpose of the constitutional exemption
paranteed by the llth Amendment, it should be interpreted not literally and too narrowly, but with the breadth and largeness necessary to
enable it to accomplish its purpose; and must be held to cover, not only
suits brought against a State by name, but those against its officers,
agents, and representatives, where the State, though not named, is the
real party against which the relief is asked and the judgment will operate.
If a bill in equity be brought against the officers and agents of a State, the
nominal defendants having no personal interest in the subject-matter of
the suit, and defending only as representing the State, and the relief
prayed for is a decree that the defendants may be ordered to do and perform certain acts which, when done, will constitute a performance of an
alleged contract of the State, it is a suit against the State for the specific
performance of the contract within the terms of the 11th Amendment to
the Constitution, although the State may not be named as a defendant;
and, conversely, a bill for an injunction against such officers and agents,
to restrain and enjoin them from acts which it is alleged they threaten to
do, in pursuance of a statute of the State, in its name, and for its use,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
and which if done would constitute a breach on the part of the State of
an alleged contract between it and the complainants, is in like manner a
suit against the State within the meaning of that Amendment, although
the State may not be named as a party defendant.
The court does not intend to impinge upon the principle which justifies suits
against individual defendants who, under color of the authority of unconstitutional state legislation, are guilty of personal trespasses and wrongs;
nor to forbid suits against officers in their official capacity either to arrest
or direct their official action by injunction or mandamus, where such
suits are authorized by law, and the act to be done or omitted is purely
ministerial, in the performance or omission of which the plaintiff has a
legal interest.
A bill in equity was filed by aliens against the Auditor of the State of Virginia, its Attorney General, and various Commonwealth Attorneys for its
counties, seeking to enjoin them from briffging and prosecuting suits
in the name and for the use of the State, under the act of its General
Assembly of May 12, 1887, against tax-payers reported to be delinquent.
but who had tendered in payment of the taxes sought to be recovpied in
such suits, tax-receivable coupons cut from bonds of the State. An injunction having been granted according to the prayer of the bill, proceedings were taken against the Attorney General of the State and two Commonwcalth Attorneys for contempt in disobeying the orders of the court
in this respect, and they were fined and were committed until the fine
should be paid and they should be purged of the contempt. Held, that
the suit was a suit against the State of Virginia, within the meaning of
the 11th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and was
not within the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States; that the
injunction granted by the Circuit Court was null and void; that the imprisonment of the officers of the State for an alleged contempt of the
authority of the Circuit Court was illegal; and that the prisoners, being
before this court on a writ of habeas corpus, should be discharged.
The Virginia act of 1877 concerning suits to collect taxes from persons who
had tendered coupons in payment contains no provision as to the tender,
or the proof of it, or the proof of the genuineness of the coupon, which
violates legal or contract rights of the party sued.
If the holder of Virginia coupons, receivable in payment of state taxes, sells
them, agreeing with the purchaser that they shall be so received by the
State, the refusal of the State to receive them constitutes no injury to
him for which le could sue the State, even if it were suable; and cannot be made the foundation for preventive relief in equity against officers
of the State.

ON the 11th October, 1887, these petitioners
through his counsel for leave to file a petition
habeas corpus. On the 12th October leave was
the writs were ordered to be made returnable on

each moved
fot a writ of
granted, and
Monday, the

IN RE AYERS,
Statement of the Case.

17th October. On the return day, return havi~g been made,
the court directed the prisoners to be placed in the custody of
the marshal of the court. The same day a motion was made
and argued, to release them on bail and to fix a day for hearing. On the 18th October the court ordered the prisoners to
be released on their own recognizances, each in the sum of
$1000, and assigned the cause for argument on the 14th day
of the next November.
The case for argument and decision, as stated by the court,
was as follows:
A writ of habeas co pus, directed to the Marshal of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, having
heretofore been issued b this court on the application of
Rufus A. Ayers, Attorney General of the State of Virginia,
the marshal has made return thereto that the petitioner,
whose body he produces, was in his custody and detained by
him by virtue of an order, judgment, decree, and commitment
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia, a certified copy of which is attached as
a part of the return; and further returned that the petitioner
had not paid, and refuses to pay, the fine imposed upon him
by said order. The order of commitment, dated at Richmond,
October 8, 1887, is as follows:
"On Attachmentfor Contempt.
"In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia.
.Tn Be RUFus A. AYERS.
"This matter came on this day to be heard upon the rule
heretofore'issued against Rufus A. Ayers, Attorney General
of the State of Virginia, to show cause why he should not be
attached for contempt in disobeying the restraining order
heretofore granted in the suit of Cooper et al. v. Xa2fye et al.
on the 6th day of June, 1887, aid his answer thereto.
"On consideration whereof the court is of opinion and doth
order and adjudge that the said Rufus A. Ayers is guilty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Stateiient of the Case.

contempt in his disobedience of said order, and that he do
forthwith dismiss the suit of The Commonwealth v. The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, instituted by him in the
Circuit Court of the City of Richmond, and that for his said
contempt he be fined the sum of $500, and stand committed
in the custody of the marshal of this court until the same be
paid and he purge himself of his contempt by dismissing said
suit last herein mentioned."
A transcript of the proceedings, orders, and decrees of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Virginia in the suit of Cooper et al. v. -2rai7yeet al., referred
to in .the order of commitment, is also produced, and set out
in full as a part of the record in this matter. From that it
appears that on June 6, 1887, James P. Cooper and others,
suing on their own behalf and for all others similarly situated,
being aliens, subjects of Great Britain, filed their bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District. of Virginia against Morton Marye, Auditor
of the State of Virginia, Rufus A. Ayers, the Attorney
General thereof, and the Treasurers of counties, cities, and
towns in Virginia, and the Commonwealth Attorneys of counties, cities, and towns in said State, whose names they prayed
they-might be allowed to insert in the bill as defendants when
discovered.
In that bill it is alleged that, by an act of the General
Assembly of Virginia, approved March 30, 1871, and another
approved March 28, 1879, the State of Virginia had provided
for the issue of a large number of bonds bearing interest
coupons, which -she thereby contracted should be received in
payment of all taxes, debts, and demands due to her, of which
large numbers, amounting to many millions of dollars, had
been in fact Issued; that said coupons, issued under both of
said acts, are payable to bearer, and, both as.a contract to pay
interest and as a contract that they shall be received in payment of taxes, are negotiable instruments, free in the hands
of anyr bon,aficl purchaser for value-from any equity or burden
whatever; that there are outstanding :and overdue in the
hands of the public at large more than four millions of dollars

IN RE AYERS.
Statement of the Case.

of these overdue coupons; .that, in pursuance of a plan subsequently conceived and adbpted to destroy the marketable
value of these coupons, the General Assembly of, the State of
Virginia, by the 15th section of an act dated February 14,
1882, forbade all the officers of the State to pay and redeem
the same according to the tenor of the contract contained
therein, and, by an act dated January 26, 1882, the collectors
of taxes were forbidden to receive the same in payment of
any taxes due to them; that, nevertheless, these statutes were
declared by the Supreme Court of the United States to be
unconstitutional and void; that thereafter the complainants,
on the faith of said decision and the belief caused thereby
that the said State would be utterly unable by any legislative
enactment to impair the value of said coupons as a tender for
taxes, had bought a large quantity of said coupons in the
open money market of the city of London and elsewhere,
amounting to more than one hundred thousand dollars nominally, at a cost of more. than thirty thousand dollars; that
this purchase was made for the purpose of selling said coupons
to the tax-paye. of Virginia, to be used by them as tenders
for taxes due said State, the complainants believing that they
would be able to sell said coupons to such tax-payers at a considerable advance on the price paid for them; many of which
the complainants have sold to said tax-payers; that the
General Assembly of Virginia enacted another statute, dated
May 12, 1887, a copy of which is set out as an exhibit to the
bill, whereby, as is alleged, "the treasurer of each county,
city, and town in the State is ordered to furnish to the Commonwealth's attorney thereof a list of all persons who have
tendered the said State's coupons in payment of their taxes,
and said Commonwealth's attorneys are ordered to institute
suits by summary proceedings in the name of said State
against all such persons to recover a judgment against them
for the amount of said taxes so previously due by them; that
the said tax-payers are thereby required to submit to a judgment against them by default or to appear in court and plead
a tender of said coupons, and then prove affirmatively that
the coupons tendered by them are the State's coupons and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

counterfeit and spurious coupons, the burden of proving the
same being placed upon the tax-payer and the coupon being
taken to be pri,nafacie spurious and counterfeit."
In the bill it is further alleged "that said act is repugnant
to section ten of article one of the Constitution of the United
States, for the reason that, taken in connection with said act
before mentioned of January 26, 1882, it first commands the
State's officers to refuse to receive those coupons which are
undoubtedly her own as well as those which are spurious (and
your orators charge that there are none such), and then commands her officers to bring said suits against those who have
tendered said coupons of, said State, as well as against those
who have tendered spurious coupons; that it imposes upon
the defendants heavy costs and fees, although all taxes due by
them were paid by said tender, and it makes the judgment to
be recovered in said suit a perpetual lien upon all the property
of said tax-payer for said taxes, and for said costs and fees
also, thus fixing a perpetual cloud upon the title of siaid taxpayer to his property."
It is further alleged in the bill, " that, by another act of the
General Assembly of said State, approved January 26, 1886,
it is provided that upon a trial of the issue to be made up
under said act of A-fay 12, 1887, the defendant shall produce
the bond from which the coupon so tendered by him was cut,
and prove that it was cut from said bond;" and that, as very
few of said bonds are owned by persons residing in Virginia,
the tax-payers would be utterly unable to produce said bonds,
as required by said act.
It is further alleged therein, "that, by another act of said
1886, it is provided that
General Assembly, approved -,
the tax-payer undertaking to prove said tender shall not be
allowed to introduce expert evidence to prove the genuineness
of said coupons, and all that have been issued under either of
said acts are engraved only, as said acts provided they may be,
and are not signed manually." Wherefore, it is alleged, that
"said tax-payers who cannot produce said bonds will be utterly
unable to prove their coupons to be genuine upon said trial,
the State thus forcing them into a lawsuit in her own courts,

IN RE AYERS.
Statement of the Case.

in which she has taken effectual precautions beforehand to
make it impossible they can win, and to make it a legal certainty that they must lose when they cannot produce said
bonds; that said act is a device and trick enacted to take away
from and deprive said coupons of their value as tender for
taxes."
It is further alleged therein that the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the State of Virginia has decided that said lastnamed two acts, requiring said bonds to be produced, and
forbidding the use of expert testimony, are valid laws, not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
It is further alleged in the bill, that, as the great bulk of
the tax-payers of Virginia pay small sums, "if her officers are
allowed to enforce said act of May 12, 1887, against them,
the profit to be derived from purchasing your orators' coupons
will be too small to induce them to do so, and, indeed, it will
be impossible for them to use said coupons at all, except in
the very limited cases in which they can produce said bonds;"
and that "your orators will not only lose the profit which they
had a right to expect they would make when they purchased
said coupons, but they will be unablh to sell them to Virginia's
tax-payers at any price, and thus their entire property in the
same will be destroyed; and your orators charge and aver
that, in any event, unless they are granted the injunction
hereinafter prayed for, they will lose a sum greater than
$2000."
It is further charged in the bill "that the treasurer of each
county, city, and town in said State is about to report to each
Commonwealth's attorney the name of every tax-payer who
has tendered coupons, and each Commonwealth's attorney is
going at once to institute the suits provided for by said act of
May 12, 1887, against persons holding coupons bought from
your orators, as well as against all others; and they are
informed and believe and so charge, that, in every case in
which tenders of coupons have been made to the Auditor of
the State, who is Morton Marye, (and many have been made
to him,) the said Auditor, and lIon. R. A. Ayers, who is
Attorney General thereof, are about to institute the suits
VOL. cxxm-29

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

which said act provides for their instituting, whereby all
coupons which your orators have sold to Virginia tax-payers
will be condemned as spurious, although they are all genuine
coupons issued by the State of Virginia, and all her taxpayers will be intimidated and deterred from buying from
your orators and all others in the future any more of said
coupons."

It is further charged in an amended bill "that acts of the
General Assembly of the State of Virginia, which are repugnant to section 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United
States, commanded the treasurer of each county to levy on
and sell the property of each tax-payer who has tendered
coupons in payment of his taxes; and said acts also command
said treasurers to return the real property of such tax-payers
delinquent where no personal property can be found to be
seized and sold; and your orators charge, therefore, that
unless said officers are enjoined from bringing said suits
hereinbefore described the treasurer of each county will proceed to execute said other unconstitutional acts by levying
on such tax-payer's property, or by returning the same
delinquent where no personal property can be found, thus
creating a cloud upon the title of such tax-payer's property."

The prayer of the bill is that "the said Morton Marye,,
Auditor of Virginia, R. A. Ayers, the Attorney General
thereof, and the treasurer and Commonwealth's attorney of
each county, city, and town in the State of Virginia, may be
made parties defendant hereto, and that they, their agents
and attorneys, may be restrained and enjoined from bringing
or commencing any suit provided for by said act of AMay 12,
1887, or from doing any other act to put said statute into
force and effect, and that until the hearing of a motion for
said injunction a restraining order may be made to that effect,"
and for general relief.
The act of May 12, 1887, set out as an exhibit to the bill, is

as follows:

IN RE AYERS.
Statement of the Case.

"An act to provide for the recovery, by motion, of taxes and
certain debts due the Commonwealth, for the payment of
which papers purporting to be genuine coupons of the
Commonwealth have been tendered. (Approved May 12,

1887.)

"1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia,
that all taxes, including taxes on licenses, now due or which
may hereafter become due to the Comnonwealth, in payment
of wiich any paper or instrument purporting to be a coupon
detached from a bond of this State shall have been or may
hereafter be tendered and not accepted as payment and not
otherwise paid, may be recovered in the Circuit Court having
jurisdiction over the county or corporation in which said taxes
shall have been assessed, or if the tender was made to the
auditor of public accounts in payment of taxes which he
is authorized by law to receive, the said taxes may be recovered in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond.
"2. The court shall have jurisdiction without regard to the
amount of the taxes claimed and though the amount be less
than twenty dollars.
"3. The proceeding shall be by motion, in the name of the
Commonwealth, on ten days' notice, and shall be instituted
and prosecuted by the attorney for the Commonwealth or corporation in which the proceeding is, or, if it be instituted by
direction of the auditor of public accounts, in the Circuit Court
of the City of Richmond.
"4. The notice may be served in any county or corporation
in the State in the mode prescribed by the first section of
chapter one hundred and sixty-four of the code (edition of
eighteen hundred and seventy-three), or it may be served on
any agent of the defendant in the county or corporation in
which the proceeding is, and the word 'agent,' as here used,
shall include any person who shall have made the tender
aforesaid on behalf of the defendanat, or if fhere be no known
agent of the defendant in the said county or corporation it
may be served by the publishing the, same one time in some
newspaper printed in the county or city where the tax was
assessed, or if there be no paper printed in such county

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case;

or city then in some newspaper published in some county or city,
nearest to the county or city where such tax was assessed.
"5. The motion may be tried or heard by the court or jury
as motions in other civil cases. If the defendant relies on. a
tender of coupons as payment of the taxes claimed, he shall
plead the same specifically and in writing, and file with the
plea the coupons averred therein'to have been tendered, and
the clerk shall carefully preserve them. Upon such plea filed
the burden of proving the tender and the genuineness of the
coupons shall be on the defendant. Ifthe tender and the genuineness of the coupons be established, judgment shall be for
the defendant on the plea of tender. In such case the clerk
shall write the word 'proved,' and thereunder his name in his
official character, across the face of the coupons, and transmit
them, together with a certificate of the court that they have
been proven in the case, to the auditor of public accounts, who
shall deliver the coupons to the second auditor, receiving therefor. the check of the second auditor upon the treasurer, which
check he shall pay into the treasury to the credit of the proper
tax account.
"6. If the defendant fails in his defence and the taxes
claimed are found to be due the State, any coupon filed by
him with a plea of tender (and not spurious) shall be returned
to him, and there shall be judgment for the Commonwealth
for the aggregate amount of the taxes due and the interest
thereon from the time they became due till the date of the
judgment, with interest on the said aggregate amount from
the date of the judgment until payment, and costs.
"'. No antecedent lien of the Commonwealth for the taxes
for which any judgment is rendered shall be deemed to be
merged in the judgment or otherwise impaired by the recovery
of the same, but such lien shall continue in force notwithstanding the judgment.
"8. Every such judgment shall be docketed, as prescribed by
law in other cases, and the clerk shall issue execution thereon,
directed to the sheriff of any county (or sergeant of any city)
who shall account for the money collected thereon to the
auditor of public accounts.

' IN RE AYERS.
Statement of the Case.

"9. Should coupons be tendered the officer in satisfaction
of said execution, he shall note the fact of such tender upon
-the execution and return it to the clerk's office; and thereupon the auditor of public accounts may direct an action to
be brought upon the judgment. This action shall be instituted and prosecuted in the mode herein prescribed for actions
to recover judgments for taxes, and similar actions may be
instituted whenever coupons are tendered in satisfaction of
any judgment obtained by the Commonwealth under the provisions of this act.
"10. The clerk of the court in which any such judgment is
rendered, in behalf of the Commonwealth shall, as soon as it is
rendered, transmit a certified abstract thereof to the auditor
of public accounts, who shall record the same in a book to be
kept for that purpose.
"11. Immediately after the passage of this act the county
and city treasurers, and all other officers authorized by law to
*collect or receive money for taxes due the Commonwealth,
including the license taxes, shall report to' the Commonwealth's attorneys of their respective counties and citiesi and
also to the auditor of public accounts, the names of all persons assessed or liable therein for taxes due the Commonwealth who have heretofore tendered (otherwise than for
identification and verification) coupons for such taxes, and
which taxes remain unpaid, the amount of the taxes due, on
what account, and when they become payable, and a description, as far as possible, of the coupons tendered, and' when
tendered; and they shall thereafter make like reports whenever and as soon as any such tender may be made. As soon
as the auditor of public accounts shall receive such reportshe
shall credit the proper officer with the taxes named therein
for which coupons were tendered.
"12. The attorneys for the Commonwealth, and the Attorney General, when it is his duty under this act to represent
the Commonwealth in any case in the Circuit 'Court in the
City of Richmond, upon such report being made to them, or
whenever they are otherwise informed of any such tender
having been made, shall forthwith institute and prosecute such
proceedings as are hereinbefore required.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"13. In any case instituted under the provisions of this
act, in which there is a judgment for the Commonwealth, a
fee of ten dollars shall be allowed the attorney for the Commonwealth, or the Attorney General, as the case may be,
which fee and fees of the clerk and other officers for services
rendered in the case, as well as'such other costs as are allowedby law in other cases in which the Commonwealth is a party,
shall be taxed in the costs against the defendant. The Commonwealth shall not be liable for any fees or costs in any proceedings under this act.
"14. If any officer fail to perform any duty required of
him by this act he shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars nor more than five hundred dollars.
"15. This act shall be in force from its passage."
On this bill the following order was made:
"Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Virginia.
"James P. Cooper, H. R. Beeton, F. J. Burt, N. J.'
Chinnery, W. M. Chinnery, F. P. Leon, and
W. G. Woolston,
against
"Morton Marye, Auditor, R. A. Ayers, Attorney General, the Treasurers of Counties, Cities and Towns in
Virginia, and the Commonwealth Attorneys of Counties, Cities and Towns in said State, whose names
complainants have leave to insert as they may be discovered.
"Upon reading the bill of the complainants, it is ordered
that Morton Marye, Auditor, R. A. Ayers, Attorney General,
each and every treasurer of a county, city, or town in the
State of Virginia, and each and every Commonwealth attorney for a county, city, or town in said State, be restrained from
bringing or commencing any suit against any person who has
tendered the State of Virginia's tax-receivable coupons in payment of taxes due to said State, as provided for and directed
by -the act of the Legislature of Virginia, approved Mffay 12,
1887, described in the bill, and of which a copy is attached

IN RE AYERS.
Statement of the Case.

thereto, and that each and all of said parties, their agents and
attorneys, be restrained from doing any act to put said statute
into force and effect until the further order of the court.
' And it is ordered that the motion for an injunction in this
case be set down for hearing at the Circuit Court of the
United States at Richmond, Virginia, on the first Monday
in October next; provided that the Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, or either. of the defendants, may move the
court for an earlier hearing thereof after ten days' written
notice to the solicitor of the complainants; and provided
further, that a copy of this bill and of this order be served
on the Attorney General of the State of Virginia within ten
days after the iling thereof."
"June 6, 1887."
A copy of this order, together with a copy of the bill, was
served on the petitioner Ayers, the Attorney General of Virginia, on June 7, 1887.
On October 8, 1887, the following proceedings took place,
viz.:
"And, now, at this day, to wit, at a Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, held at
Richmond, in said district, this 8th day of October, A.D.
1887.
"J. P Cooper and Others
In Equity.
against
Morton Marye, Auditor, &c., and Others.
"This cause came on this day to be heard upon the motion
of the complainants for a preliminary injunction and was
argued by counsel; upon consideration whereof it is adjudged,
ordered, and decreed, for reasons stated in writing and made
part of the record, that the injunction be issued as prayed in
the bill and remain in force until the' further order of the
court.

"BiUGH L. BoND,
"Circuit Judge.

"Thereupon the complainants, by counsel, called the attention of the court to the fact that the defendant, R. A. Ayers,
Attorney General of the State of Virginia, was guilty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

contempt by his disobedience of the restraining order issued
inthis cause on 6th day of June, 1887, and the said R. A.
Ayers, being called upon to answer in this behalf, filed in
open court his answer in writing, which'answer is in the
words following to wit:
"Answer of Defendant R. A. Ayers.
"The answer of IR.A. Ayers, Attorney General of the State
of Virginia, to a rule awarded against him by this honorable court.
"To the Honorable Judge of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia:
"By an order entered in the chancery cause of James P.
Cooper et als. against Morton MNarye dnd others, summoning
him to show cause why he should not be fined and imprisoned,
for disobeying the injunction heretofore awarded in said suit,
restraining him and others from instituting the suits required
by.an act of the General Assembly of Virgi4a, eptitled 'An
act to provide for the recovery by motion of taxes and certain debts due the Commonwealth, for the payment of which
papers purporting to be genuine coupons of the Commonwealth have been tendered,7 approved May .12, 1887, by instituting a suit against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co.,
respondent, answering, says that he admits that .'e instituted
the suit against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company to
recover taxes due by it to the State of Virginia after he
had been served with the injunction order in this case; that
he instituted the said suit because he was thereunto required
by the act of the General Assembly of Virginia aforesaid,
and because he believed this court had no jurisdiction whatever to award the injunction violated. Respondent disclaims
any intention to treat the court with disrespect, and states
that he has been actuated alone with the desire to have the
law properly administered.
"R. A.

AYERS,

"Att'y-Gen'l of Virginia.
"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 8th day of Octo
ber, 1887.
"M. F. PLEASATS, Clerk."

IN

RE AYERS.

Statement of the Case.

And thereupon the order was made adjudging the petitioner
guilty of contempt by his disobedience of said order, and requiring him forthwith to dismiss the suit of The Commanwealth v.
Tie Baltimore and Oldo Bailroad Com2pany, instituted by
him in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond, fining him
$500 for his contempt, and directing that he stand committed
in the custody of the marshal of the court until the same be
paid, and he purge himself of his contempt by dismissing said
suit last mentioned.
In the same case, the proceedings resulting in the commitment and imprisonment of the petitioner John Scott, are as
follows:
On August 23, 1887, on affidavit., showing that John Scott,
attorney for the Commonwealth for Fauquier County, Virginia, had been served with a copy of the restraining order
of June 6, 1887, and that in violation thereof he had brought
certain suits against parties in said county, for the recovery of
taxes alleged to be due by them to the State of Virginia for
the year 1886, for which they had _previously tendered taxreceivable coupons, said actions being brought under the act
of the General Assembly of May 12, 1887, a rule was entered
upon the said Scott to show cause, on September 22, 1887,
why he should iot be attached for contempt. On that day
the said Scott answered the rule, justifying his action on the
ground that the order which he had disobeyed was void for
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court to make it. On
September 21, 1887, in pursuance of leave given, the complainants filed an amendment to their bill, making Scott, as
attorney for the Commonwealth for said County of Fauquier,
a formal party defendant, and alleging that a judgment had
been rendered against the defendant in each of the suits
brought by the said Scott under the said act, a list of which,
with the amounts of the several judgments, was set out.
Thereupon, on October 8, 1887, the following order was
made: "The court, therefore, doth adjudge, order, and decree
that, for his contempt of this court, said John Scott do pay a
fine of $10, and dismiss the cases which he has brought in the
Circuit Court of Fauquier County, Virginia, in violation of the

OCTOBER TERM,

887.

Argument for Petitioners.

restraining order heretofore made in the cause of Cooper and
Others v. Xarye and Others,on the 6th day of June, 1887; and,
further, that he enter satisfaction of the judgments heretofore
obtained by him against the defendants in said causes, and
that he stand committed to the custody of the marshal of this
court until this order is obeyed, and the fine hereby imposed
upon him is paid. And it is further ordered that the said
John Scott do pay the costs of these proceedings."
Similar proceedings were had in respect to J. B. McCabe,
the Commonwealth's attorney for Loudoun County, Virginia,
the other petitioner. On July 11, 1887, an order was entered
granting a rule against him to show cause why he should not
be attached for an alleged contempt of the cdurt in disobeying
the restraining order made in the cause on June 6, 1887. Upon
proof by affidavit that the said McCabe,. as such attorney, had
commenced proceedings under the act of May 12, 1887, to
recover taxes alleged to be due to the State of Virginia from
certain parties therein named, who had previousty tendered
tax-receivable coupons in payment thereof, he answered the
rule, denying the validity of the order which he had violated;
and thereupon, on October 8, 1887, the matter coming on to
be heard, it was ordered and adjudged by the court "that the
said J. B. McCabe is guilty of contempt in his disobedience of
said order, and that he do forthwith dismiss all suits under the
act of May 12, 1887, now pending in the Circuit Court of Loudoun County. And the court doth further order and adjudge,
that the said J. B. McCabe, for his said contempt, be fined
$100; that he be taken into the custody of the marshal of
this court, and by him held until the said fine be paid, and he
purge himself of the said contempt by dismissing the suits
brought or prosecuted in violation of the restraining order of
this court; and that he pay the costs of these proceedings."
-Mr.Roscoo Conkling and -Mr. J. Raando ph T tcker for petitioners. 21r. C. . 3feredith and Mtr. . iF Gordon were
with them on their brief.
I. The restraining order or injunction was to proceedings
in a state court, and is beyond the jurisdiction of the court,

IN -RE AYERS.
Argument for Petitioners.

under the provisions of the act of Congress. § 720, :Rev. Stat.
This will readily appear. By the judiciary act of 1789, c. 20,
§.14, the power to issue writs by the circuit courts was limited
-by the words "Which may be necessary for the exercise of
their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and
principles of law." Rev. Stat. § 716. The act of March .2,
1793, c. 22, § 5, provided that "The writ of injunction shall
not be gTanted by any court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State." The original power to
award injunctions in the Circuit Court of "the United States is
derived from these provisions and with this limitation. In its
original grant it was as auxiliary to the exercise of its jurisdiction. The limitation by the act of March, 1793, was placed
upon it at the same session that the Eleventh Amendment to
the Constitution was proposed, and both were conservative of
state exemption from Federal interference. An exception to
this was afterwards made in the case of bankruptcy. Nor is
there any distinction between injunctions to stay proceedings
already begun, and injunctions to prevent their institution.
See Daly v. Sheri, 1 Woods, 175; Railroad Co. v. Scott, 4
Woods, 386; Fisk v. Union Pacift Railroad-Co., 10 Blatchfod, 518; In&re Schwartz, 14 Fed. Rep. 787; Rens. & Saratoga Railroadv. Bennington, &c.,Railroad,18 Fed. Rep. 617;
.Diggs v. Wolcott, 4 Oranch, 179; Peck v. Jennessj 7 How. 612,
625; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; TVatson v. Jones, 13
Wall. 679; French v. Hay, 22 Wall. 231, 250; Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U..S. 254; Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340; Dietzsch
v..ruidekoo'per, 103 U. S. 494.
II. 'Section 16 of the act of 1789 (Rev. Stat.' § 723) provides
that "suits in equity shall not be sustained in either of the
courts of the United States in any case where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at law." In Baker
v. Biddle, 1 Baldwin, 405, this was held to be an absolute
limitation on the jurisdiction, and that any decree beyond this
jurisdiction was void. We insist that the remedy in this case
at law, were the pr'oceeding in a court of the United State
would make this bill in equity of no force; but as against an
adequate remedy-in a state court this injunction is null and of

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Petitioners.

no force, for reasons stated under the first point, and applicable
here. The statute complained of provides for the defence by
plea of tender and for trial by jury, and if the right of the
defendant under the Constitution of the United States be infringed, his ultimate appeal to this court would protect him.
III. Complainants had no equity by their original bill or
any of the amended bills. They are not tax-payers; they are
speculators in coupons. No right as tax-payers to tender coupons is asserted in their behalf. In an amended bill and in
one paper it appears that complainants sold coupons to taxpayers on a covenant to furnish counsel and save harmless
the buyers. But this gives no equity to the complainants,
as asserted in this case. This is shown by the decision of
this court in Carter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317. The case
presented here as there is an abstract issue, not a practical
one, until by judicial procedure the right of the tax-payer
is denied. And in llarye v. Parsons, 114 U. S. 325, this
court held that coupon-holders, if not tax-payers, could not
have the benefit of injunction. It is darnnumn absque injuria.
The complainants demand an abstract decree, not a practical remedy for any wrong to them, according to Ilagood v.
Southern, 117 U. S. 52. In the only cases referred to in the
record of a tax-payer's complaint, it does not appear that the
tax-payer asserted his right in the suits complained of and
that his right was denied. The bill is without equity and the
injunction utterly void.
IV. There is not oniy no equity in complainants, but if
there were there is none against the defendants, your petitioners. They have no interest in the suits or in the taxes for
which they are instituted. They are lawyers. The complainants have no equity to restrain an attorney from bringing a
suit in a matter in which he is not interested. Poorev. Clark,
2 Atk. 515; Cockburn v. Thompson, 16 Yes. 321, 325; Tilkins
y. Fjy, 1 MIeriv. 244, 262; -Yerr v. Wlalts, 6 Wheat. 550; Caldwell v. Taggart, 4 Pet. 1:90; Meclhanices' Bank v. Seton, 1 Pet.
299; Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359; M3fcArthur v. Scott, 113
U. S. 340; IFilliams v. Bank/wead, 19 Wall. 563.
V. if the injunction be lawful, then was the commitnient

IN RE AYERS.
Argument for Petitioners.-

lawful, or did it not transcend the power of -the court? Conceding all that has thus far been controverted, we insist that
the order of commitment was without authority.
This order is void, 1st, because it makes the term of imprisonment without end or determinable only upon an impossible
condition; and, 2d, because it is really operative only on the
right and interest of the State, who is not a party in this case
and cannot be made one, but is decreed against by a duress of
imprisonment on her officers, to violate their duty by destroying
her rights.
Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, may
be again cited in opposition to this position; but there the
fund, the tes litigata, was in the hands of the agent -here it
never was.
VI. The only ground for this injunction is that the law of
1887 is unconstitutional, and that the authority thereby given
to the Attorney General and other attorneys for the State is
null and void.
This brings up the question, Is that -law a violation of the
Constitution of the United States?
For a moment look at the circumstances under which it was
passed.
This court had decided that any levy by an officer after
tender of genuine coupons, and not accepted, was illegal and
made the officer a trespasser. The officer became a trespasser
if he levied, and was liable to the State if he accepted coupons
which turned out to be spurious, against which she had a clear
right to protect herself. These treasurers in the country were
not experts, and she might well distrust their judgment in
receiving all which were tendered.
And when tendered and refused, the tax-payer retained the
coupons and brought trespass in the Circuit Court of the
United States, and recovered back in damages the tax paid by
the levy. The State, paying these judgments for her officers,
was without tax paid either in money or coupons; and the
right of the State to these coupons so tendered and taken back
has been denied, and none have ever been delivered by such,
tax-payers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Petitioners.

It is obvious that in this state of things, the same coupon
might serve as a tender for many tax-payers, in fraud of the
right of the State to have her taxes paid in money or in these
coupons.
To avoid all this -to compel the tax-payer to pay in coupons what taxes he refused to pay in money, to verify the genuineness of the coupons tendered, and to forbear the ex parte
procedure by levy -the statute of M ay 12, 1887, was passed.
On its face, in its preamble, in the procedure provided, there
is no taint of unconstitutionality, according to the rulings of
this court. See AMarray v. ffoboken Co., 18 How. 272; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S.
769; Bissell v. HeywarZd, 96 U. S. 580.
VII. This is a suit in fact against the State of Virginia, and
all proceedings are null and void. It makes the Attorney
General. and all attorneys for the Commonwealth parties
defendant as such officers. It compels them, not as ministerial
but as discretionary officers, to regulate their official action
by the will of a Federal judge. It takes them away from
their duties and imprisons them until they surrender the suits
and judgments of the State, and compels the State into the
alternative of accepting what is tendered in taxes, whether
spurious or not, or taking nothing. It has driven the State
from levy for her taxes and now seeks to exclude her from
her own courts as a suitor. If this is not a breach upon the
immunity of the State under the Eleventh Amendment, what
is its value?
A historical epitome of the proposal and adoption of this
amendment is pertinent to this inquiry. Alexander Hamilton,
in the 81st number of the Federalist, discusses the question
whether a State can be sued in the Federal courts by a citizen
of another State. He seems to treat the possibility of her
being sued by one of her own citizens as too remote even for
hypothesis. He declares the fear of such a construction is
chimerical.
But within a few years after the Government went into
operation the Supreme Court, in Chisholvi v. Georgia, 2 Dall.
419, entered judgment for a citizen against a State. Many

IN RE AYERS.
Argument for Petitioners.

such suits were pending in this court, most of them, perhaps
all, by citizens of another State against one of the States. The
original records in this court show the following: iuger v.
South Carolina, Oswald v. ifew York, VFassall v. Massachusetts, Von Stophust v. Abaryland, Cutting v. South Carolina,
Hollingsworth v. Virginia, G'rayson v. Virginia.
The judgment in Chisholm v. Georgia was rendered on the
18th of February, 193. Great alarm was produ,,ed among
the States by this decision, and on the 20th of Fehruary, 1793,
an amendment was proposed in the Senate of the United
States which read:
"The judicial power shall not extend to any suits in law or
equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects
of any foreign State." Its consideration' was delayed until
January 21, 1794, when it had assumed the form it now has.
"The judicial power shall not be construed to extend to any
suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of
the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens
or Subjects of any Foreiga State."
Mr. Gallatin proposed an amendment, "Except in cases
arising under treaties made under the authority of the United
States." This was voted down.
On the same day an amendment was proposed so that the
article would read thus: "The judicial power of the United
States extends to all cases in law or equity in which one of the
United States is a party, but none shall be prosecuted where
the cause of action shall have arisen before the ratification of
this amendment." This was voted down. The amendment
as finally adopted was then passed by the Senate- ayes, 23;
noes, 2.
It went to the House of Representatives. An amendment
was proposed there in these words: "1When each State shall
have previously made provision in their own courts whereby
such suit may be prosecuted to effect." Voted down -ayes,
8; noes, 71. The Eleventh Amendment was then adopted by
the House: ayes, 81; noes, 9. It may be well to notice in
passing that on the 2d March, 1793, the act passed Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Petitioners.

which forbade injunctions by a Federal court to stay proceedings in a state court.
The amendment was ratified in 1798. In G'ayson v. 'irginia, 3 Dall. 320, this court directed process against Virginia
to be served on the Governor and -Attorney General of the
State. In Jollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 Dall. 378, the court
unanimously dismissed all pending suits against States on its
docket as being forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment.
This historic statement justifies the following conclusions:
(1) It shows that by the Constitution makers it was ordained
that the original Constitution should not be construed (as it
had been in Chisholm v. Georgia) to extend to any suit by
a citizen of one State, or foreign subjects against a State.
(2) If any of these suits were those of citizens against his own
State (as it may have been from the names of the plaintiffs in
fluger v. South Carolinaand Grayson v. Virginia) they, with
those against a State by parties not citizens thereof, were
equally condemned by this amendment.
This amendment is an authoritative interpretation- of the
original Constitution. It was an imperative mandate to the
judiciary not to construe their jurisdiction so as to entertain
such suits. It was a recoil from such a construction in the
interests of the immunity of a member of the Union from
being impleaded in a Federal court by any person whatever.
How, then, should it be construed by this court now?
The answer seems plain. . It should be interpreted in favor
of the immunity, and to defeat every device which would
destroy or impair it. The court should not see how near an
approach a suit may make to the fences which constitute the
immunity, but how far it must keep away, lest it trench upon
the sovereignty of the State. Devices which do not assail
directly, but which furtively and adroitly avoid the thing
forbidden in form, but do the thing substantially and in
effect, must be condemned as contrary to its true purpose
and meaning.
We hold that this is an injunction against the State in fact:
1. Because, as already indicated, it destroys an essential
function of State autonomy - the power to sue her debto. in

IN RE AYERS.
Argument for Petitioners.

her own cert and lk/her own officers. It imprisons them for
asserting her right as her law officers. Coletor v. Day, 11
Wall. 113, is conclusive on this point. If the State can only
sue by such professional attorneys, is not an injunction upon
the only possible agency through which the invisible, immaterial State can act, a clear destruction pro tanto of Stat'e
autonomy? As you cannot enjoin a State from suing- as
you cannot serve the injunction, if you could do so, on an
invisible and intangible entity, as she can only exert this function by human agencies- can there be a doubt that in cutting
these off you leave the State naimed and helpless, a sovereign
without will and without capacity to act? In fact it is obvious
that to constrain her you must constrain these agencies, the
sine qua non, of her action; and, if this be so, how is this
amendment of avail if, unable to touch her, you cut off her
only means of acting?
2. In suing the executive officer, the Attorney General (on
whom, as a representative of the State, in Grayson v. 'Virginia,
this court ordered process against the State to be served), you
sue the State; you enjoin it. In the Virginia cases, 100 U. S.
303-370, this court held that every officer of a State who
acted for the. State in the execution of its laws was the State
under the Fourteenth Amendment.- Shall the State be bound
for their act and yet their act not be the State's under the immunity of the Eleventh Amendment ? Suppose an injunction
was granted against the Attorney General and all District
Attorneys of th United States to prevent suits in the name
of the United States, could there be a doubt that that would
be an injunction upon the Government? See United States v.
MLemore, 4 How. 286; Hill v. United States, 9 How. 386;
Yississ)i v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; Georgia v. Stanton, 6
Wall. 50.
3. This decree interferes with the discretion of these officers,
and they are not merely ministerial officers. Let it be remembered, no suit is ordered under this law against any man who
ha.spaid his taxes. The law is explicit on this point. The
Attorney General and other attorneys are discretionary officers, charged with functions which demand intelligent discreVOL. cxxM-30

OCTOBER TER3M,

1887.

Argument for Petitioners.

tion. In such cases they are held to be the State. See Board
of Liquidation v. .fcComb, 92 U. S. 531; Cunningiam .v.
.Aacon, &c., Railroad, 109 U. S. 446, and cases reviewed.

Where the mind and will of the State (the invisible sovereign)
operate through the mind and will and according to the discretion of its officers, they are the State and must be so held,
or the Eleventh Amendment means nothing. See Louisiana
v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711 ; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769;
H1agood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52. This last case is very pertinent, for the suit and decree were against the officers in their
official capacity and operated on their discretion.
4. The Virginia Coupon Cases, 114: U. S. 269, are cited
against the views presented. In these cases the majority of
the court based their conclusions on several grounds: (1) The
officer was ministerial; but in this case there is dis6retion. (2)
In that case there was actual taking of property, which was
trespass unless justified by respondeat superior, which was
denied him. In that case the officer seized and held property.
In this case he holds and has seized none; he only sues one
who is a confessed debtor: but if he iid not so confess, merely
suing is no trespass and no invasion of right which a valid plea
at law will redress. The officer in that case might, ex mero
motu, have, trespassed. Here the attorney cannot, for there
is no trespass, and he has no interest and takes none. (3) In
that case the officer made the aggression on the citizen, for
which the court held he should have redress. In this case he
makes none ; he summons him who is a debtor to try whether
he ought on his tender, to be discharged. Clearly the coupon
cases do not govern this. This strikes at the very citadel of
the State's immunity. A levy without right is trespass. A
suit without good ground is not a wrong of which a party can
complain if his defence is allowed, for which he can enjoin.
Virginia has a right to sue, giving her citizens a fair trial, and
doing so neither she nor her officers can be enjoined.
VIII. The prisoners must be discharged .upon either of two
grounds: (1) If the court, on any ground previously maintained, was without jurisdiction or transcended its jurisdiction
(as in the imprisonment until the prisoner did the impossible

IN RE AYERS.
Mr. Meredith's Argument for Petitioners.

or improper thing), this court will discharge. E partePawks,
93 U. S. 18, 23; EJxparte Tilson, 114 U. S. 417; Exparte
Curtis, 106 U. S. 371; Ex parte Carli, 106 U. S. 521; Ex
parte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328; Ex arte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713;
Eosparte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; E p arte VFirginia, 100
U. S. 339, 343; E parts
'e
ieold, 100 U. S..371; Es parte
.arding, 120 U. S. 78U2; Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1: or, (2) In
a case where this court has appellate power ultimately, on final
decree and on interlocutory proceedings, liberty is unjustly
taken away and contrary to equity, but within jurisdictional
power, we insist that there is no good reason why, infavorem
libertatis, this court should not grant release under habeas
cor'pus. If not, the deprivation might continue until the final
decree.
.Mr. C. V. -3feredith filed a separate brief for petitioners,
citing: I. As to the nature of remedy by habeas coyus, Ew
parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 718 ; E parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339;
Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604. II. That the Virginia
statute was not unconstitutional, Antoni v. Greenkow, 107
U. S. 769; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270; -Rutherford v. Greene, 2 Wheat. 196; Supervisorfs v. Brogden, 112
U. S. 261; Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527; Bank of Trashington, v. Arkansas, 20 How. 530; United States v. -Dickson,
15 Pet. 141, 165; Lyncburg v.- Railroad Co., 80 Virginia,
237; Shepherd v. rys, 3 Grattan, 442; Tennessee v. Sneed,
96 U. S. 69; .Newsom v. Thornton, 66 Ala. 311; Savings
Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227. II. That the burden of
proving the genuineness of the coupons was a common law
burden thrown upon the person tendering them, Shepherd v.
Frys, supra. IV. That expert testimony was not admissible
to prove their genuineness, Rowt v. Rile, 1 Leigh, 216 ; Harriot v. Sherwood, Va. Law Journal, 1884, p. 107; Bwurress v.
Commonwealth, 27 Grattan, 934; or, if admissible, did not form
part of the contract, Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 350;
GCri#Fth v. Williams, 1 Cr. & Jer. 47; -Moorev. United SiRtes?
91 U. S. 270. V. That the suit was against the State. On
this point the brief said: The question as to what is a suit

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

.Mr.. Meredith's Argument for Petitioners.

against a State, has been so frequently discussed here, and so
frequently decided by this court, that no discussion, in opposition to the decisions of this court, will be indulged in this brief.
So far as the positions assumed in this brief are concerned, it
is not deemed necessary to ask for the slightest modification
of any of the principles announced in those decisions. Here
those principles will be recognized as stare decqs.
The question as to what is a suit against a State, first arose
after the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution in the case of Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9
Wheat. 738. As to that decision we submit: (1) That the case
did not call for a decision of the question, because the Bank
was not an individual, but a part of the government of the
United States. It was held in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, that the Bank was an instrument which was
"necessary and proper for carrying into effect the powers
vested in the government of the United States." That construction was reaffirmed in Osborn v. Bank of the United
States. See p. 860. There is no provision of the United
States Constitution preventing the National Government from
suing a State. No decision therefore of the question was
called for by the case. (2) We insist that this court has repeatedly overruled the announcement made in that case that
"the Eleventh Amendment which restrains the jurisdiction
granted by the Constitution over suits against the State, is,
of necessity, limited to those suits in which a State is a party
on the record." It is true that that guide was recognized in
Davis v. Cray, 16 Wall. 203, 220. But this latter case has
been spoken of by this court as going to the extreme limit of
jurisdiction. Notwithstanding this recognition, we insist that
the test, so announced, has frequently been disregarded by
this court. See Woodruff v. Trpnall, 10 How. 190 ; Curran
v. Arkansas, 15 How. 304; State Bank of Ohio v. Enoop, 16
How. 369; Board of -Liquidationv. .AehComb, 92 U. S. 531;
Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524, 613; Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497; United States v. Seamen, 17 How. 225, 230;
United States v. Guthrie,17 How. 284; Afississippi v. Johnson,
4 Wall. 475, 498; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 34:7; Litch

IN RE AYERS.
Mr. Meredith's Argument for Petitioners.

fied v. Register, 9 Wall. 575; Secretary v. McGarrahan, 9
Wall. 298; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Poind--ter v.
Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270. There this court, by a majority
opinion, delivered by Mr. Justice Matthews, held that that suit
was not one against a State, and enumerated the tests by
which this court decides whether a suit is against a State or
not. The tests are as follows: (1) Whether a State is named
as a party on the record; (2) Whether the action is directly
upon the contract; (3) Whether the suit was brought to control the discretion of an executive officer of a State; (4)
Whether the suit was brought for the purpose of administering the funds actually in the public treasury; (5) Whether it
is an attempt to compel officers of the State to do acts which
constitute a performance of its contract by the State; (6)
Where the case is such that the State is a necessary party,
that the defendant may by protected from liability to it.
As the minority of this court held in the case just cited
that that case was one against a State, it cannot be presumed
that they were of opinion that the tests just enumerated
should be more limited. It can therefore be regarded that
any case that comes within the said tests is held by this court
to be a suit against a State. We insist, so far as this brief
claims, that the suit of complainants comes within the third
and fifth tests.
This court has repeatedly decided what is a ministerial
act, and what is one requiring the exercise of official discretion. See United States v. Guthrie, 17 How. 284; Gaines v.
Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; . fississippi v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475 ;
Litchfield v. Register, c c., 9 Wall. 575; Secretary v. I3eGarrahan, 9 Wall. 298; United States v. Seamen, 17 How. 225; Docatur v. Paulding,14 Pet. 497.
In this case the State, though nominally not a party, is substantially the real party against whom the relief is asked,
within the principle laid down by this court in Hagood v.
Southern, 117 U. S. 52. The bill shows no personal claim
against any of the defendants. It does not allege that any
one of them proposes to commit a trespass, in this ,differing
from Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Bailroad,114 U. S. 311.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

VI. The bill is without equity and should have been dismissed, Parsonm v. .tfarye, 114 U. S. 327; Hagood v. Southern,
supra.
The counsel for petitioners also filed with their brief, a copy
of the brief of X9. John A. Campbell, and Xr. J. C. Egan, in
New Hampshire v. Louisiana and New York v. -Louisiana,
108 U. S. 76.
M D. H. Chamberlain and XMn. William 1. Royall, opposing.
It will not be disputed that the only question arising now
upon this record, is that of the jurisdiction of the court below
to make the restraining order of June 6th, 1887. This question will depend upon: (1) The constitutional and statutory
jurisdiction given to the United States Circuit Courts; (2) the
sufficiency of the averments of the bill; and (3) the subject
matter of the suit. It is believed that all the questions which
can be considered in determining the general question of jurisdiction of the court below in these proceedings, can be determined without difficulty and by the simple application of
cases already decided by this court.
The chief peculiarity of these present cases is found in the
fact that the defendants in the original bill -the petitioners
in the present proceedings -are offleers of the State of Virginia. This fact suggests the foremost, if not the most important, question to be considered.
I. Stripped of all disguises and reduced to its simplest statement, the question which arises under this view of the case is,
.May a state oficer be enjoined by the United States Circuit
Comitlfrom dding what an unconstitutionalstate statute directs
him to do ?
Attention is called to this statement of the issue, for it is
believed to express every consideration which is really involved
in these cases.
What may be described as two lines of eases, bearing on this
question, appear in the reported decisions of this court. One
line, which tends to restrict the right of the courts to act upon

IN RE AYERS.

471-

Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

state officers for the enforcement of duties and obligations of
the State towards private parties. Another line, which tends
to maintain such right and to enforce it somewhat broadly and
fully.
These two lines of cases are marked in general by the distinction of stb-it and liberal construction which has prevailed
so extensively and §teadily in our judicial and political history;
a distinction which is natural and inevitable, arising from the
nature of human language as well as from the nature of the
human mind.
The leading case in the first line of cases above referred to
may be said to be the case of Loui&zana v. Jumel, 107 U. S.
711, decided by this court in 1882. The Legislature of Louisiana, by a statute of 1S74, provided for an issue of state bonds
for the purpose of refunding an existing series of state bonds.
This act provided in terms for the levy annually of a tax of
5.J mills on the dollar on the assessed value of all real
and personal property in the State for the purpose of paying the interest and principal of these new bonds. The
funds derived from this levy were directed to be kept
apart and appropriated to that purpose and no other; and
it was made a felony for any agent or officer or liquidator of the State to divert said funds from such purpose.
This tax was further made "a continuing annual tax" until
the principal and interest of the bonds should be paid or
redeemed; and the appropriation of said funds was made
"a continuing 'annual appropriation" during the same period;
and it was made the duty of the officers, specified in the act,
"to collect said tax annually and pay said interest and redeem
said bonds until the same shall be fully discharged." It was
further provided in the same act that each provision of the
act should be, and was declared to be, a contract between the
State of Louisiana and each and every holder of such bonds.
Shortly after the passage of this act, the State adopted an
amendment to its constitution declaring the said issue of bonds
"to create a valid contract between the State and each and
every holder of said bonds which the State shall by no means
and in no wise impair." And the said bonds weze declared to

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

be "a valid obligation of the State in favor of any holder
thereof." And the courts were forbidden to enjoin the payment of the principal or interest thereof, or the levy and collection of the tax therefor.
In January, 1880, a new constitution of Louisiana went
into effect, by which it was provided that the interest on the
bonds issued under the act of 1874, which bore 7 per cent
interest, should be fixed at 2 per cent for five years, 3 per cent
for fifteen years thereafter, and 4 per cent thereafter, and
limiting the annual tax for the payment of said interest to
three mills. The new constitution further provided that the
coupons of the bonds of 1874, falling due January 1, 1880,
should be remitted and "any interest taxes collected to meet
said coupons are hereby transferred to defray the expenses of
the state government."
This case thus presented (1) a contract between the State
and individuals holding her bonds, whereby interest at 7 per
cent was secured to the holders by a perpetual levy and
appropriation of taxes; (2) a subsequent constitutional enactment reducing the rate of interest without the consent of the
bondholders, and diverting funds already raised and in the
treasury, from the payment of the interest to which they had
been originally pledged and devoted.
This court in its opinion cited and commented upon Osborn
v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738; -Davisv. Gray,
16 Wall. 203; -Boardof -Liquidation v. iXo Comb, 92 U. S.
531; and Ufnited States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. The scope and
limit of its decision are clear. The suits were suits, in the
judgment of this court, not only to compel a State to execute
its contract, but to compel it "by assuming the control of the
administration of the fiscal affairs of the State to the extent
that may be necessary to accomplish the end in view;" that
is to say, to the extent (1) of restraining the fiscal officers of
the State from applying the taxes collected to the use to
which they were devoted by the legislation of 1879; and (2)
of compelling such officers to apply said funds to the payment
of the principal and interest of the bonds as required by the
legislation of 1874.

IN RE AYERS.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

The case of Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769, followed
immediately. It was a petition for mandamus by Antoni
against the treasurer of the city of Richmond, to compel
him to accept in payment of taxes, a coupon of the bond issue
of 1871, which, by the terms of the act authorizing the issue,
was made "receivable by all tax collectors in payment of all
taxes, debts and demands due the State."
In 1882, the State of Virginia had passed an act providing,
in substance, that upon the tender of coupons in payment of
taxes, the tax collectors should receive the same for the purpose of "identification and verification," and, at the same
time, should require the tax-payer to pay his taxes in current
funds; and upon such payment the tax-payer might bring his
suit against the Commonwealth, and thereupon an issue should
be tried by a jury, whether the coupons tendered were genuine legal coupons, and upon a decision of this issue in favor of
the tax-payer, and a judgment in his favor, the money-already
paid by him for taxes should be reliaid to him out of the
treasury. The act further provided that when a mandamus
should be brought to compel a tax collector to receive coupons
for taxes, the tax-payer should be required, first to pay his
taxes in money, and-thereupon an issue should be framed as
to whether the coupons tendered were genuine coupons; and
upon a final decision of this issue in favor of the tax-payer, a
mandamus should issue requiring the coupons to be received,
and thereupon the money already paid by the tax-payer should
be refunded to him.
From a careful study of this case it will thus be sepn that,
as presented by the opinion of the court, it decides fio question as to the amenability of state officers to judicia' process,
either for the enforcement, or protection against impairment,
of a state contract; and that the opinion of a minority concurring in the judgment of the court goes only to the extent
of holding that there is no remedy against the State itsef:
and that a suit to compel state o~jlcers to do acts wich con.stitute ap eiformance of its contract, is a suit against a State
itself.
The case of Cunningham v. Mkacon & Brunswick Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

Co., 109 U. S. 446, decided at October Term, 1883, was a suit
by a citizen of the State of Virginia against the Governorand Treasurer of the State of Georgia, the defendant railroad
company, and certain directors of the company and other
citizens of the State of Georgia. In that case the State of
Georgia had endorsed the bonds of the railroad company, and
taken a lien upon the road as its security. The company having failed to pay interest, the Governor took possession of the
road and put it in the hands of a receiver, who sold it to the
State. The State then took possession of the road, and substituted its own bonds in the place of the endorsed bonds of
the company. The holders of second mortgage bonds of the
same company, issued after the State's endorsement of the
former bonds and before the company's default in interest,
filed a bill in*equity to foreclose their mortgage and to set
aside the former sale to the State, and to be let in as prior
in lien. The state officers- Governor and Treasurer- demurred, and the court below dismissed the bill.
In deciding this case, the court examined the general question of judicial proceedings affecting a State, to which the
State was not a party, and made the following general classification of the previous cases: (1) Cases where property of
the State, or property in which the State had an interest,
came before the court or under its control without being
taken forcibly from the possession of the government, where
the State might, if it chose, intervene to claim or protect its
rights. (2) Where an individual was sued in tort for some act
injurious to another, in regard to person or property, where
his defence was that he acted. under the orders of the government. In these cases, the' court said: he is not sued as, or
because he "is, the officer of the government, but as an individual, and the court is not ousted of jurisdiction because he assers authority as such officer. To make out his defence he
must show that his authority was sufficient in law to protect
him," and to this class the court assigned the case of the United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. (3) Cases where "the law has
imposed upon an officer .of the Government a well-defined
duty in regard to a specific matter not affecting the general

IN RE AYERS.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

powers or functions of the Government, but in the performance of which one or more individuals have a distinct interest,
capable of enforcement by judicial process." Under this last
head, the court referred to the case of. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall.
203, and remarked that "It is clear that in enjoining the Governor of the State in the performance of one of his executive
functions, the case goes to the verge of sound doctrine."
In Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52, a suit in equity was
brought by the assignees 6f the Blue Ridge Railroad Company against the Comptroller General of the State of South
Carolina, and the several County Treasurers within the State,
praying that the defendants, the County Teasurers, "may be
decreed to receive the said revenue bond scrip in payment of
said taxes due by your orator to the State of South Carolina,
and that on their refusal to do so, they may be enjoined from
enforcing the said tax by selling the property of your orators
or in any other manner, and that, on such refusal, the lien of
said taxes on the property of your orators may be declared
to be discharged." The court said: "The case thus comes
directly within the authority of Louisiana v. Jurnl,107 U. S.
711. . . . In the preseftt cases the decrees were not only
against the defendants in their official capacity, but, that there
might be no mistake as to the nature and extent of the duty
And
to be performed, also against their successors in office."
it proceeded to point out the distinction between this case and
Osbor.n v. Bank of the United States, -Davis v. Gray, Board
of Liquidation v. i CWornb, and Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Co.
The cases now examined are all the cases in this court
which, in our judgment, can be said to belong to that line of
cases which we have described as restricting or delimiting the
extent to which the judicial process may be applied for the
protection of contract rights, invoked on behalf of private
complainants. The boundaries which these cases mark out
are as distinct, probably, as the nature of the subject admits
of. Stated in a condensed form, they go to the extent
of declaring: (1) That when positive affirmative relief is
sought, by the enforcement, through judicial process, of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

State's contracts, although the state officers only are the
defendants, the suit is in substance a suit against the State,
and barred by the 11th Amendment; (2) That when the
relief sought, as in Louisiana v. 7umel, goes to the extent of
requiring the courts to virtually assume control and administration of a part of the executive functions of the state government,the suit is not only in substance against the State,
but it calls for a usurpation by the courts of the functions of
the political sovereign.
We turn now to the second line of cases which we have
described as maintaining somewhat broadly and fully the right
and duty of the courts to exercise the judicial power in protecting rights embodied in state contracts, and guarded by
the Constitution of the United States.
The earliest and most commanding authority, as well as,
perhaps, the amplest expression of the judicial power and duty
in such cases, is Osborn v. Bank of the Urnited gtates, 9 Wheat.
738. We do not hesitate to say, with boldness and a high
degree of confidence, that we rely upon that case as warranting all the relief which was sought in the suit below out of
which these proceedings have sprung. The court is here presented with the printed record at large of this case, as it lies
in the archives of this court, which shows more fully than the
report in Wheaton, that, on all point§, it is an express authority in support of the positions of the complainants in this bill.
[The counsel referred to a printed copy of that record,
which had been filed in this case. After reviewing that case
at length, counsel continued:]
It is sometimes sought to minimize the scope and force of
this decision by representing it as affecting only the question
of the restorationof the money seized from the bank. An examination of the case shows, as we have seen, that the decree
below not only decreed the restoration of the funds seized, but
decreed a perpetual injunction against the defendants, state
officers, "from proceeding to collect any tax which has accrued
or may hereafter accrue from the complainants, under the act
of the General Assembly of Ohio, in the bill and ffroceedings
mentioned." In other words, the state officers were forever

IN RE AYERS.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

enjoined from carrying into effect, or executing, the statute in
question, a statute which comrunded them in terms to do what

the Circuit Court enjoined. The succession of human events
seldom presents two cases more nearly identical in principle
than Osborn v. Bank of the United States, and the present
case, -an identity stronger and more controlling than any
identity of mere facts, - and on the authority of that case we
rest this.
The next important case involving similar questions in this
court, is Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203. In that case, a person
who had been appointed receiver of a railroad holding a large
grant of lands, made to it by the State, sought to enjoin the
officers of the State which, by the adoption of a new constitution, had declared said grant forfeited to the State, for the
benefit of its school fund, from granting said lands to other
persons. The suit was brought against Davis, Governor of
the State, and Keuchler, Land Commissioner of the State.
These facts. make the case even stronger or more emphatic,
in its direction, than Osborn v. Bank of the United States.
The case was decided here in 1872, the Chief Justice and
one Associate Justice dissenting. The court held that a
Circuit Court of the United States, in a proper case in equity,
may enjoin a state officer from executing a state law in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, when such
execution will violate the rights of the complainant; that,
where the State is concerned, it should be made a party, if it
can be done; but that the fact that it cannot be done is a
sufficient reason for omitting to do it, and the case may proceed to decree against the State officers, in all respects as if
the State were a party to the record. .And, finally, that, in
deciding who are parties to the suit, the court will not look
beyond the record; and that, making a state officer a party
does not make the State a party, though the State's statute
may prompt the officer's action, and she may stand behind
him as the real party in interest.
Although Davis v. Gray is a perfectly clear and express
decision of this court, about the meaning of which there can
be no doubt, it is not necessary in the present case to invoke

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

its authority to its full extent. It not only decides all, but
much more than all that is required in the present case.
Ak C'oml v. Board of Liquidation,92 U. S. 531, is in every
respect a leading case upon the present subject, the opinion
being a very elaborate and careful one, the case being decided
by an unanimous court, and the jurisdictional question being
decided expressly upon the authority of Osborn v. Bank and
-Davisv. Gray.
The suit was for a perpetual injunction to restrain the Board
of Liquidation of the State of Louisiana, from using certain
bonds for the liquidation of a certain debt claimed to be due
from the State to a private corporation, and from issuing any
other state bonds in payment of such alleged debt.
This court distinctly considered the jurisdictional question
involved, arising from the fact that the suit was against state
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, was a suit in ejectment
brought by Lee against Kaufman and Strong, to recover possession of what is known as the Arlington estate in Virginia.
Kaufman and Strong holding merely as the agents and representatives of the United States, the land in question being in
use as a national cemetery, for the most part, the United
States, though not a party to the suit, defended the action by
its proper law officers,.though declining to submit itself as a
defendant to the jurisdiction of the court. The writs of error
in this court were taken and prosecuted, one by the United
States, eo nomine, the other by the Attorney General, in the
names of Kaufman and Strong, the defendants below. This
court stated one of the two questions arising here on the
record, as follows:
"1. Could any action be maintained agail st the defendants
for the possession of the land in controversy under the circumstances of the relation of that possession to the United States,
however clear the legal right to that possession might be in
the plai4tiff ?"
At page 204, the court stated that the plaintiffs in error in
behalf of the United States, asserted the proposition "that the
court can render no judgment in favor of the plaintiff against

IN RE AYERS.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

the defendants in the action, because the latter hold the property as officers and agents of the United States, and it is
appropriated to lawful public uses;" and the court said,
"This proposition rests on the principle that the United
States cannot be lawfully sued without its consent, in any
case, and that no action can be maintained against any individual without such consent, where the judgment must depend
on the right of the United States to property held by such
persons as officers or agents for the Government. The first
branch of this proposition is conceded to be the established
law of this country and of this court, at the present day; the
second as a necessary or proper deduction from the first is
denied."
The court then proceeded with an elaborate examination of
American and English cases, and especially of the cases in this
court which bear upon the general question, and cited especially and relied especially upon Osborm v. T7e Bank of the
United States and Davis v. G'ay. It then affirmed the judgment of the court below.
Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, was decided upon
the authority especially of Osborn v. Bank of the United States
and United States v. Lee. In that case an action of detinue
was brought by a tax-payer, who had duly tendered tax-receivable coupons in payment of his taxes, against the person who,
under color of office, as tax collector, acting under a void law,
passed by the Legislature of the State, had refused to receive
such tender, and had proceeded, by seizure and sale of the
property of the plaintiff, to enforce the collection of such
taxes; and it was held that such action was against the tax
collector personally, as a wrong-doer, and not against the State,
within the meaning of the 11th Amendment. And it was
further held that such tax collector, when sued as a wrongdoer, cannot rest on the assertion of his defence as an officer
of the State, but is bound to establish that he has acted under
a valid authority, and must produce a valid law of the State
which constitutes his warrant; thus following, almost in identical terms, the decision and language of this court in Cunningham v. Xlaeon & Brunswick_Railroad Company, 109
U. S. 446.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

In Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, 114 U. S.
311, Allen, the defendant below, was the Auditor of the State,
the other defendants being the Treasurer of the State and the
Treasirer of Augusta County, in Virginia. In that case an
injunction was sought to prevent the collection of taxes, after
a tender of payment in tax-receivable coupons; and it was
held as sanctioned by repeated decisions of this court, and as
common and unquestioned practice in similar cases, that the
remedy by injunction was authorized. In this case, also, the
court relied upon Osborn v. Bank of the United States, as well
as upon Board of Liquidation v. AfoComb, and numerous
other cases therein cited.
In Ralston v. 3fissouri Fund Commissioners, 120 U. S. 390,
which was a suit brought by a private individual to restrain
the Fund Commissioners from selling the Hannibal & St.
Joseph Railroad, the distinction is clearly drawn between a
suit to "compel a state officer to do what a statute has prohibited him from doing" and a suit "to get a state officer
to do what a statute requires of him;" and it would seem to
be a just conclusion from this distinction that, although the
defendant is a state officer, if the suit is to compel him to do
what a statute requires and, a fortiori,to restrain him from
doing what a statute directs, when such statute is seen to be
unconstitutional, there can be no objection to the suit on
account of the official character of the.defendant.
. The cases which have now been examined seem to be sufficient to illustrate the line of cases which we have above
described as asserting and enforcing somewhat broadly and
fully the right of the courts to coerce or restrain state officers, in the interest of private parties who show themselves
aggrieved by actual or threatened action of such state officers.
But upon the general question, which we have said is all that
is involved in the present proceedings, - whether a state
officer may be enjoined from doing what an unconstitutional
state statute directs him to do,- a multitude of other authorities' in this court might be cited. See especially -Dodge v.
Wfoolsey, 18 How. 331; Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450;
Huntington v. Pahmer, 104 U. S. 482; Tomlinson v. Branch,

IN RE AYERS.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

15 Wall. 460; and Tramnportation Co. v. Parrsburg,107
U. S. 691.
II. It was urged in the court below, and is now, against
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this case, that that
court is prevented from issuing an injunction or restraining
order, by the provision of § 720, Rev. Stat., which is in these
words: "The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any
court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of
a State, except in case where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." This
section has been in force since the act of :May 2, 1793 ; and
if it is applicable to the present case, it would deprive the
Circuit Court of power to issue the restraining order in question. Our position in answer to this objection is, that it
applies only to proceedings which are actually begun or pending in a state court at the time when the writ of injunction
is applied for and issued. Fisk v. Union Pacific Railway Co.,
10 Blatchford, 578; State .otte,-y Co. v. Fitzpatrick,3 Woods,
222; MAroore v. Ilolliday, & Dillon, 52; live Stock-, &c., v.
Crescent City, &c., 1 Abbott, U. S. 388; Watsom v. Bondurant,
2 Woods, 166; HTaines v. Caqpenter, 91 U. S. 254; -Diggs v.
Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179. Our conclusions from these authorities are that § 720 has no application to suits not actually
depending in the state courts at the time of the issuing of the
restraining order or injunction. In the present case, it is conceded that no suits had been begun at the time the restraining
order was issued.
A somewhat metaphysical argument has been advanced,
in answer to the view that the section applies only to suits
actually depending, to the effect that the word "stay" in
§ 720 must be interpreted to cover all steps, acts, and means
which may 'resultin staying suits in state courts, including
the prevention in any way or any case of the bringing of suits
there. This plainly is too elastic and comprehensive. If to
"stay" means here, to prevent in any sense, then almost any
injunction or restraining order may be said to be forbidden
by this section. "Proceedings in a state court" is a phrase
needing no interpretation, comnientary, or gloss. It means
VOL. C:

--

31

OCTOBER TERM1,

1887.

Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

and must mean, unless excessive refining is to be attributed
to our early legislators (1793), proceedings which are lending
n a state court, and not proceedings which may be contemplated or designed to be brought there.
In opposition to the cases now cited is the single case of
Rensselaer & Saratoga Railroad Co. v. Bennington, &a., Railroad Co., 18 Fed. :Rep. 671. If the circumstances and facts
of that case would make it an authority, in opposition to the
cases which have been above cited, it may be said to stand
alone, and to be the only authority which holds that the
United States courts are prohibited by § 720 from restraining
parties from bringing suits which have not.already been begun
in the state courts.
III. But it is said that the complainants in the present case
do not show themselves to have such an interest in the subject
matter of the suit as to give them a standing in the court
below.
The substantial averments of the bill upon this point are:
(1) That the complainants were the owners of $100,000 worth
of tax-receivable coupons of Virginia, for which they had
paid over $30,000; (2) That they have sold $50,000 of that
amount for $15,000, or more, to tax-payers of Virginia, who
have tendered the same to the proper state officials in payment of their taxes, and that said officers have refused to
receive the same; (3) That if the officers of the State are
permitted to enforce the act of May. 12, 1887, the complainants will be unable to sell the remaining $50,000 of their
coupons to the tax-payers of that State, at any price, and thus
that their entire property in the same will be destroyed. It is
unnecessary to do more than observe here that the averments
of the bill must be taken as true, for the purposes of these
proceedings, no answer to the bill having been filed.
The question arises, upon these averments, whether they are
sufficient to give the complainants a standing in court. The
only authorities which have been heretofore cited to show a
want of sufficient interest in this suit are Jilarye v. Parsons,
114- U. S. 325, and Hagood v. Southen, 117 U. S. 52. Under
these decisions it is urged that the complainants have no legal

IN RE AYERS.
Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

ground of complaint, because they are not taz-payers and
have never, as such, tendered any coupons; and that as to
them the State had passed no law violating the obligation of
her contract.
.Maryev. Parsons presented these features: (1) That the
relief sought was a mandatory injunction, which was intended
to effect a specific performance of the contract to receive coupons in payment of taxes; (2) That the complainant, having
no taxes to pay, could only avail himself of the benefit of the
contract to receive the coupons in payment of taxes, by transferring them to a tax-payer; (3) That having transferred
them, he would have extinguished his own interest in the
coupons and would have deprived himself of any further
right to insist upon the performance of the State's contract.
In the present case, however, it i seen that: (1) Unlike
.Xayev. Parsons, the only relief which the complainants
seek is the preventive relief of an injunction to restrain state
officers from destroying the value of the coupons; (2) The
complainants in this case have transferred $50,000 of their
coupons to tax-payers, who have tendered them, and they
have been refused; and (3) That as to the remaining $50,000, the execution of the act of May 12, 1887, as is alleged,
[anifestly,
will destroy entirely the value of these coupons.
the
control
does
not
Parsons
v.
of
.Aarye
therefore, the case
present case.
Hagood v. Southen, 117 U. S. 52, has already been stated
in this argument. The only point in it, which bears upon the
present question, is that the court there says of the complainant, that: "It cannot be said, as a matter of law, that the contract is broken -until [the scrip] has been tendered for taxes
due from a holder and been refused; nor that the legal right
of the holder is threatened unless he is in a situation to make
a present tender for that purpose. He has no legal right to
have this scrip received for taxes, unless he owes taxes for
which it is receivable; and in order that it may be used for
the payment of the taxes of another, he must transfer it to
the new holder, and that would divest himself of all right to
enforce a contract to which he is no longer a party and in

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Argument in Opposition to Petitions.

which he has ceased to have a legal interest." How far,
then, the case of 11agood v. Southe n differs from the present
case need not further be pointed out.
This brings us to an examination of the act of May 12,
1887, and it is evident that in every case of the tender of
coupons heretofore or hereafter, the tax-payer is subjected to
a suit for his taxes, notwithstanding such tender, and upon the
trial of the suit he is compelled to file his coupons with the
clerk; he is next required to produce the bond from which his
coupon was cut and to prove that it was actually cut therefrom; he is next forbidden to introduce expert evidence of
the genuineness of the coupons, though the coupons are
engraved and not signed manually; and thereupon if he fails
in his defence, as he inevitably must fail, the judgment of the
court will be that he has failed to establish the genuineness of
his coupons; and that hence, being spurious, they are not to
be returned to him, but to remain in the custody of the clerk.
Tt is, therefore, as clear as a mathematical demonstration,
that the effect of the act of May 12, 1887, is to sequester, conXscate and destroy the coupons wichh may have been tendered
heretofore or which may hereafter be tendered.
Who shall say that this does not constitute such an interest
on the part of these complainants as warrants them in coming
into a court of equity for appropriate relief ? Certainly, the
cases of ilfarye v. Parsons and ragood v. iSouthern do not,
in the remotest degree, stand in their way.
IV. We assert the total and palpable unconstitutionality
of the, whole act of May 12', 1887, on account of the provisions of that act itself. That act, in its foreground, directs
and requires the officers of the State to bring suits for the
recovery of taxes from all tax-payers who have already tendered or who may hereafter tender, coupons of the tax-receivable bonds of Virginia, in payment of their taxes. This
alone stamps the act as not only unconstitutional, but as a
flagrant and open contempt of the solemn and repeatedly
affirmed decision of this court in Poindexter v. Greenlww.
The decision and the effect of Poindexter v. Greenhaw is
that any act of the State of Virginia which directs any pro-

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

ceeding against a tax-payer, for the purpose of compelling him
to pay the same taxes again, after a tender of coupons, is
unconstitutional and void.
The act of May 12, 1887, is, upon this broad ground, which
is completely covered by that decision, totally and ir'edeenably ulnconstiutiofnal.
In closing, we desire to point out here, especially, that what
is sought in our present case is not an affrrnative remedy; that
is to say, we do not seek to compel the performance of any act
whatever on the part of state officers. It does not fall, then,
under this aspect, within the principle laid down in Louisiana
v. Junel, or in the separate concurring opinion of the four
justices of this court in A2'toni v. Gr'eenlww. We are seeking
to compel the performance of no acts; but simply to restrain
the officers of the State of Virginia from destroying the value
of our coupons by enforcing the act of May 12, 1887.
.r.

1?oyall also filed a separate brief, opposing.

Mn.

JUSTICE MATTHEWS

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is established by the decisions of this court, that while
"the exercise of the power of punishment for contempt of
their orders, by courts of general jurisdiction, is not subject to
review by writ of error or appeal to this court," yet, when "a
court of the United States undertakes, by its process of contempt, to punish a man for refusing to comply with an, order
which that court had no authority to make, the order itself,
being without jurisdiction, is void, and the order punishing for
the contempt is equally void;" and that, "when the proceeding for contempt in such a, case results in imprisonment, this
court will, by its writ of habeas corpus, discharge the prisoner."
Ew parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713, 718.
In Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604, the commissioners of
a county in Alabama were, on a, writ of habeas corpus, discharged by this court from imprisonment to which fhey had
been adjudged in consequence of an alleged contempt of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Alabama, in refusing to obey the command of a peremptory
writ of mandamus issued by that court requiring them to levy
certain taxes. This court said (page 012): "If the comuland
of the peremptory writ of maxndamus was in all respects such
as the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to make, the proceedings
for the contempt are not reviewable here. But if the command was in whole or in part beyond the power of the court,
the writ, or so much as was in excess of jurisdiction, was void,
and the court had no right in law to punish for any contempt
of its unauthorized requirements. Such is the settled rule of
decision in this court. Ex parte 1ange, 18 Wall. 163; .Ex
.parte Pa', 93 U. S. 18; Ex a'te Siebold, 100 U. S. 371;
.E parte iTrginia,100 U. S. 339."
In Exparte Bain, 121 U. S. 1, it was held that a prisoner
who had been tried, convicted, and sentenced to imprisonment,
by a Circuit Court of the United States, the indictment having
been amended by the district attorney, by leave of the court,
after it had been returned by the grand jury, was entitled to
his discharge under a writ of habeas coTus issued by this court,
on the ground that the proceeding was void. The court said
(page 13): "It is of no avail, under such circumstances, to say
that the court still has jurisdiction of the person and of the
crime; for, though it has possession of the person, and would
have jurisdiction of the crime, if it were properly presented by
indictment, thd jurisdiction of the offence is gone, and the
court has no right to proceed any further in the progress of
the case for want of an indictment."
The question in the present case, therefore, is whether the
order of the Circuit Court of June 6, 1887, forbidding the
petitioners from bringing suits under the act of May 1, 1887,
in the name and on behalf of the State of Virginia, as its attorneys, for the recovery of taxes, in payment of which the
tax-payers had previously tendered tax-receivable coupons, is
an order which that court had power by law to make. The
question really is whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction
to entertain the suit in which that order was made, because
the sole purpose and prayer of the bill are, by a final decree,
perpetually to enjoin the defendants from taking any steps in

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

execution of the act of May 12, 1887. If the court had power,
upon the case made in the record, to entertain the suit for that
purpose, it had equal power, as a provisional remedy, to grant
the restraining order, the violation of which constitutes the
contempt adjudged against the petitioners.
The principal contention on the part of the petitioners is
that the suit, nominally against them, is, in fact and in law, a
suit against the State of Virginia, whose officers they are,
jurisdiction to entertain which is denied by the 11th Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that "the judicial
power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to
any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against
one of the United States by citizens of another State, or by
citizens or subjects of any foreign State." On the other hand,
it is contended by counsel for the complainants in that cause,
who have argued against the discharge of the petitioners, that
the suit is not within that prohibition.
It must be regarded as a settled doctrine of this court, established by its recent decisions, "that the question whether a
suit is within the prohibition of the 11th Amendment is not
always determined by reference to the nominal parties on the
record." Poindexte' v. Geenhow, 114 U. S.270, 287. This,
it is true, is not in harmony with what was said by Chief
Justice Mrshall in Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9
Wheat. 738, 857. In his opinion in that case he said: "It may,
we think, be laid down as a rule which admits of no exception,
that, in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party, it is
the party named in the record. Consequently, the 11th Amendment, which restrains the jurisdiction granted by the Constitution over suits against States, is, of necessity, limited to those
suits in which a State is a party on the record. The amendment has its full effect, if the Constitution be construed as it
would have been construed had the jurisdiction of the court
never been extended to suits brought against a State by the
citizens of another State or by aliens." And the point as involved in that case was stated by Mr. Justice Swayne, delivering the opinion of the court in -Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203,
220, as follows: "In deciding who are parties to the suit the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

court will not look beyond the record. Making a state officer
a party does not make the State a party, although her law
may have prompted his action and the State may stand behind
him as the real party in interest. A State can be made a party
only by shaping the bill expressly with that view, as where
individuals or corporations are intended to be put in that relation to the case." But what was said by Chief Justice Marshall
in Osborn v. Bank of tMe United States, &upra,must be taken in
connection with its immediate context, wherein he adds (page
858): "The State not being a party on the record, and the
court having jurisdiction over those who are parties on the
record, the true question is not one of jurisdiction, but whether,
in the exercise of its jurisdiction, the court ought to make a
decree against the defendants; whether they are to be considered as having a real interest, or as being only nominal
parties." This conveys the intimation, that where the defendants who are sued as officers of the State, have nQt a real, but
merely a nominal interest in the controversy, the State appearing to be the real defendant, and therefore an indispensable
party, if the jurisdiction does not fail for want of power over
the parties, it does fail, as to the nominal defendants, for want
of a suitable subject matter.
This, indeed, seems to be the interpretation put upon this
language by. Chief Justice Marshall himself in the opinion of
the court, delivered by him in the case of The Governor of
Georgi v. JfMadrazo, 1 Pet. 110, 123, 124. After quoting the
paragraphs from the opinion in the case of Osborn v. Bank of
the United States, above extracted, the Chief Justice mentioned
the case of Georgia v. Brailsford,2 Dall. 402, where the action
was not in the name of the State, but was brought by the
Governor in its behalf, and added: "If, therefore, the State
was properly considered as a party in that case, it may be
considered as a party in this." He further said: "The claim
upon the Governor is as a governor; he is sued, not by his
name, but by his title. The demand made upon him is not
made personally, but officially. The decree is pronounced, not
against the person, but the officer, and appears to have been
pronounced against the successor of the original defendant;

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court..

as the appeal bond was executed by a different governor from
him who filed the information. In such a case, where the
chief magistrate of a State is sued, not by his naie, but by
his style of office, and the claim made upon him is entirely in
his official character, we think the State itself may be considered as a party on the record. If the State is not a party,
there is no party against whom a decree can be made. No
person in his natural capacity is brought before the court as
defendant." It was therefore held, in that case, that the State
was in fact, though not in form, a party defendant to the suit,
and that, consequently, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
to pronounce the decree appealed from. See also Eo parte
Juan..fadrazzo, 7 Pet. 627. This view was reiterated by this
court in _entucky v. Denniso?2, -4How. 66, 98, where it was
said to be settled, "that where the State is a party, plaintiff
or defendant, the Governor represents the State, and the suit
may be, in form, a suit by him as Governor in behalf of the
State, where the State is plaintiff, and he must be summoned
or notified as the officer representing the State, where the
State is defendant." Accordingly, in Canningamn v. -Vacon
& Brunswick Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 446, it was decided that
in those cases where it is clearly seen upon the record that a
State is an indispensable party to enable the court, according
to the rules which govern its procedure, to grant the relief
sought, it will refuse to take jurisdiction. The inference is,
that where it is manifest, upon the face of the record, that
the defendants have no individual interest in the controversy,
and that the relief sought against them is only in their official
capacity as representatives of the State, which alone is to be
affected by the judgment or decree, the question then arising,
whether the suit is not substantially a suit against the State,
is one of jurisdiction.
The very question was p,'esented in the cases of New Hampshire v. Louisiana and New York v. louisiana,108 U. S. 76.
In each of those cases there was upon the face of the record
.nominally a controversy between two States, which, according
to the terms of the Constitution, was subject to the judicial
power of the United States. So far as could be determined

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

by reference to the parties named in the record, the suits were
within the jurisdiction of this court; but, on an examination
of the cases as stated in the pleadings, it appeared that the
State, which was plaintiff, was suing, not for its own use and
interest, but for the use and on behalf of certain individual
citizens thereof, who had transferred their claims to the State
for the purposes oi suit. It was accordingly unanimously held
by this court, that it would look behind and through the nominal parties on the record, to ascertain who .were the real
parties to the suit. The Chief'Justice, speaking for the court
in that case, made a review of the circumstances which led to
the adoption of the 11th Amendmer'ti, and, in concluding his
opinion, said; "1The evident purpose of the amendinent, so
pr()mptly- proposed and finally adopted, was to prohibit -aHl
suits against a State, by or for citizens of other States, or
aliens, without the consent of the State to be sued; and, in
our opinion, one State cannot create a controversy with another State, within the meaning of that term as sed-in the
judicial clauses of the Constitution, by assuming the .prosecution of debts owing by the other State to its citizens. Such
being the case, we are satisfied that we are prohibited, both
by the letter and the spirit of the Constitution, from entertaining these suits, and the bill in each case is dismissed." p. 91.
The converse of that case is to be found in Hagood v.
Southe'm, 117 U. S. 52. There, the State of South Carolina, which was the party in interest, was not nominally a
defendant. The nominal defendants were the Treasurer of
the State of South Carolina, its Comptroller General, and the
treasurers of its various counties and their successors in office.
The object of the bills was to obtain on behalf of the complainants, by judicial process, the redemption by the State of
certain scrip pf which they were holders, according to the
terms of a statute in pursuance of which it was issued, by the
levy, collection, and appropriation of a special tax pledged to
that purpose, as they claimed, by an irrepealable law, constituting a contract protected from violation by the Constitution
of the United States. The decrees of the Circuit Court granting the relief were reversed, and the cause remanded, with

IN

RE AYERS.

Opinion of the Court.

instructions to dismiss the bills, on the ground that the suits,
though nominally against the officers of the State, were really
against the State itself. In its opinion this court said (page
67): "These suits are accurately described as bills for the
specific performance of a. contract betweei the complainants
and the State of South Carolina, who are the only parties to
it. But to these bills the State is not in name made a party
defendant, though leave is given to it to become such if it
chooses; and, except with that consent, it could not be brought
before the court and be made to appear and defend. And
yet it is the actual party to the alleged contract, the performance of which is decreed; the one required to perform the
decree; and the only party by whom it can be performed.
Though not nominally a party to the record, it is the real
and only party in interest, the nominal defendants being the
officers and agents of the State, having no personal interest
in the subject matter of the suit, and defending only as representing the State. And the things required by the decrees to
be done and performed by them are the very things which,
when done and performed, constitute a performance of the
alleged contract by the State. The State is not only the real
party to the controversy, but the real party against which
•relief is sought by the suit, and the suit is, therefore, substantially within the prohibition of the 11th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States."
The conclusions in the case of Hacgood v. Southern were
justified by what had previously been decided by this court
in the cases of louisiana v. Jurnel and Elliott v. Wiltz, 107
U. S. 711. Those cases had for their object, one, by injunction, to restrain the officers of the State from executing the
provisions of the act of the General Assembly alleged t6 be in
violation of the contract rights of the plaintiffs, and the other,
by mandamus, to require the appropriation of money from
the treasury of the State in accordance wvith the contract.
This relief, it was decided, was not within the competency of
the judicial power. The Chief Justice said, on that point
(page 727): "The remedy sought, in order to be complete,
would require the court to assume all the executive authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of the State, so far as it related to the enforcement of this
law, and to supervise the conduct of all persons charged with
any official duty in respect to the levy, collection, and disbursement of the tax in question until the bonds, principal
and interest, were paid in full; and -that, too, in a proceeding
in which the State, as a State, was not and could not be made
a party. It needs no argument to show that the political
power cannot be thus ousted of its jurisdiction and the judiciary set in its place. When a State submits itself, without
reservation, to the jurisdiction of a court in a particular case,
that jurisdiction may be used to give full effect to what the
State has, by its act of submission, allowed to be done; and
if the law permits coercion of the public officers to enforce
any judgment that may be rendered, then such coercion may
be employed for that purpose. But this is very far from
authorizing the courts, when a State cannot be sued, to set
up its jurisdiction over the officers in charge of the public
moneys, so as to control them as against the political power,
in their administration of the finances of the State."
It is, therefore, not conclusive of the principal question in
this case, that the State of Virginia Is not named as a party
defendant. Whether it is the actual party, in the sense of the
prohibition of the Constitution, must be determined by a consideration of the nature of the case as presented on the whole
record.
The substantial averments of the bill are, 1st, that the complainants were the owners of $100,000 worth of tax-receivable
coupons of Virginia, for which they had paid over 830,000;
2d, that they have sold $50,000 of that amount for $15,000 or
more to tax-payers of Virginia, who have tendered the same
to the proper state officials in payment of their taxes, but that
said officers have refused to receive the same; 3d, that if the
officers of the State are permitted to enforce the act of May
12, 1887, the complainants will be unable to sell the remaining
$50,000 of their coupons to the tax-payers of that State at any
price, and thus their entire property in the same will be destroyed ; 4th, that the act of May 12, 1887, is unconstitutional
and void, because it impairs the obligation of the contract of

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

the State of Virginia by which it agreed to receive coupons

cut from its bonds in payment of debts, demands, and taxes
due to it.
The particulars in which this contract is alleged to be violated by the provisions of that act are, first, that, in disregard
of tenders of tax-receivable coupons made by tax-payers in
payment of taxes, the act of the General Assembly peremptorily requires actions at law to be brought in the name of the
State of Virginia against all such tax-payers as delinquent;
second, because in the trial of such actions it is required that
the defendant shall not only prove the fact of tender, but the
genuineness of the coupons tendered; third, that as part of
that proof he is required to pioduce the bond itself from which
such coupon is said to have been cut; and, fourth, that he is
not permitted to introduce expert testimony to prove the genuineness of the coupons tendered. The prayer of the bill is; that
the Attorne'y General of the State of Virginia, and the Commonwealth's attorneys for the counties, be restrained by injunction from commencing and prosecuting any suits under
the act of May 12, 1SST, for the recovety of taxes against parties alleged to be delinquent, hut who in fact have tendered
tax-receivable coupons in payment of taxes due.
It is to be noted that there is no direct averment in the original or amended bills that the coupons alleged to have been
tendered in payment of taxes by those tax-payers against
whom the defendants threatened to bring suits under the act
of May 12, 1887, were purchased from the complainants,
although it incidentally appears otherwise upon the record
that some of them may have been. The injunction, however,
prayed for is to prevent the bringing of any suits under that
act against tax-payers who have tendered coupons, whether
the coupons were purchased from the complainants or not.
It is also to be observed that the only personal act on the
part of the petitioners sought to be restrained by the original
order of June 6, 1887, in pursuance of the prayer of the bill,
is the bringing of any suit under the act of May 12, 1887,
against any person who had tendered tax-receivable coupons in
payment of taxes due to the State of Virginia. Any such suit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

must, by the statute, be brought in the name of the State, and

for its use.
It is immaterial, in our opinion, to consider the matters
which are alleged in respect to the course and conduct of such
a suit after its institution, by reason of the provisions contained
in other acts of the General Assembly of the State restricting
the mode of proof of the genuineness of the coupons tendered.
What is required by the act of May 11, 1887, is that, "If the
defendant relies on a tender of coupons as payment of the
taxes claimed, he shall plead the same specifically and in writing, and file with the plea the coupons averred therein to have
been tendered, and the clerk shall carefully preserve them.
Upon such plea filed the burden of proving the tender and
the genuineness of the coupons shall be on the defendant. If
the tender and the genuineness of the coupons be established,
judgment shall be for the defendant on the plea of tender. In
such case the clerk shall write the word 'proved,' and thereunder his name in his official character, across the face of the
coupons, and transmit them, together with a certificate of the
court that they have been proven in the case, to the auditor of
public accounts, who shall deliver the coupons to the second
auditor, receiving therefor the check of the second auditor
upon the treasurer, which check he shall pay into the treasury
to the credit of the proper tax account."
If a suit may be rightfully brought at all by the State to
recover a judgment for taxes, in such a case, certainly, there is
nothing in these provisions that violates any legal or contract
right of the party sued. If he defends the action on the ground
of a lawful tender of payment, he must, of course, plead the
tender, and may rightfully be required to bring into court the
tender alleged to have been made. Under the issue upon this
plea the burden is upon the defendant of proving the truth of
its allegations., What shall be the amount and kind of proof
necessary to establish the defence involves questions of law
which can only be raised and decided in the course of the trial.
Their determination is for the court where the trial is to be
had. If, in pursuance of other acts of the General Assembly,
the contract rights of the defendant, as a tax-payer having

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

tendered tax-receivable coupons, are denied to him in that trial,
by reason of requirements in regard to the nature and quantity
of proof as to the genuineness of the coupons, the errors of law
thus committed can only be remedied, according to the common course of judicial proceedings, by a writ of error, which,

as it would present a Federal question, might ultimately be
sued out in this court. 'But it is not to be assumed in advance,
either, that such questions will arise, or that, if they arise,
they will be erroneously decided. The question, therefore, is
narrowed to the single inquiry of the equitable right of the
complainants to enjoin the petitioners against bringing any
such suits at all.
It seems to be supposed in argument, that the right of taxpayers in Virginia, who have tendered tax-receivable coupons
in payment of their taxes to the proper collecting officer, to be
forever thereafter free from suit by the State to recover judgment for such taxes, rests upon the proposition that such a
tender is in law a payment of the taxes, so as to extinguish all
claim for them on the part of the State. This proposition,
indeed, is said to be justified by the authority of certain language in the opinion of this.court in the case of Poindexterv.
Greenhow, 114 1U. S. 270. in that case the effect of a tender
in payment of taxes upon the subsequent act of the collector
in seizing the personal property of the tax-payer was considered
and decided, but there is nothing in the opinion which countenances the idea that such a tender was a payment of the taxes,
so as to extinguish all subsequent claim of the State therefor.
Its effect was precisely defined in the following statement
(page 299): "His tender, as we have already seen, was equivalent to payment, so far as concerns the legality of all subsequent steps by the collector to enforce payment by distraint of
hisproperty." There is nothing in the opinion to indicate that
the party making the tender was relieved from the operation
of the rule of law, making it necessary to keep the tender
good, or that a subsequent action at law for the -recovery of
the taxes would be unlawful, reserving, of course, in such a
case, the admitted right of the defendant to plead the fact of
his tender and bring it into court, in pursuance. of the usual
practice in such cases, as a defence.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It follows, therefore, in the present case, that the personal
act of the petitione-s sought to be restrained by the order of
the Circuit Court, reduced to the mere bringing of an action
in the name of and for the State against tax-payers, who,
although they may have tendered tax-receivable coupons, are
charged as delinquents, cannot be alleged against them as an
individual act in violation of any legal or contract rights of
such tax-payers.
Xuch more difficult is it to conceive that it constitutes a
grievance of which the complainants in the principal suit have
any legal right to complain. No suits against the complainants themselves are apprehended, and their pecuniary interest
in the actions threatened against tax-payers, who have made
tenders of tax-receivable coupons purchased from them, with
their guaranty against loss in consequence thereof, is collateral
and remote. The bringing of such actions is no breach of any
contract subsisting between the complainants and the State of
Virginia. All rights under the contract contained in the
coupons they parted with when they fransferred them to taxpayers. If the complainants have agreed in that transfer that
they shall be received by the State in payment of taxes, that
is a contract between the complainants and the tax-payer, their
assignee, to which, the State is not a party. It is one the complainants have voluntarily entered into, and for which the
State cannot be held responsible.
In that aspect, the case .does not differ in principle from
.Marye v. Pa'sons,114 U. S. 325. The consequential losses
in the diminution of the market value of the coupons which
they still hold, and the liability of the complainants to make
good their warranty to tax-payers to whom they have transferred the others, are not direct and legal consequences of any
breach of the contract made with the State of Virginia, by
which the coupons are made receivable in payment of taxes.
As such damage could not be recovered in a direct action
upon the contract, if the State were suable at law, so neither
can it be made the foundation of any preventive relief by
injunction ,
These considerations, however, are adverted to in this con-

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

nection, not so much for the purpose of showing that the substance of the bill presents a case the subject matter of which
is not -within the jurisdiction of the court, as to show that it
does not allege any grounds of equitable relief against the
individual defendants for any personal wrong committed or
threatened by them. It does not charge against them in their
individual character anything done or threatened which constitutes, in contemplation of law, a violation of personal or
property rights, or a breach of contract to which they are
parties.
The relief sought is against the defendants, not in their
individual, but in their representative capacity as officers of
the State of Virginia. The acts sought to be restrained are
the bringing of suits by the State of Virginia in its own name
and for its own use. If the State had been made a defendant
to this bill by name, charged according to the allegations it
now contains - supposing that such a suit could be maintained
would have been subjected to the jurisdiction of the
-it
court by process served upon its Governor and Attorney
General, according to the precedents in such cases. .2vew
Jersey v. 3Tew Y-ork, 5 Pet. 284, 288, 290; _entucy v.
-Dennison,2- How. 66, 96, 97; Rule 5 of 1884, 108 U. S. 574.
If a decree could have been rendered enjoining the State from
bringing suits against its tax-payers, it would have operated
upon the State only through the officers who by law were
required to represent it in bringing such suits, viz., the present
defendants, its Attorney General, and the Commonwealth's
attorneys for the several counties. For a breach of such an
injunction, these officers would be amenable to the court as
proceeding in contempt of its authority, and would be liable
to punishment therefor by attachment and imprisonment.
The nature of the case, as supposed, is identical with that of
the case as actually presented in the bill, with the single exception that the State is not named as a defendant. How else
can the State be forbidden by judicial process to bring actions
in its name, except by constraining the conduct of its officers,
its attorneys, and its agents ? And if all such officers, attorare personally subjected to the process of the
neys, and &igents
VOL. c-,-=-32

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

court, so as to forbid their acting in its behalf, how can it be
said that the State itself is not subjected to the jurisdiction of
the court as an actual and real defendant?
It is, however, insisted upon in argument that it is within
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States to
restrain by injunction officers of the States from executing the
provisions of state statutes, void by reason of repugnancy to
the Constitution of the United States; that there are many
precedents in which that jurisdiction has been exercised under
the sanction of this court; and that the present case is covered
by their authority.
The principal authority relied upon to maintain this proposition is the judgment of this court in the case of Osborn v.
Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738. As strengthening the
argument based upon that decision, our attention is called by
counsel to a feature of the case which it is said does not clearly
appear from the official report by Mr. Wheaton. The original
record of the case shows that the bill, after setting out the
substance of the act of the Legislature of Ohio complained of,
alleged that Osborn, the Auditor of the State, and the officer
upon whom the execution of the statute of the State was
enjoined, "daily gives it out in speeches that he will execute
and enforce the provisions of the said act of Ohio against your
orators." And it is part of the prayer of the bill "to stay and
enjoin said Ralph Osborn, auditor as aforesaid, and all others
"whom it may concern in anywise, from proceeding against
your orators under and in virtue of the act of Ohio aforesaid,
or any section, part, or provision thereof." It also appears
that it was part of the decree of the Circuit Court, from which
the appeal was prosecuted, "that the defendants and each of
them be perpetually enjoined from proceeding to collect any
tax, which has accrued or may hereafter accrue, from the complainants under the act of the General Assembly of Ohio in
the bill and proceedings mentioned." But the act of the Legislature of Ohio, declared to be unconstitutional and void in
that case, had for its sole purpose the levy and collection of
an annual tax of $50,000 upon each office of discount and
deposit of the Bank of the United States within that State, to

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

be collected, in case of refusal to pay, by the Auditor of State
by a levy upon the money, bank notes, or other goods and
chattels, the property of the bank, to seize which it was made
lawful, under the warrant of the auditor, for the person to
whom it was directed, to enter the bank for the purpose of
finding and seizing property to satisfy the same. The wrong
complained of and sought to be prevented by the injunction
prayed for was this threatened seizure of the property of the
bank. An actual seizure thereof, in violation of the injunction, was treated as a contempt of the court, for which the
parties were attached, and the final decree of the Circuit
Court restored the property taken to the possession of the
complainant. In disposing of the case in this court, the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall concludes as follows, 9 Wheat.
871: "We think then that there is no error in the decree of
the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio, so far as it directs
restitution of the specific sum of $98,000, which was taken out of
the bank unlawfully and was in the possession of the defendant
Samuel Sullivan when the injunction was awarded in September, 1820, to restrain him from paying it away, or in any manner using it, and so far as it directs the payment of the remaining sum of $2000 by the defendants Ralph Osborn and John
L. Harper; but that the same is erroneous so far as respects
the interest on the coin, part of the said $98,000, it being the
opinion of this court that while the parties were restrained by
the authority of the Circuit Court from using it they ought
not to be charged with interest. The decree of the Circuit
Court for the District of Ohio is affirmed as to the said sums
of $98,000 and $2000, and reversed as to the residue."
The mandate from this court was in accordance with the
terns of this judgment.
There is nothing, therefore, in the judgment in that cause,
as finally defined, which extends its authority beyond the prevention and restraint of the specific act ddne in pursuance of the
unconstitutional statute of Ohio, and in violation of the act of
Congress chartering the bank, which consisted of the unlawful seizure and detention of its property. It was conceded
throughout that case, in the argument at the bar and in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion of the court, that an action at law would lie, either of
trespass or detinue, against the defendants as individual trespassers guilty of a wrong in taking the property of the complainant illegally, vainly seeking to defend themselves under
the aiithority of a void act of the General Assembly of Ohio.
One of the principal questions in the case was whether equity
had jurisdiction to restrain the commission of such a mere
trespass, a jurisdiction which was upheld upon the circumstances and nature of the case, and which has been repeatedly
exercised since. But the very ground on which it was adjudged not to be a stilt against the State, and not to be one in
which the State was a necessary party, was that the defendants personally and individually were wrongdoers, against
whom the complainants had a clear right of action for the
recovery of the property taken, or its value, and that therefore
it was a case in which no other parties were necessary. The
right asserted and the relief asked were against the defendants
as individuals. They sought to protect themselves against
personal liability by their official character as representatives
of the State. This they were not permitted to do, because the
authority under which they professed to act was void.
In pursuance of the principles adjudged in the case of
Osborn v. Bank of the United States, supra, it has been
repeatedly and uniformly held by this court that an injunction
will lie to restrain the collection of taxes sought to be collected by seizures of property imposed in the name Qf the
State, but contrary to the Constitution of the United States,
the defendants being officers of the State threatening the
distraint complained of. The grounds of this jurisdiction
were stated in Allen v. Baltimore c Ohio Railroad Co., 114
U. S. 311. The vital principle in all such cases is that the
defendants, though professing to act as offizers of the State,
are threatening a violation of the personal or property rights
of the complainant, for which they are personally and individually liable. This principle was plainly stated in the opinion
of the court in Poindexter v. Greenlow, 114 U. S. 270, as
follows (page 282): "The case then of the plaintiff below is
reduced to this: He had paid the tax demanded of him by' a

IN RE AYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

lawful tender. The defendant had no authority of law thereafter to attempt to enforce other payment by seizing his
property. In 'doing so he ceased to be an officer of the law,
and became a private wrongdoer. It is the simple case in
which the defendant, a natural private person, has unlawfully
with force and arms seized, taken, and detained the personal
property of another." It was also stated (page 288): "'The
r.atio decidendi in this class of cases is very plain. A defendant sued as a wrongdoer, who seeks to substitute the State in
his place, or to justify by the authority of the State, or to
defend on the ground that the State has adopted his act
and exonerated him, cannot rest on the bare assertion of his
defence. lIe is bound to establish it. The State is a political
corporate body, can act only through agents, and can command only by laws. It is necessary, therefore, for such a
defendant, in order to complete his defence, to produce a law
of the State which constitutes his commission as its agent, and
a warrant for his act. This the defendant in the present case
undertook to do." The legislation under which the defendant
justified being declared to be mill and void as contrary to the
Constitution of the United States, therefore left him defenceless, subject to answer to the consequences of his personal act
in the seizure and detention of the plaintiff's property, and
responsible for the damages occasioned thereby.
This principle is illustrated and enforced by the case of
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. In that case the plaintiffs
had been wrongfully dispossessed of their real estate by
defendants, claiming to act under the authority of the United
States. That authority could exist only as it was conferred
by law, and as they were unable to show any lawful authority
under the United States, it was held that there was nothing to
prevent the judgment of the court against them as individuals,
for their individual wrong and trespass. This feature will be
found, on an examination, to characterize every case where
persons have been made defendants for acts done or threatened by them as officers of the government, either of a State
or of the United States, where the objection has been interposed that the State was the real defendant, and has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

overruled. The action has been sustained only in those instances where the act complained of, considered apart from
the official authority alleged as its justification, and as the
personal act of the individual defendant, constituted a violation of right for which the plaintiff was entitled to a remedy
at law or in equity against the wrongdoer in his individual
character.
The present case stands upon a footing altogether different
Admitting all that is claimed on the part of the complainants
as to the breach of its. contract on the part of the State of
Virginia by the acts of its General Assembly referred to in
the bill of complaint, there is nevertheless no foundation in
law for the relief asked. For a breach of its contract by the
State, it is conceded there is no remedy by suit against the
State itself. This results from the 11th Amendment to the
Constitution, which secures to the State immunity from suit
by individual citizens of other States or aliens. This inmunity includes not only direct actions for damages for the
breach of the contract brought against- the State by name,
but all other actions and suits against it, whether at law or in
equity. A bill in equity for the specific performance of the
contract against the State by name, it is admitted could not
be brought. In Hagood v. Soithern, 117 U. S. 52, it was
decided that in such a bill, where the State was not nominally
a party to the record, brought against its officers and agents,
having no personal interest in the subject matter of the 'suit,
and defending only as representing the State, where "the
things required by the decree to be done and performed by
them are the very things which, when done and performed,
constitute a performance of the alleged contract by the State,"
the court was without jurisdiction, because it was a suit against
a State.
The converse of that proposition must be equally true,
because it is contained in it; that is, a bill, the object of which
is by injunction, indirectly, to compel the specific performance
of the contract, by forbidding all those acts and doings which
constitute breaches of the contract, must also, necessarily, be
a suit against the State. In such a case, though the State be

IN

RE AYERS.

Opinion of the Court.

not nominally a party on the record, if the defendants are its
officers and agents, through whom alone it can act in doing
and refusing to do the things which constitute a breach of its
contract, the suit is still, in substance, though not in form, a
suit against the State. Such is the precise character of the
suit in the Circuit Court against the petitioners in which the
order was made, the violation of which constitutes the contempt for which they have been committed to the imprisonment from which they seek delivery by these writs.
It may be asked what is the true ground of distinction, so
far as the protection of the Constitution of the United States
is invoked, between the contract rights of the complainant in
such a suit, and other rights of person and of property. In
these latter cases it is said that jurisdiction may be exercised
against individual, defendants, notwithstanding the official
character of their acts, while in cases of the former description the jurisdiction is denied.
The distinction, however, is obvious. The acts alleged in
the bill as threatened by the defendants, the present petitioners, are violations of the assumed contract between the
State of Virginia and the complainants, only as they are
considered to be the acts of the State of Virginia. The
defendants, as individuals, not being parties to that contract,
are not capable in law of committing a breach of it. There
is no remedy for a breach of a contract, actual or apprehended,
except upon the contract itself, and between those who are
by law parties to it. In a certain sense and in certain ways
the Constitution of the United States protects contracts against
laws of a State subsequently passed impairing their obligation,
and this provision is recognized as extending to contracts
between an individual and a State; but this, as is apparent, is
subject to the other constitutional principle, of equal authority,
contained in the 11th Amendment, which secures to the State
an immunity from suit. Wherever the question arises in a
litigation between individuals, which does not involve a suit
against a State, the contract will be judicially recognized as
of binding force, notwithstanding any subsequent law of the
State impairing its obligation. But this right is incidental to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the judiciai .roceeding in the course of which the question
concerning it arises. It is not a positive and substantive right
of an absolute character, secured by the Constitution of the
United States against every possible infraction, or for which
redress is given as against strangers to the contract itself, for
the injurious consequences of acts done or omitted by them.
Accordingly, it was held in Carterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317,
that no direct action for the denial of the right secured by a
contract, other than upon the contract itself, would lie under
any provisions of the statutes of the United States authorizing
actions to redress the deprivation, under color of state law, of
any right, privilege, or immunity secured by the Constitution
of the United States. In that case it was said (page 322):
"How, and in what sense, are these rights secured to him by
the Constitution of the United States ? The answer is, by the
provision of Article I, § 10, which forbids any State to pass
laws impairing the obligation of contracts. That constitutional provision, so far as it can be said to confer upon or
secure to any person any individual rights, does so only indirectly and incidentally. It forbids the passage by the States
of laws such as are described. If any such are, nevertheless,
passed by the legislature of a State, they are unconstitutional
and void. In any judicial proceeding necessary to vindicate
his rights under a contract affected by such legislation, the
individual has a right to have a judicial determination declaring the nullity of the attempt to impair its obligation. This
is the only right secured to him by that clause of the Constitution." But where the contract is between the individual
and the State, no action will lie against the State, and any
action founded upon it against defendants who are officers of
the State, the object of which is to enforce its specific performance by compelling those things to be done by the
defendants which, when done, would constitute a performance
by the State, or to forbid the doing of those things which, if
done, would be merely breaches of the contract by the State,
is in substance a suit against the State itself, and equally
within the prohibition of the Constitution.
It cannot be doubted that the 11th Amendment to the Con-

IN

RE AYERS.

Opinion of the Court.

stitution operates to create an important distinction between
contracts of a State with individuals and contracts between

individual parties. In the case of contracts between individuals, the remedies for their enforcement or breach, in existence
at the time they were entered into, are a part of the agreement itself, and constitute a substantial part of its obligation.
Louisian v. i1ew Olean.,-102 U. S: 203. That obligation,
by virtue of the provision of Article I, § 10, of the Constitution of the United States, cannot be impaired by any subsequent state . legislation. Thus, not only the covenants and
conditions of the contract are preserved, but also the substance of the original remedies for its enforcement. It is
different with contracts between individuals and a State. In
respect to these, by virtue of the 11th Amendment to the,
Constitution, there being no remedy by a suit against the
State, the contract is substantially without sanction, except
that which arises, out of the honor and good faith of the State
itself, and these are not subject to coercion. Although the
State may, at the inception of the contract, have consented as
one of its conditions to subject itself to suit, it may subsequently withdraiv that consent and resume its original immunity, without any violation of the obligation of its contract in
the constitutional sense. Beers v. Ai-kansas, 20 How. 527;
]ailroad Co. v. Tenneksee, 101 U. S. 337. The very object
and purpose of the 11th Amendment were to prevent the
indignity of subjecting a State to the coercive process of
judicial tribunals at the instance of private parties. It was
thought to be neither becoming nor convenient that the
several States of the Union, invested with that large residuum
of sovereignty which had not been delegated to the United
States, should be summoned as defendants to answer the complaints of private persons, whether citizens of other States or
aliens, or that the course of their public policy and the a(hninistration of their public affairs should be subject to and controlled by the mandates of judicial tribunals without their
consent, and in favor of individual interests. To secure th3
manifest purposes of the constitutional exemption guaranteed
by the 11th Amendment requires that it should be interpreted,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

not literally and too narrowly, but fairly, and with such breadth
and largeness as effectually to accomplish the substance of its
purpose. In this spirit it must be held to cover, not only suits
brought against a State by name, but those also against its
officers, agents, and representatives, where the State, though
not named as such, is, nevertheless, the only real party against
which alone in fact the relief is asked, and against which the
judgment or decree effectively operates.
But this is not intended in any way to impinge upon the
principle which justifies suits against individual, defendants,
who, under color of the authority of unconstitutional legislation by the State, are guilty of personal trespasses and wrongs,
nor to forbid suits against officers in their official capacity
either to arrest or direct their official action by injunction or
mandamus, where such suits are authorized by law, and .the
act to be done or omitted is purely ministerial, in the performance or omission of which the plaintiff has a legal interest.
In- respect to the latter class of cases, we repeat what was
said by this court in Board of Liquidation v. 2XcComb, 92
U. S. 531, 541: "A State, without its consent, cannot be sued
by an individual; and a court cannot substitute its own discretion for that of executive officers in matters belonging to
the proper jurisdiction of the latter. But it has been well
settled, that, when a plain official duty, requiring no exercise
of discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused,
any person who will sustain. personal injury by such refusal
may have a mandamus to compel its performance; and when
such duty is threatened to be violated by some positive official
act, any person who will sustain personal injury thereby, for
which adequate-compensation cannot be had at law, may have
an injunction to prevent it. In such cases, the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other.
In eithercase, if the officer plead the authority of an unconstitutional law for the non-performance or violation of his
duty, it will not prevent the issuing of the writ. An unconstitutional law will be treated by the courts as null and void."
An example and illustration of this class will be found in
Sebert v. leewis, 122 U. S. 284.

IN RE A YERS.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor need it be apprehended that the construction of the
l1th Amendment, applied in this case, will in anywise embarrass or obstruct the execution of the laws of the United States,
m cases where officers of a State are guilty of acting in violation
of them under color 6f its authority. The government of the
United States, in the enforcement of its laws, deals with all
persons within its territorial jurisdiction, as individuals owing
obedience to its authority. The penalties of disobedience may
be visited upon them, without regard to the character in which
they assume to act, or the nature of the exemption they may
plead in justification. Nothing can be interposed between the
individual and the obligation he owes to the Constitution and
laws of the United States, which can shield or defend him
from their just authority, and the extent and limits of that
authority the government of the United States, by means of
its judicial power, interprets and applies for itself. If, therefore, an individual, acting under the assumed authority of a
State, as one of its officers, and under color of its laws, comes
into conflict with the superior authority of a valid law of the
United States, he is stripped of his representative character,
and subjected in his person to the consequences of his individual conduct. The State has no power to impart to him any
immunity from responsibility to the supreme authority of thme
United States.
In contradistinction to these classes of cases, for the reasons
given, we adjudge the suit of Cooper and Ot.ere v. Jlarye and
Othes, in which the injunctions were granted against the
present petitioners, to be in substance and in law a suit against
the State of Virginia.. It is, therefore, within the prohibition
of the 11th Amendment to the Constitution. By the terms
of that provision, it is a case to which the judicial power of
the United States does not extend. The Circuit Court was
without jurisdiction to entertain it. All the proceedings in
the exercise of the jurisdiction which it assumed are null and
void. The orders forbidding the petitioners to bring the suits.
for bringing which they were adjudged in contempt of its
authority, it had no power to make. The orders adjudging

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

them in contempt were equally void, and their imprisonment
is without authority of law. It is therefore
Ordered that the petitioners be discharged.
-M. JusTInC

FiLD concurring.

I concur in the judgment discharging from arrest and imprisonment the Attorney General of Virginia, and other officers
of the State, who were adjudged by the Circuit Court to be
guilty of contempt in refusing to obey the order of that court
in the case of 6oper v. Marye, and were fined, and committed
until the fine should be paid, and they should purge themselves of their contempt by doing the acts commanded. I also
concur in the main position stated in the opinion of the court,
upon which the discharge of the petitioners is.ordered; namely:
that the case of Cooper v. Afarye was in law and fact a suit by
subjects of a foreign state against the State of Virginia. To
a suit of that character the judicial power of the United States
cannot, by the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, be
extended. The object of that suit was to enjoin the Attorney
General and the Commonwealth's attorneys of the several
counties, cities, and towns of Virginia from bringing any suits
in the name of the Commonwealth to enforce the collection of
taxes, for the payment of which coupons originally attached
to her bonds had been tendered. To enjoin the officers of the
Commonwealth, charged with the supervision and management of legal proceedings in her behalf, from bringing suits in
her name, is nothing less than to enjoin the Commonwealth,
for only by her officers can such suits be instituted and prosecuted. This seems to me an obvious conclusion.
The reason given in the bill in Cooper v. -farye, for seeking
the injunction, is that the State has passed various acts creating impediments in the way of holders of coupons establishing
their genuineness, by which their value will be practically
destroyed, and the performance of these obligations be evaded,
unless the officers of the State are restrained from prosecuting
such suits. The numerous devices to which the State has
resorted in order to escape from her obligations under the

IN RE AYERS.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

forms of law mev.,it is true, seriously embarrass the coupon
holder in the asa "tion of his claims; but that is not a sufficient reason for denying to the State the right to prosecute
her demands for taxes in her own courts. If the obstacles to
the maintenance of the claims of the coupon holder, presented
by the State legislation, are repugnant to the Constitution and
laws of the United States, we cannot assume in advance that
they will be sustained by the courts of Virginia when the
coupons tendered are produced in the suits mentioned, and for
that reason deny to her a hearing there upon her own demands. If they should be sustained, a remedy may be found
in this tribunal, where decisions in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United States may be reviewed and 'corrected.
There are many cases - indeed, they are of frequent occurrence - where officers of the State, acting under legislation in
conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United Statesmay be restrained by the Federal courts, as where those officers attempt, by virtue of such legislation, to take private
property for public use without offering compensation, or in
other ways to deprive one of the use and enjoyment of his
property. I do not understand that the opinion of the court
is against this doctrine; but, on the contrary, that it is recognized and approved. There is a wide difference between
restraining officers of the State from interfering in such cases
with the property of the citizen, and restraining them from
prosecuting a suit in the name of the State in her own courts
to collect an alleged claim. Her courts are at all times as open
to her for the prosecution of her demands as they are open to
her citizens for the prosecution of their claims.
I, however, make this special concurrence in the opinion of
the majority because of language in it expressing approval
of the positions taken by the court in _Loaisiana v. Jmel,
agreeing with the majority
from which I dissented -not
either in the statement of the object of that case, or in the
law applicable to it. 107 U. S. 728. I considered that case
as brought to compel the officers of the State to do what she
had by her laws and former constitution consented they might

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

by the judicial tribunals be required to do. I expressed, at
the time, against the majority of the court, my conviction of
the invalidity and unconstitutionality of the ordinance of repudiation embodied in the new constitution of Louisiana. At
the same time I also expressed in Antoni v. Greenhow my
opinion of the equally invalid legislation of Virginia. 107
U. S. 784. I adhere to my dissenting opinions in those cases,
and in concurring in the judgment in this case I do not in any
respect depart from or qualify what I there said.
MR. JusTicE HARLA.N

dissenting,

As I adhere to the views expressed by me in Louisiana v.
Jumel, 107 U. S. 746; Antoni y. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 801;
and Cunninghamv v. 3acon & -BrunswickRailroad Company,
109 U. S. 458; and as I concurred in the judgments in Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 273, and Allen v. Baltimore &
O1do Railroad Company, 114 U. S. 311, I feel obliged to dissent from the opinion and judgment in these cases.
In Cooper v. _Yarye, &e., the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court cannot be questioned, so far as it depends upon the
citizenship of the parties; for the plaintiffs are subjects or
citizens of Great Britain, and the defendants, are citizens of
Virginia.
Whether the plaintiffs merely as holders of Virginia coupons, and not tax-payers in that Commonwealth, have any
legal ground of complaint, by reason of the refusal of her
officers to accept, when tendered, like coupons which the
plaintiffs sold or transferred to tax-payers to be used in meeting their taxes; whether the statutes under which those officers proceeded, or intend to proceed, are repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, and, therefore, void;
whether the preliminary injunction in question should or
should not have been refused upon the ground that such
tax-payers have a complete and adequate remedy at law;
whether the necessity of avoiding conflicts between the courts
of the United States and the officers of a State, acting in
obedience to her statutes, was not ample reason for refusing

IN RE AYERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

to grant such injunction; or whether an officer ought to be
enjoined from merely bringing a suit in behalf of the publicthe suit itself not necessarily, or before judgment therein, involving an invasion of the property rights of the defendant
therein -are all matters which the Circuit Court, sitting in
equity, was competent to determine upon the final hearing in
Cooper v. .A2-ye, &c. Those questions are not open for consideration here except upon the appeal from the final decree
in that case; consequently, I am not at liberty now to express
an opinion as to any of them.
The only inquiry now to be made is, whether Cooper v.
[arye is a suit against. Virginia within the meaning of the
11th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
If it be, I agree that the prisoners must be discharged; for
the judicial power of the United States does not extend to suits
against a State by citizens of another State, or by subjects of
foreign countries.
But I am of opinion that it is not a suit of that character.
I stand upon what was adjudged in Osborn v. United States
-Bank,9 Wheat. at page 857. Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court in that case, said: "It may, we think, be
laid down as a rule wicl admits of no exception, that in all
cases where jurisdiction depends on the party, it is the party
named in the record. Consequently, the 11th AmendinLat,
which restrains the jurisdiction granted by the Constitution
over suits against States, is, of necessity, limited to those suits
in which a State is a party on the record. The amendment
has its fhll effect, if the Constitution be construed as it would
have been construed, had the jurisdiction of the court never
been extended to suits brought against a State by the citizens
of another State, or by aliens. The State not being a party
on the record, and the court having jurisdiction over those
who are parties on the record, the true question is, not one of
jurisdiction, but whether, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, the
court ought to make a decree against the defendants; whether
they are to be considered as having a real interest, or as being
only nominal parties."
These principles have been recognized in several decisions of

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion: Iarlan, J.

this court, notably in Tnited States v. lee and E

ai~f n v.

1ee, 106 U. S. 196, 213, 215. That was an action to recover a
body of land in Alexandria County, Virginia, two hundred
acres of which constituted Arlington Cemetery, previously established by the United States as a military station and as a
national cemetery for the soldiers and sailors *of the Union.
When the action was brought that cemetery was in the actual
possession of the United States by the defendants, as their off(ers. Those officers certainly had no personal interest in the
result of the suit. They simply represented the United States,
who were the real parties in interest. As the United States
were not parties to the record, and because they could not be
made parties, the court proceeded to a determination of the
case between the parties before it. The result was a judgment,
determining that Lee had a legal right to the possession of
Arlington Cemetery as against the officei-s of the United
States having it under their control. The authority and duty
of the court to proceed in the case, notwithstanding the United
States were not before the court, was rested mainly upon the
decision in (sboo v. Bank of the Unrited State.s, from which
was quoted, with emphatic approval, the following language:
"If the State of Ohio could have been made a party defendant, it can scarcely be denied that this would be a strong case
for an injunction. The objection is that, as the real party
cannot be brought before the court, a suit cannot be sustained
against the agents of that party ; and cases have been cited to
show that a court of chancery will not make a decree unless
all those who are substantially interested be made parties to
the suit. This is certainly true where, it is in the power of the
plaintiff to make them parties; but if the person who is the
real principal, the person who is the true source of the mischief,
by whose lower and for whose advantage it is done, be himself
above the law, be exempt from all judicial process, it would be
subversive of the best established principles-to say that the
laws could not afford the same remedies against the agent employed in doing the wrong which they would afford against
him could his principal be joined in the suit." And in order
that no one might suppose that Osborn v. Bank of the United

IN RE AYERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

States had been modified or overruled by subsequent decisions,
the court in the Lee case, after referring to several decisions,
said: "These decisions have nevet been overruled. On the
contrary, as late as the case of Davis v. G ray, 16 Wall. 203,
the case of Osborn v. Bank of the United States is cited with
approval, as establishing these, among other propositions:
' Where the State is concerned, the State should be made a
party, if it can,be done. That it cannot be done is a sufficient
reason for the omission to do it, and the court may proceed to
decree against the officers of the State in all respects as if the
.State were a party to the record. In deciding who are parties
to the suit, the court will not look beyond the record. Making
a state officer a party does not make the State a party, although
7ter law may have prompted Ms action,and the State may stand
behind him as a realparty in interest. A State can be made a
party only by shaping the bill expressly with that view, as
where individuals or corporations are intended to be put in
that relation to the case.' Though not prepared to say now
that the court can proceed against the officer ' in all respects'
as if the State were a party, this may be taken as intimating,
in a general way, the views of the court at that time."
In Poindextr v. Greenhow, 114 IT. S. 270, we sustained a
suit by a private individual against a treasurer, charged with
the duty of collecting taxes, to recover certain personal property which the defendant had seized for the non-payment of
taxes due Virginia from the plaintiff in that suit. In seizing
the property the officer disregarded the tender, previously
made, of the State's coupons. It was earnestly contended that,
as the officer only did what the State by her statutes had
'commanded him to do, and had himself no personal interest in
the matter, the suit against him was, in legalreffect, one against
the State; that a suit to recover property seized for the nonpayment of taxes, in conformity with the statutes of Virginia,
had the same result as a direct suit against the State to compel her performance of her contract with the coupon holder, or
to enjoin her officer from carrying those statutes, into effect.
But this view was overruled, mainly upon the authority of
Osborn v. Bank of the United States, from which the court
VOL. cxi--33

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

quoted, with approval, the same passages as are to be found in
the opinion in Lee's case, and in reference thereto observed:
"This language, it may be observed, was quoted with approval
in United States v. L-ee. The principle which it enunciates
constitutes the very foundation upon which the decisioff in that
case rested." In Poindexter's case we said that the immunity
from suit secured to the States by the Constitution "does not
exempt the State from the operation of the censtitutional provision that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts; for, it has long been settled that contracts
between a State and an individual are as fully protected by the
Constitution as contracts between two individuals. It is true,
that no remedy for a breach of its contract by a State, by way
of damages as compensation, or by means of process to compel
its perforihance, is open, under the Constitution, in the courts
of the United States, by a direct suit against the State itself, on
the part of the injured party, being a citizen of another State,
or a citizen or subject of a foreign state. But it is equally
true, that whenever, in a controversy between parties to a suit,
of which these courts have jurisdiction, the question arises upon
the validity of a law by a State impairing the obligation of its
contract, thze jurisdiction. is not thereby ousted, but must be eaecised, with whatever legal consequences to the rights of the
litigants may be the result of the determination."
Upon identically the same grounds rests our decision in
Allei6 v. Baltimore & O)hio Railroad,114 U. S. 311, in which
we maintained the right of that company to an injunction to
prevent the collection of taxes by distraint upon its property
after a tender of the State's tax-receivable coupons in payment
of such taxes. That suit was against the Auditor of Public
Accounts and the Treasurer of Virginia. They certainly had
no personal interest in the collection of the taxes, but were
only obeying the statutes of the State which they assumed to
be constitutional and binding upon them. But the effect of
that suit was to say to the State of Virginia that she should
not collect her revenue in the mode proposed by the statute,
and thereby violate rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States. In vain was it urged by the officers of the

IN RE AYERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

State that Virginia was the real party in interest; that, as
the State could only act by her officers, to enjoin them was to
enjoin the State;' and that consequently the suit was one
against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment. This court overruled that contention, holding, in substance, that, the State of Virginia not being named as a party,
and it being impossible to make her a party, her officers could
be prevented from touching the property of the railroad under
a statute void under the Constitution of the United States.
The result, then, of former decisions is: That a suit against
officers of the United States to recover property not legally in
their possession, is not a suit against the United States; and
that neither a suit against officers of the State to recover prpperty illegally taken by them, in obedience to the statutes of
the State, nor a suit brought against state officers to enjoin
them from taldng, under the command of the State, the property of a tax-payer who has tendered coupons for taxes due to
her, were suits against the State within the meaning of the
11th Amendment of the Constitution. And now it is adjudged, in the cases before us, thdt a suit merely against state
officers to enjoin them from bringing actions against tax-payers
who have previously tendered tax-receivable coupons is a suit
against the State. There is, I grant, a difference between
the cases heretofore decided and the case of Cooper v. 3&9ye:
but the difference is not such as to involve the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, but, rather, to use the language of Chief
Justice 'Marshall, "the exercise of its jurisdiction."
The Commonwealth of Virginia has no more authority to
enact statutes impairing the obligation of her contracts thanl
statutes impairing the obligation of contracts exclusively
between individuals. State of YSew Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164, 166; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 560:
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 84; Woodl)uff v. Tapnall, lo
R[ow. 190, 207; Vo/ff v. New Orleans, 103 U. S. 358, 367New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Lig7it Co., 115 U. S. 650,
673. A statute which is void, as impairing the obligation of
tiae State's contract, affords no justification to any one, and
confers no authority. If an officer proposes to enforce such a

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

statute against a party, the obligation of whose contract is
sought to be impaired, the latter, in my judgment, may proceed, by suit, against such officer, and thereby obtain protection in his rights of contract, as against the proposed action
of that officer. A contrary view enables the State to use her
immunity from suit to effect what the Constitution of the
United States forbids her from doing, namely, to enact statutes impairing the obligation of her contract. If an officer of
the State can take shelter behind such immunity while he
proceeds with the execution of a void enactment to the injury
of the citizen's rights of contract, it would look as if that
provision which declares that the Constitution of the United
States shall be the supreme law of the land, anything in the
constitution or laws of a State to the contrary notwithstanding, had lost most, if. not all, of its value in respect to contracts
which a State makes with individuals.
I repeat, that the difference between a suit against officers
of .the State, enjoining them from seizing the property of the
citizen, in obedience to a void statute of the State, and a suit
enjoining such officers from bringing under the order of the
State, and in her name, an action which, it is alleged, will
result in injury to the rights of the complainant, is not a
difference that affects the jurisdiction of the court, but only
its exercise of jurisdiction. If the former is not a suit against
the State, the latter should not be deemed of that class.

SPRAUL v. LOUISIANA.
ORIGINAL MOTION

IN A CAUSE

BROUGHT

UP BY WRIT OF ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted November 21, 1887.- Decided December 5, 1887.

A supersedeas obtained by a plaintiff in error under the provisions of Rev.

Stat. § 1007 does not operate to enjoin the defendant in error from bringing a new suit on a new cause of action, but arising out of the same general matter, and involving the same questions of law which are brought
here for review.

