OCTOBER TERIM, 1887.
Syllabus.

receiver, nor are they seeking to enforce the liability of Kennedy as a shareholder. Their claim, and their only claim,
against him is for his failure to insert his own name, or that
of some other responsible person, in the blank which had been
left by them in the transfer they signed on the books of the
bahk for the stock he had bought. His obligation to them, if
any there is, grows out of his cQntract with them as a purchaser, and not out of the banking law. That presents no
Federal question. There is nothing in that law which makes
it his duty to save his assignors from harm by reason of their
former ownership, or which required him to register his ownership for their protection.
Neither is it at all important that, in its opinion, the Supreme Court of the State expressed a doqbt as to the correctness of the judgment against le Sassier & Binder. That
judgment, as it stood, was conclusive on that point, and if
Kennedy had been liable to them at all, it would have been
for the amount adjudged, because he had been called upon to
defend if he desired to do so. He was discharged, not because
the judgment was wrong, but because he had not, in the opinion of the court, been guilty of any neglect of duty towards
those against whom it was rendered, which would make him
liable to them therefor.
The notion to d~sriss is granted.

NEW YORK, LAVKE ERIE AND WES't ERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. MADISON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT C&M.T OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

imHE

NORTHERN DIS'TRICT OF OHIO.Argued 'November 11, 1SS7.-Deelded Decembef5, 187.

If the jury return a verdict for the plaintiff after the court in its charge
instructs th"m to " disregard altogether" evidence on the plaintiff's part,
which had been improperly introduced and had been excepted to, the
defendant 6annot assign error here in this respect.

NEW YORK, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. MTADISON.

525

Opinion of the Court.
Rulings of the court below on questions of law will not be considered here
on.a writ of error, unless it appears from the bill of exceptions, or otherwise in the record, that the facts were such as to make them material to
the issue which was tried.

Tim case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mrfr. T -. Ingersoll for plaintiff in error.
was with him on the brief.

.p. .L. A. RussejZ

.X,. .EdwardS. Meyer for defendant in error.

Mma. CHiEF JuSTIC. WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by MNfadison, the defendant in error,
for injuries received by him through the alleged negligence of
the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company,
while he was in its employ as a brakeman. He charged in his
petition that "after a train of cars operated by said defendant,
and on which train he was employed as aforesaid, had stopped
at the town of lMantua, a station along the line of said company in the district and division aforesaid, it became necessary
in the course of his duties to step between two cars of said
train for the purpose of uncoupling. them, and while so engaged, without any fault or negligence on his part, but through
the fault and negligence of this defendant in permitting its
road-bed at said town to remain in an unsafe, insecure, and
dangerous condition, all of which was unknown to this plaintiff, his right foot was caught and held fast in said road-bed;
and while so caught and held, being unable to extricate it, he
was, without any fault on his part, but through the negligence
and carelessness of defendant, struck, jammed, and run over
by one of defendant's cars, so injuring his left leg as to necessitate its amputation and cause the loss thereof."
The answer denied that the injury was caused by the negligence of the company, and insisted that it happened through
the fault of the plaintiff himself.
The errors assigned here are:
1. That the Circuit Court erred in the admission of incompetent'evidence at the trial; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

2. That the Circuit Court erred in its charge to the jury.
In reference to the first of these assignments the bill of ex.
ceptions shows that at the trial several witnesses were called
by the plaintiff, who were permitted to testify to certain alterations which were made in the road-bed by the section foreman, with the knowledge and approval of the road-master,
after the accident occurred. This was objected to at the time,
and exceptions were duly taken; but the court, in submitting
the case to the jury, directed them to disregard that testimony
altogether, as it had been improperly admitted, and must not
be considered as tending to prove that thle "railroad track was
not in a reasonably safe condition at the time." It is true
that, in one place in its charge, the court said this evidence was
"not to be regarded

.

.

.

as an admission of the defend-

ant of the defective character of the road-bed," but afterwards
it was expressly stated that the testimony was not to be considered at all, as the section foreman could not at the time the
alterations were made do anything that would bind the company upon the question of the condition of the track when the
accident occurred. The jury could not have been misled on
this subject.
As to the other error assigned, it is sufficient to say that there
is nothing in the record to show the materiality of the charge
complained of, or of the requests to charge which were refused.
No part of the evidence, save that which was excepted to, is
set out in the bill of exceptions, and there is no such statement
of the facts proven as will enable us to see that the charge as
given or refused had any reference to the case as it appeared
at the trial. The record as it comes to us presents only abstract questions of law, which may or may not have been ruled
in a way to affect the defendant injuriously. It has long been
settled that such questions will not be' considered here on a
'writ of error unless it appears from ihe bill of exceptions, or
otherwise in the record, that the facts were such as to make
them material to the issue which was tried. As was said in
Dunlop v. .Aonroe, 7 Cranch, 242, 270: "Each bill of exceptions mui' be considered as presenting a distinct and substantive case; and4t-,is . n the evidence stated in itself alone, that

STRYKER v. GOODNOW.
Syllabus.

the court is to decide. We cannot go beyond it and collect
other facts which must have been in the mind of the party,
and the insertion of which in this bill of exceptions could alone
have sanctioned the opinion as prayed for." To the same
effect is Worthington,v. MATason, 101 U. S. 149, 152, where this
appears: "As we understand the principles on which judgments here are reviewed by writ of error, that error must appear by some ruling on the pleadings, or on a state of facts
presented to this court. Those facts, apart from the pleadings,
can only be shown here by a special verdict, an agteed statement duly signed and submitted to the court below, or by bill
of exceptions. When in the latter, complaint is made of the
instructions of the court given or refused it must be accompanied by a distinct statement of testimony given or offered
which raises the question to which the instructions apply."
"The proof of the facts which make the charge erroneous
must be distinctly set forth, or it must appear that evidence
was given tending to prove them." See also United States v.
M7korgan, 11 How. 153, 158; .Reed v. Gardner,17 Wall. 409;
Jones v. Buck-ell, 104 U. S. 554; P/ en.- Life Ins. Co. v. Baddin, 120 U. S. 183, 196.
Upon the record as it comes to us we find no error, and the
judgment is consequently
Affirmed.

STRYKER v. GOODN OW'S ADINISTRATOR.
CHAPMAN v. SAME.
WELLES v. SAME.
LITOHFIELD v. SAME.
LITOHFIELD v. SAlJE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1, 18S7.-Decided December 5, 1837.

Upon the record in this case, the question whether the lands of the plaintiffs in error were taxable is not a Federal question, but is one on which

