OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Counsel for Parties.

and their redress, upon the reversal, would have been of a different sort from that of a restitution of the land sold." Such
was the language of this court, speaking through Mr. Justice
Story, in Wliting v. Bank of the United States, 13 Pet. 6, 15,
in reference to the effect of a sale under a decree qf foreclosure and sale, and there cannot be a doubt of its correctness.
It was for this reason the decree in Shedd's case was held to
be final in the sense of a court of equity for the purpose of
an appeal.
But in Parsons v. Robinson we held there was no decree
of sale which could be "carried immediately into execution ;"
that no order of sale could issue until the court had "given its
authority in that behalf;" and that "further judicial action
must be had by the court before its ministerial officers" "could
proceed to carry the decree into execution." In this consists
the difference between the two cases: in Shedd's case there
was actually a decree of sale; in Parsons' case there was not.
So, here, there has been no -actual decree of sale, and
Tie motion to dismiss is granted.

XOREY v. LOCKHART.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted October 18, 1887.-Decided October 24,18S2.

Since the Act of 1887, c. 373, took zffect, this court has no power to review
on appeal or in error an order of a Circuit Court remanding a cause to
a state court.

THIs was a motion to dismiss an appeal from an order of
the Circuit Court, remanding a cause to the state court from
which it had been removed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
.Mr.Assistant Attorney General .A4ury on behalf of XAr.
Eugene D. Saunders and .Mr.
E.D. White, for the motion.
-Mr. . D. Rouse and Afr. William Grant opposing.

MOREY v. LOCKHART.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court
remanding a suit which was begun and bad been removed
from a state court after the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24
Stat. 552, went into effect. At the hearing of the motion the
judges holding the Circuit Court differed in opinion, and the
order to remand was made under § 650 of the Revised Statutes
in accordance with the opinion of the presiding judge. The
question as to which the difference of 9pinion arose was duly
certified nd recorded, and this appeal was taken from the
order which was entered. A motion is now made to dismiss
because an appeal does not lie in such a case.
Before the act of March 3, 1875, there could be no appeal
from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which
had been removed, because such an order was not a final
judgment or decree in the sense which authorizes an appeal or
writ of error. 2?ailroad Conyany v. IJiswall, 23 Wall. 507.
That act, however, provided in express terms that "the order
of said Circuit Court dismissing or remanding said cause to
the state court shall be reviewable by the Supreme Court on
writ of error or appeal, as the case may be," 18 Stat. 470, c.
137, last paragraph of § 5; and under this authority numerous
cases have been brought to this court by appeal or writ of
error for the review of such orders. But, by § 6 of the act
of 1887, c. 373, the last paragraph of § 5 of that of 1875,
c. 137, was expressly repealed; and in the last paragraph of
§ 2 of the act of 18S7 it was enacted that "Whenever any
cause shall be removed from any state court into any Circuit
Court of the United States, and the Circuit Court shall decide
that the cause was improperly removed, and order the same
to be remanded to the state court from whence it came, such
remand shall be immediately carried into .execution, and no
appeal or writ of error from the decision of the Circuit Court
so remanding such case shall be allowed." It is difficult to
see what more could be done to make the action of the Circuit
Court final, for all the purposes of the removal, and not the
subject of review in this court. First, it is declared that there

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Coirt..

shall be no appeal or writ of error in such a case, and then,
to make the matter doubly sure, the only statute which ever
gave the right of such an appeal or writ of error is repealed.
It is contended, however, that the prohibition against
appeals and writs of error in the act of 1887 applies only to
removals on account of prejudice or local influence; but that
cannot be so. The section of the statute in which the provision .occurs has relation to removals generally, those for prejudice or local influence as well as those for other causes, and
the prohibition has no words of limitation. It is in effect that
no appeal or writ of error shall be allowed from an order to
remand in "any cause" removed "ffrom any state court into
any Circuit Court of the United States." The fact that it is
found at the end of the section, and immediately after the
provision for removals on account of prejudice or local influence, has, to our minds, no special significance. Its language
is broad enough to cover all cases, and such was evidently the
purpose of Congress.
It is also contended that the appeal lies under § 693 of the
Revised Statutes, on account of the certificate in the record
of the judges holding the court, that their opinions were
opposed upon the question of remanding. That section is as
follows: "Any final judgment or decree in any civil suit or
proceeding before a Circuit Court

.

.

.

wherein the said

judges certify, as provided by law, that their opinions were
opposed,

.

.

.

may be reviewed and affirmed, reversed or

modified by the Supreme Court, on writ of error or appeal,
according to the nature of the case, and subject to the provisions of law applicable to other writs of error or appeals
in regard to bail and supersedeas." But here there has been
no judgment in the suit, and therefore this section does not
apply. That was the ground on which an appeal was denied in
RailroadCompany v. ri.swall, .upra, where it was said: "The
order of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the state
court is not a' final judgment' in the action, but a refusal to
hear and decide." No case can be brought up under § 693,
until there has been a final judgment or decree in the suit.
It follows that we hav3 no jurisdiction of this appeal, and
The motion to diemiss is consequently granted.

