OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

were sold in open market the day after they were taken possession of under the writ in this case, and that the net proceeds
of the sale only amounted to $4526.15. There is nothing to
show that they were really any less valuable at the time of
the sale than when they were taken. Upon the facts as found
the recovery could not have exceeded five thousand dollars if
there had been a judgment in favor of Cox, the plaintiff in
error.
Disnziqsed.

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Argued November 18, 1887. - Decided December 5, 1837.

The provisions of Rev. Stat. § 914 relating to the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in common law causes in Circuit and
District Courts of the United States do not apply to remedies upon judgments; but those remedies, being governed by the provisions of § 916,
are confined to such remedies as were provided by the laws of the State
in force when § 916 was passed or reUnacted, or by subsequent laws of
the State adopted by the Federal Court in the manner provided for in that
section.
A confirmation by the court of a sale under execution will not cure an
infirmity growing out of the nullity of the judgment under which it
was had.
EiEOTMENT.

Judgment for the plaintiff. Defendant sued

out this writ of error.
follows.

The case, as stated by the court, is as

This case comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
District of INebraska. It is an action of ejectment to recover
a parcel of land in the city of Lincoln, State of Nebraska.
The plaintiff below, the defendant in error here, traces title to
the premises from a purchaser at a sale under an execution
issued upon a judgment, extended by the clerk of the court so
as to include certain sureties, and among them the defendant

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Statement of the Case.

below. The contention of the defendant is, that the extension
of the judgment so as to include him was unauthorized and
void, and that the execution and sale thereunder of his property was, therefore, without any force or validity.
The facts of the case, so far as it is necessary to state them
for the disposition of the contention of the defendant below,
are briefly these: On the 12th of November, 1875, Charles W.
Seymour and William Wardell, as plaintiffs, recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Nebraska, against one William P. Young, as defenant for
$6500 and costs. The defendant in that case,. Young, being
desirous of staying execution upon this judgment, obtained a.
bond, as the undertaking is termed, signed by five parties, of
whom Lamaster, the plaintiff in error, was one, in I'hich, after
reciting the judgment recovered, they acknowledged themselves "security for the defendant for the payment of the
judgment, interest, and costs, from the time of rendering said
judgment, until paid, to be paid nine months from the rendering the same." Attached to this instrument was an affidavit
of justification of all the parties signing it except Lamaster.
Originally, his name was signed to the affidavit, but he had it
cut off before the instrument was presented to the clerk. It
is unnecessary to state the circumstances under which this was
done or the effect of it (if any it had) upon his liability, as the
case will be determined on other.points.
The bond, so called, was approved by the clerk of the court,
on the 2d of December, 1875, and filed; and thereupon he
made in one of the books of record of the court, called "Judgment Index of the Court," the following entry: "Defendants,
Lamaster, Al. F., et al., surety; Plaintiffs, Seymour and Wardell, appearance. Docket 6, No. 138; date of judgment, Nov.
12, 1875; amount of judgment, $6500."
This entry was made by the clerk under the impression that
the statute of Nebraska of February 23, 1875, entitled "An
act to provide for stay of executions and orders of sale," was
the law governing the stay of executions upon judgments in the
Circuit Court of the United States. The third section of the
statute provides. for a stay of execution for a period of nine

-378

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

months, upon judgments for the recovery of money only (with
pertain exceptions not material in this case), on condition, that
the defendant shall, "within twenty days from the rendition
of judgment, procure two or-more sufficient freehold sureties
to enter into a bond, aokn6wledging themselves security for
the defendant for the payment of the judgment, interest, and
cost from the time of rendering judgment until paid."
The other sections which bear upon the questions involved
are the following:
"S&c. 4. Officers approving stay bonds shall require the
affidavits of the signers of such bonds, that they own real
estate not exempt from execution, and aside from incumbrances,
to the value of twice the amount of the judgment."
"Sec. 6. The sureties for the stay of execution may be taken
and approved by.the clerk, and the bonct shall be recorded in
a book kept for that purpose, and have the force and effect
of a judgment confessed from the date thereof against the
property of the sureties, and the clerk shall enter and index
the same in the proper judgment docket as in the case of other
judgments."
"Sec. ,9.At the expiration of the stay, the clerk shall issue
a joint execution against the property of all the judgment
debtors and sureties, describing them as debtors or sureties
therein." (See Laws of Nebraska of 1875, pp. 49-51.)
Upon the assumed' sufficiency of the bond of the sureties,
and of the above entry in the Judgment Index under the
statute of Nebraska, the clerk, on the 14th of April, 1881,
issued an alias execution to the marshal of the district, commanding him as follows:
"That of the goods and chattels, and for want thereof, then
of the lands and tenements of William P. Young, debtor, and
John I. Irwin, Jane Y. Irwin, W. T. Donovan, IMilton F.
Lamaster, and Nathan F. Mfoffit, sureties, in your district, you
cause to be made the sum of four thousand seven hundred
forty-four and ' dollars, being the balance due April 2d, A.D.
1881, on the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska, at the November term
thereof, in the year 18715, by which Charles V. Seymour and

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Statement of the Case.

William W. Wardell recovered against the said William P.
Young, with interest thereon from the s~cond day of April,
A.D. 1881, until paid, together with the further sum of
costs of increase on said judgment, and also the costs that may
accrue on this writ. And have you the said moneys before
the clerk of the said Ciriuit Court, at the city of Omaha, in
said district, within sixty days, to be paid to the persons
entitled to receive the same."
Under this executionj the premises in controversy, being a
lot in the city of Lincoln, was, on the 17th of -,ay, 1881, sold
to one Thomas Ewing for the sum of $5000. A motion to set
aside the sale having been denied, and the sale confirmed, the
marshal's deed of the premises was made to the purchaser, and
lie conveyed them to the plaintiff.
The petition, the designation given to the first pleading, in
the system of procedure in civil cases in force in Nebraska,
.sets forth the title of the plaintiff under the execution and
sale mentioned, the detention of the p'emises by the defendant, hnd the receipt by him of the rents and profits to the
amount of $3000, and prays judgment for the possession of the
premises and for the rents and profits. The defendant pleaded
that the conveyance :from Ewing, the purchaser at the execution sale, to -the plaintiff, was colorable and collusive, for the
purpose of enabling the latter to commence and maintain an
action for the recovery of the property in the Circuit Court of
the United States. And in answer to the petition the defendant denied the validity of the bond, the extension of the judgment against him, and the proceedings thereunder; and also
set up the pendency in the state court of a suit for the determination of his title to the premises.
Two trials of the case were had, which is permissible in
actions of ejectment under the laws of _Nebraska. On the first,
the verdict of the jury was for the defendant; on the second,
they found that the conveyance by the purchaser at the marshal's sale to Ewing, the plaintiff herein, was "merely colorable and collusive, and was made for the purpose of creating
a case cognizable iathe Federal Court, and the plaintiff was
not the real party in interest, but that the action was being

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

prosecuted for-the use and benefit of Ewing, and that Keeler
is only a; nominal and colorable party."
This verdict being set aside by the court, a third trial was
had, which resulted in a general verdict for the plaintiff, under
the instructions of the court. The question raised on the trial
and decided by the court, upon the instruction refused and
those given, related to the validity of the proceedings taken
by the clerk upon the bond of the sureties, to authorize execution-against their property, and the sale of the premises.
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury that
the statute of Nebraska respecting the stay of executions and
orders of sale, approved February 23, 1875, "was not operative to authorize the execution against Lamaster's property;"
but the court refused the "instruction and charged the jury as
follows: "That the filing of defendant's bond with the clerk
of the court, and its approval by him, and his approval of the
sureties thereto, including the defendant, the record of the
same, the entry of memoranda thereof in the judgment index,
called in the statute 'extending the judgment,' justified the'
issue by the clerk of the court of an execution upon the judgment of Seymour and Wardell against Young and others,
directed to the marshal, commanding him to make the balance
due upon the judgment out of the property of the principal
and sureties, including that of the defendant Lamaster, and
the sale by the marshal of the defendant's property under and
by virtue of the execut.ion, was authorized by law." And
again, "that when the bond was taken by the clerk, as shown in
evidence, and when the proceedings were taken thereon leading
to the sale by the makshal of the property in question, the
statute of this State, passed on the 23d of February, 1875, and'
entitled ' An act to provide for stay of executions and orders
'of sale,' was in force in the court, and was a law therein, the
same as in the District Courts of the State."
And the court further instructed the jury to find a general
verdict for the plaintiff.
To the refusal of the court to give the instruction requested,
and to the instructions given, the defendant at the time excepted.

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Argament for Defendant in Error.

The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff; and to review
the judgment entered thereon the defendant has brought the
case here on a writ of error.
On the 30th of December, 1876, and not before, the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska made
the following order:
"Ordered, that the laws of the State of Nebraska, now in
force, regulating the issuing of executions and of the proceedings to be bad thereon and thereunder, be, and the same are
hereby, adopted as the rule of procedure to enforce the collection of judgments in the United States Circuit and District
Court for said State."
.M. John F. .Dillonand -[r. George W. Doane for plaintiff
inerror.
_31'. J.-. Iloolworth for defendant in error.
I. The provisions of the statute of Nebraska were all complied with, except in one particular, noticed hereafter; that is
to say, First, within twenty days from the rendition of the
judgment, on the 25th of November, 1875, a stay bond was
filed, and on the 2d of December, 1S75, approved by the clerk ;
Second, this bond was signed by five sureties, four of whom
showed by their respective affidavits that they were sufficient
freeholders, whose real estate was not exempt from execution,
and of the value of twice the amount of the judginent; Third,
this bond was recorded in a book kept for that purpose, that
is to say, Stay Bond Record
of the court; Fourth, the clerk
entered and indexed the same in the proper judgment docket
as in the case of other judgments; Fifth, after the expiration
of the nine months, that is to say, on the 14th of April, 1881,
the clerk issued a joint execution against the property of the
judgment debtor, Young, and the parties obliged by the bond,
describing them respectively therein as debtor and sureties.
The question presented at this point of the case is, whether
tfiese proceedings subjected the premises which were the property of Lamaster, to the lien of the judgment and to sale under

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

an execution issued thereon. The question was raised on the
trial and saved.
Section 914 of the Revised Statutes (taken from the act of
June 1, 1872), adopted as part of the jurisdiction of the Federal Court in -Nebraska, the statute of that State, by virtue of
which the proceedings here complained of were had. The
words "modes of proceeding" in that section of the Revised
Statutes were not new in, 1872. They are found in all that
class of acts. Section 2 of the act of 1789, for instance,
which was the first of the series, provided "that until further
provision shall be made . . . the forms of writs and executions, except their style, and modes ofprocess . . . in

the Circuit and District Courts, in suits at common law, shall
be the same in each State respectively as are now used or
allowed in the Supreme Courts of the same."
In 1792 an act was passed, the second section of which ran
as follows: "The forms -of writs, executions and other process, except their style, and the forms and modes ofproceed,bg
in suits, in those of common law, shall be the same as are now
used in the said courts respectively, in pursuance of the act
entitled 'An act to regulate processes in the courts of the
United States."' In l'ayiyman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, these
statutes came before this court for construction, upon a certificate of division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit
Court for Kentucky. A motion had been filed in that court
to quash the marshal's return to an execution, issued on a
judgment recovered therein, and also a bond taken upon the
execution. The report does not state the facts very distinctly,
but it appears that the marshal pursued the direction of
a then recent statute of Kentucky, which provided for an
appraisement of the projIerty, and its sale at not less than
three-fourths of its appraised value, and granting to the
defendant time for the payment of the judgment. Chief
Justice Marshall delivered an elaborate opinion, in which,
after dealing with some matters not involved in the present
inquiry, he considered with great care, whether the words
"and modes of process," covered the proceedings of the marshal upon an execution. He reached the conclusion that the

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

words "'modes of proceeding in suits,' embrace the whole
progress of the suit, and every transaction in it, from its commencement to its termination, which has been already shown
not to take place until the judgment shall be satisfied. It
may then, and ought to be understood as prescribing the conduct cf the officer in the execution of process, that being a
part of the 'proceedings' in a suit." In United States v.
Halstead,10 Wheat. 51, the same points were ruled.
In 182S, another act was 'assed, the language of which
was as follows: "The forms of mesne proceos, except the
style, an. the forms and modes ofSproceedivg in suits, in courts
of the United States, held in those States admitted into the
Union since the twenty-ninth day of September, in the year
seventeen hundred and eighty-nine, in those of common law,
shall be the same in each of the States, respectively, as are
now used in the highest court, of original and general jurisdiction of the same." 4 Stat. 278.
In Beer's v. Hougdon, 9 Pet. 329, 361, and Rosq v. Duvall,
13 Pet. 45, it is said, that this act was passed shortly after
the decision in the case of Wayrnan v. Southard, supra, and
was intended as a legislative saiction for the opinion in those
cases, that the words "modes of proceeding" included all of
the proceedings of the marshal upon an execution in his
hands, down to the-satisfaction of the judgment. See Williams
v. Benedict, 8 How. 107; Bank of Tennessee v. Ron, 17
How. 157 ; Georgia v. Atlantic and Gulf .Railroad,3 Woods,
434 Syith v. Cockrill, 6 Wall. 756; Koncure v. Zunts, 11
Wall. 416 ; United States v. Inight, 3 Sumner, 358, 373.
But it is insisted that § 914 of the Revised Statutes does not
authorize a summary judgment as against the surety on a stay
bond, giveni by a judgment debtor in order to secure time for
payment. There is a class of cases closely analogous to this,
in which such remedies are sustained.
iriart v. Ballou, 9
Pet. 156; Smith v. Gaines, 93 U. S. 341; Amis v. Smith, 16
Pet. 303; Beall v. New .-Jexico, 16 Wall. 535; Moore v.
RHuntiigton, 17 Wall. 417.
But the plaintiff in error insists that the law applicable to
this case is not § 914, but § 916 Rev. Stat. The contention is

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

understood to be as follows: (1) The general words of § 914,
S-practice, pleadings, forms and modes of proceeding," are to
be applied to what is not within the particular words of § 916,
--the party recovering a judgment shall be entitled to similar
remedies on the same by execution or otherwise." That is to
say, all of the modes of proceeding in a suit are governed by
the former section, until judgment has been recovered; and
thereafter the proceedings are governed by the latter section.
(2) It follows that the stay law of the State was not incorporated into the jurisprudence of the Federal Court, because
. 916 was enacted in 1873 and the stay law was enacted in
IS75 ; and no general rule of the Circuit Court had adopted
the state statute when the proceedings here in question were
had.
The premise of this contention is unsound, as appears from
several considerations.
The first of these considerations arises upon the language of
§ 916, particularly as compared with the terms of § 914. We
have already seen that the terms of § 914, as construed by
this court in TJ'tyma? v. Southard, spra, and other cases,
are broad enough to include process of execution and all the
proceedings of the officer thereunder. The ternis of the section are: " Practice, pleadings, forms and ,nodes of proceecdng." These words, "modes of i2oceedhng," standing
alone, include what was (lone under this execution. Now let
us proceed to consider the language of § 916. In order to
support the contention of the plaintiff in error, its terms must
be such as qualify those of the former section. Several words
deserve notice.
In the first place, it is expressly stated, concerning the
object of the remedies, that they are "to reach the property
of the judgment debtor." They do not secure any other
benefit or advantage to either party. Consequently, when a
bond is given by the debtor, with sureties, to stay an execution against his property, by the terms of which they become
bound as he is bound, execution against their property is not
within the terms or purpose of the provision. The execution
against the sureties is not issued to reach his property.

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Next, the parties in whose behalf the section is enacted are
also to be noted. They are the plaintiffs in judgment, and
not the defendants. The debtor is not the party in whose
behalf the new remedies are prbvided. His interests are not
within the words of the statute.
The nature of the new remedies supports the same view.
The language is "by execution or otherwise." Proceedings
which arrest the officer in issuing the writ and obeying its
commands are not a remedy by execution. The words "or
otherwise" apply to remedies of the same character .as an execution, the object -of which is to reach the property of the
debtor and apply it to the satisfaction of the judgment; of
which character are creditors' bills, proceedings supplementary
to execution, garnishment of parties owing or holding the property of the judgment debtor, and other proceedings of like
character, which within the last twenty-five years have been
contrived in favor of-plaintiffs. The terms of the section are
abundantly satisfied by these new remedies, and ought not to
be enlarged so as to trench upon and limit the significance of
the words "modes of proceeding," in § 914.
2. The construction of the statutes, contended for by the
defendant in error, is supported not only by a consideration of
the precise terms of § 916, but by a consideration also of the
prior legislation. The process acts of 1789 and 1792 contain
no provision relating particularly to executions, or any other
mode of final process. All such writs and proceedings were
covered by the general words, "mode of process" and "mode
of proceeding." Next came the special statute of 1824 relating to domain using the term "mode of proceeding," and then
the act of 1828, already alluded to.
In 1872 an act was passed "to further the administration of
justice" (17 Stat. 196). It contained no provision relating to
final process. Its general terms, "modes of proceeding," were
sufficient to provide therefor. This provision superseded and
in effect repealed the provision above cited of the act of 1828.
Not only were its terms ample to provide for what was covered by the third section of the former statute, but it directly
conflicted therewith. The proviso of the said third section
S'VOL. cxXm-25

386

OCTOBER- TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

vested in the courts the power at their discretion, by rule, to
alter final process, so as to conform-the same to changes which
had-been adopted by the state legislatures for the state courts.
This power was taken from the courts by the act of 1872, and
it was made coml)ulsory upon them to follow the state practice. Therefore it repealed the former act.
Now what was done by the revisers? Out of § 5 of the'act
of 1872, they made § 914 of the revision. They framed §§ 915.
916, which are substantially the same as § 6 of the act of 1872.
That section related only to attachment cases, or cases in which
other process of a similar, nature is issued. The act of 1872
left the matter of execution, except in attachment and like
cases, to be governed by § 5. In 1873 the revisers divided
this into two parts. The first part of § 6 they made § 915 of
the Revised Statutes. The last part they made into § 916, but
they changed the phraseology. In place of the words "in
such cause," they inserted the words "in case of any common
law cause." This brings us face to face with the question,
whether the revisers intended that the operation of the fifth
section of the act of 1872 should be modified and limited by
the slight change made in reenacting'the last clause of the.
sixth section of the same act; or did they mean to leave the
terms of § 914 with all the force which they had under the
settled judicial construction of its terms, and down to the time
when they remodelled the statute, and to confine the terms of
§ 914 to such new remedies as had been devised by the state
legislatures for the relief of judgment plaintiffs? The answer
cannot be doubtful. Wye are bound to say, that under the
operation of § 914, the state statutes are incorporated into and
made a part of the Federal jurisprudence in the State, as well
with reference to executions and the proceedings thereon as
such other matters, as pleadings, amendments, times and orders
of trial, and other like proceedings.
II. But this question is not an open one. The parties were
concluded upon it when the decision of the court confirming the
sale was made. The question above discussed was presented
to the court, was ruled upon by it, its order of confirmation
was appealable, and all this amounts to an estoppel of record.

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

Such an order of confirmation is not open to collateral attach.
See .feYeighar v. Hopkins, 14 Neb. 361; Phillipsv. -Dawley,
1 Neb. 320; Crowell v. Johnson, 2 Neb. 146; State Bank v.
Green, 8 Neb. 297; Berkley v. lamb, 8 Neb. 392; -Day v.
Thomapson, 11 Neb. 123; NYeligh, v. .Teene, 16 Neb. 407;
Orcharl v. .ug1h es, 1 Wall, 73; Blossom v. Railroad Co., 1
Wall. 655; Bvutteftelcl v. Usher, 91 U. S. 246; .Findley v.
Bowe,'s, 9 Neb. 72; Gilbert v. Browzn, 9 Neb. 90; Jflnnesota,
Co. v. ,t. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609; Jfather v. flood, 8 Johns.
44, 50; Griswold v. Stewart, 4 Cowen, 457; _Dyckman v. [Tte
fayor, &c., (f the City of".Aew York, 5 N. Y. (1 Selden) 435.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The contention of the plaintiff below, the defendant in error
here, that the act of Nebraska of February 23, 1875, governed
proceedings for the stay of money judgnents in the Federal
courts of the Nebraska District equally as for the stay of such
judgments in the courts of that State, and in like manner
determined the liability of sureties upon bonds given for such
stay, is founded upon the language of § 914 of the Revised
Statutes, which is as follows:
"The practioe, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity and admiralty causes, in
the circuit and district courts, shall conform, as near as may
be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the courts of
record of the State within which'such circuit or district courts
are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
This section is a reenactment of § 5 of the act off June 1,
1872, "to further the administration of justice" (17 Stat. 196.
c. 255), and was intended to assimilate the pleadings and the
procedure in common law cases in the Federal courts to the
pleadings and procedure used in such cases in the courts of
record of the State within which the Federal courts are -held.
Much inconvenience had been previously felt by the profession
from the dissimilarity in pleadings, forms, and modes of pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

cedure of the Federal courts from those in the courts of the
State, consequent upon the general adherence of the former to
the common law forms of actions, pleadings, and modes of
procedure; whilst the distinctions in such forms of action and
the system of pleading and the modes of procedure peculiar to
them had been in many States abrogated by statute. The new
codes of procedure did not require an accurate knowledge of
the intricacies of common law pleading; and to obviate the
embarrassment following the use of different systems in the
two courts the section mentioned of the act of 1872 was
adopted. As said by this court in the case of _Arudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, 441, its purpose "was to bring about uniformity in the law of procedure in the Federal and state
courts of the same locality. It had its origin in the code enactments of many of the States. While in the 17ederal tribunals the comi ion law pleadings, forms, and practice were
adhered to, in the state courts of the same district the simpter
for ns of the local code prevailed. This involved the necessity,
on the part of the bar, of studying two distinct systems of
remedial law, and of practising according to the wholly dissimilar requirements of both. The inconvenience of such a
state of things is obvious. The evil was a serious one. It was
the aim of the provision in question to remove it. This was
done by bringing about the conformity in the courts of thie
United States which it prescribes."
The general language of the section, in the absence of quall.fying provisions, would comprehend all proceedings in a cause
from its commencement to its conclusion, embracing the enforcement of the judgment therein. The court which has jurisdiction of a cause has jurisdiction over the various proceedings
which may be taken therein, from its initiation to the satisfaction of the judgment rendered. Any practice, pleading, form,
or mode of proceeding which may be applicable in any stage
of a cause in a state court would therefore, under the section
in question, in the absence of other clauses, be also applicable
in a like stage of a similar cause in a Federhl court. The section would embrace proceedings after judgment equally with
those preceding its rendition.

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

The first process act of Congress, passed September 29, 1789,
(I Stat. 93, c. 21,) provided "that until further provision shall
be made . . . the forms of writs and executions, except
. in the circuit and
their style and modes of process,
district courts, in suits at common law, shall be the same in
each State respectively as are now used or allowed in the
supreme courts of the same."
The second process act, passed May 8, 1792, (1 Stat. 275,
c. 36,) provided "that the forms of writs, executions, and
other process, except their style, and the forins and modes qt
'roeeeding in suits, in those of common law, shall be the same
as are -nowused in the said courts respectively, in pursuance
of the act entitled 'An act to regulate processes in the courts
of the United States,' "- the first process act mentioned
above.
In WVayrzan. v. Soutiard,10 Wheat. 1, these statutes were
considered and construed by this court. And in giving a
meaning to the language "forms and modes of proceeding in
suits," the court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, said,
that it "embraces the whole progress of the suit, and every
transaction in it, from its commencement to its termination,
which has been already shown not to take place until the
judgment shall be satisfied. It may then and ought to be
understood as prescribing the conduct of the officer in the
execution of process, that being a part of ' the proceedings ' in
the suit." 10 Wheat. 32.
There would, therefore, be good reason for the contention
of the plaintiff below, that the general words of § 914 of the
Revised Statutes, "forms and modes of proceeding," apply to
proceedings for the enforcement of judgments, as well as to
proceedings before the judgments were rendered' but for the
provisions of § 916, which is § 6 of the same act of June 1,
1872, from which § 914 was taken. Section 916 is as follows:.
"The party recovering a judgment in any common law
cause, in any circuit or district court, shall be entitled to similar remedies upon the same, by execution or otherwise, to
reach the property of the judgment debtor, as are now provided in ike causes by the laws of the State in which such

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

court is held, or by any such laws hereafter enacted which
may be adopted by general rules of such circuit or district
court; and such courts may, from time to time, by general
rules, adopt such state laws as may hereafter be in force in
such State in relation to remedies upon judgments, as aforesaid, by execution or otherwise."
This section shows that in pursuing the remedies for the
enforcement of a judgment in a common law cause, recovered
in a Federal court, the "forms and modes of proceeding"
provided for the enforcement of a like judgment in a state
court are not to be followed, unless they were- prescribed by a
law of the State, at the time the provisions of the section took
effect; or, if subsequently prescribed by such law, until they
have been adopted by a general rule of the court. In providing for remedies upon judgments, the section not only
excludes the application of the provisions of § 914 to such
remedies, but also indicates the extent to which remedies
upon judgments furnished by state laws may be tsed in the
Federal courts. Congress, which alone can determine the
remedies which may be pursued for the enforcement of judgments in the Federal courts, as well as the procedure to be
adopted in the progress of a suit, has declared its will with
respect to both. The procedure in civil causes, other than
those in equity and admiralty, from their commencement to
final judgment, must conform, as near as may be, to the procedure existing at the time in like causes in the courts of record
of the State in which the Federal courts are held. It must,
therefore, follow subsequent changes in the procedure in like
causes in the state courts. But to enforce judgments in
common law causes, only such remedies can be pursued "as
are now _rovided in like causes by the laws of the State "that is, when the act of Congress on the subject, the above
section, was passed or reenacted- or, if provided by subsequent laws of the State, such as have been adopted by the
Federal courts.
It matters not that the remedies designated in § 916 are
stated to be, to reach by execution or otherwise the property of
the judgment debtor; and that proceedings under the stay law

LAMASTER v. KEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

of Nebraska are only to secure, where a stay is obtained, the
personal liability of the sureties for the amount of the judgment- in the absence of a designation of any other remedies,
the section is a declaration that, until adopted by a rule of the
court, no other remedies prescribed by state laws shall be
permitted in the Federal courts. The extent to which the
authority of the Federal courts may do, in the enforcement
of judgments, by resort to remedies provided by state laws in
similar cases, is thus defined and limited.
Section 916, as mentioned, is taken from the act of Congress
of June 1, 1872, and is re6nacted in the Revised Statutes,
which took effect as of December 1, 1873. The act of Nebraska of February 23, 1875, had not been adopted by any rule
of the Federal court when the judgment of Seymour v. Young
was rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States, November 12, 1875, or when that judgment was extended by the
clerk of that court, December 2, 1875, so as to embrace the
sureties on the bond given to stay execution. That act was
not adopted as a rule of procedure of that court until December 30, 1876.
It follows from this construction of the two sections 914
and 916, that the act of Nebraska did not govern proceedings
for the stay of execution upon that judgment, or determine
the liability of the sureties on the bond or undertaking given
for such stay; and that the act of the clerk extending that
judgment against the sureties was without authority and void.
The sale, under the execution of the property of Lamaster,
one of the sureties, and the deed of the marshal to the purchaser at such sal-therefore conferred no title.
The confinnation of the sale by the order of the court, did
not cure the invalidity of the execution upon which it was
made. The extension of the judgment against Young, so as
to embrace the sureties, being a'void proceeding, no subse(luent action upon the sale could give it validity. A confirmation of a sale may cure mere irregularities not affecting its
fairness, but not an infirmity growing out of the nullity of the
judgment under which it was bad.
Tho judgment below must therefore be r'eversed, and the cause
remandedjor a new trial; and it is so odered.

