UNITED STATES v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

Fo

T.HE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Submitted 'ovember 21, 1887.-Decided December 12,1587.

On an examination of the face of the record in this case, it appears that the
amount due the United States is less than the penalty of the bond, given
by defendant in error for the faithful performance of his duties as an
officer, viz.: $517.07, and possibly a small amount of interest; and as
the jurisdiction of this court in an action on such a bond depends upon
the amount due for the breach of the condition, the court is without
jurisdiction.
The term "revenue law," -when used in connection with the jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States, means a law imposing duties on imports
or tonnage, or a law providing in terms for revenue; that is to say, a law
which is directly traceable to-the power granted to Congress by the constitution " to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises."
z~ection 844 Rev. Stat., requiring the clerk of a court of the United States
to pay into the Treasury any surplus of fees and emoluments which his
return shows to exist over and above the compensation and allowances
authorized by law to be retained by him, is not a revenue law within the
meaning of that clause of § 699 'Rev. Stat. which provides for a writ of
error without regard to the sum or value in dispute, "upon any final
judgment of a Circuit Court . . . in any civil action brought by the
United States for the enforcement of any revenue law thereof."
MOTION TO DISUSS,

with which was united a motion to affirm.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Jon Lowell for the motions.
L'.

Attorney General and .,r. Assistant Attorwey General

.Jfaury opposing.
MR. CMEF

TuSTicE WATE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought on the official bond of Clement Hugh
Hill, as clerk of the District Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, for "not properly accounting for all
moneys coming into his hands, as required by law, according
to the condition of said bond." The bond was in the penal
sum of $20,000, and in the original writ the damages were
laid at $2000.

The bill of exceptions shows that the contro-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

versy in the suit was as to the liability of the clerk to account
to the United States for moneys received by him in naturalization .business. The questions involved are in many respects
the same as in United State v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169, though in
some important particulars the two cases differ.
Under the instructions of the court the jury found a verdict
for the defendants on the 26th of J'uly, 1887. On the 3d !of
August, and before judgment, the writ was amended, with
leave of the court, by increasing the ad damnu from $2000
to $20,000. Then5 on the 24th of August, a judgment was
entered in due form on the verdict, "that the plaintiff take
nothing by the writ." To reverse that judgment this writ of
error was brought, which the defendants now move to dismiss,
because the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed five
thousand dollars. The motion is based upon the following
statement which appears as part of the bill of exceptions:
"This is an action upon the official bond of the defendants,
given by the defendant Hill as clerk of the District Court for
this district. The pleadings are made a part of this bill of
exceptions, and may. be referred to. The only breach of the
bond relied upon was that set out in the declaration of the
failure of Hill to account for all moneys received; and, under
this assignment of breach, no claim was made that the said
Hill had neglected to account for any other sums or moneys
than those received by him in naturalization cases. It appeared
as a fact that the total amount of naturalization fees received
by the defendant Hill since the date of former suit, viz.,
December 4, 1884, and not accounted for, was as follows:
.........
"July to Dec., 1884 ....
1885. .................
1886 ....
............
"Jan. to June, 1887 . ..
.............

$2720.58
1146.50
.2325.00
838.00

"It also appeared that in 1884, adding the naturalization
fees to the other fees, the two together exceeded the clerk's
maximum allowance by the amount of $517.07, but since then,
adding the two together, the clerk has not received the maximum allowed him by law."

UNITED STATES v. HILL.

Opinion of the Court.
As early as Un'ited States v. .LtcDowell, 4 Cranch, 316, it was
decided that in an action on an official bond given for the faithful performance of the duties of an office our jurisdiction would
depend .on the amount due for the breach of the condition, and
not on the penal sum. This is not denied in the argument of
the Attorney General submitted in opposition to this motion,
but he insists:
1. That it does not appear legitimately on the face of this
record that the amount due is less than the penalty of the
bond; and,
2. That this is a suit brought for the enforcement of a "revenue law" of the United States, and, therefore, this court has
jurisdiction for the review of the judgment under § 699 of the
Revised Statutes "without regard to the sun or value in dispute."
In support of the first objection, it is claimed that the foregoing statement as to the amount due from the clerk is not
properly a part of the bill of exceptions. We cannot so understand the record, which shows this entry: "The following is
the bill of exceptions presented to the" plaintiffs and allowed
by the court before entry of judgment." Then, evidently as
the file mark of the paper, " Plai t iff's eeceptio,8-Allowed
August 24, 1887."
The paper itself, thus described and identified, began with
the statement given above, which was evidently intended as
an admission on both sides of the undisputed facts in the case
so that the trial might be confined to the real matter in dispute, to wit, the liability of the clerk to account for moneys
received in naturalization business as part of his official emoluments. To show this liability, notwithstanding the case of
U ited States v. H711, ubi s7pra, which had been decided
on an agreed statement of facts, the United States attorney
offered to prove that "Hill had received large sums of money
as the ordinary and usual fees upon the application of foreigners to be naturalized in the District Court of which he
was clerk, and for the issuance of certificates of naturalization
and for filing papers and administration of oaths, and for other
official acts required by law in the naturalization in due man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ner of foreigners." In another part of the bill of exceptions
it appears that "the attorney for the United States stated that
he claimed that the fees received by said Hill in naturalization
cases were those specifically provided for by statute for like
acts done by the clerk in all capes; that he did not claim to
recover for any sums received for services and acts which any
unofficial person might do for the court, but for those sums
received for acts done as clerk of the District Court, which
make the history of the case on the records of the court, and
which cannot legally be performed by any other than a clerk
of a United States court, and which are done in that capacity."
Read in the light of this disclaimer, the offer of proof was no
more than that "large sums" of the money, which it was
admitted I111 had received in naturalization business, were for
fees specifically fixed by statute, and, therefore, to be accounted
for. Such being- the case, there is nothing inconsistent between the introductory statement and the offer of proof. It is
clear, therefore, that the statement was intended to be, and is
in fact, a part of the record to be considered by us. Being a
part of the record, it shows that the value of the matter in
dispute does not exceed $5000, because in no event could there
have been a recovery in the action of more than $517.07, and
possibly a small amount of interest.
Tne part of § 699 of the Revised Statutes which is relied on
as giving us jurisdiction, notwithstanding the small amount
involved, is the second subdivision, which provides for a writ
of error without regard to the sum or value in dispute, upon
"any final judgment of a Circuit Court . . . in any civil
action brought by the United States for the enforcement of
any revenue law thereof." The original statute, of which this
is a reenactment, was passed May 31, 1844, c. 31, 5 Stat. 658,
and is as follows:
"That final judgments in any Circuit Court of the United
States, in any civil action brought by the United States for
the enforcement of the revenue laws of the United States, or
for the collection of duties due, or alleged to be due, on merchandise hinported therein, may be reexamined, and reversed
or affirmed, in the Supreme Court of the United States, upon

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

writs of error, as in other cases, without regard to the sum or
value in controversy in such action, at the instance of either
party."
Section 823 of the Revised Statutes provides that " the following and no other compensation shall be taxed and allowed
to .
.
clerks of the Circuit . . . Courts." "The
following" here referred to is found in § 828, which prescribes
the fees of a clerk. Thus far the legislation has reference only
to the compensation to be paid a' clerk for his services. ]But
§ 839 provides that the clerk shall be allowed to retain of the
fees and emoluments of his office, for his personal compensation, a sum not exceeding $3500 a year. Section 833 makes
it his duty to report, semiannually, to the Attorney General,
all the fees and emoluments of his office, and all necessary
exTenditures, with vouchers for their payment. Section 844
then requires him to pay into the Treasury any surplus of
such fees and emolmunents which his return shows to exist
over and above the compensation and allowances authorized
by law to be retained by him.
The precise question for decision is, whether this section,
which provides for the payment by the clerk into the Treasury
of the surplus moneys received by him as the fees and emoluments of his office, is a "revenue law," within the meaning of
that clause of § 699 which is relied on, and we have no hesitation in sayingthat it is not. As the provision relates to the
jurisdiction of this court for the review of the judgments of
the Circuit Courts, it is proper to refer to the statutes giving
jurisdiction to those coijrts to see if there is anything there to
show what the term "revenue law," as here used, means.
Looking, then, to § 629 of the Revised Statutes, we find that
by the fourth subdivision the Circuit Courts have been granted
original jurisdiction "of all suits at law or in equity arising
under any act providing for revenue-from imports or tonnage,"
and "of all causes arising under any law providing internal
revenue." And again, by the twelfth subdivision, "of all suits
brought by any person to recover damages for any injury to
his person or property on account of any act done by him
under any law of the United States for the protection or col-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

lection of any uf the revenues thereof." This clearly implies
that the term "revenue law," when used in connection with
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, means a
law imposing duties on imports or tonnage, or a law providing
in terms for revenue; that is to say, a law which is directly
traceable to the power granted to Congress by § 8, Art. 1, of
the Constitution, "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises." This view is strengthened by the third subdivision of § 699, which gives this court jurisdiction,without
reference to the value in dispute, of "any final judgment of a
Circuit Court

.

.

.

in any civil action against an officer of

the revenue, for any act done by him in the performance of
his official duty." Certainly it will not be claimed that the
clerk of a District Court of the United States is an "officer
of the revenue," but there is nothing to indicate that the term
revenue has any different signification in this subdivision of
the section from that which it has in the other. The clerk of
a court of the United States collects his taxable "compensation," not as the revenue of the United States, but as the fees
and emoluments of his office, with an obligation on his part to
account to the United States for all he gets over a certain sum
which is fixed by law. This obligation does not grow out of
any "revenue law," properly so called, but out of a statute
governing an officer of a court of the United States.
It follows that this is a case where our jurisdiction depends
on the value of the matter in dispute, and, as that is not suflicient in amount, that the motion to dismiss must be granted.
It is, consequently, so ordered.
1Dismissed.

