SMITH AND GRIGGS MiIFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

249

Statement of the Case.

This makes it unnecessary to consider whether there was
such fraud on the part of Anthony as to charge the lands in
the hands of Ayer, even if the Trust Company were now proceeding against him under the mortgage.
The decree is
Afflrmed.

SMITH & GRIGGS MANUFACTURING COMPANY
v. SPRAGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued October 24, 1887. - Decided November 14, 1887.
The use of his own invention by an inventor, for the purpose of testing the
machine, in order by experiment to devise additional means for perfecting
the success of its operation, is not a public use under Rev. Stat. ยง 4886,
and if a profit is derived from the sale of the product of its operation,
merely as incident to such use, the character of the use is not thereby
changed; but if the use is mainly for the purpose of trade and profit,
the experimenting being incidental only, and it is public, and is continued for a period of more than two years prior to the application for a
patent for the invention, it comes within the prohibition of that statute.
When it is clearly established that there was a public use of an invention
by the inventor for more than two years prior to his application for a
patent for it, the burden is on him to show by convincing proof that the
use-was not a public use, in the sense bf the statute, but that it was for
the purpose of perfecting an incomplete invention by tests and experiments.
Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 in letters-patent No. 228,136, dated May 25, 1880,
and Claims 2, 3, and 5 in letters-patent No. 231,199, dated August 17,
1880, both granted to Leonard A. Sprague for improvemento in machines
for making buckle-levers, are void by reason of a public use of the
invention by the patentee for a 1eriod of more than two years prior to
his application for patent No. 231,199; as to claim 5 in letters-patent
No. 228,136, and claims 1 and 4 in letters-patent No. 231,199, this court
agrees with the Circuit Court, for the reasons stated in the opinion of
the latter.

IN equity, for infringement of letters-patent. Decree in
favor of the complainant; 12 Fed. Rep. 721. From this
decree an appeal was taken. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

M'. -Y. B. Phikhv and -Yr. George E. Terry for appellant.
-Mr. Charles . .itchell for appellee.
MM. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity for an injunction and account based
upon the alleged infringement by the appellant of letterspatent No. 228,136, dated Il.ay 25, 1880, and letters-patent
No. 231,199, dated August 17, 1880, for improvements in
machines for making buckle-levers, issued to Leonard A.
Sprague, the appellee. The defences relied on are, 1st, a
denial of.,the infringement alleged in respect to the fifth claim
of patent No. 228,136 and the first and fourth claims of
patent No. 231,199; 2d, as to all the other claims of both,
that a machine embodying them was in public use for more
than two years prior to the application for the patents. The
application for patent No. 228,136 was filed on November 11,
18'19, while that for patent No. 231,199 was filed December
2, 1878, the two being divisions of an application based oa the
same model The machines described in the two patents, it
is admitted, are substantially the same in construction and
operation, both patents being for different parts and combinations of a single machine.
For the purposes of this case,
therefore, the date of the application is to be taken as of
December 2,.187S, being the earlier of the two.
The machine is for making levers of buckles used almost
exclusively on "arctic" overshoes. These levers are made
from a single piece of brass, with slots through them near each
end to fasten them to the strap of a shoe, and are bent by
formers and swaged by dies so that they have what is termed
a lip or bead, which bears upon the holding strap, two grooves
within which lies the ba or pivot of the buckle, and two beads
at the upper edge for a finish and to prevent the strap from
cutting when it is fast through the slots and bears upon them
when in use. There is no claim in these patents for the
buckle-lever itself as a new article of manufacture, for which,

SMITH AND GRIGGS MFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

251

Opinion of the Court.

however, Sprague, the appellee, had a prior patent dated May
27, 1862. The levers are made from a strip of metal by a
succession of operations in the patented machine. The first
step is to produce the slotted blank; the next, to bend it by
doubling it upon itself into a U-shape; the next, to produce the
central double bead forming the grooves; and the next, to
produce the double beads between the slot and the edge of
the lever. The machine is organized to feed a strip of sheet
brass under punches which punch the slots in the blank, and
then cut it from the strip; to feed this blank over a matrix
where it is bent into U-form ; to feed it on to a mandrel, on
which, by a pair of dies, it is partially formed, and then along
that mandrel to a second pair of dies, where its form is completed. Tho machine is automatic, and while these s'ccessive
steps take place in the complete manufacture of a single lever,
all the various steps in the process, with respect to successive
levers, take place simultaneously. So that as each lever is
completely and finally formed on the mandrel it is pushed
from the mandrel by another to take its place in that stage of
formation.
The 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, and 6th claims of patent No. 228,136,
and the 2d, 3d, and 5th claims of patent No. 231,199, are those
in respect to which the alleged infringement is admitted, and
as to which the defence of two years' prior -public use is urged.
These claims are as follows:
Of patent No. 228,136"1. In combination with the mandrel M, .provided at its
lower edge with the rib . and with the short ribs m 2 .
7n2, the
dies N N' 0 0, whereby, after the partially formed lever
has been acted upon by dies N N', the rib /n.
serves as a
support or guide over which said lever may be moved to a
proper position relative to (lies 0 0, substantially as set forth.
"2. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination
of the mandrel M, the dies N N', advanced on planes substantially .at right angles to the planes of the partially formed
buckle-lever, and the tongue n, attached to the die N, substantially as set forth.
"3. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

with the mandrel, the punch which punches blanks from a
continuous sheet of metal, and two or more dies which successively form the metal into the desired shape, of a carrier
which moves a blank from the punches to the forming-dies
and advances the partially formed levers against the preceding
lever, substantially as set forth.
"4. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination,
with the matrix L and folder 12, of the dies N N', the mandrel arranged to receive the blank from the matrix, and the
carrier, substantially as set forth."
"6. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination,
with the folder, 12, of the pusher-pin 63, attached to and moving with the punch-stock C, and a returning-spring, which
lifts the folder, substantially as set forth."
Of patent No. 231,199"2. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination,
with the die which punches blanks from a continuous sheet of
metal, of two or more dies which successively form the metal
into the desired shape, and a carrier which moves a blank
from the punching-die to the forming-dies and advances the
partially formed lever against the preceding lever, substantially as set forth.
"3. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination,
with the mandrel 3f, provided with the rib ?n, of the dies N IN'
and a stop adapted to engage with the lower end of the lever
and determine the length of the bit u, substantially as described."
"5.The herein-described method of manufacturing bucklelevers -that is to say, by bending the blank into U-shape, then
forming the bit u and seats u 2 u 3, and subsequently forming
the grooves u;4, substantially as herein set forth."
The claims in respect to which infringement is denied are as
follows:
Of patent No. 228,136"5.In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination,
with the mandrel [ and dies N N', of the springs N 2 IN2, to
press the dies forward into proper position relative to the
mandrel, substantially as set forth!'

ShIITH AND GRIGGS MFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

253

Opinion of the Court.

Of patent No. 231,199 "1. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the combination
of the mandrel M, provided With the ribs vt m 3,of the dies
N N 10 0, and a support, which presses the part ' of the lever
against the rib m, substantially as set forth."
"4. In a machine for making buckle-levers, the .combination,
with the mandrel Mf, having rib m, of the dies N N ' and stops
adapted to engage both ends of the partially formed lever, to
regulate its position relative to the mandrel and dies, substantially as set forth."
It will be observed that the claims in respect to which the
infringement is denied do not embrace the whole invention
claimed in the two patents. They cover only certain definite
aud specific combinations of parts of the mechanism. It is
possible, therefore, that a defendant might be guilty of infringement in respect to all the other claims in the two
patents, and yet not infringe the three claims specified above.
That is to say, he might use a machine which embodied all
the combinations except those specified in these three claims.
These he might entirely omit without any substitute, or he
might have a substitute for them so different as to amount to
a separate invention, and therefore not mere equivalents for
them.
In the examination of the question, therefore, of the prior
public use, for two years before the date of the application, of
the invention as embodied in those claims in respect to which
the infringement is admitted, we assume for the present that
the machine used by the defendant is an infringement of that
covered by the complainant's patents only so far as it is covered by them, excluding the three claims in respect to which
the infringement is denied.
The testimony on the subject of the prior public use by the
complainant is, that from the fall of 1874 until the fall of
1877, and thus more than two years prior to December 2,
1878, the complainant had in use for the purpose of profit in
his business, operated in his factory by his -worlnen for the
production of arctic overshoe buckles, a machine which
contained all the elements and combinations covered by the.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of -the Court.

claims in the two patents in respect to which the defendant
confesses infringement. This machine was practically successful in that during the period of its use the complainant
produced and sold about 50,000 gross of levers used on these
shoe buckles, which he sold to his customers in the market.
It was a public use in the sense of the statute and within the
decisions of this court, inasmuch as it was used by the complainant in the regular conduct of his business by workmen
employed by him in its operation, and in the view of such
part of the public as chose to resort to his establishment,
either for the purpose of selling material for the manufacture
or of purchasing its product. It is claimed, however, and it
was so decided by the Circuit Court, that this prior use of the
machine in that form. was not a public use within the prohibition of the statute so as to defeat the patent, because that
use was experimental only, of an imperfect machine, embodying an incomplete invention, in order to enable the inventor
to perfect it by improvements actually added, and to overcome defects developed by this use, which improvements are
contained in the three additional claims, and which were
added as parts of the invention within two years before the
date of the application.
The matters under this head are stated by the learned judge
of the Circuit Court in his opinion contained in the record,
as follows:
"The facts are, that from 1862 to 1868 the patentee made
another kind of buckle from those produced by this machine
upon two or more different machines. Between 1868 and the
fall of 1873 another kind of buckle was made by one machine.
For a year prior to the fall of 1874, he made the 'beaded'
buckles -i.e., the kind now under consideration, -upon two
machines.
"In 1874 he ordered the skeleton of the patented machine
from Bliss & Williams, his workmen or himself making the
patented portions. This machine was in a condition in which
it was used to manufacture buckle-levers in the fall of 1874.
and continued to be so used, without substantial change, until
the spring of 1878; but it was not a perfected invention. It

SMITH AND GRIGGS MFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

255

Opinion of the Court.

had two defects- one, that it choked, and the overlapping
blanks had to be picked apart by a workman; another, that
the bead was not parallel with the slot, because the blank
could not be forced upon the mandrel evenly.- Nevertheless.
it was used, in some seclusion from the public, to make levers,
and it made about 50,000 gross which were sold; but the
organization was defective until it was perfected in the early
part of 1878, after repeated experiments. The inventor always adhered to the idea of perfecting the invention, and
then, obtaining a patent upon it. The two improvements
which were introduced in 1878, were the springs between the
levers and the dies, which prevented overlapping, and the rib
vO, in order to keep the blank in position when it was forced
upon the mandrel. These changes, which are apparently not
of great importance, perfected the invention, and enabled the
inventor to take the final step between partial and complete
success. It is perfectly true that a patentee cannot be permitted to use for profit a machine which embodies a perfected
invention for a period of two years or more, and then obtain
a valid patent for the old machine by means of the addition
of some new improvements, which, in the language of Judge
Lowell, 'were intended to benefit the patent rather than the
machine.' Perkinsv. X ash ia Card, &c., Co., 2 Fed. :Rep. 451.
451. The present case is that of a machine which was imperfect, and which demanded and received the continuous experiments of the inventor to remedy the defects in its organization.
It is not true that the inventor cannot safely use for profit
such a machine in its imperfect state, lest two years should
elapse during the experimental period before the invention is
completed and the patent is applied for." k.rague v. nt/,
& Grigg.9 J. (Yo., 12 Fed. Rep. 721.
We think this view might be correct and applicable to the
case if the invention of the complainant, which he sought to
embody and protect by the patents, consisted of the entire
machine as he ultimately constructed and operated it, considered as a unit; for, in that view, it would have been imperfect
and incomplete, and merely experimental, until it had received
from its inventor every element necessary to its operation.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

But that supposes that his invention is nothing less than the
single, entire, and completed machine. We do not think that
to be the present case. Here the invention is not one, but
many; each of the claims in both of the patents is for a
specific combination in a practically successful machine for
making buclde-levers, and each is a separate and distinct iiivention, and claimed as such. All the elements of these
combinations were old; it was the specific arrangement and
several combinations and sub-combinations of them that are
claimed as new. The use of any one of these combinations,
or of any number of them, in such a machine, would be an
infringement of the complainant's rights as patentee. And if,
without the use of the combinations contained in the excluded
claims, the complainant had a machine practically useful for
the purpose for which it was designed, which could be used
with commercial success as superior to modes of manufacture
prei iously in use, and which, in fact, he did so use for profit
in the ordinary course and conduct of his business, and for
the purpose of a successful prosecution of that business, it can
hardly be said with propriety that such use was merely experimental, although during the period of its operation he was
also engaged in the invention of improvements by which he
hoped and expected to makeat more valuable and useful.
A use by the inventor, for the purpose of testing the machine,
in order by experiment to devise additional means for perfecting the success of its operation, is admissible; and where, as
incident to such use, the product of its operation is disposed of
by sale, such profit from its use does not change its character;
but where the use is mainly for the purposes of trade and
profit, and the experiment is merely incidental to that, the
principal and not the incident must give character to the use.
The thing implied as excepted out of the prohibition of the
statute is a use which may be properly characterized as sub-'
stantially for purposes of experiment. Where the substantial
use is not for that purpose, but is otherwise public, and for
more than two years prior to the application, it comes within
the prohibition. The language of ยง 4886 of ihe Revised
Statutes is, that "any person who has invented or discovered

SMITH AND GRIGGS MFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

257

Opinion of the Court.

not in public
.
machine, .
any new and useful .
use or on sale for more than two years prior to his application,
may . . . obtain a patent therefor."
A single sale to another of such a machine as that shown to
have been in use by the complainant more than two years
prior to the date of his application would certainly have
defeated his right to a patent; and yet, during that period
in which its use by another would have defeated its right, he
himself used it, for the same purpose for which it would have
been used by a purchaser. Why should the similar use by
himself not be counted as strongly against his rights as the
use by another to whom he had sold it, unless his use waA
substantially with the motive and for the purpose, by further
experiment, of completing the successful operation of his
invention?
On the other hand, the use of an invention by the inventor
himself, or by another person under his direction, by way of experiment, and in order to bring the invention to perfection, has*
never been regarded in this court as such a public use as under
the statute defeats -his right to a patent. Shaw v. Cooper', 7
Pet. 292; -Elizabethv. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126; Egbert v.
Lipprnann,104 U. S. 333. In this last cage it was said (p. 336):
"A use necessarily open to public view, if made in good faith,
solely to test the qualities of the invention, and for the purpose
of experiment, is not a public use within the meaning nf the
statute." In Eli.'abeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 134,
it was said. "When the 'subject of invention is a machine, it
may be tested and tried in a building either with or without
closed doors. In either case, such use is not a public use,
within the meaning of the statute, so long as the inventor is
engaged, in good faith, in testing its operation. He may see
cause to alter it and improve it, or not. His experiments will
reveal the fact whether any and what alterations may be necessary. If durability is one of the qualities to be attained, a
long period, perhaps years, may be necessary to enable the
inventor to discover whether -his purpose is accomplished.
And though, during all that period, he may not find that any
changes are necessary, yet he imay be justly said to'be using
VOL. cxx

-17

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

his machine only by way of experiment; and, no one would
say that such a use, pursued with a bona jide intent of testing
the qualities of the machine, would be a public use within the
Whilst the supposed machine
meaning of the statute.
is in such experimental use, the public may be, incidentally
deriving a benefit from it. If it be a grist mill, or a carding
machine, customers from the surrounding country may enjoy
the use of it by having their grain made into flour, or their
wool into rolls, and still it will not be in public use, within the
meaning of the law. But if the inventor allows his machine
to be used by other persons generally, either with or without compensation, or if it is, with his consent, put on sale for
such use, then it will be in public use and on public sale within the meaning of the law."
The only witness called to prove the fact of two years' prior
use was the patentee himself. It is to be supposed that his
statement of the circumstances is as favorable to himself as
the facts will justify. It appears from this that he commenced
making buckles under his patent of Mfay 27, 1862, No.35,401.
in the course of that year. The manufacture of the levers for
these buckles required the use of three eparate machines, one
for cutting the blank with the holes punched, another for
drawing it into a U-shape, and the other for pressing the
U-shaped blank into its final form on a mandrel. This continued until 1867 or 1868, from which time until the fall of
1873, he testifies that he made a certain class of levers in one
operation, but that they were "not arctics." In order to
make the levers for the arctic buckles, from the fall of 1873 to
the fall of 1874, two machines were used, one for making the
whole of the lever, "except putting on a bead on the tail of
the lever;" this operation was performed by a second machine.
While producing the buckle-levers in this way upon two separate machines, the patentee states that he made changes in
the mechanism with a view of producing the entire lever with
a bead on by means of one machine. One change was, to put
in an apparatus "to stop the machine when it worked imperfectly." Another was to put "a friction-joint in the lever,"
that is, the lever of the machine, which he thinks he put in dur-

SMITH AND GRIGGS MFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

2.59

Opinion of the Court.

ing the year 1866. The change whereby he was enabled to
put the, bead on, and which he says was made in 1870, or
1871, or 1872, lie states was not successful. In describing the
causes of the failure in this machine to produce the beaded
arctic buckle-lever he says : "One feature, it broke the levers
that (lone the pressing, and, by not driving on to mandrel true.
it would not strike it in the right place, and had to be sent back
by customers." The result was, that in the year 1874 he abandoned the use of this machine for the purpose of making beaded
arctic buckle-levers, and constructed, in the spring of that
year, a new one. This press was manufactured for him ky
Bliss & Williams, in -March, 1874, and, as made by them, included the press, the main shaft, one of the levers, the lever
for driving the carrier, the arrangement for working the levers
for operating the striking dies, and the bed of the buckle-lever
machine was planed for receiving the dies and the working
parts of the buckle-lever machine. The other parts of the
machine were made by the patentee himself and his own workmen. On the subject of this machine, the following is a portion of his examination:
"Q. 115. After carefully examining your patent 231,199
again, please state wherein that machine, as it was used by
you in the latter part of the year 1874, differed, if at all, from
the machine described in your said patent and shown therein.
"A. The springs between the levers that worked the striking dies are in the patent, but were not in the machine, and
this rib n3 on top of the mandrel, which projects over the matrix to keep the U-shaped blank down in position when forced
on to the mandrel to keep it true and straight, was not in the
machine. The point in the lower side of the carrier or driver
is not in the patent, as I used the bar irn in its place. It gave
me a great deal of trouble, and so I changed it. I don't know
as I see a great deal more. I don't see anything more that I
can describe.
"Q. 116. When did you put the springs between the levers
and the striking dies in that machine ?
"A. It was in 1877, in the fall.
"Q. 117. When did you put the extension of the mandrel.

OCTOBER TERM1,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

referred to as m3 in your patent, in that machine in place of
the point on the carrier to hold the U-shaped blank down in
the niatrix?
"A. It was either in January or February, 1878; I think
it was.
"Q. 118. Did you use that machine between the fall of '74
and the fall of '77 for making buckle-levers such as are described in your patent 231,199?
"A. Yes.
"Q. 119. How many did you make during that period of
time on that machine?
"A. Well, I must have made about fifty thousand gross, as
near as I can come at it.
"Q. 120. And what did you do with that fifty thousand
gross?
"A. Sold them. I might have made a few more and I
might have made a few less; I can't tell till I look at my
books; I could come nearer to it.
"Q. 121. Which of the figures of the drawings of your
patents in suit illustrates these fifty thousand gross of bucklelevers?
"A. Figure 9 of 231,199."
The witness further states that into the room where this
machine was being operated people came at will, some to sell
brass; others, people from the neighboring factories; and
others to buy buckles; that the machine was open to their
inspection; and in answer to the question whether an attempt
was made to keep the operation of the machine secret during
this period of time, the witness states : "From parties whom
we thought were manufacturing buckles; we endeavored not
to let them see them closely';" "not from those that we
became acquainted with, and did not suppose would want to
use any such machine."
In respect to the changes made in the machine in 1877 and
1878, and which are covered by claims in the patents, he
further testifies on cross-examination as follows:
"Q. 171. After you had completed the new machine in the
way. described in reply to question 115 in your testimony,
did you have any practical trouble in its working?

SMITH AND GRIGGS MFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

261

Opinion of the Court.

"A.

Not near as much.

"Q. 172. What had been the trouble up to that time?
"A. Forming the bead or telescoping or failing to drive on
the mandrel
"Q. 173. Describe what you mean by telescoping.
"A. The buckle-levers, when the die formed the-first impression on to the mandrel - the next blank from the matrix has to
force that along, and it would spread open and go on the outside of the tongue formerly on there, and what I call telescope.
"Q. 174. Was this telescoping a real practical difficulty in
the operation of this machine up to that time?
"A. It was, and gave me considerable trouble.
"Q. 175. Did you experiment from time to time to devise
means to prevent it?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. 176. Now, about the trouble in the beading which you
say existed up to the time when, in the fall of 1877, and in
January or February, 1878, you made the chknge you have
described. Please explain what the trouble was.
"A. One trouble was, that if it was not held in the right
position in the matrix, it would go on to the mandrel one side
longer than the other to match the ribs. It would not come
in the centre.
"Q. 177. 'What would be the result of one side of the bent
blank being longer than the other when it went on to the
mandrel?
"A. It made a bad lever, which was rejected by my customers, and consequently was lost.
"Q. 178. Did you have any trouble from the bead not being
made precisely parallel with the slot before you 'made these
improvements bf 1877 and '78?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. 179. How did that come about?
"A. One cause that I have described, and telescoping, not
being held in the right position in the matrix to be forced
on to the mandrel.
"Q. 180. State whether or not it was a very delicate operation to make the bead precisely parallel with the slot, and why.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"A. It gave me a .great deal of trouble to do it. If it
was not forced on to the mandrel evenly it would come that
way.
"Q. 181. Did you have any practical trouble in any of these
respects after you completed the machine in 1877 and '78 by
the changes which you have described
"A. Not when the dies and tools were in order- mandrel,
carrier, &c.
"Q. 182. I suppose you mean that the parts were liable to
wear and get out-of order like other machines; am I right?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. 183. State whether or not it was your intention, while
you were experimenting upon and improving this last machine,
to obtain a patent when it should be completed.
"A. It was."
"Q. 187. State whether to complete the machine for making these arctic bucide-levers with a slot and bead so that all,
or practically all, the levers would come out of the machine
with a perfect bead required the later improvements which
you put upon the machine.
"A. Yes, sir; or I would not have put them-on.
"Q. 188. What-would be the effect of telescoping upon the
machine itself before you devised the improvements which you
made in 1877 and 1878?
"A. It would break-the mandrel sometimes, and choke up
the machine so that we had to get it out.
"Q. 189. In what way did you get out the telescoping
blanks when the machine was choked?
"A. Stopped the machine, and took a pointed steel with a
hook on and drew them back, and sometimes worked them off
the further end of the mandrel
On regxaminwtion, he furtier testifies as follows:
"Q. 190. Did-you ever have any trouble with the machine
in choking after you had made the slight alterations you have
spoken about, of extending the mandrel and putting in the
springs?
"A. Yes, sir ; some, but it was not near as much.

SMITiI ANI-D GRIGGS MIFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

263

Opinion of the Court.

"Q. 191. What caused this choking, since those alterations
telescoping, or what?

-

"A. Sometimes telescoping and sometimes the blank not
being cut smooth.
"Q. 192. In what way did you get out the telescoping
blanks when the machine was choked, after it was altered?
"A. By stopping the machine, and using a sharp-pointed
hook, the same as before.
"Q. 193. Since those alterations were made, have you had
any trouble about putting the bead on, on account of the blank
nqt going on the mandrel just right in this machine?
"A. Yes, sir; when the matrix was worn and the die was
worn, the die, not cutting smooth, will throw it around. "Q. 194. Would the telescoping of the blanks, after the
alterations were made in this machine, also injure the machine,
and, if so, what part?
"A. The telescoping would produce the same injury as
before when it did telescope."
Also, on further cross-examination, he testified as follows:
"Q. 203. After your machine was completed, by the
changes of 1877 and 1878, did you have aiiy practical trouble
in forming the bead, or pushing the blank into the mandrel, or
from telescoping, or from waste, when the machine was in
good running order and in repair?
"A. No,sir; not any practical trouble."
And on further examination:
"Q. 204. Wasn't the telescoping that you have testified
about, that occurred in this machine after it was altered by
extending the mandrel and putting in the springs, a practical
difficulty?
"A. Yes; one of them.
"Q. 205. What caused this practical difficulty after those
changes were made?
"A. There was several. The matrix wearing, the dies wearing smooth, not holding the brass evenly upon the mandrel, and
the end of the carrier wearing so as not to force the U-shaped
blanks on evenly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court..

"Q. 206. And those same things caused the telescoping in
the machine before it was altered, didn't they?
"A. Yes; and when the die wasn't worn it would telescope."
The effect of this testimony, it,
is claimed by the appellee, is
that "before the changes the telescoping took place when the
machine was in order, the defect residing in the organization;
after the changes, it would only take place when the machine
was out of repair." On the other hand, it is contended on the
part of the appellant, that, although the patentee, on being
asked the question whether he experimented from time to
time to devise means to prevent the difficulty of telescoping
which he had experienced, answered in the affirmative, yet
"there is nothing to show that these experiments were made
prior to the fall of 187-7, an. he is entirely silent as to what,
if any, they were, and what, if anything, was done by him by
way of experimenting. As the record stands, this machine
was not changed or altered, nor was any experiment made
with it or on it, during the period of some three years while it
made over 7,000,000 buckle-levers, which were sold. Sprague
does not intimate anywhere that he made any experiments to
overcome the objection which he said existed in the guiding
of the U blanks upon the mandrel, at any time before he
added to the mandrel an ordinary guide or rib, in3 , which was
in January or in February, 18'[8;" and that "the only testimony as to his intention of patenting the machine while
experimenting is his answer to X-Q 183, as follows: 'X-Int.
183. State whether or not it was your intention, while you
were experimenting upon and improving this last machine,/to
obtain a patent when it should be completed. -A. It was.'
1.n considering the evidence as to the alleged prior use for
more than two years of an invention, which, if established,
will have the effect of invalidating the patent, and where the
defence is met only by the allegation that the use was not a
public use in the sense of the statute, because it was for the
purpose of perfecting an incomplete invention by tests and
experiments, the proof on the part of the patentee, the period
covered by the use having been clearly established, should be
full, unequivocal, and convincing.

SMITH AND GRIGGS MIFG. CO. v. SPRAGUE.

265

Opinion of the Court.

The testimony of the patentee seems to be indefinite and
vague. The question whether, during the period of his use of
the machine, he was experimenting -for its improvement, put
to him by his counsel, suggested its own answer, which was ih
the affirmative, as also that respecting his intention during
that time to apply for a patent. He gives no account of the
dates of any such experiments, nor any particulam respecting
them. He does not say whether more than one mode of
overcoming the difficulties experienced was suggested and
tried, or not; nor, if more than one device was attempted,
what they were. The statements are meagre and bald, and
quite insufficient to satisfy us that the problem of perfecting
the machine, in the particulars in which it was proved to be
deficient, was one that was exercising the ingenuity and
inventive faculty of the patentee continuously, with the everpresent intention, during the whole period, to make an application for the patents as soon as he had reached a satisfactory
solution.
In the present case, the use of the machine was apparently
for the purpose of conducting an established business; the
machine itself was the only one used for the manufacture, 'of
which the patentee, by a prior patent, already had a monopoly.
He alone supplied the market with the article, and the whole
demand was satisfactorily met by this single machine. To
this extent, it operated successfully. That it was capable of
improvement need not be denied, nor that, while it was in
daily use, its owner and inventor watched it with the view of
devising means to meet and overcome imperfections in its
operation; but this much can be said in every such case.
There are few machines, probably, which are not susceptible
of further development and improvement, and the ingenuity
of mechanics and inventors is commonly on the alert to ,discover defects and invent remedies. The alterations made in
the machine in question, however useful, were not vital to its
organization. Without them, it could and did work so as to
be commercially successful.
The impression made upon us by the evidence, the conclusion from which we cannot resist, is, that the patentee unduly

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

neglected and delayed to make his application for the patents,
and deprived himself of his right thereto by the public use of
the machine in question, so far as it is embodied in the claims
under discussion.
The proof falls far short of establishing that the main purpose in view, in the use of the machine by the patentee, prior
to his application, was to perfect its mechanism and improve
its operation. On the contrary, it seems to us that it shows
that the real purpose in the use was to conduct the business of
the manufacture, the improvement and perfection of the
machine being merely incidental and subsidiary.
The case upon the proofs seems to us to fall within the principle of the decision of this court in Hfall v. _lacneale, 107
U. S. 90, 96, 97. It was there said: "It is contended that the
safes were experimental and that the use was a use for experiment. But we are of opinion that, this was not so, and that
the case falls within the principle laid down by this court in
Coffn v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120. The invention was complete in
those safes. It was capable of producing the results sought to
be accomplished, though not as thoroughly as with the use of
welded steel and iron plates. The construction and arrangement and purpose and mode of operation and use of the bolts
in the safes were necessarily known to the workmen who put
them in. They were, it is true, hidden from view after the
safes were completed, and it required a destruction of the safes
to bring them, into view. But this was no conceahnent of
them or use of them in secret. They had no more concealment than was inseparable from any legitimate use of them.
As to the use being experimental, it is not shown that any attempt was made to see if the plates of the safe could be stripped
off, and- thus to prove whether or not the conical bolts were
efficient."
It follows that patent No. 228,136, to the extent of the 1st,
2d, 3d, 4th, and 6th claims, and patent No. 231,199, in respect
to the 2d, 3d, and 5th claims, must be held void by reason of
a prior public use of the invention covered thereby for moe
than two years before the date of the application. In respect
to the alleged infringement of the 5th claim of patent No.

ANDREWS v. E1O1VEY.
Counsel for Parties.

228,136, and the 1st and 4th claims of patent INo. 231,199, we
agree with the conclusions of the Circuit Court for the reasons
stated in its opinion, which it is not necessary here to repeat.
Sjjrague v. Smith & Griggs Affg. Co., 12 Fed. Rep. '721.
As we find the decree of the Circuit Court to be erroneous
in respect to the other clains, it must be
Reversed, an the cause remanded with ihstructions to take
further proceedings therein, in conformity with this opin-

in.

A1NDREWS v. HOVEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued October 18, 19, 1887. -Decided

November 14, 185S7.

Reissued letters-patent No. 4372, granted to Nelson W. Green, May 9th, 1871,
for an "improvement in the method of constructing artesian wells," the
original patent, No. 73,425, having been granted to said Green, as inventor, January 14th, 1868, on an application filed March 17th, 1866, are invalid, because the invention was in public use by others than Green more
than two years prior to his application for the patent.
The proper construction of ยง 7 of the act of March 3d, 1839, (5 Stat. 354;)
is, that if, more than two years before the application for a patent, the
invention covered by it was in public use, whether with or without the
consent of the subsequent patentee) the patent was rendered invalid.

LI equity; for alleged infdingement of letters-patent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Yr. Toseph C. Glayton and _Yr Anthony
appellants.

XD. Jed Lake for appellee.
him on the brief.

Xr. 2

Q. E-easbey for

T. Harmon was with

