710

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

estate for life, with an estate over for life to Ann Smith and
Eleonora Cummings Robison, contingent upon one or the other
of them surviving the widow, with the ultimate remainder to
the defendants.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly
Ajffrmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC, IAILROAD COMPANY v.
MIA S.
EHEOR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRTORY OF DAKOTA.
Argued December 7,1887. -Decided December 19,1887.

Accident Ins. Co. v. Crandal,120 U. S. 524, affirmed to the point that the
refusal of the court to instruct the jury, at the close of the plaintiff's
evidence, that he is not entitled to recover, cannot be assigned for error,
if the defendant afterwards introduces evidence.
Under all the circumstances set forth in the statement of facts and the opinion of the court, it was for the jury to determine whether the failure on the
part of the plaintiff to work with his fellow-servant was, in fact, contributory neglgence on his part; and on the whole case it appears that
the cause was submitted by the court to the jury fairly, and with an
accurate statement of the law applicable to the relation between the
parties.

Tis was an action at law brought by the defendant in error
against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in the District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory of
Dahota, to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to
have been received by the plaintiff while in the employ of
the defendant, by reason of its alleged negligence.
The complaint alleged that on October 31, 1881, the plaintiff was in the employ of the defendant as a brakeman on
duty as such in the yard at the city of Fargo, used for the
purpose of switching cars to make up trains, in which service
a switch-engine was used; that at the time of the injury the
engineer of the switch-engine was one Bassett, who, it was
alleged, was a man of hasty and excitable disposition and
ungoverned, violent, and hasty temper, "and was and had

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. MARES.

711.

Statement of the Case.

for a long time been, while in the employ of this defendant
as engineer, accustomed to become unduly and dangerously
excited and angry, and while under the influence of anger
or excitement, and while in the perfornance of his duty as
engineer, was and had been accustomed to act and conduce
himself as engineer in a most reckless manner, causing great
danger and peril to his fellow-servants, and especially to the
brakemen on the train or cars attached to or moved by the
engine on which he was engineer;" and that in consequence
thereof "the said engineer was, at the time of the injury hereinafter referred to, and for a long time prior thereto had been,
negligent, unskilful, unfit, and incompetent to act as engineer
of said switch-engine, or of any engine or locomotive; of
which facts the defendant had notice and knowledge, and by
the use of ordinary diligence defendant would have discovered
and learned that he was a negligent and an unfit, unskilful,
and unsafe engineer. And this plaintiff had not notice or
knowledge prior to the injury to him hereinafter referred to
that the said engineer was for any reason or on any account
an unfit or unsafe person to act as engineer."
It was further alleged that at the time of the injury the
plaintiff "was required, in the performance of his duties as
switch-brakeman, to set or fasten, or to loosen the brakes of
the cars which were being switched or moved in the said
yard, and he was at the time aiid place aforesaid required to
perform the said duty on the cars of the defendant, which
were being switched and moved by the engine in which the
said Bassett was engineer, and in the moving of cars it was
his duty as brakeman to give signals to the said engineer, and
of the said engineer to obey such signals; that, at the time
and place aforesaid, and while this plaintiff, in the performance of his duties as brakeman as aforesaid, was upon the top
of the freight car (part of a train) being removed in the said
yard by the engine in which the said Bassett was engineer,
and while the said Bassett had control of and was managing
said engine, this plaintiff, as it was his duty to do, gave the
said engineer a signal to move and ' back' the cars attached to
the said switch-engine the length of a certain number of cars

OCTOBER TERM,

1387.

Statement of the Case.

indicated by the signal. And the plaintiff, as he was in duty
required to be, was standing on the top of the rear car so
being moved backward, and before said cars had been moved
backward the distance which they were intended to be removed, and the distance which the signal, given by this
plaintiff, required them to be r~imofed, the said engineer
unskilfully, negligently, recklessly,.-and suddenly, and contrary to his duty, stopped and reversed the said switch-engine
and the cars attached thereto, and thereby threw the plaintiff
off the rear car where he was standing, and where it was his
duty to stand, to the ground, and thereupon the said engineer
suddenly, negligently, recklessly, and violently and unskllfully,
then and there, and before the plaintiff had time'to or could
move out of the reach of the cars or off the track, moved
and pushed the said engine and cars backward upon said
track and on to and over the plaintiff, and thereby greatly
injured the plaintiff, and crushed and broke both of his legs,
so that it then and there became and was necessary to amputate them, and they were then and there, on account of said
injuries, amputated," etc.
The answer of the defendant alleged "that the said fall of
the plaintiff and his said injuries resulting therefrom were
solely caused either by the negligence of the plaintiff himself,
or by that of some one or more of the other employ~s of the
defelidant engaged at work together with the plaihtiff in the
defendant's said yard at the time of the happening of the
said injuries, and not by any negligence or fault on the part

of the defendant."
The cause was tried by a jury, and resulted in a verdict and
judgment for the plaintiff of $20,000 and costs.

An appeal

was taken from the District Court to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, where it was heard upon a record containing a
statement on motion for a new trial, which it was stipulated
might be treated as a bill of exceptions. It embodied all the
evidence upon the trial, with the rulings of the court during
its progress, and the charge of the court t6 the jury, with all
the exceptions thereto noted. The judgment of the District
Court was affirmed. From that judgment the present writ of
error was prosecuted.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. MARES.

713

Opinion of the Court.

,l>. James .MfcNaughtfor plaintiff in error.
X r. Thoma WITson for defendant in error.
Mn. JusTicE MATrrHFws

delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the bill of exceptions that at the conclusion
of the plaintiff's case counsel for the defendant moved for a
non-suit, which the court denied, and an exception was taken,
which is still insisted on here. The defendant's counsel, however, offered evidence in support of the defence, and thereby
waived this exception. Accident Ins. Co. v. Crandal, 120
U. S. 527. When all the evidence had been submitted on
both sides, the defendant by its counsel demurred to the evidence and moved the court to dismiss the action, which the
court refused to do; and thereupon the defendant requested
the court to direct the jury to find a verdict for the defendant,
which request was refused, and an exception taken. The
question raised by these rulings, and the exceptions thereto,
is whether there was sufficient evidence to justify the court in
submitting the cause to the jury.
There was certainly evidence tending to establish the following state of facts: That Bassett had been in the employ of the
defendant as engineer in that yard before plaintiff was injured
about a year; that during that 'thne he had by his conduct
frequently shown his negligence, recklessness, and unfitness
for the place; that complaints had at different times been
made of his negligent and reckless conduct to the defendant's
representatives at Fargo; that, notwithstanding such complaints, he was retained in the same service, except during
short intervals when he had beem discharged two or three
times for misconduct; that the plaintiff at the time of the injury had only been in the employ of the defendant about two
weeks, and only about one week of that time with Bassett;
that he worked as night brakeman; that on the night of the
injury, and about fifteen or twenty minutes before the accident, the yard-master called up the switching crew, who had
been asleep for a short time, and ordered plaintiff to direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Bassett to move his engine so as to commence switching cars
at the point named; that they were in haste to get ready for
a train soon to come in from the East; that the plaintiff, as
directed by the yard-master, urged Bassett to move promptly,
on account of which angry words passed between them; that
thereafter, while under the direction of the yard-master, they
were backing some cars, and while he was standing on top of
and near the rear end of the head car, which was the farthest.
from the engine, the plaintiff gave a signal to the engineer to
back seVen or eight car lengths; that it was the duty of the
plaintiff to give such signals and of .the engineer to obey them,
and to continue backing until he was signalled to stop; that
when he had backed about three car lengths, without any
warning to the plaintiff and without any reason or necessity
therefor, he very suddenly, recklessly, and negligently reversed
his engine without shutting off the steam, giving the train so
sudden and violent a jerk as to throw the plaintiff off and
inflict the injuries complained of.
Clearly, this made a case for the plaintiff, unless overthrown
by a successful defence.
It is claimed, however, by counsel for the defendant below,
that there was evidence showing that the plaintiff was guilty
of contributory negligence in two particulars, first, that he
had knowledge of Bassett's incompetence, and ought, on that
account, to have refused to serve with him; and secondly, that
he was standing too near the rear of the car without sufficiently
guarding himself, by holding on or bracing himself, against the
effect of sudden changes of motion which were to be expected
in the business of switching. But whether or not the plaintiff
was in such fault as materially contributed to the injury in
these particulars depended upon a consideration of all ihe circumstances of the case, and there was evidence sufficient to
justify the jury in concluding, as they did, that the plaintiff
was not guilty of negligence in these particulars.
At the request of the defendant the court gave to the jury
the following instructions:
"In order to recover in this suit, the plaintiff must have
established the following propositions, to wit: 1. That the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. MARES. 715
Opinion of'the Court.

plaintiff was hurt through the negligence or improper conduct
of Arthur D. Bassett. 2. That the defendant neglected to use
ordinary care in the selection of Bassett as the employ6 for
running the switch-engine mentioned in the evidence. 3. That
the plaintiff was free from negligence on his part which contributed to the injury."
"If the jury believe that the plaintiff failed to use due care,
under all the circumstances, in conducting himself while standing on top of the car referred to in the evidence, and that such
want of care on his part contributed to produce his fall from
the car, then the jury must find for the defendant."
"If the jury believe that the plaintiff failed to use due care,
under all the circumstances, in conducting himself while standing on the car referred to in the evidence, and that such want
of care on his part contributed to produce his fall from the
car, in such case the jury must find for the defendant, although
it is Vf opinion that Bassett was an unfit person to run the
engine in question, and was guilty of actual negligence in running it on this occasion."
"In order to charge the defendant in this suit on the ground
of Bassett having been an unfit man to run the engine in question, the unfitness must have been of a nature tending to make
working-with him and his engine unusually perilous."
The court also, among other things not excepted to, instructed the jury as follows:
"The employer is not liable for damages sustained by one
employ6 caused by the negligence of another employ6 engaged
in the same general business, unless the employer is guilty of
negligence from which the injury resulted, and it is held that
he who engages in the employment of another for the performance of specific duties and services for compensation, takes
upon himself the natural and ordinary risks and perils incident
to the performance of such services, and in legal contemplation
the compensation is adjusted accordingly. These are perils
which the servant is likely to know, and against which he can
as effectually guard as the employer; they are perils incident
to the services, and which can be as distinctly foreseen and
provided for in the rate of compensation as any other."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Also:
"The duties and liabilities of employer and employ6 to each
other are defined by the code or statute of this Territory
which must control this case, as follows: 'An employer is not
bound to indemnify his employ6 for losses suffered by the
latter in consequence of the ordinary risks of the business in
which he is employed, or in consequence of the negligence of
another person employed by the same employer in the same
general business, unless he has neglected to use ordinary care
in the selection of the culpable employ(.'"
And:
"But, gentlemen, if you find from the evidence that the defendant company was guilty of negligence in not providing a
safe and fit man to run that engine, in consequence of which
you also find the accident occurred, still, if the plaintiff failed
to exercise that prudence, care, and caution which a prudent
man, under similar circumstances, ordinarily would exercise,
which contributed to the injury, he is not entitled to recover."
The court also instructed the jury as follows:
"It is also true that if the plaintiff had full knowledge of
the reckless and careless habits of the engineer Bassett, as
complained of by him, or had reason to know of such recklessness and carelessness, he should either have quit the service or
reported the facts to the officers of the company having the
power to discharge him, and a failure to do so might be negligence on his part; but, gentlemen, it is for you to say, from
all the attending circumstances, whether he was neglectful
in that regard.
"While this rule of law above stated is generally true, a
reasonable view nust be taken in its application here. The
evidence tends to show that this plaintiff had been at work in
this yard but a short time, and only a part of that time with
or under this engineer Bassett. Now, had he such knowledge,
or had he such an opportunity to know of the careless and
reckless habits of Bassett that rendered it dangerous for him
to work with him, and made it his duty to have refused to
continue in such service, or have reported him to the officers
of the company

"

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. MARES. 7'17
Opinion of the Court.

And also.
"The plaintiff must establish every material fact by a preponderance of evidence; and the defendant having alleged
negligence on the part of the plaintiff, denominated contributory negligence, it must be established by a preponderance of
evidence to warrant you in finding it, and upon this question
you must decide."
The defendant requested the court to give the jury the
following instruction:
"If the plaintiff knew, or had the opportunity of knowing,
before his fall from the car in question, that Bassett was an
unfit or unsafe man to run the engine in qaestion, in that case
it was the plaintiff's duty to refuse to work with him any
longer, and his failure to do so would prevent him from recovering in this suit."
Which request to give said instruction the court refused, to
which ruling the defendant duly excepted.
The defendant, by its counsel, thereupon requested -the
court to give to the jury the following instruction:
"The evidence adduced on behalf of the plaintiff tended
to show that Bassett was guilty of negligence in running his
engine during the same night on which the plaintiff was hurt,
previous to the accident, and while the plaintiff was working
with him. If the jury believe such to have been the fact, it
must find for the defendant."
Which request to give said instruction the court refused, to
which ruling the defendant, by its counsel, duly excepted.
At the plaintiff's request the court gave the jury the following instructi6ns:
This plaintiff, when he voluntarily entered into the employ
of the defendant, took the risk of dangers ordinarily attending or incident to the business in which he was employed, including the perils arising from carelessness of his fellowservants."
To which the defendant, by its counsel, duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of the plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"But the above rule is subject to the following limitation

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

or exception,- viz.: That the master or employer, whether a
natural person or a corporate body, is legally bound to use
due care not to expose the servant, when conducting the
master's business, to perils or hazards against which he may
be guarded by proper diligence upon the part of the master."
To this the defendant, by its counsel, duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of the plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"That in this case, while the defendant did not guarantee
to its servants, or to this plaintiff, that the engineer on the
switch-engine in its yard at Fargo should be careful or skilful
or competent, yet it was bound to exercise proper care to get
a person in all respects fit for the place, and if after defendant had employed such engineer it learned, or had reason to
believe that he was careless, reckless, or incompetent, it was
its duty to discharge him."
To this the defendant duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of the plaintiffs counsel,
instructed the jury as follows :
"That if the defendant was careless, either in employing
or retaining in its service a reckless, incompetent, or careless
engineer on said engine, and on account of the recklessness,
incompetence, or carelessness of such engineer the plaintiff
was injured, without fault or negligence on his part, then,
in such case, the railroad company is liable to him for the
damage resulting from such injury." To this the defendant
duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of the plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows :
"That sound sense and public policy require that railroad
companies should not be exempt from liability to their employs for injuries resulting from the incompetency, negligence, or carelessness of co-employis, when, by the exercise
of proper diligence, such injuries might be avoided."
To which the defendant, by its counsel, duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of the plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"That the plaintiff had a right to suppose and assume that

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. MARES.

719

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad company had used proper diligence and care in
the employment and retention of an engineer."
The court thereupon, at the request of plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"That what will amount to the proper care and diligence
in the selection of a servant for a particular duty or in the
retention of such servant will in part depend on the character
and responsibility of that duty which said servant is to perform. The greater the danger from the negligence, incompetence, or carelessness, the greater the care should be in his
selection or retention; for instance, the same degree of diligence or care which is required in the employment of a locomotive engineer would not be required in the employment of
a fireman."
To this the defendant duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"If Bassett, the engineer in the yard at Fargo, was careless,
reckless, or incompetent, and if such carelessness, incompetency, or recklessness caused the injury to the plaintiff, then
if the agents or servants of this defendant, whose duty it was
at that time to employ and discharge him if unfit, did not
exercise due care in the employment of Bassett, or if after he
was employed they in fact knew that he was careless, reckless,
or incompetent, or if by the exercise of due care they would
have discovered that he was careless, reckless, or incompetent,
then the railroad company is liable to the plaintiff for any
injury he may have suffered from such carelessness, recklessness, or incompetency of. Bassett if the plaintiff himself was
not guilty of any negligence which contributed to that injury."
To this the defendant duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"Ordinary care or due care in such cases is not merely such
care as other railroad companies exercise under like circumstances, for other railroad companies may be careless. Ordinary care in the selection or retention of servants in such
cases implies that degree of diligence and precaution which

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the exigencies of the particular service reasonably requirethat is, such care as in view of the consequences that may result from negligence on the part of employ~s is fairly commensurate with the perils or dangers likely to be encountered."
To this the defendant, by its counsel, duly excepted.
The court thereupon, at the request of plaintiff's counsel,
instructed the jury as follows:
"The jury have not legally a right to find that the plaintiff
Mares was guilty of negligence which contributed to his injury,
unless the jury finds that that fact is shown by a preponderance of evidence."
And to this the defendant duly excepted.
We think the court was clearly right in refusing to give the
peremptory instructions asked for by the defendant, that if
the plaintiff knew, or even had the oppoftunity of knowing,
before his fall from the car in question, thai Bassett was an
unfit or unsafe man to run the engine in- question; it was the
plaintiff's duty absolutely to refuse to work with him any
longer, and that his failure to do so would prevent him from
recovering in this suit. The duty of the plaintiff under such
circumstances is not to be determined by the single fact of his
lnowledge of the danger he incurred by continuing to serve
with a co-employ6 known by him to be an unfit and incompetent person. It was enough for the court to say, as it did,
that a failure on the part of the plaintiff to refuse to work, in
view of that knowledge on his part, might be negligence on
his part. The qualification was correct, that it was for the
jury to say fromt all the attending circumstances whether his
failure to do so was in fact contributory negligence. A suitable
judgment on that question can only be reached by carefully
weighing the probable consequences of both courses bf conduct, and it might well happen that even at the risk of injury
to himself, occasioned by the unskilfulness of his co-employe,
the plaintiff might still reasonably be regarded as under a
duty not suddenly and instantly to refuse to continue in the
conduct of the business of his principal. Many cases might be
conceived in which the latter course might even increase the
danger to the plaintiff himself and entail great injury and loss
to others.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. MARES. '21
Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for the plaintiff in error criticises the language of
the court in its instruction to the jury, given at the request of
the plaintiff's counsel, "that the plaintiff had a right to suppose and assume that the railroad company had used proper
diligence and care in the employment and retention of an
engineer," on the ground of vagueness and want of distinctness as to what diligence and care under the circumstances
would be proper, but no explanation of the charge was asked
for by the counsel for the defendant, nor was any exception
taken to the instruction as given.
Objection is also taken to that portion of the charge which
says: "And the defendant, having alleged negligence on the
part of the plaintiff denominated contributory negligence, it
must be established by preponderance of evidence to warrant
you in finding it." The objection, as we understand it, is, that
it was calculated to mislead the jury by not only putting the
burden of proof of the fact on the defendant, but also in
assuming that they must look for that proof only to the testimony adduced by the defendant. We do not, however,
think it possible that any jury could be misleil in that way.
The whole effect of the charge is, that the fact in question
must be established, from the whole testimony, by a preponderance of evidence in its favor. Where the burden of proof
rested was immaterial at that stage of the cause when all the
evidence was in, and the jury certainly could not suppose
that they were confined, in their examination of that question,
to the testimony adduced only on the part of the defendant.
On the whole case it abundantly and satisfactorily appears
that the cause was submitted to the jury, upon the charge of
the court, fairly, and with an accurate statement of the law
applicable to the relation between the parties. We find no
error in the record; the judgment is accordingly
Affimed.
vo),. c---=-46

