HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN

LIFE INS. CO.

747

Syllabus.

683, 689, where affidavits were submitted, the findingo of the

court below as to value was not a material question in the
case upon its merits, but was more in the nature of an inquiry
for the purpose of determining whether an appeal should be
allowed, as in Iilsorn v. Blair, 119 U. S. 387. Here, however, the value of the property was one of the questions in
the case and necessarily involved in its determination.
As the value of the matter in dispute is, according to the
finding of the court below, not more than $5000,
Tha motion to dismiss is granted.

IEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued November 7, 8, 1887.-Decided December 10, 1887.

Multifariousness as to subjects or parties, within the jurisdiction of a court
of equity, does not render a decree void, so that it can be treated as a
nullity in a collateral action.
A court of equity, in a suit to foreclose a mortgage, may permnit a person.
to whom the land has been sold and conveyed for non-payment of taxes
assessed after the date of the mortgage, to be made a party, and may
determine the validity of his title.
A bill in equity by A against B and C to foreclose a mortgage from B to .A
alleged that C claimed some interest in the premises, the exact nature of
which the plaintiff was unable to set out, and prayed for a decree of foreclosure, and that the right, title and interest of each defendant be forever barred and foreclosed, and for a sale of the premises, and for
further relief. In the decree C's default was recited and confirmed, and
it was adjudged that the mortgage was a lien prior and paramount to
the lien of each defendant, and that the right, title and equity of redemption of each defendant be by a sale under the decree forever barred and
foreclosed, and that the purchaser at such sale should take the premise
by title absolute, relating back to the date of the mortgage. Under that
decree the land was sold to A. Held, that the decree was a conclusive
adjudication that C had no valid title or lien, and estopped him to set up,
in defence to an action of ejectment by A, a tax title subsejluent to the
mortgage and prior to the suit for foreclosure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action at law, in the nature of ejectment, to
recover possession of a tract of land, brought on July 5, 183,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Iowa against Hefner and wife and Babcock and
wife by the Northwestern Alutual Life Insurance Company,
stating its title in substance as follows:
On October 31, 1876, it filed a bill on the equity side of that
court against Bates, Callanan and others, to foreclose a mortgage of the same and other lands, executed to the plaintiff on
August 23, 1870, by Bates, then the owner; containing the
usual allegations of such a bill; also alleging that Callanan
"claims some interest in and to a portion of the mortgaged
premises, the exact nature of which your orator is unable to
set out;" and praying that each and all of said defendants be
made parties to the bill, and for a writ of subpena against all
of them, and for judgment against Bates for the sums due on
the mortgage, and for "a decree of foreclosure against the
premises hereinbefore described against all of the before named
defendants, and that the right, title and interest of each and
every of the said defendants be by decree of this court forever barred and foreclosed, and that the master in chancery
of this court be authorized to make sale of said premises, or
sufficient thereof to satisfy the said several sums of money.
with interest thereon, and the costs of this suit, and all and
singular such relief as your orator is equitably entitled to
receive."
Upon that bill, a writ of subpoena was issued against and
served upon all the defendants named therein, including
Callanan.
On M1ay 21, 1877, a final decree was entered in that suit,
reciting a hearing of the plaintiff and of Bates, and a default
of the other defendants, confirming that default, ascertaining
the sums due on the mortgage, and adjudging that the mortgage "is a lien upon the mortgaged premises, prior and paramount to the lien of each and every of the said defendants ;"
that Bates pay those sums, with interest and costs, to the
plaintiff on or before September 1, 1877; that, in default of
such payment, a sale and conveyance of the mortgaged prem-

HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

749

Opinion of the Court.

ises, or of so much thereof as might be necessary to satisfy
those sums, be made by a master; "and that the right, title
and equity of redemption of each and every of the defendants
in this suit be, by a sale of the said mortgaged premises hereunder, forever barred and foreclosed, and the purchaser at such
sale shall take the premises sold by title absolute, and such
title shall relate back to the date of the execution of the mortgage to the complainant, to wit, the 23d day of August, 1870."
On October 5, 1877,pursuant to that decree, the master sold
the mortgaged premises by auction for less than those sums to
the plaintiff, and executed a deed thereof accordingly.
In the present action, the plaintiff further alleged that the
defendants, Hlefner and others, were in actual possession,
claiming a right acquired from Callanan since the beginning
of the suit for foreclosure, and had no right to possession
against the plaintiff, and.that Callanan claimed some interest
in the premises under and by virtue of a pretended tax deed.
The defendants filed an answer to this action, alleging that,
the land in question being subject to taxes lawfully assessed
thereon for 1870 and remaining due and unpaid, the county
treasurer, at a tax sale on November 15, 1871, in confornity
v*ith law, sold the land to Callanan, and, *there being no
redemption from the sale, executed to Callanan on December
1, 1874, a tax deed thereof, which was duly recorded two days
after, and a copy of which was annexed to the answer; and
that the right and title created by the tax sale and deed, and
no other, was owned by Callanan at the time of the proceedings for foreclosure and of the decree therein, and had since
been conveyed by him to the defendants. A demurrer to this
answer was sustained, and judgment rendcred for the plaintiff :
and the defendants sued out this writ of error.
J1&. C. I. Gateh for plaintiffs in error.

.3f,.

lWilliam Con-

not, was with him on the brief.
M'. B. F. K uffman for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The question presented by the record is, whether the title
now set up by the defendants under the deed executed by the
county treasurer to Callanau in 1874, pursuant to a sale in
1871 for non-payment of taxes -assessed in 1870, is barred by
the decree -rendered for the plaintiff in 1877, upon a bill in
equity to foreclose a mortgage dated August 23, 1870, to
which bill Callanan had been made a party, and upon which
he-had been defaulted.
By the statutes of Iowa, taxes upon real estate are assessed to
the owner in September of each year. In real estate mortgaged, the mortgagor retains the legal title; and it is listed
by and taxed to him, unless it is listed by the mortgagee. As
between vendor and purchaser, the taxes become a lien on the
]and on the first day of November ensuing. If the owner
neglects to pay them before the first day of the following Feb.
ruary, they may be collected by distress and sale of his personal property, and also become a perpetual lien on the land
against all persons except the United States and the State. The
county treasurer may collect them by sale of the land, and if the
owner does not redeem from that sale within three years, the
treasurer executes a deed to the purchaser, which vests in him
"all the title of the former owner, as well as of the State and
county." Iowa IRev. Stat. 1860, §§ 710, 714, 734, 746, 756,
759, 763-784, 2217; Stats. MKay 2 7, 1861, c. 24, § 2; April 7,
1862, c. 110; Code of 1873, § 796, 803, 823, 839, 853, 857,
865, 871-897, 1938.
The effect of these statutes, as declared by the Supreme
Court of the State, is, that from the time of the assessment
of the taxes, the State or the county has a lien on the land
for the amount thereof; that upon the sale of the land for
non-payment of the taxes, that lien passes to the purchaser,
but the title, subject to the lien, remains in the former owner
until the execution of the tax deed; and that if that deed is
for any reason invalid, the lien is the only interest that the
purchaser has in the land. TVilliam.s v. Heath, 22 Iowa, 519;
Eldid'hge v. .Etel, 27 Iowa, 160; Everett v. Beebe, 37 Iowa,
452; Sextton v. 11enclerson,, 45 Iowa, 160; 8pringerv. Bartle,
46 Iowa, 688.

HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

751

Opinion of the Court.

But if the tax deed is valid, then from the time of its delivery it clothes the purchaser, not merely with the title of the
person who had been assessed for the taxes and had neglected
to pay them, but with a new and complete title in the land,
under an independent grant from the sovereign authority.
which bars or extinguishes all prior titles and incumbrances
of private persons, and all equities arising out of them. (rum'
v. Cotting, 22 Iowa, 411; Turner v. Smith, 14 Wall. 553.
It is contended in behalf of the defendants, that the only
proper object of the suit to foreclose the mortgage was to sell
the title of the mortgagor, and to cut off the equity of redemption of all persons claiming under him any title, lien or interest inferior or subject to the mortgage; and that the title
under the tax deed, being adverse and paramount to the rights
both of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, could not be contested in that suit and was not barred by the decree therein.
But the authorities cited fall short of supporting that contention.
Multifariousness as to subjects or parties, within the-jurisdiction of a court of equity, cannot be taken advantage of by
a defendant, except by demurrer, plea or answer to the bill,
.although the court in its discretion may take the objection at
the hearing, or on appeal, and order the bill to be amended"
or dismissed. Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333, 412; .Yelson v.
171, 5 How. 127, 132. A fortiori, it does not render a
decree void, so that it can be treated as a nullity in a collateral action.
As a general rule, a court of equity, in a suit to foreclose
a mortgage, will not undertake to determine the validity of
a title prior to the mortgage and adverse to both mortgagor
and mortgagee; because such a controversy is independent
of the controversy between the mortgagor and the nmortgagee
as to the foreclosure or redemption of the mortgage, and to
join the two controversies in one bill would make it multifarious.
Upon that ground, it has been held by this court, as well- as
by the courts of New York, California and Michigan, on
appeals from decrees for foreclosure of mortgages, that the
holders of a prior adverse title were not proper parties; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

judges have sometimes used such strong expressions as that
the mortgagee "cannot make them parties," or that their title
cannot be litigated," in a suit for foreclosure. .Dial v. Reyvoldg, 96 U. S. 340; Peters v. Bowman, 98 IT. S. 56, 60; Eagle
Ahs. Co. v. Lent, 1 Edw. Ch.301, and 6 Paige, 635; Banks v.
IFa/ker, 2 Sandf. Ch. 344, and 3 Barb. Ch. 438; Corning v.
S~nitk, 6 N. Y. 82; San Franciscov. Lawton, 18 California,
465; Summers v. Bonzley, 28 Michigan, 125.
But in none of the cases just cited was any question presented or adjudged of the effect that a decree of foreclosure,
rendered in a suit in which such adverse claimants were made
parties ancl their claims were directly put in issue and determined, might have against them in a subsequent action.
The cases of Strobe v. 1)owner, 13 Wisconsin, 10, and Palvier v. -Yager, 20 -Wisconsin, 91, were also appeals from decrees of foreclosure; and in a later case in Wisconsin the
court summed up the law thus: "It is freely admitted that a
foreclosure suit is not an appropriate proceeding in which to
litigate the rights of a party claiming title to the mortgaged
premises in hostility to the mortgagor, and that, if such rights
be so litigated, and be determined upon .pleadings and proofs,
the decree will be erroneous, and will be reversed. But
whether, until reversed, such decree is coram. non judce and
void, so that it may be collaterally impeached, is quite another
question. The conclusion would seem to follow, from -all of
the decisions, that it is not." Boand of Supervisors v. _3flneral
Point Railroad, 24.Wisconsin, 93, 121.
There are indeed two cases in the Court of Appeals of New
York, in which a common decree of foreclosure :pro confesso
was held to be no bar to a subsequent action at law by the
owner of a title prior and paramount to the mortgage. But
the decision in either case turned on the form in which the
plaintiff at law had been made a defendant to the bill of foreclosure.
In the one case, a widow was held not to be barred of her
dower bv a decree of foreclosure, obtained after the death of
her husband, of a mortgage executed by him alone during the
coverture, on a bill against her and others as executors and

HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

753

Opinion of the Court.

devisees under his will, alleging that she and the other defendants "have or claim to have some interest in the aforesaid
mortgaged premises, as subsequent purchasers, or incumbrancers, or otherwise, but what particular interest your
orator is not informed," and praying that they might be
foreclosed "of and from all equity of redemption and claim
of, in and to" the mortgaged premises. The ground of the
decision was, that under the statutes and rules of court the
allegations and decree were limited to rights subsequent and
subject to the mortgage; and Judge Denio, in delivering
judgment, said: "It is not intended to decide that if a party
claiming a title prior to the mortgage should be made a party
to the suit, and should answer and litigate the question, and
should have a decree against him, it would not conclude him
in a collateral action." Lewis v. Smith, 9 N. Y. 502, 516.
In the other case,
testator having devised land to his
g9randdaughter in trust for his daughter for life, with remainder to the granddaughter in fee, the two afterwards
executed a mortgage, the granddaughter not e'ecuting it as
trustee, and having no power by law to execute it as such.
The bill and decree of foreclosure were against them as individuals, and therefore the title of the granddaughter as trustee
was held not to be barred by the decree, the court saying:
"Her interest in remainder was subordinate to the prior estate
for life in trust, created by the will, and she was not bound
to set up her claim as trustee, when made a party to the fore-'
closure, in the absence of any averment in the complaint in
respect to that interest, or claim that it was subject to the
mortgage." Bah bone v. Iooney, 58 N. Y. 463, 467.
So in a recent case in California, not yet published in the
official reports, in which a decree, upon a bill against husband
and wife, foreclosing a mortgage, executed by the wife alone,
of land held by them in community, was held not to bar a
subsequent action of ejectment by the husband, the bill to
foreclose contained no averment that the husband had or
asserted any claim adverse to the title of the mortgagor, and
the decree in terms barred only the equity of redemption.
.MeComb v. 8pangler,12 Pacific Reporter, 34-7.
VOL.

c)xmi-48

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

To a bill in equity to foreclose a second mortgage, although
the first mortgagee is not a usual or necessary party when the
decree sought and rendered is subject to his mortgage, yet, at
least when he holds the legal title, and his debt is due and
payable, he may, and, when the property is ordered to be
sold free of all incumbrances, must be made a party; and if
he is, and the bill contains sufficient allegations, he is barred
by the decree, the bill in such case being in effect both a bill
to foreclose the second mortgage and a bill to redeem from
the first mortgage. Finley v. Bank of United States, 11
Wheat. 304; Hagan v. Walker, 14 How. 29, 37; Jerome v.
Mc Carter, 94 'U.S. 734; -Miltenbergerv. Logansport Railway,
106 U. S. 286, 307; lWoodworth v. Blair, 112 U. S. 8; Haines v.
Beach, 3 Johns. Ch.459; HMudnit v. Smith, 1 C.E. Green, 550.
In all the cases heretofore referred to, the adverse title was
prior to the mortgage foreclosed. But in the case at bar, the
tax title, though adverse to the mortgage title, was not prior
to it. The whole title in the land was in the mortgagor at
the date of the mortgage; and the title under the tax deed,
if valid, was subsequent in time, although paramount in right,
to the title acquired under the mortgage and the decree of
foreclosure.
Upon the question whether the validity of a tax title subsequent in date to the mortgage may properly be litigated and
determined in a suit for foreclosure, there has been a difference of opinion in the courts of the states. The courts of
California and of Michigan have held that it may. JEelsey v.
Abbott, 13 California, 609; _Horton v. Ingersoll, 13 Michigan,
409; ffilliams v. Green, 34 Michigan, 221, 223. Those of
Wisconsin and of Kansas have decided that it should not.
Pelton v. Farmin, 18 Wisconsin, 222; Roberts v. Wood, 38
Wisconsin, 60; Shiort v. .Zrooner, 16 Kansas, 220. But the
question in each of these cases arose upon appeal from the
decree of foreclosure; and there is no case, so far as we are
informed, in which a decree upon apt allegations in a bill to
foreclose a mortgage, adjudging a subsequent tax title to be
invalid, has been allowed to be collaterally impeached by the
holder of that title in a subsequent action.

HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

'55

Opinion of the Court.

On principle, it was within the jurisdiction and authority
of the court, upon a bill in equity for the foreclosure of the
plaintiff's mortgage, to determine the validity or invalidity of
Callanan's tax title, and he was a proper, if not a necessary,
party to such a bill.
If the mortgagor or the mortgagee had made a conveyance
or assignment after the date of the mortgage, the purchaser
or assignee would have been a necessary party to the bill to
foreclose. Story Eq. Pl. §g 193, 199, 201; Terpell v. Allison,
21 Wall. 289. And in Stevenson v. Texas RIailway, 105 U. S.
703, the Circuit Court, and this court on appeal, upon a bill in
equity to foreclose a mortgage, tried the validity of an ad..verse title under a sale on execution against the mortgagor
upon judgments recovered since the mortgage was made, and
adjudged that title to be valid, because the judgments were
recovered before the mortgage was recorded.
At the date of the plaintiff's mortgage, the entire estate in
the land was in the mortgagor, and was included in the mortgage. The subsequent assessment of the taxes created a lien
upon that estate, which, upon the sale for non-payment of the
taxes, passed to Callanan; but the, mortgagor, so long as his
right of redemption from that sale existed, still held the legal
title, subject first to the lien for taxes, and then to the mortgage. The deed afterwards executed by the county treasurer to
Callanan, if valid, conveyed to him all the rights and interests,
both of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and vested in hina complete title, so that the mortgagor had no title and no
equity of redemption, and the mortgagee no lien and no right
of foreclosure. There would seem to be no less reason for
making Callanan a party to the bill than if he had claimed
under a conveyance from or judgment against the mortgagor
or the mortgagee since the date of the mortgage. But if
Callanan was not a necessary party to the bill to foreclose the
mortgage, clearly the mortgagor, if not the mortgagee, might
have filed a bill in equity against him to redeem the land from
the tax sale, alleging that he had a lien only, and not an absolute title; and by such a bill the issue whether he had or had
not such a title would have been directly presented. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

question whether that issue should be determined in the suit
to foreclose the mortgage, or in a separate suit, was a question
of multifariousness or of convenience, affecting the discretion
only, and not the jurisdiction, of the court. By determining,
before finally decreeing a foreclosure and sale, the question
whether Callanan had a good title under the tax deed, the
probability of obtaining a fair price at a sale under the decree
of foreclosure would be increased, the rights of all the parties
secured, and further litigation avoided. As was said by Lord
Chancellor Talbot, and repeated by Chief Justice Marshall,
"The court of equity in all cases delights to do complete justice, and not by halves." .Enight v. Iniglt, 3 P. Wins. 331,
334; Corbet v. Joknsan, 1 Brock. 77, 81.
In the absence of any statute or rule of court, restricting
the natural meaning of the words, the allegation in the bill
to foreclose, that Calanan "claims some interest in and to a
portion of the mortgaged premises, the exadt nature of which
your orator is unable to set out," was sufficient; to include
Callanan's interest, whether it was a mere lien for the amount
of the taxes, as it "wouldhave been if the right of redemption
from the sale for taxes had not expired, or if the treasurer's
deed was void for any reason, or was a perfect title in fee, as
it would be if that right had expired and there was no defect
in the tax deed. The prayer of the bill was, not only for a
subpcena and a decree of foreclosure against all the defendants
named in the bill, but also that, the right, title and interest of.
each and every of them be forever barred and foreclosed by
the decree, and that a sale of the premises be made by a
master, and for further relief.
Callanan, by the service of the subpcena, had due notice of
the allegations and prayer of the bill. By the decree reciting
and confirming his default, the bill was taken for confessed
against him; and any final decree, warranted by the allegations of the bill, bound him to the same extent as if he had
appeared in the suit, and dQmurred to or contested those
allegations. Ywomson v. Wooster, 114 13'. S. 104, 111.
The decree not only adjudges, in the usual form, that the
mortgage "is a lien upon the mortgaged premises, prior and

HEFNER v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

757

Opinion of the Court.

paramount to the lien of each and every of the said defendants;" and that, in default of payment by the mortgagor of
the sums found due on the mortgage, "the right, title and
equity of redemption of each and every of the defendants in
this suit be" by a sale under the decree "forever barred and
foreclosed." But it further declares that "the purchaser at
such sale shall take the premises sold by title absolute," and
that "such title shall relate back to the date of the execution
of the mortgage," specifying that date.
That decree is a conclusive adjudication, which cannot be
collaterally impeached by Callanan or by those claiming under
him, that he had no valid title or lien of any kind against the
plaintiff as mortgagee of the land in question, and as purchaser
at the sale under the decree of foreclosure; and was rightly
held to estop the grantees of Callanan to set up his tax title
in the present action.
Judgment affrhied.

