OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

action in selecting a particular person to be merchant appraiser
was not subject to revision in any court where the importer
sought to recover what he claimed to be an erroneous imposition of duties. The plaintiffs excepted to these rulings. There
was a verdict and a judgment for the defendant, to review
which the plaintiffs have sued out a writ of error.
The question involved in the exclusion of the evidence offered., is the same question as that passed upon in the case of
Oelbermnann v. 2lerritt, decided herewith. For the reasons
stated in the opinion in that case, it must be held that the
evidence was erroneously excluded.
Other questions were raised by the plaintiffs at the trial,
and are discussed in the briefs of their counsel in this court,
but we do not think it necessary or proper to pass upon any
question other than the one above considered.
The Judgment of the Ci'ewit Court is reversed, and the case
is r.'6nanded to that court, with a directionr to award a new
triaz.

IN RE HENRY.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted November 10, 18S7.-Decided November 21, 1887.
Each letter or packet put in or taken out from the post-office of the United
States in violation of the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 5480 constitutes a
separate and distinct violation of th act.
Three separate offences (but not more) against the provisions of Rev.
Stat. ยง 5480, when committed within the same six calendar months, may
be joined, and when so joined there is to be a single sentence for all;
but this does not prevent other indictments, for other and distinct offences under the same statute committed within the same six calendar
months.

THIS was a motion for a rule to show cause why a writ of
habeas corpus should not issue. The motion for leave to move
for the rule was filed on the 11th of October, 1887. On the
17th of October leave was granted, and also leave to file a

IN RE HENRY.
Opinion of the Court.

brief in support of it. On: the 10th of November this motion
was filed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
At'. Jsaac 2f.Bryaon for the motion.
MR. CHiIEF

JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion for a rule to show cause why a writ of
habeas corpus should not issue as prayed for. The case made
by the petition is this:
Section 5-S0 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "If any
person having devised or intending to devise any scheme or
artifice to defraud, or be effected by either opening or intending to open correspondence or communication with any other
person, whether resident within or outside of the United
States, by means of the Post-Office Establishment of the
United States, or by inciting such other person to open communication with the person so devising or intending, shall, in
and for executing such scheme or artifice, or attempting so to
do, place any letter or packet in any post-office of the United
States, or take or receive any therefrom, such person, so misusing the Post-Office Establishment, shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment for not more than eighteen months, or by both such
punishments. The indictment, information, or complaint may
severally charge offences to the.number of three when committed within the same six calendar months; but the court
thereupon shall give a single sentence, and shall proportion
the punishment especially to the degree in which the abuse of
the Post-Office Establishment enters as an instrument into
such fraudulent scheme and device."
Henry, the petitioner, was indicted in the District Court of
the United States for the Western District of South Carolina,
on the 11th of September, 1886, for a violation of this statute.
The indictment charged three separate and distinct offences,
all alleged to have been committed within the same six calendar months. Under this indictment he was tried, convicted,
and sentenced to imprisonment in the South Carolina penitentiary at Columbia for the term of twelve months.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Afterwards, at the same term of the court, but on a different
day, he was indicted for three other and different offences
under the same statute, committed within the same six calendar months. To this indictment he pleaded his conviction
upon the first indictment .in bar. This plea was overruled,
and upon a trial he was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment in the Albany penitentiary, New York, for the term of
fifteen months, upon the termination of his sentence under the
first indictment.
He has served out his term under the first sentence, and is
now confined in the penitentiary at Albany under the second.
From this imprisonment he seeks to be discharged on habeas
corpus, because, as he alleges, the court had no jurisdiction to
inflict a punishment for more than one conviction of offences
under this statute, committed within the same six calendar
months.
We have carefully considered the argument submitted by
counsel in behalf of the petitioner, but are unable to agree
with him in opinion that there 6an be but one punishment for
tll the offences committed by a person under this statute
within any one period of six calendar months. As was well
said by the district judge on the trial of the ihdictment, "the
act forbids, not the general use of the post-office for the purposes of carrying out a fraudulent scheme or device, but the
putting in the post-office of a letter or packet, or the taking
out of a letter or packet from the post-office in furtherance of
such a, scheme. Each letter so taken out or put in constitutes
a separate and distinct violation of the act." It is not, as in
the case of In re Snow, 120 U. S. 274, a continuous offence,
but it consists of a single isolated act, and is repeated as often
as the act is repeated.
It is indeed provided that three distinct offences, committed
vithin the same six months, may be joined in the same indictment; but this is no more than allowing the joinder of three
offences for the purposes of a trial. In its general effect -this
provision is not materially different from that of ยง 1021 of the
Revised Statutes, which allows the joinder in one indictment
of charges against a person "for two or more acts or transac-

COX v. WESTERN LAND AND CATTLE CO.

375

Opinion of the Court.

tions of the same class of crimes or offences," and the consolidation of two or more indictments found in such cases. Under
the present statute three separate offences, committed in the
same six months, may be joined, but not more, and when
joined there is to be a single sentence for all. That is the
whole scope and meaning of the provision, and there is nothing whatever in it to indicate an intention to make a single
continuous offence, and punishable only as such, out of what,
without it, would have been several distinct offences, each
complete in itself.
27e motion for a 'ule isdenied and the etition dismissed.

COX v. WESTERN LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED. STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 16, 18S7. -Decided

November 21,1887.

It appearing that the amount in controversy does not exceed five thousand
dolars, the writ of error is dismissed.

THIS was a motion to dismiss.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
Jfr. Alexander ยฃ31ccoy for the motion.
.Mb'. P. A. eliilds opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. delivered

the opinion of the court.

This motion is granted on the ground that the record shows
that the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed five
thousand dollars. The suit was brought originally to recover
1215 head of Colorado steers, alleged to be worth $6000. At
the time of the judgment only 79 head were in dispute. As
to the rest, a settlement had been made during the pendency
of the suit. The court has found as a fact that the 79 head

