OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

examined by us, we do not perceive that any of them are well
founded, nor do we think that they are worthy of an extended
inquiry. As these, to which we have adverted, are the most
important, and as we see no error in what the court charged
or refused to charge the jury on these subjects, and as we
have already said there is no exception to the introduction of
testimony, we see no error in the record, and the judgment
of the court below is, in each case,
Ajffled.

UAILES v. ALBANY STOVE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 28, 1887. -Decided

December 12,1887.

Under the patent laws a disclaimer cannot be used to materially alter the
character of the patented invention, or to effect such a change in it as
calls for further description or specification in order to make it intelligible: but its proper office is in the surrender either of a separate claim, or
of some distinct and separable matter, which can be exscinded without
mutilating or changing what is left.
The drawings cannot be used on a disclaimer to show that the patent, as
changed by the disclaimer, embraces a different invention from that
described in the specification.
Sections 4917 and 4922 of the Revised Statutes are parts of one law, having
one general purpose, and both relate to the case in which a patentee,
through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent
or deceptive intention, has included in his claims and in his patent inventions to which he is not entitled, and which are clearly distinguishable
from those to which he is entitled; the purpose of § 4917 being to authorize him in such case to file a disclaimer of the part to which he is not
entitled, and the purpose of § 4922 being to legalize the suits on the
patent mentioned in that section, and to the extent to which the patentee
can rightfully claim the patented invention.

BILL IN EQur to restrain alleged infringement of letterspatent, and for an accounting. The Circuit Court dismissed
the bill; from which decree the complainants took this appeal.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

HAILES v. ALBAN-Y STOVE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Andrew T Todd for appellants.
Xr. Esek Cowen for appellee.
MR. JUS TiCE B A LEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit on a patent, in which the court below
decided adversely to the complainants. The patent sued on
was granted to Lewis Rathbone and William Hailes, November 21st, 1865. It was for an alleged improvement in coal
stoves, of the class known as "cannon" or circular stoves, so
called in consequence of their consisting of one cylinder or
The pacannon, without flues or separate fire chambers.
tentees in their specification allege that such stoves have generally been constructed with a contracted outlet, and with
provision for admitting air above the fire. This, they say,
they desire to obviate, having found that a much more -perfect
combustion can be maintained by enlarging the outlet for the
smoke, and admitting air through the sides of a suspended
fire-pot, at all points, and thus facilitating combustion by supplying oxygen to the burning coals beneath the surface of the
fire-pot. Another object, they say, is to construct-an openi,
circular fire-pot, which can be applied to or removed from the
stove at pleasure, with a grate in its bottom, said grate being
so applied that it can be moved for shaking the ashes from
the fire-pot when desired.
They then proceed to describe their improved fire-pot, referring to accompanying drawings. They say:
"The fire-pot is made of cast iron of a flaring form and of
such diameter as to leave a free space, 6, all around it when
arranged within the stove. It extends from the enlarged fire
chamber 0 down into the ash chamber B, and it is made with
vertical openings through its sides for the admission of air into
the body of coal within it.
"The bottom of this fire-pot is an open grate, G, which may
be so applied that it can be moved around a central pin, e, or
turned upon a horizontal bar, g, or both of these movements
may be provided for.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"It will then be seen that the fire-pot and its grate are
united together, so that both can be removed from the stove
together.
" By thus connecting the grate and fire-pot together and
arranging them within the stove, so that they are supported
or suspended by means above mentioned, they can be removed
very readily from the stove when it is necessary to renew them.
"At the junction of the body of the stove with the ash-pit
section B is a ledge, h , extending entirely around the top of
said section, as shown in figure 3. This ledge is perforated at
regular intervals, and it is covered by means of a marble ring
plate, i, which is also perforated in a manner corresponding to
the perforations through the ledge. This ring plate, i, being
provided with a knob or handle, it constitutes an annular register for regulating the admission of air into the section B of
the stove below the point of suspension of the fire-pot, as indicated by the arrows in figure 2.
"The flanges b and c effectually close the uppersportion of
the space d surrounding the fire-pot, so that no air can pass at
this point; the air which enters the smoke chamber abovb the
fire-pot must either be admitted through the register J, in the
feed door, or it must pass through the fire-pot.
"Our object is to maintain such an intense heat -in the
fire-pot, by the free supply of oxygen to the incandescent coal
therein -

all around this pot -

that there will be little or no

smoke formed after the fire is fully started. In this way we
obtain a more perfect combustion, and are enabled to burn soft
coal and obtain the greatest heating effects therefrom.
"Having thus described our invention, what we claim as
new and desire to secure by letters-patent, is "1st. Arranging a perforated fire-pot with a grate bottom
within a circular stove having provision for the admission of
air below the point of suspension of said fire-pot, substantially
as described.
"2d. The combination of an annular horizontal register
with a suspended fire-pot which has perforated sides, substantially as described."
The drawings and model exhibited at the hearing show that

HAILES v. ALBANY STOVE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the fire-pot referred to in the patent was in the form of a
basket, with grated bottom, and grated sides, for the admission of air not only through the grated bottom, but through
the sides. In the drawing the grated portion of the sides extends -from the bottom nearly two-thirds of the way upwards
towards the top; but the specification speaks generally of
vertical openings through the sides for the admission of air
into the body of coal, without calling attention to, or specifying any limitation to the extent of the openings, whether all
the way, or only part of the way up the side of the fire-pot;
and, as seen, the principal claim is for arranging a perforated
fire-pot with a grate bottom within a circular stove, having
provision for the admission of air below the point of suspension of said fire-pot.
Now it iurns out that, before the issue of the patent sued
on,.there were already in existence two patents for a fire-pot
of precisely the same description; one, an English patent,
granted to Robert Russell in July, 1857; and the other, an
American patent, granted to Zebulon Hlunt on the 14th of June, 1864. The English patent shows two separate devices,
one of a tapering fire-pot or basket having grated sides, but
without a grate at the bottom. "Another modification consists in constructing the fire-basket with perforated sides all
around it by means of tubes." The patentee adds that "solid,
bars may be used instead of tubes," and, again, "instead of
making the fire dishes to turn on a pivot as previously described, I sometimes hang them by a projection or flange
formed upon the upper flange of a fire-dish, which flange rests
upon a corresponding projection on the inside of the casing."
When the latter modification is used the inventor provides for
a grated bottom to the fire-dish in the following language:
"The lower ring (f) may be formed in one piece with the
bottom of the fire-basket, and may be made solid or with
apertures.

.

.

.

Apertures may be formed in the plate (j)

to correspond to similar holes in the bottom of the fire-basket
so as to regulate the admission of air to the fuel:"
The Russell stove, therefore, contains all the elements of the
first claim of the complainants' patent, the perforated fire-pot

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

with a grate bottom, suspended by a flange from the body of
the stove, projecting into an ash pit or draft chamber, having
provision for the admission of air below the point of suspension of the fire-pot.
It is true that the device of Russell is not placed in a circular, or "cannon ' stove, consisting of a single cylinder, as defined in the patent of Rathbone & Itailes, the Russell stove
being composed of two cylinders, one of which forms the coal
magazine or reservoir. But we fail to see that any inventive
power was required to apply the same fire-pot to a different
kind of circular stove. That no invention was required seems
to us too plain for argument. The patent of Zebulon Hunt
shows a grated fire-pot of flaring form, suspended within the
draft chamber of the stove, and provided with a grated hottom, the fire-pot suspended in precisely the same manner as in
the patent in suit, and the ash pit is provided with means for
the admission of air below the point of suspension of the firepot. Hunt's stove was also a magazine stove.
We have no hesitation in holding that the supposed invention of Rathbone & lailes, as described and claimed in their
patent, was anticipated by the prior patents referred to.
Probably in anticipation or apprehension of this result, the
complainants, after the commencement of this suit, on the 30th
of October, 1882, filed in the Patent Office a disclaimer, which
they suppose has the effect of narrowing their patent, and of
obviating the objection of prior discovery. The substantive
part of the disclaimer is as follows, to wit:
"Your petitioners, 'William Hailes, &c., represent that in the
matter of certain improvements in coal stoves, for which letters-patent of the 'United States, No. 51,085, were granted
Lewis Rathbone and William ilailes on the 21st day of November, 1865, . . . they have reason to believe that through

inadvertence, accident, or mistake, the specification and claims
of said letters-patent are too broad, including that of which
said patentees were not the first inventors.
"Your petitioners, therefore, hereby enter their disclaimer
to so much of the first claim as covers perforations or openings
in the sides of a suspended fire-pot extending throughout the

IAILES v. ALBANY STOVE CO.

587

Opinion of the Court.

entire depth of sides, and limiting such perforations or openings to substantially the lower half of the fire-pot, the material
or substantial part of the thing patented in and by said claim
not hereby disclaimed being as follows:
"A fire-pot suspended from its upper edge with substantially
the upper half of its sides made solid, and substantially the
lower half of its sides containing perforations or openings."
Viewed as a disclaimer, this instrument naturally excites
attention. A disclaimer is usually and properly employed for
the surrender of a separate claim in a patent, or some other
distinct and separable matter, which can be exseinded without
mutilating or changing what is left standing. Perhaps it may
be used to limit a claim to a particlar class of objects, or even
to change the form of a claim which is too broad in its terms;
but certainly it cannot be used to change the character of the
invention. And if it requires an amended specification or supplemental description to make an altered claim intelligible or
relevant, whilst it may possibly present a case for a surrender
and reissue, it is clearly not adapted to a disclaimer. A man
cannot, by merely filing a paper drawn up by his solicitor,
make to himself a new patent, or one for a different invention
from that which he has described in his specification. That is
what has been attempted in this case. There is no word, or
hint in the patent, that the invention claimed was a fire-pot
with sides grated only half way, or part of the way, from the
bottom towards the top, or that such partially grated sides
have any advantage over those grated all the way to the top.
The first claim, as modified by the disclaimer, has nothing in
the specification to stand upon, nothing to explain it, nothing
to furnish a reason for it.
It is contended that the drawings annexed to the patent
may be referred to for the purpose of defining the invention

and showing what it really was. But the drawings cannot be
used, even on an application for a reissue, much less on a disclaimer, to change the patent and make it embrace a different
invention from that described in the specification. This is fully
and clearly shown in the recent case of Parker&
v. Tale Clock Co., ante, p. 87.

7/.ipple Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The counsel for the appellants suggests that there is a difference between §§ 4917 and 4922 of the Revised Statutes, (corresponding respectively to § 7 and 9 of the act of 1837,) and
that the disclaimer filed in this case satisfies the conditions of
the former of these sections. He says: "Evidently there are
two sections under which a disclaimer can be made in this
country: First,under § 4917, where the claim is too broad;
that is to say, in the language of the section, where the
patentee 'has claimed more than that of which he -as the
original and first inventor or discoverer ;'- Second, under
§ 4922, where a patentee 'has in his specification claimed to
be the original and first inventor or discoverer of any material
or substantial part of the thing patented, of which he was not
the original and first inventor or discoverer;' and it goes on
to'state that he 'may maintain a suit at law or in equity for
the infringement of any part thereof which was bona )de his
own, if it is a material and substantial part of the thing
patented, and definitely distinguishable from the parts claimed
without right.'"
We think that counsel is mistaken in supposing that these
sections have reference to different sets of circumstances as
grounds for a disclaimer. They both relate to the same condition of things in that regard, namely, to the case in which
a patentee, through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and
without any fraudulent intent, has included and claimed more
in his patent than he was entitled to, and where the part which
is bona jde his own is clearly distinguishable from the part
claimed without right. In every such case he is authorized
by § 4917 to file a disclaimer of the part to which he is not
entitled; and that is the only section which gives him this
right. The object of the other section (4922) is to legalize and
uphold suits brought on such patents as are mentioned in
§ 4917, to the extent that the patentees are entitled to claim
the inventions therein patented; but no costs are allowed to
the plaintiffs in such suits unless the proper disclaimer has
been entered at the Patent Office before the commencement
thereof; and no patentee is entitled to the benefits of this
section if he has unreasonably neglected or delayed to enter a
disclaimer.

CRAWFORD v. HEYSINGER.
Syllabus.

We do not see how it is possible to misunderstand the two
sections when read together, as it is necessary to read them.
One section authorizes a disclaimer to be filed in certain cases;
the other enables patentees to maintain suits in those cases,
provided a disclaimer is filed without unreasonable delay.
They are parts of one law, having one general purpose, and
that purpose is to obviate the inconvenience and hardship of
the common law, which made a patent wholly void if any
part of the invention was wrongfully claimed by the patentee,
and which made such a defect in a patent an effectual bar to
a suit brought upon it.
There is no such difference in the phraseology of the two
sections as to make them apply to different classes of cases.
They refer to the same class, and, being read together, throw
mutual light on each other. And viewed in that mutual light,
we think it clear that there is no authority for amending a
patent by means of a disclaimer in the manner in which the
appellants have attempted to amend their patent in the
present case.
The deoree of the Circuit Court is afirned.

CRAWFORD 'v. IIEYSINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES .FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 29, 187.--Decided December 12, 1887.

Assuming that claims I and 2 of Teissued letters-patent No. 9803, granted
July 12, 1881, to George W. Heyl, assignee of Henry R. Heyl, the inventor, for an "improvement in devices for inserting metallic staples," are
valid, they are not infringed by the ,' Victor tool," made under and in accordance with letters-patent No. 218,227, granted to William J. Brown,
Jr., August 5. 1879. and a second patent, No. 260,365, granted to the
same person, July 4, 1882.,
As to claims 1 and 2 of that reissue, namely, "1. -The combination of the
stationary staple-support or anvil A', and the sliding staple-guide B, with
the reciprocating slotted or recessed hammer, operating to insert a staple

