OCTOBER- TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

PLUMB v. GOOD1OW'S ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued November 1,1887.-Decided December 5,1887.

This case is reversed because the state -court failed to give due faith and
credit to the decree of this court in Homestead Company v. Valley Bailroad, 17 Wall. 153.

THIs was an action to recover the amount of taxes paid on

real estate in Iowa under circumstances similar in the main to
those described in Stryker v. Goodnow, ante, 527. This cause
was argued wih that cause. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
.Mr. C, -. Gatch for plaintiff in error. .Ar. Wlliam Connar
was with him on the brief.
Xr. George Crane for defendant in error.
MR1.

(HIEF JUSTICEWAiTE

delivered the opin;?71 of the court.

This is another suit brought by Edward K. Goodnow, assignee ofthe Iowa Homestead Company, to recover taxes paid
on "Des Moines River Lands" for the years 1864 to 1871, both
inclusive. For a general statement of the facts referende is
made to Strykeer v. Goodnow, ante, 527. Plumb, the plaintiff in
error, was defendant below, and set up the prior adjudication
in the suit of Homestead Cornpanyv. Valley Piailroad,17 Wall.
153,' a a bar to the action. This defence was overruled, and a
judgment given against him on the ground that he was not a
party tothat suit. Goodnow v. .Plumbe, 64 Iowa, 672. The
judgment was not only against Plumb personally, but it was
made a special lien on the lands, which were the subject of
taxation, because he was the actual owner at the time of the
levy. The case was treated' in all material respects the same
as that of Litchj~eld v. Goodnow, ante, 549. In this there
was error, ii our opinion.

PLUMB v. GOODNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

Edward Wade was a party to the suit as the apparent
owner of the lands now in question, and which were properly
described in the bill and included in the litigation. The record
in this case shows that the lands were conveyed by the Navigation and Railroad Company to Plumb in 1859, and he, in
1861, conveyed them to Wade in trust as security for a debt
he owed a bank. This deed was duly recorded in the proper
recording office. In 1865 the lands were sold by Wade under
his trust and co'nveyed to Edward Wesley, for the sole use and
benefit of Plumb. This deed'was not put on record before the
suit of the Homestead Company was begun: As soon as
Plumb heard of the suit he employed -counsel, and had an
answer filed in the name of Wade, setting up a defence to the
claim of the company, and asserthig that the superior title
was in those who held under the river grant. He paid his
proportion of the expenses of the litigation, and controlled the
defence, so far as Wade was concerned. His interests in the
suit were properly represented by Wade, whom he allowed to
appear on the records of the&ounty as the real owner of the
lands. If there had been a decree against Wade for the taxes,
and a lien therefor established on the lands, he would have
been bound, and could not have resisted the -enforcement of
the lien. So, tob, if a personal decree had been rendered
against Wade for the money, it would have been conclusive in
an action by Wade to recover from him money paid for his use
in satisfaction of the decree. He was bound, because he was
represented in the suit by Wade, under whom he claimed.
This case is the converse of that of Litchfleld v. Goodnow, ante,
549. There Mirs. Litchfield was not represented in the suit
by any one who was a party, and, therefore, she could not
claim -the benefit of the d6cree. Here Plumb was represented
by Wade, and he stands, consequently, as if he had been himself a party by name.
There were other -questions in the case that might have been
considered by the court below, but as they were not, and the
decision was put entirely on the gr6und that Plumb was noti.
party -to the decree which was pleaded in" bar, we need not
pass upon them here.
VOL. Cxxm-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Citations for Appellants.

Because, therefore, the court failed to give due faith and
credit to the decree of the court which was pleaded in bar,
We reverse thejudg nt, and remand the causefor fJurther
.proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.

LACOMBE v. FORSTALL'S SONS.
APPEAL PROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OP THE UNITED STATES FOF
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIAN A.
Argued November 16, 17, 1887.-Decided December 5,1887.

The respondents, holding a quantity of securities hypothecated as collateral
for an indebtedness due them from an insolvent bank, sold them by public
auction, in the manner stated in the opinion of the court, for less than
the debt and proved the balance of the debt. When the judgment declaring a dividend was entered, it was stated in it, both parties consenting,
that all the rights of both touching damages resulting from the sale of
the bonds were expressly reserved. Held, that this could not be construed into an admission of the liability of the respondents, or that a just
cause of action existed against them.
On the facts established the court holds: (1) That the complainants, in endorsing the bonds which are the subject of controversy as payable to
bearer after the sale which is objected to, and in delivering them in that
condition to the respondents, with the knowledge that they had. bee4 or
were to be sold again by them, and for the purpose of enabling the respondents to transfer the bonds with a good title, must be considered to
have waived any right to sue on the first sale; (2) that, conceding the
first sale to have been invalid, it was nevertheless the respondents' duty
to sell the bonds at as early a time as possible, and to place the proceeds
in the hands of their principals in payment of the debt for which the
bonds were pledged, and that they had done this with the consent and
aid of the comphiinants; and (3) that, on the complainants' theory of
the relief to,which they were entitled, their remedy was at law, and not
in equity.

BILL n E QuTY.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Complainants

appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Y. W. S. Parkerso and A&. Crammond Kennedy for appellants cited: Iouisiana Savings Bank v. Bussey, 27 La.

