DEWEY v. WEST FAIRMONT GAS COAL CO.

329

Statement of the Case.

DEWEY v. WEST FAIRMONT GAS COAL COMPANY.
WEST FAIRMONT GAS COAL COMPANY v.
DEWEY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGLNIA.
Submitted November 9, 1857.

Decided November 21, 1887.

A New "York corporation contracted with a partnership consisting of citizens of West Virginia, to furnish a specified quantity of coal within a
fixed time at an agreed rate. After delivery of a portion of the coal, the
partnership refused to receive more, whereupon the corporation sued the
partners in a state court of West Virginia to recover damages for a
breach of the contract. On the motion of the defendants this action
was removed from the state court to the Circuit Court of the United
States, on the ground that the parties were citizens of different States.
The partners then, in conformity with the provisions of a statute of West
Virginia which authorizes a reditor', before obtaining judgment, to institute any suit to avoid a conveyance of tite estate of his debtor which he
might institute after obtaining judgment, and to have the relief in respect
to said estate which he would be entitled to after judgment, filed a bill
in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States to set aside an assignment of the property of the corporation as fraudulent, and to subject
that property in the hands of the assignee to tie payment of their debt.
It was objected to this bill that the court was without jurisdiction, as
the assignee, who was one of the respondents, was a citizen of West
Virginia, of which the complainants also were citizens. Held, that the
objection was not well taken, the equity suit being an exercise of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court ancillary to that which it had already acquired
in the action at law, and which it might entertain according to the rule in
Krippendowf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, and Pactfic Railroad Co. v. Misso n i
Pacific Railway Co., 111 U. S. 505.

From a careful examination of all the evidence in this case, the court is
satisfied with the action of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, and the
cross-bill as dependent upon the bill.

IN equity to set aside an assignment by an insolvent debtor as
fraudulent, and to subject the assigned property to the payment
of the complainants' debt. The respondents filed a cross-bill.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Citations of Counsel.

The decree dismissed the bill for want of equity and the crossbill as dependent upon it. The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. .Daniel Lamb, 2ft. Williagr H. Hfearne, ant 3fCr.
1lenry 31. Russell, for Dewey and others cited: Railway Co.
v. Railway Co., 111 U. S. 506 ; Great Falle3s0fzf. Co. v. Henry,
25 Grattan, 575; ripjendofv. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276; Ragsdale v. Hagy, 9 Grattan, 409; Jones v. Andrews, 10 Wall. 327;
Jaynes v. Brock, 10 Grattan, 211 ; Zindszay v. Jackson, 2 Paige,
581; Taylor v. Okey, 13 Yes. 180; Gay v. Gay, 10 Paige, 369;
Ifelsey v. -obby, 16 Pet. 269; ffudson -,. .line, 9 Grattan,
379; Eeilbutt v. fJick'on, L. R. 7 C. P. 438; Foot v. Bentley,
44 N. Y. 166; Swett v. Slhumway, 102 Mass. 365; Stoops v.
,'mith, 100 Mass. 63; .Kellogg Bridge Co. v. Hamilton, 110
U. S. 108; SItel.?ard v. Pybus, 3 Man. & Gr. 868; Jones v.
fuse, L. R. 3 Q. B. 197; ffogins v. Plympton, 11 Pick. 97;
(ihapin v. Dobson, 78 N. Y. 74; Gerst v.'Jones, 32 Grattan,
518; IThite v. 3Liller, 71 N. Y. 118; S. C. 78 N. Y,. 393; Tolcott v. _hEozmt, 9 Yroom (38 N. J. L.), 496; Randall v. .Yewson,
2 Q. B. D. 102.
_Yr. William P. Hubbard and I/.. James .Norrow, Jr., for
the West Fairmont Gas Coal Co. cited: 2 Benj. on Sales, 4th
Am. ed., page 916, notes and cases cited; Phillips,&e., Construction Co. v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646, 652; Davis v. -Fish.,1
G. Greene (2 Iowa), 447; S. C. 48 Am. Dec. 387; .Heddecn v.
Roberts, 134 Mass. 38; Clianter v. Hlopkins, 4 M. & W. 399;
Ollivant v. Bayley, L. R. 5 Q. B. 288; -3fason v. Chappell, 15
Grattan, 572; Port CarbonIron Co. v. Groves, 68 Penn. St. 149;
Brown v.% dgington, 2 Man. & Gr. 279; Hoe v. Sanbo'rn, 21
N. Y. 552; 5. C 78 Am. Dec. 163; Cmuninghanv.H7all, 4 Allen,
268, 274; Archdale v. 3fore, 19 Ill. 565; Whitaker v. Eastwiek, 75 Penn. St. 229; Zirk v. Nice, 2 Watts, 367; Sandi
v. Taylor, 5 Johns. 395; 5. C. 4 Am. Dec. 374; .Kain v. Old,
2 B. & 0. 627; Osborn v. Gantz, 60 N. Y. 540; Robinson
Works v. Chandler, 56 Ind. 575; Gardinerv. Gray,4 Campb.
144; Fisher v. Samuda, 1 Oampb. 190; Couston v. c acpkan
L. R. 2 Sc. App. 250; Hargous v. Stone, 5 N. Y. (1 Seld.) 73,
86; 3fcC'ormnick v. Sarson, 45 N. Y. 265; Dounce v. Dow, 64

DEWEY v. WEST FAIRMONT GAS COAL CO.

331

Opinion of the Court.

N. Y. 411; Reed v. Randall, 29 N&.Y. 358; S. C. 86 Am. Dec.
205; oldme v. Clancy, 58 Barb. 590; T-ar'en Glass Woyrks
Co. v. Keystone Coal Co., 65 Maryland, 547.
MR. JUSTICE

MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

In October, 1872, a contract was entered into between the
firm of Dewey, Vance & Company and the West Fairmont
Gas Coal Company, the terms of which are stated in a letter
from the formei to the president of the coal company, dated
October 7, 1872, as follows: "We beg to ratify our verbal
agreement of October 4th, by which you are to deliver us until
July, in 1873, an average of three cars of coke per day, at six
cents per bushel of 41 pounds, we to settle for same by our
note of 90 days from the 1st of each month for the previous
month's delivery." This was acknowledged as an acceptance
of a previous offer in identical terms by a letter from the president of the coal company to Dewey, Vance & Company.
[Tnder this contract the coal company were bound to deliver
681 car-loads as ordered, equivalent to 424,944 bushels, which
at the contract price would amount to $25,496.64. From the
date of the contract to :November 30, 1873, the coal company
delivered in all 246 car-loads, which had been ordered and
were received and paid for according to the terms of the contract, the period during which deliveries were to have taken
place having been extended by mutual consent. Dewey, Vance
& Company refusing to order or receive any more, the coal
company, on January 17, 1877, brought an action at law
against them in the Circuit Court of Ohio County, West Virginia, for damages for the breach of the contract. The defendants in that action caused it to be removed from the state
Court to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of West Virginia on June 7, 1877, on the ground that the
parties were citizens of different States, the West Fairmont
Gas Coal Company, the plaintiff, being a corporation of the

State of New York, and the defendants citizens of West Virginia and Ohio. Thereupon, on October 3, 1877, the surviving
partners of the firm. of Dewey, Vance & Company filed the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

present bill in equity against the West Fairmont Gas Coal Company, the plaintiff in the action at law, and the West Fairmont
and Marion Consolidated Gas Coal Company, corporation organized under the laws of West Virginia, alleging that under
the contract of October 4, 187 2, the sale of coke was by sample,
the quality of which was to be equal to that of a certain trial lot
previously tested, accompanied by an implied warranty that
the coke to be delivered under the contract should also be fit
and suitable for the purpose of being used in the furnace of
Dewey, Vance & Company for making pig-iron; that in point
of fact the coke actually delivered under the contract was not
equal to the quality of the sample, and was not fit for the
purposes for which it was to be used; that in consequence
thereof the complainants had ceased and refused to order or
receive any more than that delivered and paid for, and that by
reason of the bad quality of the coke actually received and
used they had suffered a large amount of damages; that the
West Fairmont Gas Coal Company in the meantime had become and was insolvent, and that they had made a fraudulent
assignment of their property to their codefendant, the West
Fairmont and Marion Consolidated Gas Coal Company. The
prayer of the bill was that the amount of damages sustained
by the complainant might be ascertained, that the assets of
the West Fairmont Gas Coal Company, so fraudulently assigned, be subjected to the payment thereof, and that in the
meantime all proceedings in the action at law brought by the
West Fairmont Gas Coal Company should be stayed.
The right to maintain such a creditor's bill is based upon
the code of West Virginia, c. 133, ยง 2, which provides that:
"A creditor, before obtaining a judgment or decree for his
claim, may institute any suit to avoid a gift, conveyance, assignment, or transfer of or charge upon the estate of his
debtor, which he might institute after obtaining such judgment or decree, and he may, in such suit, have all the relief in
respect to said estate which he would be entitled to after obtaining a judgment or decree for" the claim which he may be
entitled to recover."
To this bill the defendants in the first instance objected, by

DEWEY v. WEST FAIRMONT GAS COAL CO.

333

Opinion of the Court.

way of plea and demurrer, for want of jurisdiction in the, court,
on the ground that one of the defendants, the West Fairmont
and Mlarion Consolidated Gas Coal Company, was a citizen of
the State of West Virginia, of which also a portion of the
complainants were citizens. This objection, however, is not
well taken. The suit in equity was an exercise of jurisdiction
on the part of the Circuit Court ancillary to that which it had
already acquired in the action at law, which it might well entertain according to the rule adjudged in Zifppendorfv. Hyde,
110 U. S. 276, and Paci% Railroad Co. v. -MissouriPacfic
Railway Co., 111 U. S. 505.
The defendants having answered, denying the equity of the
bill, set up their right to recover damages for the alleged
breach of the contract on the part of Dewey, Vance & -Company, in refusing to receive the remainder of the coke deliverable under the contract, by way of cross-bill, in which they
sought a decree for the amount thereof. Issues having been
made upon the bill and cross-bill, the cause was heard upon its
merits, when the Circuit Court rendered a decree dismissing
the bill for want of equity, and the cross-bill, Nyith costs, to the
original defendants as dependent thereon. From this decree
an appeal is prosecuted by the original complainants, and also
by the defendants, by way of cross-appeal, from so much as
dismisses their cross-bill.
From a careful examination of all the evidence
in the cause,
we are satisfied with the conclusions of the Circuit Court.
We find as matter of fact that the sale of coke was not by
sample. A trial lot of 34 car-loads, prior to the making of the
contract, was furnished and used, the complainants being satisfied with it, but there was no agreement, either express or
implied, that all deliveries under the contract should be equal
to it in quality. The object of the test evidently was to determine, on the part of the complainants for themselves, whether
they were willing to run the risk of using coke to be manufactured by the coal company from the slack of their mines at
the pice offered. The coke which was subsequently furnished
under the contract was used by the complainants and paid for
according to the contract without objection, except as to a lot

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

furnished in December, 1872, which was complained of as
being inferior. On investigation it turned out to have been
made from material taken from a slack pile outside of the mine
which had been for some time exposed, and had become unfit
for the purpose. Thereafter no material was used except the
fresh slack taken from the inside of the mines, and deliveries
continued to be made as ordered until the last which took
place in November, 1873. There was no warranty expressed,
nor can any be reasonably implied from the circumstances,
that the coke under the contract should be suitable for use in
the furnace for making pig-iron. On the contrary, it was
expressly understood that- it would not be suitable for that
purpose by itself. The only question to be determined was
whether it could be used in combination with Connellsville
coke, which was the standard for that purpose, and if so, in
what proportions; to determine this was the object of testing
the trial lot. The complainants continued to use it, as already
stated, from time to time, without objection or complaint, paying for what they received according to the terms of the contract, and not at any time giving notice of any intention to
refuse the further performance of the contract, although ceasing to give afiy orders after November, 1873. On November
28, 1873, the coal company, in a letter from its president to
Dewey, Vance & Company, asked for the reason for the order
to discontinue shipping, in reply to which, on December 4,
1873, Dewey, Vance & Company wrote: "Yours of the 28th
inst. was duly received. We were accumulating stock, and
stopped shipments from Fairmont and curtailed from Connellsville; have no definite idea at what time we shall again
need." No further communications appear to have taken place
between the parties until the leginning of the action at law.
We think the Circuit Court did not err upon the merits in
dismissing the complainants' bill, and, as the cross-bill was dependent upon it and sought no relief purely equitable, it was
also properly dismissed, with costs to the complainant therein,
thereby remitting it to its rem edy in the pending action at law.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordinglycfflmned.

