DAVIS v. KEY.
Opinion of the Court.

DAVIS v. KEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TILE DISTRICT OF COLUMIA.
Argued October 18, 1887.-

Decided October 31, 1887.

A decree dismissing a bill for a partnership accounting affirmed, on the
ground that the plaintiff had regarded the partnership agreement as never
having gone into effect or as having been cancelled; and that part of the
matters in dispute had been settled by a subsequent agreement between
the parties.

equity. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
2flr. Henry E. Davis, appellant, in person.
.11r. John P ul Jones for appellee. 'XMr. Heber J. Atay was
with him on the brief.
IN

Ml. JUSTICE BLATCFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, in April, 1881, by Henry E. Pavis, administrator de bonis non, of Philip B. Fouke, deceased, against
John J. Key. The object of the bill is to obtain an accounting
from Key as to transactions between him and Fouke under an
alleged partnership between them, entered into by a written
agreement made September 24th, 1869.
On the 10th of August, 1869, Key and Fouke, with one Hays
and one De Castro, entered into a written agreement of copartnership, as follows:
"Articles of copartnership entered into between John J. Key,
of the city of Terre Haute, State of Indiana; Philip B.
Fouke, now of the city of New Orleans, State of Louisiana;
H. T. Hays and J. 0. De Castro, both of the city of New
Orleans, State of Louisiana.
"It is agreed between said parties, that a copartnership is
this day formed between them, for the purpose of prosecuting
claims in behalf of the citizens of the United States of America
against the Government of Mexico and of citizens of the Government of Mexico against the Government of the United
States of America.

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion oi the Court.

"It is agreed between said parties, that the said Fouke,
Hays and De Castro shall procure claims of citizens of the respective governments named against the other, and attend to
taldng the necessary proof, and that the said -claims shall be
sent to said Key, at 'Washington City, accompanied with a
power of attorney from the claimant authorizing said Key to
prosecute said claims,-and authorizing him to receive from said
governments any and all .amounts that may be due and coming
to them.
"That said Key shall retain all fees, as agreed on by said
parties, and shall pay over to said parties, acting in the capacity of special attorneys for that purpose of the claimant, the
amount due to them as such special attorneys, both for the
amount awarded the claimant and for fees due Hays, Fouke,
and De Castro in the case, either at Washington, New York,
or New Orleans, as he may be directed from time to time by
either Hays, Fouke, or De Castro, acting as the special agent
of the claimant, whose power as such in all cases sent by them
is, to all intents and purposes, recognized by the parties to this
contract.
"That said Key shall retain, in all cases when no special
direction is given, the portion due to said firm, paying over to
the other parties at once, or accounting in such manner as they
may from time to time direct, for the proportion of the fees so
retained.
"It is agreed that all fees received under this copartnership
shall be divided, one-half part to said Key and the other halfpart to said Fouke, Hays, and De Castro.
"Said Key is to remain at Washington City, said Hays at
New Orleans, said De Castro to be in the city of Mexico, and
said Fouke is to render his services wherever they-shall be
needed.
"In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
seals this 10th day of August, 1869.
"JoHN J. KEY.
[sEL.]
"1P.B. FOTKE.
"HARRY T. HAYs.

"1
J.0. DE.CASTRO.

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]"

DAVIS v. KEY.
OpiniQn of the Court.

On 'the 24th of September, 1869, Fouke and Key executed
the following agreement:
"Articles of copartnership entered into between Philip B.
Fouke and John J. Key.
"It is agreed between said parties that a partnership be this
day formed between them, for the purpose of practising law
"in the city of Washington, District of Columbia, arid that
partnership shall be equal
"It is agreed each party shall give their undivided attention
to the business, and that said business embraces all matters
pertaining to the profession of the law, including prosecution
of claims against the Government of the United States, either
before Congress or the Court of Claims. Neither party shall
"have the right to use the name of the firm except in such
matters as pertain to the business of attorneys.
"It is understood and agreed that all sums received by said
Key or Fouke under an agreement of partnership heretofore
formed by said Key, Fouke, H. T. Hays, and J. 0. De Castro
shall be equally divided by said Fouke and Key.
"It is agreed that an account of expenses shall be kept
between said parties pertaining to their business, (except that
part in prosecuting claims under the treaty of July 4th, 1868,
between the United States and Mexico,) and all sums received
.by either partner from their business, and all sums retained
by either party, shall be entered on a book kept for that purpose, and the same shall be subject to the control of both.
"It, is agreed that this copartnership shll continue until
the 24th day of, September, 1871, unless dissolved by mutual
consent'
"In itness .whereof we have this 24th day of September,
1869, set our han-ds and-seals"
. . B. Yco-x.

[sE4L.]

"$oUN J. KEY. [sE.&.]"
The bill alleges that certain business was conducted by
Fouke and Key, pertaining to the profession of the law, and
within the scope of the agreement of September 24th, 1869,
VOL. CX=II-6

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and that no accounting has been had in regard to it, although
moneys were received by Key on account of it.
Two defences are set up in the answer of Key: (1) that,
in April, 1870, Fouke accepted the appointment of Public
Administrator for the Parish of Orleans, in the State of
Louisiana, and thereafter resided in New Orleans, and did not
practise law in the city of Washington, and that the copartnership formed by the agreement of September 24th, 1869,
was dissolved by the mutual, assent of the parties; (2) that.
by a written instrument, dated November 5th, 1875, executed
by Fouke and Key, and by Iays and De Castro, and by the
clients interested in claims guccessfully prosecuted under the
copartnership articles of August 10th, 1869, all matters between Fouke and Key, in respect to such claims, were settled
and adjusted.
A replication was filed to the answer, and proofs were
taken, and the cause was heard in the first instance by the
General Term. It dismissed the bill, and the plaintiff has
appealed to this court.
It appears that Fouke never complied with the terms of the
agreement of September 24th, 1869. The copartnership was
to continue until the 24th of September, 1S71, unless dissolved
by mutual consent. From April 2d, 1870, until after the
latter date, Fouke remained in New Orleans, discharging the
duties of the office of Public Administrator there, did not
practise law in the city of Washington, and did not give his
undivided attention to the business of the copartnership. Ie
returned to Washington in 1872 or 1873, and died there
October 3d, 1876, without having attempted to enforce the
agreement of September 24th, 1869. The evidence satisfies
us that he regarded that agreement as,never having gone into
6ffect,, or as having been cancelled., We are also of opinion,
that any claim under that agreement is inconsistent with the
terms (5f the, instrument of November 5th, 1875, executed bi
Fouke and Key with other parties, SQ far as the matters covered by that instrument are concerned.
[Te decree of the court below is ajJfrmed.

