OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

to perfect his right to recover it, in the absence of the exercise
of an option by the company, on the day the interest fell due,
to pay it in scrip. lHe had no right, by the terms of the
contract, to demand the scrip. It was for the company to
announce its election to pay in scrip, or, as it did, take no
action in reference to the issue of scrip. In the absence of an
election by the company, on the day the interest fell due, to
issue the scrip, the right of action of the plaintiff immediately
came into existence, without any demand on his part, to recover
the full amount of the interest mentioned in the bond.
The cases cited by the defendant on the question of damages
do not apply to an a.lternative contract like that in the present
case. It falls within those cases in which, if the contract be
that the promisor shall do one of two things by a certain day,
at his election, he cannot exercise his election after the day
has passed. This is familiar law, and needs no citation of
authorities.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is

Affir'med.

ROBISON v. FEMALE ORPHAN ASYLUM OF
PORTLAND.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MAINE.
Argued December 7, 1887.-

Decided December 19,1887.

In construing doubtful clauses in a will, the court will endeavor to ascertain the testator's intention through their meaning as reasonably interpreted in the particular case, rather than resort to formal rules, or to a
consideration of judicial determination in other cases, apparently similar.
The testator in this case provided in his will that his widow should have
the income of all his estate, she having the right to spend it, but not to
have it accumulate for her heirs; that his two sisters if living at the
time of the death of himself and his wife, or the one that might then be
living, should " have the incomaof all my estate as long as they may live,
and at their death to be divided in three parts, one-third of the income to
go to" a charitable institution, one-third to another institution, and one-.
third to another. Both sisters died before the testator. Held, that 'the

ROBISON v. PORTLAND ORPHAN ASYLUM.
Statement of the Case.
limitations iA the two subdivisions of the will were to be taken, in connection with each other, as a complete disposition, in the mind of the
testator, of his estate giving to the widow an estate for life, with an
estate over for life to the sisters contingent upon one or the other of
them surviving the widow, and with the ultimate remainder to the charitable institutions.
ROBERT I. ROBISON, formerly of Portland, in the State of
Maine, died on the 13th day of June, 1878, at that time a
citizen of the State of New York and resident of Brooklyn,
leaving a last will and testament, which was subsequently
admitted to probate in the Surrogate's Court of Kings County,
New York, and duly iecorded on December 27, 1878. Letters
testamentary thereon were on the same day issued and granted
to Jane S. Robison, his widow, who alone qualified 9s executrix. The testator at the time of his death was seized of real
estate in the city of Portland, and also possessed of a considerable amount of personal property.
The following was a copy of the will:

"I, Robert I. Robison, of Portland, in the State of Maine,
being in a sound disposing mind and memory, do make and
publish this my last will and testament. And, first, my will
is that my executors see that my body be buried in a decent
.and proper manner in the family vault in the Eastern Cemetery in the city of Portland aforesaid. Secondly, I will that all
my just debts be paid in full, and from the balance I will that
with whatever property may be standing in my wife's, Jane
S. Robison's, name, at the time of my death, that my executors make up said amount to the sum of eight thousand and
five hundred dollars, it being the amount, or thereabouts,
which she received from her father and mother's estates, it
being my will that the principal shall be kept good to her and
her heirs, but not the interest. This is to be in full for all
claims she may have on my estate arising out of the use of
her property. Thirdly, I further will that she may have ihe
income of all my estate, she having the right to spend the
same, but not to have it accumulate for her heirs. Fourthly,
it is my will that if my sister, Ann Smith, wife of Jacob Smith,

OCTOBER TERMT,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

of Bath, in the State of Maine, and Eleonora Cummings Robison, wife of Thomas Weeks Robison, of Kingston, Canada
West, be living at the death of myself and wife, Jane S. Robison aforesaid, that they or the one that may be then living
shall have the income of all my estate as long as they may
live, and at their death to be divided in three parts, one-third
part of the income to go to the Portland Female Orphan
Asylum, one-third of the income to the Widows' Wood Society, and one-third of the income to the Home for Aged
Indigent Women, all of the city of Portland and State of
Maine. Lastly, I do nominate and appoint my wife, Jane S.
Robiso-., and John Rand, Esq., to be my executors of this my
last will and testament.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name
and affixed my seal this thirty-first day of October, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two.

'(S'd)

ROBERT I. RoBIsoN.

[L.s.]

"Signed, sealed, and declared by the said Robert flsley
Robison to be his last will and testament in the presence of
us, who, at his request and in his presence, have subscribed
our names as witnesses hereto.
"CmUALFs

"B. F.
"JASoN

H.

ADA-S.

HArRuIS.

uRRY."

On December 29, 1881, the present bill in equity was filed
by Jane S. Robison, as widow and executrix, for the purpose
of obtaining a construction of the will, the defendants being
charitable institutions naned therein, and the only other
parties in interest, Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison, the persons mentioned in the fourth item of the will,
having both died before the testator.
It was contended on the part of the complainant that, in
consequence of the lapse of the devise and legacy to Ann
Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison, the bequest to the
defendants never took effect, and that consequently the complainant was entitled to the estate absolutely, by virtue of the

ROBISON v. PORTLAND ORPHAN ASYLUM.

705

Opinfon of the Court.

devise to her, or, in the alternative, because the testator had
died intestate as to that part of the estate mentioned in the
fourth subdivision of the will. The decre of the Circuit Court.
however, was, "that the complainant is entitled only to the
income of the estate during her natural life, and that the
fourth subdivicion of the last will and testament of the testator is operative and valid, and was so at the time the will
took effect, and that the defendant corporations acquired by
virtue thereof the right, from and after the death of the
complainant, to the perpetual income of the said estate."
To review that decree the present appeal was brought.
.Yr..Samuel B.

ClZake for appellant.

XMr,. John Ba.nd, for appellee, submitted on his brief.
MR. JusTicE MATTE.ws delivered the opinion of the court.
It is now contended in argument on the part of the appellant, 1st, that the language of the third subdivision of the
will, considered by itself, is sufficient to give to her the real
estate in fee and the personal estate absolutely; 2d, that the
bequest in the fourth subdivision of the will to Ann Smith
and Eleonora Cummings Robison is contingent on one of them
surviving both the testator and the complainant, and, as the
event happened, never became vested ; 3d, that the bequest
to the defendants is dependent upon the vesting of the bequest to Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings iRobison, being
affected'by the same contingency, namely, one of them surviving the testator and the complainant; and, 4th, that if the
interest of the complainant under the third subdivision of the
will must be limited to a life estate, as the bequests contained
in the fourth subdivision have lapsed, or cannot take effect,
the testator died intestate in respect to that portion of his
estate.
In support of the proposition that the bequest to the defendants must fall with that to Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison, counsel for the appellant rely upon the rule
laid down by Mr. Jarinan in the following language: "When
VOL. cxxm--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

a contingent particular estate is followed by other limitations,
a question frequently arises whether the contingency affects
such estate only or extends to the whole series. The rule in
these cases seems to be that if the ulterior limitations be immediately consecutive on the particular contingent estate in
unbroken continuity, and no intention or purpose is expressed
with reference to that estate, in contradistinction to the others,
the whole will be considered to hinge on the same contingency; and that, too, although the contingency relate personally to the object of the particular estate, and, therefore,
appear not reasonably applied to the ulterior limitations.
Thus, where an estate for life is made to depend on the contingency of the object of it being alive at the period when the
preceding estates determine, limitations consecutive on that
estate have been held to be contingent on the same event for
want of something in the will to authorize a distinction between them." 1 Jarman on Wills, 5th Am. Ed. by Bigelow,
*830.
But the rule referred to is one of construction merely, and
intended only as a formula for the purpose of classifying cases
in which the meaning is gathered from the language of the
testator expressing such intention, and is not to be applied to
instances in which it appears that the contingency is restricted
to the immediate estate. The same author divides those instances into two other classes: "First. Where the words of
contingency are referable to and evidently spring from an
intention which the testator has expressed in regard to that
estate, by way of distinction from the others. Secondly. The
contingency is restricted to the particular estate with which
it stands associated, where the ulterior limitations do not
follow such contingent estate in one uninterrupted series in
the nature of remainders, but assume the form of substantive
independent gifts."

Ibid. 831, 832.

Under the second of these classes is ranged the case of
Boosey v. Gar'ner, 5 De G. M. & Ia. 122. In that case, the
testator bequeathed to his two sisters the interest of his Long
Annuities for their lives, and, in case of one or both of their
deaths before his, he gave the whole interest in Long Annui-

ROBISON v. PORTLAND ORPHAN ASYLUM.
Opinion of the Court.

ties to his brother for life; at his death, (that is, the death -of
the brother,) the testator gave half of the' capital to his niece
A., his brother's daughter, to help to bring her up, till she
attained the age of twenty-one, then to receive half the capital; likewise, the testator bequeathed to his nephew S., his
brother's son, if not further family, his other half, in ease of
further family, to be divided between them, not dividing the
half left to A. It was held by Turner, L. J., that the bequest
to the niece and nephew was not contingent upon the death
of the sisters in the testator's lifetime, although the preceding
estate for life to the brother was.
But little aid, however, in such cases is to be derived from
a resort to formal rules or a consideration of judicial determinations in other cases apparently similar. It is a question
in each case of the reasonable interpretation of the words of
the particular will, with the view of ascertaining through their
meaning the testator's intention.
In applying this principle, th Supreme Judicial Court of
M:assachusetts, in the case of .etcalf v. FrarninghamParish,
128 Mass. 370, 374, speaking by Gray, 0. J., said: "The decision of this question doubtless depends upon the intention of
the testator as manifested by the words that he has used, and
an omission to express his intention cannot be supplied by conjecture. But if a reading of the whole will produces a conviction that the testator must necessarily have intended an interest to be given which is not bequeathed by express and formal
words, the court must supply the defect by implication, and so
mould the language of the testator as to carry into effect, so
far as possible, the intention which it is of opinion that he has
on the whole will sufficiently declared, -erson v. ])odge, 23
Pick. 287; Towns v. WFentworth, 11 Moore P. C. 526; Abbott
v. f.fiddleton, 7 H. L. Gas. 68; Greenwood v. Greenwood, 5 Oh.
D. 954."
Looking into the present will, therefore, for that purpose,
we find it evident that the testator did not intend by the
third subdivision of -his will to give to his widow an interest in
his estate beyond her life. This conclusion is not based on any
distinction between a bequest of the income of the estate and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

a bequest of the body of the estate itself; nor do we lay any
stress on the declaration in that clause, 11 she having the right
to spend the same, but not to have it accumulate for her heirs,"
although that language does afford an indication in support of
the conclusion. But whatever force, standing by itself, the
third subdivision might have, it is clear that the testator intended, in the event that his sister Ann Smith and Eleonora
Cummings Robison should survive both himself and his wife,
that they should have an estate for life, beginning at the death
of his widow. That would necessarily limit the widow's estate
to her own life. But as the estate given by the fourth clause to
Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison for their lives was
contingent on the event that one or the other of them should
be living at the death bf the wife, the question remains whether
that contingency also entered into the bequest in remainder to
the defendants. The fact that Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison died before the testator whereby the legacy to
them lapsed altogether, is not material, because if property be
limited upon the death of one person to another, and the first
donee happen to predecease the testator, the gift over would,
of course, take effect, notwithstanding the failure, by lapse, of
the prior gift. And this applies also whether the gift over of
the legacy or share is to take effect on the death of the prior
legatee generally or on the death under particular circumstances, -andwhether the legacy be immediate or in remainder.
It was so held in Wfilling v. Baine, 3 P. Wins. 113, where the
bequest was to A, but if he died under twenty-one, to B.
In I--Turmersto2e v. Stanton, I Yes. & B. 385, 388, it was said:
It seems formerly to have been a question whether a bequest
over, in case of the death of the legatee before a certain period.
could take effect where he died during the te-tator's life, though
before the period specified. In the case of lFilling v. Babi.
legacies were given to children, payable at their respective ages
of twenty-one; and if any of them died before that age, the
legacy given to the person so dying to go to the survivors; one
having died under twenty-one in the life of the testator, it was
contended that his legacy lapsed, and did not go over to the
survivors." The argument was that the bequest over could not

ROBISON v. PORTLAND ORPHAN ASYLUM.

709

Opinion of the Court.

take -place, as "there can be no legacy unless the legatee survives the testator, the will not speaking until then; wherefore
this must only be intended where the legatee survives the testator, so that the legacy vests in him, and then he dies before
his age of twenty-one. It was, however, held, and is now
settled, that in such a case the bequest over takes place."
It follows, therefore, that unless it. appear on the face of the
will that the gift to the defendants Was not intended to take
effect unless the prior gift to Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings Robison took effect, the former must be considered as
taking effect in place of and as a substitute for the prior gift
which, by reason of the contingency, has failed.
The scheme and intention, therefore, of the present will
seems to us, considering the third and fourth subdivisions to-'
gether, to be this: An estate for life to the testator's widow;
an estate over for life to Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings
:Robison, contingent on one of them surviving the widow, with
the ultimate remainder in fee as to the real estate and absolutely as to the personalty in the defendants. The language
of the contingency in the fourth clause, in our opinion, affects
only the intermediate life estate of Ann Smith and Eleonora
Cummings Robison, it being, we think, the plain intention of
the testator to give to his widow the estate in question only
for her life, and not to die intestate as to any portion of the
estate, and to limit the contingency only to the gift to Ann
Smith and Eleonorm Cummings Robison. It is true that the
ultimate gift to the defendants is described as commencing "at
their death," that is, at the death of Ann Smith and Eleonora
Cummings Robison, but that language is evidently used only
as indicating the expectation of the testator, which he would
naturally indulge, that the beneficiaries named would live to
receive the gift intended. Certainly those words are not to be
construed so as to require that the gift to tile defendants shall
take effect at the death of Ann Smith and Eleonora Cummings
Robison, irrespectively of the prior decease of the widow. The
limitations in the two subdivisions of the will are to be taken
in connection with each other as a complete disposition in the
mind of the testator of his estate, giving to the widow an

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

estate for life, with an estate over for life to Ann Smith and
Eleonora Cummings Robison, contingent upon one or the other
of them surviving the widow, with the ultimate remainder to
the defendants.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly
Ajffrmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC, IAILROAD COMPANY v.
MIA S.
EHEOR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRTORY OF DAKOTA.
Argued December 7,1887. -Decided December 19,1887.

Accident Ins. Co. v. Crandal,120 U. S. 524, affirmed to the point that the
refusal of the court to instruct the jury, at the close of the plaintiff's
evidence, that he is not entitled to recover, cannot be assigned for error,
if the defendant afterwards introduces evidence.
Under all the circumstances set forth in the statement of facts and the opinion of the court, it was for the jury to determine whether the failure on the
part of the plaintiff to work with his fellow-servant was, in fact, contributory neglgence on his part; and on the whole case it appears that
the cause was submitted by the court to the jury fairly, and with an
accurate statement of the law applicable to the relation between the
parties.

Tis was an action at law brought by the defendant in error
against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in the District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory of
Dahota, to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to
have been received by the plaintiff while in the employ of
the defendant, by reason of its alleged negligence.
The complaint alleged that on October 31, 1881, the plaintiff was in the employ of the defendant as a brakeman on
duty as such in the yard at the city of Fargo, used for the
purpose of switching cars to make up trains, in which service
a switch-engine was used; that at the time of the injury the
engineer of the switch-engine was one Bassett, who, it was
alleged, was a man of hasty and excitable disposition and
ungoverned, violent, and hasty temper, "and was and had

