BOND v. DAVENPORT.
Opinion of ohe Court.

BONI) v. DAVENPORT.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted December 8, 1887.-

Decided December 12, 1887.

On the stipulation of such of the parties as are before this court, the decree
of the court below is reversed without costs, and the cause is remanded
with instructions to proceed in accordance with the stipulation, but
without prejudice to the rights of other parties to the suit who were not
before this court on the appeal.
MOTION by complainant below and appellant here, for an
order-reversing the decree of the court below, and to remand
the cause. The motion was supported by a stipulatiQn authorizing it. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

1I&. Henry J'ayne for the motion.
Mm[R. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the complainant below from the following part of the decree in the cause:
" "It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said
respondent, Sarah G. Davenport, pay to the complainant the
sum of five hundred and sixteen and -,%dollars, with interest
at the rate of. six per cent per annum from the 10th dqy of
May, 1883, the same being the amount, with interest, which
the undivided half'of the south half of' block fifty-nine (59)
which descended to, and has become vested in, the said Sarah
G. Davenport as the mother, and an heir-at-law of the saidGeorge A. Davenport, deceased, is chargeable for and on
account of taxes on said block fifty-nine (59), which were paid
and discharged out of the money advanced by the said Equitable Trust Company on the 28th of June, 1875 ; and That on
failure to pay the said sum within the time herein limited the
said master sel,-at public sale, so much of the said Sarah G.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Davenport's undivided half of the south half of said block
fifty-nine (59) as shall be necessary to pay the same.
'" Such sale to be made at the same place and in the same
manner, and in all respects as is herein prescribed for the sale
of the property of the said George A. Davenport, and with
like effect. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
upon payment by the said Sarah -G. Davenport of the said
sum of five hundred and sixteen and -,% dollars to the said
complainant, complainant's bill be dismissed as to the undivided one-half of the south half of said block fifty-nine (59),
which vested in, and to which the said Sarah G. has become
entitled, as th- mother and heir-at-law of the said George A.
Davenport, deceased. And it is further ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that, as between the 'complainant and the said
Sarah G. Davenport, the said Sarah G. Davenport recover of
complainant the costs of this suit, so far as made, in trying
the issue of the sanity of said George A. Davenport at the
time of the making and delivery of said nortgage set up in
complainant's original bill."
The only parties to the suit who are before this court are
Henry R. Bond, trustee, complainant below and appellant,
and Sarah G. Davenport. These parties have filed in this
court the following stipulation:
"In the Supreme Court of the United States.
"Henry R. Bond, Trustee, Appellant,)
IV.

Sarah G. Davenport, Appellee.
"Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Iowa.
"In the before mentioned suit it is stipulated by and between
Henry iR. Bond, trustee, complainant and appellant, The
Equitable Trust Company of New London,, Connecticut, the
holder of the bonds secured by the mortgage sought to be
enforced, and Sarah G. Davenport, appellee, being the sole
parties in interest, as follbws, -to *it:
"1. Said SarahL G. Davenporit hereby withdraws the a-aswer
and cross-petition filed.by, her in said suit, and all evidence

BOND v. DAVENPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

offered and introduced by her in said Circuit Court, and consents and agrees that the same shall not be considered- as part
of the record.
"1. It is agreed that -a decree shall be: entered by the
Supreme Court in said suit, reversing the decision and decree
of the said Circuit Court, in so far as said court found in favor
of said Sarah G. Davenport, and in so far as said court by its
decree denied to complainant the relief by him prayed, as
against the undivided half of the south half of block fifty-nine
(50), in the city of Davenport, Iowa, claimed by Sarah G.
Davenport, as rnother and heir-at-law of George A. Davenport, deceased, and in so far as said court, by its said decree,
undertook to dismiss complainant's bill as against said property,
and tax certain costs to complainant, and that this cause be
remanded to said Circuit Court, with instructions 'to enter a
decree in complainant's favor, declarig the sums owing upon
said bonds, secured by said mortoage, to be a lien upon the
premises in said mortgage, described as of the date of said
mortgage, and directing sale of sufficient of said premises to
pay the same, and further directing that the receiver, heretofore appointed in said cause shall turn over to the complainant
all the funds in his hands arising from the rentals of said
premises, the same to be credited upon the amount found to
be owing upon said bonds secured by said mortgage before
sale of said premises, and further directing that the complainant be perlnitted to further plead and bring in new parties if
so advised.
"3. The complainant and appellant is excused from printing the record in this suit, save and except such portions thereof as to him shall seem material to enable the court to dispose
of said suit under this stipulation.
"14. The attorney or solicitor who has entered his appearance in this suit is authorized to consent to such demand or
requirement of the complainant, or the said court, as shall
enable the complainant to have the said decree of the Circuit
Court reversed, said cause remanded, and a final decree entered
in the Circuit Court in complainant's favor, and for that purpose is hereby authorized to appear in said Circuit Court to
any pleading filed by the complainant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"5. No personal judgment shall be entered against the said
Sarah G. Davenport in said suit, or any costs taxed either
againsther or in her favor.
"November 16, 1887.
"HNRY iR. BOND, Trustee,
"By JAmN & HOFFMAN, Attorneys.
"SARAu G. DAvENorT.

[SEAL.]

"THE EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY,

"By

JAYNE & HOFFMAN, Attorneys.
1"W. F. BRANNAN,

."Of Counsel for Complainant.
"GEo. E. HUBBELL,
"Attorney for Sarah G. Davenport."

The appellant now moves that the foregoing part of the
decree, from which the appeal was taken, be reversed in

accordance with the stipulation of the parties, and that the
cause be remanded with instructions to enter a decree in favor
of the complainant as agreed.
[MIs motion is granted and the decree reversed without costs;
and the cause is remanded 'with instructions to proceed in
accordance 'with theforegoing stipulation of the parties to
this avpeal, but without prejudice to the rights of the other
parties to the suit.

