1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

BARNSTONE v. UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON ET AL.
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE ORDER

No. A-978.

Decided May 12, 1980

Application to vacate the Court of Appeals' order vacating, on a specified
condition, the District Court's order compelling respondents to broadcase a certain television program, is denied.

Circuit Justice.
On May 9, 1980, the District Court for the Southern District of Texas entered a temporary restraining order compelling respondents to broadcast "The Death of a Princess,"
a television program to be distributed by the Public Broadcasting Service, on May 12, 1980, at 8 p. m. Today, the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit vacated the District Court order
on condition that the respondents "tape and preserve the
program in issue." Applicant seeks relief from the Court of
Appeals order. The respondents oppose the application, and
represent that "The Death of a Princess" will be preserved on
videotape for later airing should the applicant obtain a
permanent injunction. The Public Broadcasting Service has
filed an amicus brief also asking that the application of the
applicant be denied.
Although applicant requests that the Court grant certiorari
and reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals, in purpose
and effect applicant is requesting that the order of that court
be vacated, thereby reinstating the temporary restraining
order of the District Court. Such a request normally comes
to me as Circuit Justice. Although I may have considered
referring this to the entire Court, a quorum is not present.
I therefore exercise my authority as Circuit Justice to rule on
applicant's application.
Upon consideration of the papers, I deny the application.
I have consulted informally with each of my Brethren who
was present at the Court when these papers arrived late this
MR. JUSTICE POWELL,

BARNSTONE v. UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON
1318

1319

Opinion in Chambers

afternoon. Although no other Justice has participated in
the drafting of this order, I am authorized to state that each
of the three whom I consulted would vote to deny this application. Of course, this action should not be taken as expressing a view on the merits of the questions raised in this case.
See Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S. 1201, 1204 (1972) (PowELL,
J., in chambers).

