OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

MARTEN ET ux. v. THIES, DIRECTOR OF COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SOCIAL
SERVICES, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-972.

Decided May 16, 1980

Application to stay California Court of Appeal's order declining to continue applicants' right to visit their prospective adoptive child, pending
review by this Court, is denied. It appears unlikely that four Members
of this Court would vote to grant plenary review, and the record amply
supports the Court of Appeal's finding that further legal obstacles to
the child's placement in another adoptive home would be to the child's
detriment.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants Kelly Marten and Kathy Marten have asked me
to stay an order of the California Court of Appeal declining
to continue their right to visit their prospective adoptive
daughter, Sarah, pending disposition of applicants' appeal or
petition for a writ of certiorari to this Court. The Court of
Appeal earlier had rejected applicants' appeal from an order
of the Superior Court upholding the decision of the respondent
placement agency to terminate applicants' status as Sarah's
prospective adoptive parents. Because I do not believe that
four Members of this Court will vote to hear applicants' ultimate appeal or petition, and because the Court of Appeal
specifically found that further legal obstacles to Sarah's placement in another adoptive home would be to the child's detriment, I will deny the requested stay.
The historical facts in this case are not in dispute and
may be gleaned from the application and the opinion of the
California Court of Appeal. In early 1976, applicants, who
are husband and wife, qualified as prospective adoptive parents with respondent San Bernadino County Adoption Services (the Agency). On May 17, 1977, Sarah, then 15 weeks
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

MARTEN v. THIES
1320

Opinion in Chambers

old, was placed in applicants' home on a "quasi-adoptive"
basis pending final adoption at some later date. At that time,
applicants agreed to inform the Agency of any change in their
domestic circumstances.
Unbeknownst to the Agency, applicants had been experiencing marital problems even before they took custody of Sarah.
These problems finally culminated in a separation in January
1978, when Kelly Marten left his wife and Sarah and moved
in with another woman. Contrary to their original agreement, however, applicants did not inform the Agency of this
change in circumstances. Applicants apparently remain separated as of this date.
In April 1978 the Agency learned of applicants' separation
through a third party. The Agency sent first one and then
another social worker to Kathy Marten's home to interview
Ms. Marten and to assess Sarah's environment. The first
advised applicants that removal of Sarah from their custody
was a possibility, but that she would have to consult her
superiors. The second social worker concluded that Ms.
Marten's psychological state was deteriorating and recommended that Sarah be removed from applicants' home. Upon
receiving these reports, the Agency's acting chief of adoptions
and its director agreed that Sarah should be removed from
Ms. Marten's custody and that the removal should take place
without notice to applicants. This latter determination was
based on their belief that notice would place Sarah in
"imminent danger" because of the perceived likelihood that
Ms. Marten would flee from the State with the child. On
August 21, 1978, Sarah was, in fact, removed from Ms. Marten's custody without prior notice and was placed in a foster
home.
Pursuant to applicable California law, applicants sought
administrative review of the Agency's decision to terminate
their status as Sarah's prospective adoptive parents. After a
hearing, the "Review Agent" issued a decision upholding the
Agency. He found, inter alia, that there had been substan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

tial cause to believe that Sarah was a child whose health and
safety had been in jeopardy, that she had been in imminent
danger, and that the jeopardy would have been greatly
increased if prior notice of the removal had been given to
applicants.
On applicants' petition to Superior Court for a writ of mandate, that court found that the conclusions of the Review
Agent were amply supported by the record and that return of
Sarah to applicants "'would not be in the best interest of the
child, and in fact would be detrimental to the child.'" 99
Cal. App. 3d 161, 167, 160 Cal. Rptr. 57, 60 (1979).
The Court of Appeal affirmed, rejecting each of the contentions that applicants claim they will advance in their
appeal or petition to this Court. First, the appellate court concluded that, while preremoval notice to custodial "parents" in
applicants' position was a normal requisite of procedural due
process, California law specifically permitted removal without
notice where "[t]he agency director has reasonable cause to
believe the child is in imminent danger. . . ." 22 Cal. Admin.
Here, according to the
Code ยง 30684 (d)(1)(A) (1976).
Court of Appeal, substantial evidence supported a finding that
Ms. Marten might flee if notified and that such flight would
endanger the child. In particular, the Court of Appeal cited
"(1) the husband and wife's concealment of their marital
differences in order to obtain the adoptive placement;
(2) their failure to report their separation as required by
their agreement with the Agency; (3) the wife's previous
conduct in taking the child to an unauthorized destination
out of the state; (4) the wife's emotional instability and
over-dependence on the child for her emotional needs;
(5) insensitivity of both husband and wife to the child's
emotional and developmental needs; and (6) the fact
that the fear of losing the child had been the stated reason for their untruthfulness and subterfuge." 99 Cal.
App. 3d, at 172, 160 Cal. Rptr., at 63.

MARTEN v. THIES
1320

Opinion in Chambers

Second, the Court of Appeal confronted applicants' contention that their marital separation should not disqualify them
"a fortiori" from adopting Sarah. According to the court,
however, applicants' separation was only one factor in the
Agency's decision to terminate their status as prospective
adoptive parents. Other important considerations included
"emotional stability of the parents, parental sensitivity to
the child's developmental needs, trustworthiness of the parents and their willingness to abide by the rules, maturity of
the parents, motivation to correct deficiencies, and economic
security." Id., at 173, 160 Cal. Rptr., at 64. Looking to the
record, the appellate court concluded that all these considerations supported the Agency's decision.
Finally, the Court of Appeal rejected applicants' claim,
raised for the first time in their reply brief to that court,
that the Review Agent should have appointed independent
counsel to represent Sarah at the administrative hearing.
Overlooking the belated nature of this argument, the court
found no evidence of any divergence of interest between the
Agency and Sarah, and therefore no need "to further encumber the . . . placement procedure" by requiring provision of

independent counsel. Id., at 174, 160 Cal. Rptr., at 64.
Prior to their appeal to the Court of Appeal, applicants
had been visiting Sarah twice a week at her foster home pursuant to an agreement reached with the Agency. During its
consideration of applicants' case, the Court of Appeal entered
an order permitting applicants to continue their visits. When
that court entered its judgment, however, it specifically
vacated that order, noting that applicants had "already delayed the child's placement in a proper adoptive home by
several months, to the child's detriment," and that "[flurther legal maneuvers to perpetuate a relationship initiated
by their own wrongful act should not be tolerated." Id., at
175, 160 Cal. Rptr., at 64. After the Supreme Court of California declined to hear applicants' appeal, the Court of Appeal denied applicants' motion to recall its mandate and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

grant them continued visitation rights pending appeal or petition to this Court. It is this last order that applicants would
have me stay so as to grant them the visitation rights terminated by the court below.
Applicants state that in their ultimate appeal or petition
to this Court they will raise each of the three aforementioned
contentions rejected by the Court of Appeal. I find it highly
unlikely that four Members of this Court would vote to grant
plenary review on any of these issues.
In regard to applicants' claim that they were entitled as a
matter of procedural due process to preremoval notice, I
would note initially that such a claim depends entirely upon
their ability to show that they have been deprived of some
protected interest in life, liberty, or property. As I read this
Court's opinion in Smith v. Organization of Foster Families,
431 U. S. 816, 842-847 (1977), their success on this threshold
issue is far from certain. See also id., at 856-863 (STEWART, J.,
concurring in judgment). Even assuming such success,
however, applicants candidly, and somewhat cryptically, pose
the primary issue presented to this Court as whether authorities can dispense with preremoval notice on a finding of
" 'prospective' imminent danger" to the child as opposed to
"actual imminent danger." Statement of Points and Authorities 7. Like the court below, I find this distinction somewhat elusive. In any event, I am reasonably certain that,
given the uniform conclusion of the agencies and courts below
that there was indeed an imminent danger to Sarah, four of
my colleagues would not vote to examine that conclusion.
As for applicants' contention that they were disqualified as
prospective adoptive parents "merely" because they had separated, I note only that this contention finds no support in
the decision of the Court of Appeal or in any of the documents filed in support of the application.
Finally, applicants reassert their contention that Sarah
was entitled to independent counsel in the administrative
proceeding. Absent a showing of actual conflict or other

MARTEN v. THIES
1320

Opinion in Chambers

prejudice to Sarah, however, I see little chance that this argument will receive plenary review.
Applicants argue doggedly that the equities in this case
favor continuation of their visitation privileges pending disposition of their case by this Court. They rely in particular
upon affidavits by various child psychologists indicating that
such visits would not harm Sarah and actually would assist
her in overcoming the trauma of removal from applicants'
home. The Court of Appeal also was presented with these
affidavits, however, and concluded on the basis of all the
evidence that further visitation would not be in Sarah's best
interest. In a passage I consider quite telling, that court
stated:
"The concealment of [applicants'] marital difficulties and
[their] failure to report their separation suggests that the
initial placement may have been sought in an effort to
salvage a failing marriage. It is unfortunate when natural parents resort to such practices; to permit adoption
to be used for such purpose would be a serious breach of
duty on the part of the Agency." 99 Cal. App. 3d, at
173, 160 Cal. Rptr., at 64.
Removed as I am from the actual events at issue by nearly
3,000 miles and by several layers of judicial proceedings, I
decline to make my own assessment of Sarah's best interests
and instead defer to the amply supported conclusions of the
courts below.
The application is accordingly
Denied.

