AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

Rule 4. Process.
(a) Summons: Issuance.-Upon the filing of the complaint
the clerk shall forthwith issue a summons and deliver it for
service to the marshal or to any other person authorized by
Rule 4 (c) to serve it. Upon request of the plaintiff separate
or additional summons shall issue against any defendants.
(c) By whom served.-Service of process shall be made
by a United States marshal, by his deputy, or by some person
specially appointed by the court for that purpose, except
that a subpoena may be served as provided in Rule 45.
Special appointments to serve process shall be made freely.
Service of process may also be made by a person authorized
to serve process in an action brought in the courts of general
jurisdiction of the state in which the district court is held
or in which service is made.
Rule 5. Service and filing of pleadings and other papers.
(d) Filing.-All papers after the complaint required to be
served upon a party shall be filed with the court either before
service or within a reasonable time thereafter, but the court
may on motion of a party or on its own initiative order that
depositions upon oral examination and interrogatories, requests for documents, requests for admission, and answers
and responses thereto not be filed unless on order of the
court or for use in the proceeding.

1004

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

Rule 26. General provisions governing discovery.

(f) Discovery conference.-At any time after commencement of an action the court may direct the attorneys for the
parties to appear before it for a conference on the subject
of discovery. The court shall do so upon motion by the
attorney for any party if the motion includes:
(1) A statement of the issues as they then appear;
(2) A proposed plan and schedule of discovery;
(3) Any limitations proposed to be placed on discovery;
(4) Any other proposed orders with respect to discovery; and
(5) A statement showing that the attorney making
the motion has made a reasonable effort to reach agreement with opposing attorneys on the matters set forth
in the motion. Each party and his attorney are under
a duty to participate in good faith in the framing of a
discovery plan if a plan is proposed by the attorney
for any party. Notice of the motion shall be served on
all parties. Objections or additions to matters set forth
in the motion shall be served not later than 10 days after
service of the motion.
Following the discovery conference, the court shall enter
an order tentatively identifying the issues for discovery purposes, establishing a plan and schedule for discovery, setting
limitations on discovery, if any; and determining such other
matters, including the allocation of expenses, as are necessary
for the proper management of discovery in the action. An
order may be altered or amended whenever justice so requires.
Subject to the right of a party who properly moves for
a discovery conference to prompt convening of the conference,
the court may combine the discovery conference with a pretrial conference authorized by Rule 16.
Rule 28. Persons before whom depositions may be taken.
(a) Within the United States.-Within the United States
or within a territory or insular possession subject to the juris-

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

diction of the United States, depositions shall be taken before
an officer authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the
United States or of the place where the examination is held,
or before a person appointed by the court in which the action
is pending. A person so appointed has power to administer
oaths and take testimony. The term officer as used in Rules
30, 31 and 32 includes a person appointed by the court or
designated by the parties under Rule 29.
Rule 30. Depositions upon oral examination.
(b) Notice of examination: General requirements; special
notice; non-stenographic recording; production of documents
and things; deposition of organization;deposition by telephone.
(4) The parties may stipulate in writing or the court may
upon motion order that the testimony at a deposition be
recorded by other than stenographic means., The stipulation
or order shall designate the person before whom the deposition shall be taken, the manner of recording, preserving and
filing the deposition, and may include other provisions to
assure that the recorded testimony will be accurate and
trustworthy. A party may arrange to have a stenographic
transcription made at his own expense. Any objections under
subdivision (c), any changes made by the witness, his signature identifying the deposition as his own or the statement
of the officer that is required if the witness does not sign,
as provided in subdivision (e), and the certification of the
officer required by subdivision (f) shall be set forth in a
writing to accompany a deposition recorded by non-stenographic means.

(7) The parties may stipulate in writing or the court may
upon motion order that a deposition be taken by telephone.
For the purposes of this rule and Rules 28 (a), 37 (a) (1),
37 (b)(1) and 45 (d), a deposition taken by telephone is

RULFS OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

taken in the district and at the place where the deponent is to
answer questions propounded to him.
(f) Certification and filing by officer; exhibits; copies;
notice of filing.
(1) The officer shall certify on the deposition that the witness was duly sworn by him and that the deposition is a true
record of the testimony given by the witness. Unless otherwise ordered by the court, he shall then securely seal the
deposition in an envelope indorsed with the title of the action
and marked "Deposition of [here insert name of witness]"
and shall promptly file it with the court in which the action
is pending or send it by registered or certified mail to the clerk
thereof for filing.
Documents and things produced for inspection during the
examination of the witness, shall, upon the request of a party,
be marked for identification and annexed to the deposition
and may be inspected and copied by any party, except that
if the person producing the materials desires to retain them
he may (A) offer copies to be marked for identification and
annexed to the deposition and to serve thereafter as originals
if he affords to all parties fair opportunity to verify the
copies by comparison with the originals, or (B) offer the originals to be marked for identification, after giving to each
party an opportunity to inspect and copy them, in which event
the materials may then be used in the same manner as if
annexed to the deposition. Any party may move for an
order that the original be annexed to and returned with the
deposition to the court, pending final disposition of the case.
Rule 82. Use of depositionsin court proceedings.
(a) Use of depositions.-At the trial or upon the hearing
of a motion or an interlocutory proceeding, any part or all of
a deposition, so far as admissible under the rules of evidence
applied as though the witness were then present and testifying, may be used against any party who was present or

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

1007

represented at the taking of the deposition or who had
reasonable notice thereof, in accordance with any of the
following provisions:
(1) Any deposition may be used by any party for the
purpose of contradicting or impeaching the testimony of
deponent as a witness, or for any other purpose permitted
by the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(4) If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by
a party, an adverse party may require him to introduce
any other part which ought in fairness to be considered
with the part introduced, and any party may introduce
any other parts.
Substitution of parties pursuant to Rule 25 does not
affect the right to use depositions previously taken; and
when an action has been brought in any court of the
United States or of any State and another action involving the same subject matter is afterward brought between
the same parties or their representatives or successors in
interest, all depositions lawfully taken and duly filed in
the former action may be used in the latter as if originally taken therefor. A deposition previously taken
may also be used as permitted by the Federal Rules of
Evidence.
Rule 38. Interrogatoriesto parties.
(c) Option to produce business records.-Where the answer
to an interrogatory may be derived or ascertained from the
business records of the party upon whom the interrogatory
has been served or from an examination, audit or inspection
of such business records, including a compilation, abstract or
summary thereof, and the burden of deriving or ascertaining
the answer is substantially the same for the party serving
the interrogatory as for the party served, it is a sufficient
answer to such interrogatory to specify the records from

1008

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

which the answer may be derived or ascertained and to afford
to the party serving the interrogatory reasonable opportunity
to examine, audit or inspect such records and to make copies,
compilations, abstracts or summaries. A specification shall
be in sufficient detail to permit the interrogating party to
locate and to identify, as readily as can the party served, the
records from which the answer may be ascertained.
Rule 34. Production of documents and things and entry upon
land for inspection and other purposes.
(b) Procedure.-The request may, without leave of court,
be served upon the plaintiff after commencement of the action
and upon any other party with or after service of the summons and complaint upon that party. The request shall set
forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or
by category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity. The request shall specify a reasonable
time, place, and manner of making the inspection and performing the related acts.
The party upon whom the request is served shall serve a
written response within 30 days after the service of the request, except that a defendant may serve a response within
45 days after service of the summons and complaint upon
that defendant. The court may allow a shorter or longer
time. The response shall state, with respect to each item
or category, that inspection and related activities will be
permitted as requested, unless the request is objected to, in
which event the reasons for objection shall be stated. If objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall
be specified. The party submitting the request may move
for an order under Rule 37 (a) with respect to any objection
to or other failure to respond to the request or any part
thereof, or any failure to permit inspection as requested.
A party who produces documents for inspection shall produce them as they are kept in the usual course of business or

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

shall organize and label them to correspond with the categories
in the request.
Rule 37. Failureto make or cooperate in discovery: Sanctions.
(b) Failureto comply with order.
(2) Sanctions by court in which action is pending. If
a party or an officer, director, or managing agent of a party
or a person designated under Rule 30 (b) (6) or 31 (a) to
testify on behalf of a party fails to obey an order to provide
or permit discovery, including an order made under subdivision (a) of this rule or Rule 35, or if a party fails to obey an
order entered under Rule 26 (f), the court in which the action
is pending may make such orders in regard to the failure as
are just, and among others the following:
(A) An order that the matters regarding which the
order was made or any other designated facts shall be
taken to be established for the purposes of the action in
accordance with the claim of the party obtaining the
order;
(B) An order refusing to allow the disobedient party to
support or oppose designated claims or defenses, or prohibiting him from introducing designated matters in
evidence;
(C) An order striking out pleadings or parts thereof,
or staying further proceedings until the order is obeyed,
or dismissing the action or proceeding or any part thereof,
or rendering a judgment by default against the disobedient party;
(D) In lieu of any of the foregoing orders or in addition thereto, an order treating as a contempt of court the
failure to obey any orders except an order to submit to
a physical or mental examination;
(E) Where a party has failed to comply with an order
under Rule 35 (a) requiring him to produce another for

1010

RULES OF CML PROCEDURE

examination, such orders as are listed in paragraphs (A),
(B), and (C) of this subdivision, unless the party failing
to comply shows that he is unable to produce such person
for examination.
In lieu of any of the foregoing orders or in addition thereto,
the court shall require the party failing to obey the order or
the attorney advising him or both to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, caused by the failure, unless
the court finds that the failure was substantially justified or
that other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust.
[(e) Subpoena of person in foreign country.]
(Abrogated April 29, 1980, effective August 1, 1980.)
(g) Failure to participate in the framing of a discovery
plan.-If a party or his attorney fails to participate in good
faith in the framing of a discovery plan by agreement as is
required by Rule 26 (f), the court may, after opportunity for
hearing, require such party or his attorney to pay to any
other party the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
caused by the failure.
Rule 45. Subpoena.
(d) Subpoena for taking depositions; place of examination.
(1) Proof of service of a notice to take a deposition as
provided in Rules 30 (b) and 31 (a) constitutes a sufficient
authorization for the issuance by the clerk of the distict
court for the district in which the deposition is to be taken
of subpoenas for the persons named or described therein.
Proof of service may be made by filing with the clerk of the
district court for the district in which the deposition is to be
taken a copy of the notice together with a statement of the
date and manner of service and of the names of the persons
served, certified by the person who made service. The subpoena may command the person to whom it is directed to
produce and permit inspection and copying of designated

RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE

books, papers, documents, or tangible things which constitute
or contain matters within the scope of the examination permitted by Rule 26 (b), but in that event the subpoena will
be subject to the provisions of Rule 26 (c) and subdivision
(b) of this rule.
The person to whom the subpoena is directed may, within
10 days after the service thereof or on or before the time
specified in the subpoena for compliance if such time is less
than 10 days after service, serve upon the attorney designated
in the subpoena written objection to inspection or copying of
any or all of the designated materials. If objection is made,
the party serving the subpoena shall not be entitled to inspect
and copy the materials except pursuant to an order of the
court from which the subpoena was issued. The party serving the subpoena may, if objection has been made, move upon
notice to the deponent for an order at any time before or
during the taking of the deposition.
(e) Subpoena for a hearing or trial.
(1) At the request of any party subpoenas for attendance at
a hearing or trial shall be issued by the clerk of the district
court for the district in which the hearing or trial is held.
A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a hearing
or trial may be served at any place within the district, or at
any place without the district that is within 100 miles of the
place of the hearing or trial specified in the subpoena, or at
a place within the state where a state statute or rule of
court permits service of a subpoena issued by a state court of
general jurisdiction sitting in the place where the district
court is held. When a statute of the United States provides
therefor, the court upon proper application and cause shown
may authorize the service of a subpoena at any other place.

