SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson e al.

EIAGE.R VS. THiomsON ET AL.

1. If one of the stockholders of a corporation agrees to sell out his
shares to the others' for such price as a fair examination into the
condition of the company may show the stock to be worth, he is
entitled to have the investigation which he has bargained for.
2. If any fraud or deception is practised upon the' stockholder which
induces him to transfer his shares for less than7 they are worth, he
may be relieved in a court of equity.
3. But the burden of proving the charge of fraud is upon him who
makes it, since fraud cannot be presumed in a court of equity any
more than in a court of law.
4. Where an account is settled by parties themselves, and where there is
no unfairness, and where all the facts are equally well known to both
sides, their adjustment is final and conclusive.
5. Where the case is between vendor and vendee, the rights of the parties must be measured by the terms of the agreement under which
the sale and purchase were made.
John D. Hager brought his bill in the Circuit Court for the
district of New Jersey against John R. Thomson, Edwin A.
Stevens, James Neilson, and the said John R. Thomson, Edwin A. Stevens, James Neilson, Robert F. Stockton and Richard Stockton, trustees of the New Brunswick Steamboat and
Canal Transportation Company. The material averments of
the bill are substantially as follows:
The complainant wad the owner of seven and two-thirds
shares of the capital stock of the New Brunswick Steamboat
and Canal Transportation Company, a corporation of the
State of New Jersey, created by law in the year 1831; and as
a stockholder in the corporation he filed his bill in the Court
of Chancery of the State of New Jersey against Thomson,
Stevens and Neilson, three of the present defendants, charging
them with divers breaches of trust and frauds in the management of the company's business, and praying for an account
and other relief. The bill was answered and a replication filed.
But before all the witnesses were examined the defendants

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

81

Hager vs. Thomson et aL

proposed to compromise, and it was agreed through R. F.
Stockton, who was the agent of the company and of the defendants, that the suit should be settled. At that time the
defendant was the owner not only of the seven and two-thirds
shares of stock which he had had from the beginning of the
company's existence, but of one third of four other shares
which he had purchased after the commencement of the suit.
The company, from the time of its organization in 1831, had
been engaged in transporting passengers and freight between
New Brunswick and New York, and in the year 1835 carried
goods, coal, &c., between New York and Philadelphia by way
of the Camden and Amboy railroad and the Delaware and
Raritan canal. Abraham S. Nelson, of New Brunswick, was
the treasurer, but kept no account of any business except
that which was done by the company between New Brunswick and New York. The defendants, after the bill was filed
in the Chancery Court of New jersey, presented an abstract
account of the business of the company, which they represented as containing a true and just account of all the business
of the company, its receipts and expenditures. The complainant with his counsel attended at the office of the treasurer,
Mr. Nelson, at New Brunswick, and examined certain books
of account for about six hours without being able to ascertain
the correctness of the abstract. The original books of entry
were not present. The company have a set of books kept in
Philadelphia by one Gatzner and others, and another in New
York, kept by one Anderson, from which, and from the manifests, way-bills, receipts and vouchers, the monthly and other
settlements were made out and carried to the books kept by
Gatzner in Philadelphia. No books except those of Anderson
were submitted to the complainant, and they were false, fraudulent, and intended to deceive the stockholders. R. F. Stockton, on the 2d of September, 1847, agreed with the complainant that the company and the defendants in the Chancery suit
should purchase the complainant's stock for such price as, upon
a fair examination of the assets, it should be found that the
stock was worth, and on the 13th of January, 1848, Mr. Stockton met the complainant at Princeton Basin to carry out the
VOL. 1.

6

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomon et al.

agreement of compromise, Anderson and Gatzner being present. The partial exainination by the complainant of Anderson's books, and the assurances of Stockton, Anderson, and
Gatzner, induced the complainant to believe that the abstract
from the books of Anderson was correct, and contained a fair
statement and just and honest account of the receipts and disjbursements of the company. But the books of the company
kept in Philadelphia were not produced, nor did the complainant know at that time that there were any such books, or in
what manner the books kept by Anderson were made up.
He assumed that the abstract was right and did not question
its correctness, because he believed at the time that he was
dealing with men of integrity. Acting upon this belief, he
agreed that the balance of profits (forty-two thousand one
hundred and fifty-six dollars and sixty cents) was the correct
balance. A valuation was then agreed upon by the complainant and Stockton of the property, real and personal, belonging
to the corporation, which being added to the net earnings,
made the assets about two hundred and eighty-nine thousand
dollars. The complainant's proportion or part of the last
mentioned sum was paid to him, and he transferred his stock to
the company. After this compromise was made the complainant discovered that the abstract account upon which he had
based his agreement was false and fraudulent in a great many
particulars. The bill set forth specifically the false credits and
fraudulent charges, and prays that a just and accurate account
be taken of the company's business, profits and property, and
the defendants decreed to pay him such additional sum as it
shall be ascertained that his stock was worth.
The answer denies the allegation that there was any important error in the accounts or abstracts of accounts or books
submitted to the complainant, or that any assurance was falsely
given by the defendants of their correctness, or that there was
any fraudulent or deceptive means used to procure the plaintiff's assent to the compromise.
The statements in the answer do not materially vary from that
,contained in the bill concerning the terms and conditions upon
which the purchase of the complainant's stock was made by

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Hager vs. Thomson et al.

R. F. Stockton for the company.' The contract was that the
complainant should be paid such price as, upon a fair examination into the condition of the company, it might be found to
be worth.
A large number of witnesses were called-more than twenty; but their testimony needs not to be stated here, since the
effect of it upon the case can be seen in the opinion of Mr.
Justice Clifford.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and the complainant
took an appeal to this court.
Mr. Ransom, of New Jersey, for the appellant. The complainant is entitled to have from the defendants such a sum of
money for his stock as, upon a fair examination of the affairs
of the company, and a proper estimate of its assets, the stock
may be found to be worth; and if the examination at Princeton
was not a fair one, he is entitled to a restatement. The account taken at Princeton is not conclusive. .Perkdns vs. Hart,
Executor, (11 Wheat., 256;) S. C., 6 Curtis, 587; Chappedelaine
et al. vs. Dechenaux, Executor, (4 Cranch, 306;) S. C., 2 Curtis,
114; 1 Bald. C. 0. R.,418; Kelseyvs. Hobley, (16 Pet. R., 269.)
If the assurances given by the defendants to the complainant, that the books were correct and the abstrct true, were
false, then those assurances were a fraud upon the complainant,
which vitiates the account rendered, and entitles him to a new
account and a new valuation of his stock. 1 Story's Eq.
Juris., ยง 200; Atwood vs. Small, (6 Clark & Finnelly's R., 232,
233;) Gamp vs. Pulver,(5 Barb. Sup. Ct. R., 91;) Sandford vs.
Handy, (23 Wend. IR., 260;) Wilson vs. Force, (6 Johns. R., 111;)
Snyder vs. Finley, (Coxe, 78 ;) Gilbertvs. Hoffman, (2 Watts, 66;)
Hazard vs. Irwin, (18 Pick., 95;) -Rodgers, Executor, vs. Grundy,
(3 Pet. R., 210;) Smith vs. Richards, (13 Pet. R., 26.)
Another reason is, the defendants stood in the relation of
trustees to the complainant and the other stockholders of the
company, and being in possession of full and perfect information concerning its affairs, they took advantage of the superior
knowledge which their position gave them to purchase the
stock of the Qomplainant for less than its real value, withhold-

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson et aL

ing from him the information to which he was entitled. In
such cases the court will carefully inquire into and sift all the
circumstances in order to ascertain the perfect fairness and
propriety of the transaction, and if any unfair advantage has
been taken by withholding information or other fraudulent
dealing, the purchase will at once be set aside. Hill on Trustees, 587; 9 Yes., 246-7; Morse vs. -Royal, (12 Yes.. 373;)
Ayliff vs. Murray, (2 Atk., 59;) Boyd vs. Hawkins, (2 Dev. Eq.,
195, 329;) Schwartz vs. Wendell, (Walker's Oh., 627;) Farr vs.
Parr,(1 Hill's Eq., 390;) Stewart vs. Kissam, (2 Barb. S. C.,
494;) Allen vs. Bryant, (7 Ired. Eq., 276;) Hunter vs. Atkins, (3
M. & H., 135;) Herne vs. Mars, (1 Vern., 465 ;) Fox vs. Ma.
creth, (2 Brown's Oh. Cas., 400;) Scott vs. Davis, (Mylne &
Craig's R., 87;) Freeman vs. Brooks, (9'Pick., 212.)
Mr. Bradley, of New Jersey, for the appellees. Even
if the charges of error were not shown to be unfounded,
or satisfactorily explained, they should be deemed settled
by reason of the sale of the plaintiff's stock to the company
on the 13.th of January, 1848.
The plaintiff had already filed a bill against the defendants
Stevens, Thomson and Neilson, charging that the defendants
had never accounted for the earnings of the company in its
various branches of business, and that the books showing these
transactions were kept by and in the hands of the New York
and Philadelphia agents, Anderson, Decker, Gatzner, Free
man, A. S. Nelson, &c., and would show the results of the
business. The bill was fully answered, issue joined, testimony
taken, and the books of the company exhibited before a master and examined by the complainant and his counsel. After
the parties were thus at arms' length, a proposition was made
to compromise by the purchase of the complainant's stock at
what it appeared to be worth by examining the books and appraising the property. The proposition was agreed to and
carried out at Princeton. The books were produced and examined as fully as the plaintiff chose. He asked for no others.
A mistake was made at this appraisement, it is true, but it
was in favor of the complainant, the valuation of the property

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

85

Hager vs. Thomson el aL

being fifty thousand dollars too high. The complainant refused to correct it, saying it was too late to correct errors. He
took his own course to get at the value of the stock. He was
not misled; he was on his guard. He had already charged
the defendants with misleading him. Such a settlement will
not be disturbed without the clearest evidence of fraud on its
face. Stearns vs. Page, (7 Howard, 819;) Baker vs. Biddle,
(Baldwin's 0. 0. R., 418;) Drew vs. Power, (1 Schoale & Lefroy, 182;) Johnson vs. Curtis, (3 Brown's Oh. C., 266;) Wilde
vs. Jenkdns, (4 Paige, 481;) Lockwood vs. Thorne, (1 Kernan,
170;) Phillips vs. Belden, (2 Edw. Ch. Rep., 1;) Chappedelaine
vs. Dechenaux, (4 Cranch, 306;) Story's Eq. Jurisprud., ยง 523529; Beame's Pleas, 227; Small vs. Boudinot, (1 Stockton, 381.)
Officers and agents of a body corporate cannot be sued by
individual corporators, except in cases of fraud, and where no
other remedy can be had. Angell & Ames on Corp., 6th ed.,
see. 312; Bayless vs. Orme et al., (1 Freeman, Miss., 175;) Her.
sey vs. Veazie, (11 Shepley R., 9, 12;) Hodges vs. New Eng.
Screw Co. et al., (1 R. Isl. R., 312;) Smith vs. Hurd et al., (12
Mete. R., 371;) Abbot vs. Merriam, (8 Cushing's R., 588, 590;)
Robinson vs. Smith, (3 Paige, 222;) Austin vs. Daniels, (4 Denio,
301;) Mozley vs. Alston, (1 Phillips, 790;) Brown vs. Van -Dyke,
(4 Halst. N. J. Ch. R., 795;) Smith vs. Poor, (40 Maine R.,
415;) Forbes vs. Whitlock, (3 Edw. Ch. R., 446.)
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This was a bill in equity, and
the case comes before the court on appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of New Jersey,
dismissing the bill of complaint. It was filed on the eighteenth
day of May, 1852, and was brought by the appellant.
Some brief reference to the introductory allegations of the
bill of coniplaint, and to the transactions out of which the con
troversy has arisen, is indispensable, in order that the founda
tion of the claim made by the complainant may befully understood.
It appears that the New Brunswick Steamboat and Canal
Transportation Company, usually called the New Brunswick
Company, was incorporated on the, eighteenth day of 3 antiary,

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson el al.

1831, and that the charter expired, by its own limitation, on
the eighteenth day of January, 1852. Shortly after the charter was granted the company was duly organized, with a capital of twenty-five thousand dollars. Seven and two-thirds
shares of the stock were taken by the appellant, and he was
elected secretary of the company. They purchased a steamboat in 1831, which was employed in the transportation business between New Brunswick and the city of New York; and
they also purchased a sloop, which was employed in carrying
wood for the steamboat, and was also engaged in the transportation of merchandise on the Raritan river.
Two other companies were also created by the legislature
of the State of New Jersey, and authorized to engage in the
transportation business. One was called the Delaware and
Raritan Canal Company, incorporated in 1830; and the other
the Camden and Amboy Railroad Company, incorporated contemporaneously with the New Brunswick Company. Those
companies were united in 1831, and were subsequently known
as the joint companies. Most or all of the respondents were
largely interested in those companies, and in 1834 they purchased about four-fifths of the stock of the New Brunswick
Company; but the complainant still retained his shares and his
position as secretary of the company and clerk on the steamboat. Whatever might have been the object of the purchasers, it is evident that the transfer of the shares had the effect
to impart new energy and efficiency to the management of the
company, for they increased the capital stock to fifty thousand
dollars, making the par value of the shares two hundred and
fifty dollars; and, during the early part of the year 1835, made
an arrangement with the joint companies for transporting
freight through the canal and over the railroad between New
York and Philadelphia, and other intermediate places on the
route. Under this arrangement they also built and procured
canal boats and barges, and ran them on the Delaware and
Raritan rivers and through Staten Island sound to the city of
New York, operating them by means of steam-tugs furnished
by the joint companies. They also did a large business on the
Camden and Amboy railroad, using the locomotives, cars, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

87

Hager vs. Thomson et aZ.

steamboats of the railroad company for that purpose. Throughout this period they also continued to operate their steamboat
line between New Brunswick and New York; and in 1837
they engaged in the coal business, purchasing and transporting
coal to market, as is more fully set forth in the rl eadings.
Large profits were made by the company under these various
arrangements; but they also incurred very large expenses, and
the complainant became dissatisfied with the management of
the company. Failing to get any redress for his supposed
grievances, he, on the twenty-fifth day of March, 1847, filed a
bill in equity in the chancery court of the State against three
of the present respondents, charging them, as directors of the
company, with divers frauds and breaches of trust in the management of its affairs, and praying for an account of all the
business of the company. To that bill of complaint the respondents in the suit made answer, denying the charges, and
exhibiting what they alleged to be the actual circumstances of
the case. Pending that suit, the complainant, with two other
persons, purchased four additional shares of the stock of the
company, and the same were held in the name of one of those
persons for the equal benefit of the purchasers at the time the
suit was brought.
With these explanations as to the origin of this controversy,
we will proceed to state the foundation of the claim made by
the complainant. Among other things, he alleged, that after
he had proceeded to take testimony in that suit in support of
his bill of complaint, propositions of compromise were made
in behalf of the defendants, and that the propositions so made
were entertained by him in the spirit of conciliation. Those
propositions of compromise, he alleged, were made to .him
through R. F. Stockton, one of the respondents in this suit, who
was the agent of the company and of these respondents ; and
he also alleged, that it was agreed and arranged that the suit
should be compromised and settled in the manner and upon
the basis set forth in the present bill of complaint. Both parties
agree that the suit was settled in consequence of that arrangement, and that the stockof the complainant, including the four
shares purchased during the pendency of that suit, was trans-

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson et al.

ferred to the company; but they differ, in some respects, as to
the terms of Ihe agreement providing for the transfer, and still
more widely as to the circumstances under which the transfer
was made.
As alleged in the bill of complaint, R. F. Stockton applied
to the complainant, about the second day of September, 1847,
to ascertain whether there could not be an amicable settlement
of the matters involved in that suit, and that the conference
resulted in an agreement that the company and the defendants
in that suit should purchase his stock in the company, and pay
him therefor such price or sum as, upon a fair examination
of the afffairs of the company, and a proper and fair estimate
of the money, property, and assets of the company, the stock
should be found to be worth. Having set forth the supposed
agreement, the complainant proceeded to allege that he and
R. F. Stockton, accordingly, met at Princeton, on the thirteenth
day of January, 1848, to carry out and complete the same, for
the sale and purchase of the stock; that from a partial examination of the books kept by the treasurer, and from assurances there given by R. F. Stockton and others that a certain
abstract account there exhibited, and which was'taken from
the books, was correct, and contained a fair statement of the
business of the company, and of the moneys received and of
the disbursements made, and not knowing that there were
other books of the company not produced at the time the abstract was prepared, he was induced to believe that the account
was true and correct, and consequently did, upon the payment
of his proportionate part of two hundred and eighty-nine thousand dollars, transfer the stock owned by him, including the
four shares purchased during the pendency of the suit, to the
company, and received pay for the same from the company's
funds. But he alleged that he had since discovered that the
abstract account was false and fraudulent in very many particulars, as specified in the bill of complaint; and, therefore, insists
that he is entitled to have the settlement corrected and reformed, and to have an account taken of the entire property
and estate of the company, and to be paid such additional
sum for his stock as the same, upon such accounting, be found

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

89

Hager vs. Tkomson el al.

to have been worth.

On the other hand, the respondents,.in

their answer, admitted that they, by virtue of their being the last
president and directors of the company, became and were the
trustees of the corporation, with full power to settle the affairs,
collect the outstanding debts, and divide the moneys and other
property of the company among the stockholders, after paying
the debts due and owing from the corporation; but they
allege that the agreement was, that the complainant should
sell the stock, held and represented by him, at such price as
the same should be found to be worth, upon a fair valuation
of the property of the company, and that the complainant, if
he desired it, should have an opportunity of examining the
company's books to satisfy himself of their correctness. Substantially adopting the language of the bill of complaint, they
admitted that the complainant and R. F. Stockton met at
Princeton, on the thirteenth day of January, 1848, to make a
valuation of the property, and carry out the agreement; but
aver that the counsel of the complainant and the defendants
in that suit were present, as well as several other directors,
and the treasurer and clerk of the company. According to,
the answer, all those persons, with others connected with the
company, were present to aid and assist in making the valuation and statement of the property, and in such exaiiination
of the books of the company as the complainant or his counsel
might desire to make. In this connection, they also allege
that the books of the company were produced at the meeting
and were examined by the complainant and his counsel as
fully and for such length of time as they desired; and that
all such explanations of the same as the complainant or his
counsel required were fully and freely given by the p rsons
present, who were the persons best qualified%to make such
explanations. It was at that meeting that the valuation was
made; and the respondents alleged that all of the property of
the company, according to the best of their judgment, information, and belief, was fairly and liberally appraised, and to
the satisfaction of the complainant; and they also alleged,
that he finally agreed that the settlement should be made on
the basis that the books were correct as they stood on tho

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson et al.

second day of April, 1847, when the abstract exhibit was made
out, without taking into the account any subsequent transactions. One matter only, and that not now in dispute, was left
in doubt, and provision was made for its satisfactory adjustment. Assuming the abstract to be correct, it showed a balance in favor of the company of forty-two thousand one hundred and fifty-six dollars and sixty cents. That sum, added
to the appraised value of the property, ought to have been
taken, as the respondents alleged, as the true value of the
capital stock of the company; but they alleged that, at the
suggestion of the complainant, and by mistake on their part,
the sum of fifty thousand dollars, being the whole amount ol
the original capital, was added to that amout as the basis of
the settlement, making the sum of two hundred and eightynine thousand dollars, as alleged in the bill of complaint.
Pursuant to that settlement, the company paid to the complainant one thousand four hundred and forty-five dollars for
each share, paying therefor, as they alleged, two hundred and
fifty dollars on each share more than they ought to have paid
according to the terms of the agreement; and they denied that
there was any fraud or deception practised by them or their
agents in any part of the transaction. Some eighteen witnesses were examined by the complainant in support of the
allegations of the bill of complaint, but the respondents took
no testimony; and, after a full hearing in the Circuit Court,
a decree was entered dismissing the bill of complaint. 1. It
is contended by the complainant, that the agreement obligated
the respondents to pay him such price for the stock he transferred to them as, upon a fair examination of the affairs of
the company, and a proper and fair estimate of the moneys,
property, and assets of the same, the stock was found to be
worth; and if the examination of the books at Princeton was
not a fair examination of the affairs of the company, and the
estimate there made of the moneys, property, and assets of the
company was not a proper and fair estimate of the same, and
in consequence thereof he was induced to accept a less price
than the agreement authorized him to expect and demand,
then he is entitled' to have an examination of the books and

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

91

Hagervs. Thwmson el al.

the accounts, and to be paid such additional sum for his stock
as it may be found to have been worth upon such restatement.
Suppose the proposition to be correct as a general rule of law,
still it remains to be ascertained whether the theory of fact on
which it is based is sustained by the evidence. Undoubtedly,
if there was any fraud or deception practised upon the complainant, as alleged in the bill of complaint, to induce him to
transfer his stock for a less price than he was entitled to receive
upon the reasonable fulfilment of the condition of sale to
which he had agreed, and in consequence of such fraudulent
acts or misrepresentations, he actually parted with the stock
at less than its value on the basis of the agreement, then
clearly he would be entitled to relief; but the burden of proving the charge of fraud is upon the complainant. Fraud cannot be presumed or inferred without proof in a court of
equity, any more than in a court of law; and in both the rule
is, that he who makes the charge must prove it; and there are
some circumstances in this case, besides the fact that the
charge is denied in the answer, that render the application of
that rule peculiarly proper. As appears by the complainant's
own showing in the present bill of complaint, he became dissatisfied with the manner in which the affairs of the company
were conducted as early as the twenty-fifth day of March,
1847; and he accordingly alleges, that on that day he filed his
bill in the Chancery Court of the State of New Jersey against
three of the present respondents, charging them, as directors
of the company, with divers frauds and breaches of trust in
the management of its affairs. Answer was made to that suit
by the respondents, and the complainant continued to prosecute it until the thirteenth day of January, 1848, when the
settlement took place, and he transferred his stock. Most of
the substantial matters now in controversy were more or less
involved in that litigation; and, during the pendency of the
suit, both the complainant and his counsel, on two or more
occasions, were allowed to inspect the books of the company,
and his own testimony shows that they examined them as fully
and for such length of time as they desired. On one occasion
the treasurer and book-keeper appeared before the master in

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson et al.

cliancery, and, in obedience to a subpoena duces tecum, produced the books, and they were examined for several days.
His own testimony also shows that he was present at the meeting of the stockholders on the third day of April, 1847, when
the abstract in question was made; and several of his witnesses testify that the books were produced and submitted to
the examination of the stockholders. No suggestion was made
that any other books or vouchers, not produced, were necessary to a full exhibition and understanding of the affairs of the
company; and none of the circumstances elicited on the various occasions, when the books were produced, afford any
countenance whatever to the theory that any concealment,
deception, or evasion was practised by the respondents. On
the contrary, they furnish indubitable evidence that the complainant had every reasonable facility, and the most ample
means, to ascertain the true state of the accounts. Whatever
means of information the respondents had upon the subject
appears to have been laid before the complainant, and surely
he had no right to ask for more; and he is equally unfortunate, if the testimony adduced by him, as to what occurred at
Princeton on the thirteenth day of January, 1848, be com
pared with the allegations of his bill of complaint. It was at
that meeting, it will be remembered, that he accepted the
propositions of dompromise, and transferred his stock, knd
the witnesses substantially agree, that the allegations of the
answer are correct; that his counsel was present, and that he
examined the books to his satisfaction, without even suggesting that any others were desired. Complaint is now made
that the books of the agents in New York and Philadelphia
were not produced on that occasion; but his own witnesses
testify that he called for no others at the time; expressed himself as satisfied with the examination; and the bill of complaint admits that he agreed to the settlement,, accepted the
estimated price of his stock, and transferred it to the company.
Looking at the whole evidence, therefore, it is obvious that
the charge of fraud and deception is wholly unsustained by
proof, and we think the allegations of mistake, so far as the
complainant is concerned, are equally unfounded. But it is

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

93

Hager vs. Thomson el al.

fully proved that a mistake in his favor was made in the basis
of the settlement to the amount of fifty thousand dollars.
That mistake, as appears by the evidence, was made by adding the capital stock to the estimated amount of all the moneys,
property, and assets of the company, when, in point of fact,
the whole of the capital stock had been expended in purchasing the property already included in the valuation. Before
the consideration was paid for the stock the mistake was discovered, and the complainant was requested to consent to the
correction by a corresponding reduction from the basis of the
settlement, but he replied that it was too late to correct errors.
That refusal is a circumstance of some significance, plainly indicating that the complainant did not then think it for his
interest to rescind the contract, or%that he had been circumvented by the respondents. He who seeks equity should do
equity, is a maxim in equity jurisprudence, and we think that
rule has some application to this case. 2. Numerous mistakes
in the basis of the settlement are alleged in the bill of complaint, and some eighteen in number were urged upon the
attention of the court at the argument by the counsel of the
complainant. It was held by this court in a case between
creditor and debtor that a settled account is onlyprima facie
evidence of its correctness; that it may be impeached by proof
of unfairness, or mistake in law or fact; and, if it be confined
to particular items of accouht, it concludes nothing in relation
to other items not stated in it. -(Perkins vs. Harl,11 Whea.,
256.) Granting the correctness of that principle as applied to
the case then before the court, still it is obvious that it cannot
have any very direct application to the case under consideration. Much the largest number of controversies between
business men are ultimately settled by the parties themselves;
and when there is no unfairness, and all the facts are equally
known to both sides, an adjustment by them is final and conclusive. Oftentimes a party may be willing to yield something
for the sake of a settlement; and if he does so with a full
knowledge of the circumstances, he cannot affirm the settlement, and afterwards maintain a suit for that which he voluntarily surrendered. But the present case is one between ven.

SUPREME COURT.
Hager vs. Thomson el a2.

dor and vendee, and the rights of the parties must be measured
by the terms of the agreement under which the sale and purchase were made. Assuming that the agreement was as is
alleged in the bill of complaint, all the complainant could
claim was such a price for his stock as, upon a fair examination of the affairs of the company and a proper and fair estimate of its moneys, property, and assets, the stock should be
found to be worth. That examination into the affairs of the
company was made by the parties to their satisfaction, and
they also made the estimate; and there is no evidence of any
unfairness, or that they committed any error, except the one
already mentioned in favor of the complainant. On this point
the complainant called and examined the agents of the railroad line, and the agents of the canal lines, and the agents of the
coal barge lines, and they all testified, in substance and effect,
that the accounts, or the results of the business, as ascertained
by the monthly settlements, were correctly entered on the company's books. All of the accounts of the steamboat line were
kept by the treasurer, and it has already appeared that those
books were exhibited to the complainant at the time of his settlement. Nothing need be remarked respecting the steamtowing business, except to say that the matter was fully settled
between the two companies in 1846, and the result of the settlement was duly entered on the books of the company. Without entering more into detail, suffice it to say that the gravamen
of the bill of complaint is, that the complainant was induced
to sell his stock for less than its worth; but he has not introduced one word of proof to sustain the allegation, and his
own testimony shows that by mistake he received two hundred and fifty dollars on each share more than he was entitled
to according to the agreement. In view of the whole case, we
are of the opinion that the complainant has wholly failed to
support the allegations of the bill of complaint, and the decree
of the Circuit Court is accordingly affirmed, with costs.

