DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Sherman vs. Smith.

of the controversy, our opinion is, that no sufficient evidence
that the contract alleged to have once existed is proved; and
that the decree below dismissing the bill was also proper for
want of proof to sustain its allegations.
-Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

SHERMAN VS. SMITH.

The State of New York established a general banking law, containing .
provision that members of an association, organized under it, should
not be individually liable for its debts unless by their own agreement,
but reserving to the State the right to repeal or change the law. Af* terwards an amendment to the State constitution and an act of the
Legislature declared that the shareholders of all banks which should
continue to issue notes after a certain time must be individually responsible. Held:
1. That the stockholders of a bank, organized under the general banking
law before the amendment of the constitution, are liable for the
debts of the association in their individual capacity.
2. That the articles of association, made by the stockholders at the time
they organized themselves as a bank, were not a contract with the
State.
8. That the change made by the constitution and subsequent act of the
Legislature were not the less constitutional and valid, as against this
bank, because the stockholders, in their articles of association, had
declared that they would not be individually bound for the debts
of the concern.
Writ of error to the Supreme Court of New York.
Oliver Lee & Company's Bank, at Buffalo, was organized in
January, 1844, under the act of the Legislature to authorize
banking, passed 18th April, 1838. Watts Sherman was one
of the shareholders. In the articles of association it was agreed
that the shareholders should not be liable, individually, for the
debts of the bank, and this was in accordance with the act of
1838, under which the association was organized, and which
declared that-no shareholder should be liable unless the articles

SUPREME COURT.
Sherman vs. Smith.

of association signed by himself made Lim so. But this act
contained a provision that the Legislature might at any time
alter or repeal it. In 1846 a change was made in the constitution of the State which imposed individual liability on the
stockholders of banks, and in 1849 the statute was passed under which this proceeding was commenced and carried on to
enforce that responsibility.
In 1857 Henry B. Gibson, one of the stockholders, presented his petition, agreeably to the act of 1849, to a judge of
the Supreme Court of the State, setting forth that this bank
was insolvent, and praying that it might be declared so and a
receiver appointed, and such other relief given as might be required.

The proceeding thus begun ended in a judgment of

the Supreme Court, affirmed by the Court of Appeals, making
Watts and'the other tockholders liable in their individual capacity for an amount of the debts equal to their stock. James
M. Smith, the defendant in error, was appointed receiver.
The question argued here was, whether the constitution of
1846 and the statute of 1849 were or were not in conflict with
that provision in the Federal Constitution which forbids the
States to make any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The point was raised below, but was decided against the
stockholders in every court to which the cause was carried,
including the highest.
.r. Peck, of New York, (with whom was l3r. Porterand Mr.
John Van Buren,) for the plaintiff in error, cited: 1 Parsons on
Contracts, 399; Miller vs. . Y. EHrie R. 1B. Co., (21 ]3arbour,
513, 519;) HYam vs. McClairs, (1 Bay., 93;) Calderand Wife vs.
Bull and Wife, (2 Dall., 898;) Bennett vs. Boggs, (1 Bald., 74;)"
Schuyler et al. vs. HcUrea, (1 Har. & J., 249;) Commomealth vs.
.Me Closkey et al., (2 Rawle, 374;) Allen vs. Mc.Kean, (1 Sumner,
302, 303;) State Bank of Ohio vs. Knoop, (16 How., 385;) Th"
1. & C. Co. vs. Town, (1 N. H., 44;) Winter vs. Huseogee-R. &
Co., (11 Georgia, 438;) Kean vs. Johnson et al., (1 Stockton,
401;) Ex parte Johnson, (81 Eng. L. & Eq.;) 21 Barbour, 519,
supra; Livingston vs. Lynch et al., (4 Johnson Chy., 573, 582,
595-598;) 1 Sumner, 314; Laws of 1849, 340, Sec. 3; lart-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

589

Sherman vs. Smith.

ford I. BZ.Co. vs. Crossw]l, (5 Hill, 383, 386;) Green vs. Bid
die, (8 Wheaton, 2, 92;) -Dodge vs. Woolsey, (18 Howard, 331,
359;) Piqua Bank vs. Knoop, (16 Howard, 369;) Allen vs.
McKean, (1 Sumner, 278, 313, 314;) Livingston vs. Lynch
el al., (4 Johnson Chy., 573, 582, 595-598;) -. vs. 2X. &
I B. B. Co. and -P. & 1. B. B. Co., (21 Howard, 442;)
Mason vs. . inch, (2 Scam., 223;) IicFarlaqldvs. State Bank, (1
Pike, 410;) State vs. Williams, (2 Strobh., 474;) Town Ottawa
vs. County La Salle, (12 Ill., 339;) 2 Roll. Abr., 409; Taylor
vs. Hoinersham, (4 M. & S., 426;) 2 Parsons on Contracts, p.
13, N. r, and cases there cited; Lyman vs. Clark, (9 Mass., 235;)
Jackson ex dem. Stevens vs. Stevens, (16 Johnson, 110;) Covington
vs. .lVickle, (18 B. Monroe, 262;) Jackson vs. Stackhouse, (1
Cowan, 122;) Torrence.vs. MeDougald, (18 Georgia, 526;) 7
Bar. and Cross., 643, Bu. and Brandling; Townley vs. Gibson,
(2 Tenn., 701;) 1 Coke, 68, Alton Woods; Plowden, 365,
Duke of Norfolk's case; 5 Greenleaf's Grim., 19, Sec. 44; 5
Greenleaf's Grim., Tit. Private Acts and ]King's Grants, pp.
1-53; 4 Greenleaf's Grim., 174, See. 26-300, See. 8-303,
Sec. 15-345, See. 62, note 1; .Mitchell vs. Doggett, (1 Branch,
356;) Henry vs. Tilson, (17 Verm., 479;) aty of St. Louis vs.
Bussel, (9 Miss., 507;) Fletcher vs. Peck, (6 Gran., 87;) Dash
vs. Van Kleek, (7 Johnson, 417;) People vs.*Clark, (3 Selden,
385;) Gilmore vs. Shuter, (2 Mod.;) Couch vs. Jeffries, (4 Burr.,
2460;) Sayer and Wife vs. Wisner, (8 Wendel, 661;) 1 Harr.,
285, supra; 1 Branch, 356, supra; HEooker vs. Hooker, (10 S.
& M., 599;) Bruce vs. Schuyler, (4 Gilm., 221;) Morlot vs. Lawrence, (1 Blatch. Ct. Ct., 608;) United States vs. Cases Cloths,
(Crabbe, 356;) 4 Pike, 410, supra; Town Ottawa vs. County La
Salle, (12 Ill., 339;) Brown vs. County Comm's, (21 Penn.;)
Sackell vs. Andross, (5 Hill, 527,) elaborate opinion of Brown,
J.; Quackenbush vs. Danks, (1 Denin, 128;) Dewart vs. Purdy,
(29 Penn., 113;) U.S. vs. Stane, (1 Hemp., 469;) Aurora and L.
T. Co. vs. .oldhow, (7 Ind., 50;) Brown vs. FRfeld, (4 Mich.,
322;) People vs. C. Comm's, (3 Scam., 153;) Barnes vs. Mayor
Mobile, (19 Ala., 707;) Bruce vs. Schuyler, (4 Gilm., 221;) Brown
et al. vs. Lever, Sheriff, ft., (5 Hill, 221.)

SUPREDME COURT.
Sherman vs. Smith.

Mr. Ganson, of New York, contra, cited 21 N. Y. Rep., 9;
22 N. Y. Rep., 9 1 Rev. St., 600; -Pl. B. Co. vs. Thatcher, (1
Kernan, 102;) B. B. Co. vs. Dudley, (4 Kernan, 836;) iNorihern
R. B. Co. vs. Miller, (10 Bach., 260;) White vs. B.R. Go., (14
Bach., 559;) Stanley vs. Slanley, (26 Maine R., 191;) Charles
-River Bridge vs. Warren Bridge, (11 Pet., 549;) Ohio Ins. &[Tr.
Co. vs. Debolt, (16 How., 416;) Bank of Columbia vs. Attorney
General, (3 Wend., 588.)
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is a writ of error to.the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The proceeding was instituted under an act of the Legislature of the State of New York, to enforce the responsibility
of stockholders in certain banking corporations or associations.
The judge before whom the proceedings were instituted
declared the bank insolvent, and appointed Smith, the defendant in error, the receiver to take charge of its assets, and to
perform such other duties as the law imposed.
The case was afterwards referred to Judge Hall, as a referee,
to apportion the debts and liabilities of the bank which had
been cotracted after the first day of January, 1850, and remained ,ousatisfied among the stockholders, ratably in proportion t, 'heir stock, according to the principles declared by an
act P.a.s?,d April 5, 1849, and report to the court. Judge Hall
reported that the capital of the bank was $170,000, and its indebtedness $502,944 22; and further, that the assets in the
hands of the receiver, and an assessment upon the stockholders of an amount equal to the capital of the bank, would be
insufficient to discharge its debts and liabilities, and hence
apportioned upon each of the stockholders an amount equal
to the an 3unt of stock held by them respectively in the bank.
The sum of $7,000 was assessed upon the plaintiff in error.
The reteree further reported, that this bank was an association formed 28d April, 1844, under the general banking law
of the State, passed. 18th April, 1838; and inserted in his report a copy of the articles of association, among which is one
that declares: "The shareholders of this association shall not

DECEMBER TEILM, 1861.
Sherman vs. Smith.

be liable in their individual capacity for any contract, debt,
or engagement of the association."
The counsel for the plaintiff in error appeared before the
referee and objected to the assessment, on the ground, among
others, that the clause in the articles of association above referred to, and which were authorized by the general banking
act of 1838, constituted a contract; that the stockholders were
not to be made individually liable for the debts of the association, which was protected by the Constitution of the United States; and that the provision of the constitution of the
State of New York, of 1846, imposing upon them individual
liability, and the act of the Legislature of 1849 carrying it
into effect, were inoperative and void. The counsel further
objected, that a reservation by the State, in express terms, of a
power to impair by subsequent laws the obligation of contracts
between individual citizens, lawful at the time it was made,
would be in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
Numerous other objections were taken to the assessment
before the referee, but the above are the only ones material to
notice in this court.
The referee overruled these objections, and the report was
afterwards confirmed by the judge.
This judgment, confirming the report, was appealed from to
the Supreme Oburt of the State, which affirmed it. An appeal
was afterwards taken to the Cou-t of Appeals, the highest
court in the State of New York, in which the judgment in
the Supreme Court was affirmed, and the record remitted to
that court to have the judgment carried into execution.
As this case comes before us under the 25th section of the
judiciary act, the only question involved is, whether or not
the court below erred in denying a right set up by the plaintiff in error under the Constitutiofi of the United States; in
other words, whether the constitution of the State of New
York of 1846, or the act of the Legislature of 1849, or both,
which subjected the stockholders of the bank to personal liability for its debts accruing after the first day of January, 1850,
impaired the obligation of any contract with the stockholders
in its charter?

SUPREME COURT.
Sherman vs. Smith.

The general banking law of 1838, under which this bank
was organized, provided in the 23d section, that "no shareholder of any such association shall be liable in his individual
capacity for any contract, debt, or engagement of such association, unless the articles of association by him signed shall have declared that the shareholdershall be liable."
The 15th section provided, tliat "any number of persons
may associate to establish offices of discount, deposit, and circulation, upon the terms and conditions, and subject to the
liabilities, prescribed in this act."
One of the articles of association, as we have already seen,
provided, thatlthe shareholders should not be liable in their
individual capacities for any contract, debt, &c.
The 32d section of the general banking act provided, that
"the Legislature may at any time alter or repeal this act."
The argument on the part of the plaintiff is, that this stipulation of the stockholders in the articles of association from
exemption from all personal liability for the debts of the institution, constitutes a contract within the authority of the act
under which it was organized, that cannot be legally impaired
by the provision in the constitution of New York, or by the
act of 1849, which seeks to change the obligation, and impose
upon them personal liability; that, in respect to this bank, the
provision in the constitution and the law are void as against
the Constitution of the United States.
Now, in the first place, it is to be. observed, that the article
of association relied on is but an affirmation of the principle
contained in the 23d ection of the act of 1838, and can be
entitled to no greater effect or operation than the law itself,
unless, indeed, by incorporating it into the articles, it can be
made permanent or perpetual. The section expressly exempts
the individual liability of the stockholder, but confers the
privilege upon the association to subject him to personal liability if they think fit. It was competent for the stockholders
to avail themselves of this privilege in their articles of association, and thus, perhaps, increase public confidence in the
credit of the institution. But we can discover no authority
in the section or any necessity or propriety on the part of

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Sherman vs. Smith.

the association, for incorporating the law itself into their articles. Certainly, in so doing they cannot change it, or make
it more or less effectual.
In the second place, we remark, that this article of association is not within any authority conferred on the stockholders
by any provision of the general banking law.
By the 15th se;tion, any n'umber of persons may associate
to establish offices, &c., upon the terms and conditions, and
subject to the liabilities, prescribed by the.act. These terms
and conditions, as it respects the personal liability of the stockholders, are found in the 23d section, which exempts them,
unless they see fit to impose it upon themselves. It is not in
their power to change the rule of liability except as specified
in the section, and that they have not attempted.
This article of association, therefore, being a mere attemI I
to re-enact a provision of the law, and this even without an F
authority in the general charter, cannot be regarded as a coi tract in any legal sense of the term, and, of course, not withi a
the protection of the provision -of the Constitution of tle
United States.
Another view of this question, even assuming that tI.J
stipulation of the stockholders in the article of association
amounted to a contract, is equally conclusive against the stockholder.
According to the 15th section, the association as authorized to establish a bank of discount, deposit, and circulation,
"upon the terms and conditions, and subject to the liabilities,
prescribed in this act." It was not competent for the association to organize their bank upon any other terms or conditions,
or subject to any other liabilities, than those prescribed in the
general charter. Now, the 32d section, which reserved to the
Legislature the power to-alter or repeal the act, by necessary
construction, reserved the power to alter or repeal all or any
one of these terms and conditions, or rules of liability, prescribed in the act. The articles of association are dependent
upon, and become a part of, the law under which the bank was
organized, and subject to alteration or repeal, the same as any
other part of the general system.
VOL. i.
38

SUPREME COURT.
Sherman vs. Smith.

The saving clause in the constitution of the State of New
York has been referred to, which provided, that "nothin g contained in this constitution shall affect any grants or charters to
bodies politic or corporate made by this State, or by persons acting
under its authority. This provision saved the charter of the
bank in this case and all others organized under the general
banking law, as well as all those created by special charters,
but it saved each of them as a whole, as an entirety; the
charters remained- after the adoption of the constitution the
same as before, with all their privileges and disabilities intacL
'We do not perceive that this provision has any bearing upon
the question in the case.
It is unimportant to inquire into the effect of this provision
of the constitution of the State of New York, or of the act
of 1849, when applied to the pei'sonal liability of the stockbolder for debts of the bank existing at the adoption of the one
or the passage of the other, as no such question is presented
in the case. The constitution imposed the liability only in respect to all debts contracted after the first day of January,
1850, and the act of 1849 simply carries the provision into execution. Neither do we inquire whether or not this constitutional provision applied to existing banks. as that question has
been determined by the State court, to which it belonged.
Our inquiry has been, assuming this to be the true construction, whether or not any contract in the charter of the bank
with the State has been impaired within the meaning of the
Constitution of the United States, and we are perfectly satisfied that the answer taust be in the negative.
Judgment of the State court afirmed.*
* Mr. Justice Nelson also, and at the same. time, delivered the judgment of the
court iathe case of Watts and Sherman vs. Smith, in which the same question
of law was preseW.ad, and decided in the same way.

