SUPREME COURT.
Farneyvs. Towle.

quired, it would not have helped him, as it will not sustain an
ejectment, in the Federal courts. (23 How., 285, 249; 21 ib.,
481.)
There are other questions discussed by the learned counsel
for the respective parties; but as the examination of them is
not material to the decision of the case, we forbear noticing
them.
Judgment affirmed.

FARNEY vs. TowLE.

1. In a case where an alleged violation of the Constitution of the United
States is the ground of error, the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction,
unless the point presented by the assignment and joinder was raised
and decided in the State court to which the writ is directed.
2. It must appear that the point was raised in the State court; that the
party called attention to the particular clause in the Federal Constitution relied upon, and to the right claimed under it, and that the
question thus distinctlypresented was ruled against him; and if these
things do not appear, the judgment of the State court cannot be reviewed here.
Error to the Superior Court of the city of New York.
Inasmuch as this case was dismissed for want ofjurisdiction,
it is unnecessary to state the arguments of counsel upon points
not alluded to in the opinion of the court. That opinion contains all that is necessary to a full understanding of the question decided.

Mr. Field, of New York, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Ellingwood, of New York, for defendant in error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. This is a writ of error to the
Superior Court of the city of New York, and the error assigned
is that the court maintained the validity of a statute of that
State by which new trustees had been substituted in place of

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Farney vs. Towle.

those appointed by a testator, and authorized to carry into execution the trusts created by the last will of the deceased. And
the plaintiff in error alleges that this law was a violation of that
article of the Constitution of the United States which declares
that "no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts."
But no such point appears to have been raised in the State

court, and this article in the Constitution does not appear to
have been even referred to or noticed in any part of the proceedings. The answer of the plaintiff in error, it is true charges
in general terms that the law was unconstitutional and void; but
from the context it would seem that this charge was applied to
the constitution of the State rather than to that of the United
States; and even if it could be construed as applying to the
latter, it has repeatedly 'heen declared by this court, as will appear by the reports of its decisions, that in order to give it jurisdiction, it must appear that the point was raised and decided
in the State court; that the attention of the court was called
to the particular clause of the Constitution of the United States
upon which the party relied, and to the right he claimed under
it; and that, with the question thus distinctly presented, the
decision was against him.
This writ of error must, therefore, be dismissedfor want of jurisdicton.

