SUIREME COURT.
Inbusch vs. Farwell.

IwBUSCHi VS. FARWELL.
1. Partnership goods were attached on mesne process against three partners, for a partnership debt; property released on bond conditioned
to pay the judgment which may be recovered against the defendants; suit discontinued against two defendants for want.of juridiction, and prosecuted to judgment against the administrator of
the other: Held, that the plaintiff may recover from the sureties
in the bond the amount of the judgment.
2. Sureties in such a bond are sureties of the partnership, and if compelled to pay the money, they have an action for reimbursement
against all who were partners at the date of the bond.
3. A judgment against one partner or his administrator (the other part.
ners being out of the jurisdiction) binds the partnership property,
and if partnership property be attached in such a case and not released, the marshal is bound to sell it and apply the proceeds to tho
satisfaction of the judgment.
4. A judgment for a partnership debt recovered against one of the partners is payable out of the proceeds of partnership property in pre.
ference to the individual debts of the partner sued.
Writ of error to the District Court of the United States for
the district of Wisconsin.
James Buchanan, Henry Eastman, and Patten McMillan
were partners trading under the firm of Buchanan, Eastman
& Co. Charles B. Farwell was a creditor of the firm, and
commenced an action in the District Court against all the partners by summons, with attachment. The marshal attached
personal property of the partnership, and served the summons
on Buchanan and McMillan. Afterwards, all three of the deIndants appeared to the action. A bond was executed by
James Buchanan, John G. Inbusch, and John D. Inbusch, referring to the action, reciting the attachment of the defendants'
goods, and conditioned for the payment of the amount of the
judgment that might be recovered against the defendants. On filing
this bond an order was made to release the defendants' goods,
which was done. Subsequently, it being made to appear that
two of the defendants, Buchanan and Eastman, were citizenui

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
InbuscA vs. Farwdll.

of Illinois, the plaintiff discontinued his action as to them for
want of jurisdiction in the court. The death of the other defendant was suggested, and his administrator was substituted.
The action proceeded against the administrator of McMillan
to verdict and judgment.
The present suit is against John D. Inbusch and John G:
Inbusch on the bond in which they were sureties, and on which
the goods of Buchanan, Eastman & Co. were released from the
custody of the marshal. The defence was that the plaintiff
had not recovered judgment against the defendants, and therefore the condition of the bond was not broken. But the judge
of the District Court refused so to charge the jury, and ruled
that the suit would lie on the bond to recover the amount of
the j udgrment rendered against the administrator of McMillan,
one of the defendants. Verdict and judgment were accordingly
given for the plaintiff, and the defendants took their writ of
error.
Mr. Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, for plaintiffs in error.
"rr. Hawley, of Illinois, and M11r. Stanbery, of Ohio, for de4
fendants in error.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This is a writ of error to the District Court of tbe United States for the district of Wisconsial
As appears by the transcript, the suit was brought on the nineteenth day of October, 1859, by the present defendant, and the
proceedings in the suit show that he had judgment in the court
below, and that the original defendants sued out this writ of
error. It was an action of debt, upon a bond signed by one
James Buchanan, for and on behalf of himself, Henry Eastman, and Patten McMillan, as principal, and John G. Inbusch
and John D. Inbusch, as sureties. P rocess issued against all
three of the obligors who signed the bond, but service was not
made upon the principal, for the reason that he was out of the
jurisdiction of the court.
Referring to the recitals of the bond, it will be seen that it
was given for the discharge of certain personal property attached

SUPREME COU:RT.
Inbush vs. Farweil.

by the marshal, and hold by him at the date of the bond, under a process of attachment duly issued by the District Court
of the United States for the same district against said James
Buchanan and the other two individuals, for and on whose behalf he professed to act in executing the instrument. They
-were co-partners in the lumbering business, under the firm-name
and style of Buchanan, Eastman & Company, and in the course
of their trade became indebted to Charles B. Farwell, the obligee of the before mentioned bond. lie held against their firm
two promissory notes, both dated October fifth, 1857, and made
payable dt the Galena Bank, with interest, at the rate of ten
per cent. One was for the sum of two thousand dollars, payable in ninety days from date, and the other was for one thouaand dollars, payable in four months, and both were signed
in the name of the firm. Both notes being overdue and unpaid, the promisee, on the twelfth day of February, 1858,
brought suit against the three partners to recover the amount.
When he filed the precipe he also filed a bond and affidavit for
a summons with attachment, and the process duly issued in
that form. Pursuant to the command of the precept, the marshal attached a large quantity of pine lumber belonging to the
co-partnership, consisting of pine boards, shingles, and sawlogs.
Proceedings forthe collection of debts in the District Court
of the United States for that district are regulated by the laws
of the State composing the district, in consequence of a rule
to that effect adopted by the court. Accordingly the marshal
made an inventory of the property attached,.and caused the
same to be appraised by two disinterested freeholders of the
county. They appraised the property attached at the sum of
six thousand four hundred and fifty dollars, as appears by their
certificate appended to the return of the marshal. By his return, it also appears that, on the sixteenth day of the same
month, he made due service of the process upon Buchanan
and McMillan, two of the partners, by giving to each a certified copy of the process, and also of the inventory made by
him of the property attached. All three of the defendants
appeared, by attorney, on the first day of March following,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

569

Inbusch vs. .Farwdll.

and on their motion itwas ordered by the court that the property attached be released, and the attachment discharged on
the defendants filing a bond, with sureties, to pay the amount
as ascertained by the inventory and appraisement. Ten days
afterwards the marshal was furnished with a certified copy of
the order of the court, and upon the defendants in that suit
filing the bond on which the present suit was brought, he released the property and discharged the attachment.
Recurring again to the bond, it will be seen that it was framed
upon the condition that if the defendants in this suit, "or either
of them, will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff in said action the
amount of the judgment that may be recovered against the defendants iii the action, not exceeding the recorded sum, then
this obligation to be void; otherwise to be and remain in full
force and effect."
Two pleas were filed by the defendants in this suit: First,
they alleged that the writing obligatory, on which the suit was
brought, was not their deed. Secondly, they alleged, in effect,
that the plaintiff in the attachment suit did not recover judgment against the defendants in that suit for any sum whatever,
as by the record thereof, now remaining in the court, would
more fully appear, and concluded with a verification.
To the second plea the plaintiff replied, specially setting
forth all the proceedings in the attachment suit as already
given, and averring in addition thereto that the defendants ap.
peared in the case on the 24th day of March, 1858, and pleaded
to the jurisdiction, alleging, that at the commencement of the
suit they were citizens of the State of Illinois, and not citizens
of the State of Wisconsin, as alleged in the declaration. They
also alleged that two of the defendants afterwards, on the seventeenth day of November, in the same year, made and filed
in the cause asuggestion of the death of the other defendant;
and that on the 10th day of January, 1859, he, the plaintiff,
filed a replication to their plea to the jurisdiction of the court,
denying the matters therein alleged, and averring that some
one or more of the defendants were citizens of the State of
Wisconsin, as was alleged in the declaration. That he, the
plaintiff, thereafter, on the eighth day of April following, by

SUPRElME COURT.
Inbusck vs. Farwell.

leave of court, entered a discontinuance as to Buchanan and
Eastman, because they were out of the jurisdiction, as alleged
in their plea; and, that on the twenty-first day of the same
month, the administrator of the deceased defendant, McMillan,
appeared as a party defendant in the suit.
These allegations were also accompanied by others, to the
effect that the suit was duly revived against the administrator
of the deceased partner; that the parties went to trial on the
issue tendered and joined, and that the jury returned their verdict in favor of the plaintiff and that the cause was then, for
the want of a plea in bar of the action, referred to the clerk to
compute the damages, and upon his report coming in, judgment was entered for the plaintiff in the sum of three thousand
three hundred and seventy dollars and forty cents. Whereupon the defendants flied a rejoinder, averring that all the facts
set forth in their second plea were true, and repeating the denial that the plaintiff ever recovered judgment against the defendants named in the bond. Upon these several matters they
tendered an issue to the country, and on that issue the parties
went to trial. To maintain the issue on his part, the plaintiff
introduced the bond and a duly certified copy of the record in
the attachment suit, and proved that he demanded payment
of the amount before the suit was brought.
NVo testimony was offered by the defendants for the reason,
doubtless, that their defence was, and still is, that the plaintiff
failed to make out his case. They accordingly requested the
court to instruct the jury that the record of the attachment
suit showed that the plaintiff did not recover judgment against
the defendants in that suit within the true intent and meaning
of the bond, and, consequently, that there had been no breach
of the condition therein set forth; but the court refused the
prayer, and instructed the jury, substantially, that the suit
would lie to recover the amount of the debt, interest, and costs
of the judgment rendered in the attachment suit, and that the
proofs introduced by the plaintiff showed a forfeiture and
breach of the condition of the bond on the part of the defendants.
Exceptions were duly taken by the defendants, both to the

DEOEINMER TERM, 1861.

571"

Inbusch vs. Farwell.

refusal of the court to instruct the jury as requested, and to
the instructions given, s more fully set forth in the transcript.
L It is not denied that the defendants in the attachment
suit were partners, as alleged in the declaration; and it is
equally clear that the suit was brought to recover a debt due
the plaintiff from the partnership, and that the property attached by the marshal was partnership property.
But it is insisted by the defendants that the judgment rec overed in that case was not in terms a judgment such as is
described in the bond, and that they, the present defendants,
being sureties, have a right to stand upon the letter of their
contract. On the other hand, it is insisted by the plaintiff that
the suit was well prosecuted, under the circumstances stated,
against the administrator of the deceased defendant, and that
the judgment, although against but one of the partners, yet
being a judgment upon a partnership debt in a case where the
other partners were out of the jurisdiction of the court, the
effect of the judgment was to bind the property attached by
the marshal, so that it would have been his duty, if no bond
had been given, to have sold the same, and appropriated the
proceeds to the payment of the execution issued upon such
judgment.
Jurisdiction in the Federal courts is not defeated by the suggestion that other parties are jointly liable with the defendants, provided it appears that such other parties are out of the
jurisdiction of the court; but it is expressly provided by the
act of the 28th of February, 1889, that the judgment or decree
rendered in the case shall not conclude or prejudice other parties not regularly served with process, or not voluntarily appearing to answer. 5 Stat. at Large, 82; D. Arey vs. Ketchum
et al., (11 How., 165;) Clearwatervs. Meredith et al., (21 How.,
492.)
Under that law, therefore, without more, it is clear, that if
Buchanan and Eastman had not been made parties to the suit,
it might have been regularly prosecuted against the other defendant in his lifetime, and after his decease might have been
revived and prosecuted against his administrator; and it is

SUPREME COURT.
Inbusch vs. Farwell.

equally clear, that by the law of the State, and the rule of the
court adopting the same, it was competent for the plaintiff;
under the circumstances, to discontinue as to Buchanan and
Eastman, and proceed against the administrator of the other
partner. Sess. Laws, 1856; see Code, See. 25, p. 10.
It is not questioned that the administrator voluntarily appeared in the case, and the record shows that the proceeding
reviving the suit was regular and according to law. These
considerations lead necessarily to the conclusion, that the judgment against the estate of the deceased partner was a valid
judgment, and that the only question of any importance in the
case is as to its effect upon the rights of those parties.
II. Some light will be shed upon the question by referring
more definitely to the course of proceeding under which the
bond was given, and the property attached released. By the
law of the State, it is provided, that whenever the defendant
shall have appeared in the action, he may apply to the officer
or to the court for an order to discharge the attached property;
but to secure that right, he must deliver to the court or officer
an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, residents 'and
freeholders in the State, approved by such court or officer, to
the effect that the sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of the judgment that maybe recovered against
the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking.
Appearance was accordingly entered in the case by the attorney of the defendants in compliance with that requirement,
and for the purpose of procuring the discharge of the property
held by the marshal. Attachments are made for the benefit
of creditors, but the provision for the discharge of the property
attached is made for the benefit of debtors. They may demand as matter of right, on complying with the requirements
of the law in that behalf, to have their property discharged
from attachment, and that a bond with sureties be accepted in
its place. Under those circumstances, it is quite obvious that
the bond becomes a substitute for the property released; and
where there are no special circumstances to render the case an
exceptional one, it must be held that any judgment that would

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

573

Inbusd vs. B,arwell.

have bound the property, if it had remained under attachment
in the hands of the marshal, will bind the obligors of the bond
in a case like the present, where the suit was commenced
against the partnership upon a partnership contract, and the
property attached was partnership property.
Discontinuance as to the partners, not within the jurisdiction
of the court, was properly allowed under the law of the State
and the practice of the court. Beyond question, therefore, it
was a valid judgment upon a partnership debt; and although
it was against the estate of but one of the partners, still, if the
property attached had not been released, it would have been
the duty of the marshal, under the law of the State and the
practice of the court, to have sold the same, and appropriated
the proceeds to the payment of the execution issued upon the
judgment. Rev. Stat. Wis., 1849, Sec. 41, p. 539.
Although the other partners were not prosecuted to judg-.
nent, because they were out of the jurisdiction of the court,
still the judgment was rendered upon a partnership debt, to
which it would be the duty of the marshal to apply partnership property in preference to the debts of the individual partners. Sureties in the bond were sureties for the partnership
for the purpose therein described, and if compelled to pay the
amount they clearly have a. right of action against all who
composed the firm at the time they assumed the liability.
Gay vs. Johnson et al., (82 N. H., 167;) Story on Part., See.
875; Collier on Part., 3d ed., See. 718, p. 630; Benedict vs.
,Stevens, (25 Conn., 392.)
Judgment was recovered, therefore, in this case for the partnership debt, and if the property attached had not been discharged it must have been appropriated to liquidate the judgment, and we think the bond must be regarded as a substitute
for the property, and consequently that the rulings and instructions of the District Court were correct.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed. -

