DECIDED

OASES
IN

THE

SI-PREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

DUTTON ET AL. VS.

STRONG ET AL.

1. Riparian proprietors have a right to erect bridge piers and landing
places on the shores of navigable rivers, lakes, bays, and arms of
the sea, if they conform to the regulations of the State and do not
obstruct the paramount right of navigation.
The
right to make such erections terminates at the point of naviga2.
bility.
8. Where they are confined to the shore, and no positive law or regulation is violated by'their construction, he who alleges them to be a
nuisance or an obstruction to navigation must prove it-for the presumption is the other way.
4. Piers or landing places may be either public or private, and the question whether they belong to one or the other class depends upon the
purpose for which they were built, the uses to which they have
been applied, the place where located, and the character of the
structure.
5. A riparian proprietor may construct a pier for his own exclusive use
and benefit; and where he has reserved it to himself and never
held it out as intended for the use of others, no implication arises,
if a party without leave moors his vessel to such a pier, that he has
done so with the owner's consent.
6. Where a vessel is thus wrongfully attached to a private pier without
the consent of its owner, the peril of the vessel, no matter how great,
imposes no obligation upon such owner to allow her to remain, and
hazard his own property to save that of a trespasser.
THIs case came before the Supreme Court upon a writ of
error to the District. Court of the United States for the district

SUPREME COURT.
-Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

of Wisconsin. It was, in its origin, an action of trespass on the
case brought by H. Norton Strong and William H. Goodnow
against Achas P. Dutton and Cyrus Hines.
Jn 1855, Messrs. Dutton and Hines, the plaintiffs in error,
owned a pier situated at Racine, upon Lake Michigan, and extending into the lake, which served the purposes both of a
,anding place for freight and for its stownge. This pier was
private property, and although its owners, who were forwarding merchants, sometimes moored vessels, which came there
upon their own business, to its timbers, it does not appear that
they ever suffered anybody else to do so, or that any other person claimed the right. On the sixth of May, 1855, the ship
Homer Ramsdell, owned by the defendants in error, Messrs.
Strong and Goodnow, was driven by stress of weather to the
neighborhood of this pier, and the captain, fearful of going
ashore, made his vessel fast to it. The violence of the gale increased the pull on the hawser, by which the ship was moored,
to such a degree that the piles began to give way under the
strain, whereupon one of the owners of the pier warned the
master to cut loose, or they would themselves set him adrift.
The master did not heed this warning, and the defendants,
after waiting to see if he meant to obey it, cut the hawser.
The vessel, as soon as set loose, was driven upon another pier,
and to prevent her utter destruction was scuttled and sunk.
The court below was requested by the defendants in error
to instruct the jury that if the evidence satisfied them that it
was material for the preservation of the pier to cut the vessel
loose from it, the person in charge of the pier had ai'ight to
do so, as against all rights of.property in the vessel, after reasonable notice given and request made and refused for the vessel to leave. This instruction the court refused to give, and
charged the jury, that the pier was run out into the lake for the
accommodation of commerce, and was used as private property
in public business; that the vessel was liable for such damage
as she was doing the pier, and that the owners of the pier were
not justifiable or excusable in cutting the vessel loose, if it was
material for the safety or protection of the pier. To this portion of the court's charge, and to its refusal to grant two other

DECEM1BER TERM, 1861.

25

.Dutton el al. vs. Strong el al.

prayers of the defendant, not necessary to be noticed here, because not considered in this court, the defendants excepted.
The verdict of the jury and the judgment of the District Court
were in favor of the plaintiffs; whereupon the defendants took
this writ of error.
Mr. Doolittle, of Wisconsin, for plaintiffs in error, argued
that the court below erred in affirming the proposition that
the owners of a private pier had no right to cut aifay a vessel
which was fastened to it without their consent, and contended
that the acts of the plaintiffs in error, being justified by law,
did not subject them to any damages in an action like-this.
Mr. Hibbard, of Wisconsin, for defendants in error. After
the vessel had been moored to the pier under the circumstances,
the plaintiff in error had no right to cast her off. The pier
was an unauthorized nuisance in the lake. The commercial
and legal character of the Western lakes is so fixed that those
waters must be considered, commercially and legally, seas.
Ordinance 1787, (1 Stat. at L. 52, N\.;) _-tzhugh vs. Genesee
Chief, (12 How., 443;) Moore vs. The Am. -Tans. Co., (24

How., 1.)
The evidence was sufficient to permit the jury to find, as a
matter of fact, that the pier was a nuisance. (3 Kent's Com.,
427;) Lord Hale, (De Portibus Maris, Harg. Ed., 85;) Lord Hale,
(De Jure Maris, Harg. Ed., 8, 9;) -ex vs. Lord Grosvenor, (2
Starkie, 511;) Blundell vs. Cutterall, (5 Barn. & Ald., 268, 7
Eng. C. L., 88, 108;) Rex vs. Ward, (4 Adol. & El., 384, 31 E.
0. L., 92;) Reg. vs. Randall, (1 Car. & Marsh., 496, 41 E. C.-L.,
272;) Simpson vs. Scales, (2 Bos. & Pul., 496;) The Mayor, &c.,
vs. Brooke, (7 Adol. & E., 339, 53 E. C. L., 339;) ,Hart vs. The
Mayor of Albany, (9 Wend., 571;) The -People vs. Plait, (17
John., 195, 209;) The United States vs. The New Bedford Bridge
Co., (1 Wood & Minot, 401, 411;) Bex vs. Caldwell, (1 Dallas,
150;) Martin vs. Waddell's Lessee, (16 Peters, 367, 421.)
This must be especially so when there is no proof that the
plaintiff in error owned the soil along the shore. The pre-

SUPREME COURT.
Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

sumption, besides, is, that he has no right thus to occupy, but
is a mere wrong-doer.
Of course, (irrespective of the right of any one to abate a
nuisance,) it cannot be claimed that the plaintiffs in error had
any right in, the nuisance which would permit him to cast off
the vessel, thus exposing it to peril, under any circumstances.

Most certainly not when the vessel was forced there by stress
of weather, as the jury had a right to find she was. The
Schooner Maoj, (1 Gallison, 206;) Peisch vs. Ware, (4 Cranch,
347;) The Frances and Eliza, (8 Wheat., 398;) The Gertrude,
(3 Story, 68.)
The -plaintiff in error, by building his pier in the lake, invited, and, at least impliedly, licensed vessels, in pursuit of
their business, to approach and moor to the pier. Ball. vs.
Slennelt, (8 T. R., 606;) Bradslee vs. French, (7 Conn. 125;)
.Reaney vs. HSeeney, (2 De nio, 625.) This license, of necessity,
included the right to use the dock according to the exigencies
of the case. Necessarily, therefore, when those exigencies
required that the vessel should hold to the pier after once
mooring there, the plaintiffs in error had no right to revoke
the license, and cast off the vessel, thus.causing her injury.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD.* This case comes before the court
upon a writ of error to the District Court of the United States
for the district of Wisconsin. It was an action of trespass
upon the case, and was instituted in the court below, on
the seventh day of July, 1856, by the present defendants.
They were the owners of a certain vessel called the H[omer
Ramsdell, and the plaintiffs in error, who were the defendants in the original suit, were the owners and occupants of
a certain bridge pier, situated at Racine, in the State of
Michigan, southerly of the harbor at that place. Like othe7
similar erections, it was connected with the land at the mar*The reader of these Reports will understand that an opinion delivered by
,one judge is the opinion of the court in that case; and it is the opinion of the
whole court, unless a dissent be reported.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

27

Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

gin of the lake, and extended into the water, so that yes
sels could approach it for the purposq of taking in freight,
serving both as a wharf to the navigable water of the lake,
and as a place of deposit for merchandise designed for transportation by water. As stated in the bill of exceptions, the
defendants were forwarding merchants, and the case shows
that they had used the bridge pier for the purpose of mooring
vessels coming there in the course of their business; but it
does not appear that it had ever been used for that purpose by
any other persons. Another bridge pier, situated south of
the one owned by the defendants, bad been constructed, and
was occupied by other parties, and was used for the same purpose by its owners as that of the defendants. According to
the transcript, the declaration contained four counts, but they
were all founded upon the same transaction. Three of the
counts were substantially the same, and alleged, in effect, that
the plaintiffs were the owners of the vessel; that, while she
was lawfully employed in navigating the waters of Lake Michigan, she had, by stress of weather and the perils of navigation,
been driven alongside of a certain dock and common mooring
place at Racine, commonly called a bridge pier, to which she
was then and there moored and fastened by cables and lines,
and that the defendants, on the seventh day of May, 1855,
wrongfully cut and severed the moorings by which the vessel
was fastened, and cast her loose from the pier; and that, in
consequence thereof, she was driven, by the force of the wind
and waves, against a certain other dock and pier there situate,
and on to the shore of the lake, by reason whereof she was
greatly damaged, and so injured that she sunk in the lake.
<Unlike the first three counts, the fourth alleged that the
defendants, at the same time and place, did, wrongfully and
unlawfully, erect, and cause to be erected, a certain permanent
bridge or structure on the navigable waters of Lake Michigan,
whereby the vessel of the plaintiffs was wholly unable to
make the harbor at Racine, or to put out into the lake, as she
otherwise might and would have done; and, in consequence
of the obstruction, was, by the wind and waves, driven on the
thore, and against a certain dock, and greatly damaged, as

28S

UPREME COURT.
Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

alleged in the other counts of the declaration. To the whole
declaration, as more fully set forth in the transcript, the defendants pleaded that they 'vere not guilty, and on that issue
the parties went to trial. None of the evidence given by the
defendants is reported in the bill of exceptions; but it appears,
from that introduced by the plaintiffs, that the schooner was
bound from Chicago, in the State of Illinois, to Racine, in the
State of Wisconsin, and that she was sailing in ballast. Assuming the testimony of the master to be correct, she left
Chicago on the sixth day of May, 1855, and arrived off the
harbor of Racine between twelve and one o'clock at night in
perfect safety. When she was about one-fourth of a mile
from the harbor, the wind suddenly changed from south to
north-northeast, and blew hard. Those in charge of the vessel state that they could see but one light at the time; and,
supposing it to be the light on the northern pier in the harbor
to which they were bound, they headed the vessel for that
light. Contrary, however, to what they supposed, there was
no light on either of the harbor piers, and, in point of fact, it
was a light on the bridge pier of the defendants. Heading for
that light, the vessel, as she advanced, was approaching the
shore, and she soon passed between the two bridge piers, already described as situated southerly of the harbor. When
they got close to the light they discovered the mistake; but,
instead of changing the course of the vessel, they took in sail
and let go thq anchor, to prevent her from going on to the
beach. Whether these precautions were the best that could
have been adopted, or not, they had the effect to check the
speed of the vessel, and, as she ceased to make headway, she
sagged over against the southern bridge pier without receiving
any injury. Their next step was to get out lines on to the
bridge pier of the defendants, in order to work the vessel away
from the southern pier, and prevent her from pounding. Finding that the lines were insufficient, they got out the large
hawser and two other lines, and finally, with the aid of six
additional men, and after getting out another hawser belonging to the vessel, and purchasing a new one for the purpose,
they succeeded in getting the vessel up to the bridge pier of

DECE-MBER TERM, 1861.

29

Dutton et aZ. vs. Strong et al.

the defendants, or near it, at four o'clock in the morning.
I1er bow, as the master states, was still thirty or forty feet from
the pier; and he says he bought the new line and em~ployed
the additional help to heave the vessel up to the pier, which
was not fully accomplished until ten o'clock in the forenoon.
Seeing that the wind and sea had increased in the meantime,
they then concluded to make her fast to the pier; and, accordingly, got out the chain and fastened it to a pile on the opposite side of the pier, using, for that purpose, the hawsers and
lines previously got out to work the vessel up. to the pier.
About twelve o'clock the vessel commenced pounding, and
the pile to which the chain was attached started and passed
through the pier eight or ten feet, and the clear inference from
the testimony is, that all the fastenings gave way, except the
new line and the chain.
Another witness, examined by the plaintiff, states that when
the vessel commenced pounding, the pier began to start; and
he says it was two o'clock in the afternoon when the pile to
which the chain was attached gave way. Although it gave
way, it did not then pass entirely through the bridge pier, but
lodged against other piles on which the pier was built; and,
consequently, the chain would still assist in holding the vessel,.
unless the pile broke, or that part of the pier was carried
away. At this juncture, one of the defendants came upon the
pier and directed the master to get the vessel away from the
pier, informing him that if he did not he would cast herf adrift;
to which the master replied, that he would leave, if possible;
and if not, he would continue to hold on to the bridge pier.
But he did not make any attempt to leave, and a person in the
employment of the defendants cut the hawser. When the
hawser was severed, and the strain came upon the chain, the
second mate of the vessel says the rest of the piles gave way,
and the vessel went over to the south bridge pier, carrying
away her stanchions and bulwarks on her larboard side; and,
to prevent further damage, she was scuttled, by the order of
the master, and presently sunk. Such is the substance of the
testimony introduced by the plaintiffs, as reported in the bill
of exceptions. Several prayers for instructions to the jury

SUPREME COURT.
Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

were presented by the defendants, but, in the view we have
taken of the case, it will only become necessary to refer to the
second, and to the response given thereto by the court. By
the second prayer of the defendants, the court was requested
to instruct the jury, that if they believed, from the evidence,
that it was material for the preservation of the pier to cut the
vessel loose from it, the persons in charge of the pier had a
right to do so, as against all rights of property in the vessel,
after reasonable notice given, and request made and refused
for the vessel to leave. But the court refused to give the instruction, as requested, and charged the jury, in substance, as
follows: That if the vessel was attached to the pier towards
its outer end, and was in peril, the owner of the pier could not
put the vessel in greater peril by cutting her loose for the
safety or protection of the pier. He also told the jury that
the pier was run out into the lake for the accommodation of
commerce, and was used as private property in public business; that the vessel was liable for such damage as she was
doing the pier; and that the owners of the pier were not justifiable or excusable for cutting the vessel loose, even if it was
material for them to do so for the safety or protection of the
pier, or of that part to which the vessel was attached. Under
-the instructions of the court, the jury returned their verdict
in favor of the plaintiffs, and the defendants excepted to the
instructions given, and to the refusal of the court to instruct
the jury as requested.
It is insisted by the defendants, that the District Judge erred,
as well in his refusal to instruct the jury as requested, as in
the instructions given.
On the part of the plaintiffs, both of those propositions are
controverted; and they contend, in the first place, that the
bridge pier was a nuisance, because, as they insist, it was an
obstruction to the public right of navigation; and secondly,
they contend that the defendants had no right to cut the hawser. and cast the vessel adrift, however necessary it was for
them to do so, for the safety and protection of the bridge pier,
because, as they insist, the defendants, by erecting the pier in
the wKaters of the lake, had impliedly licensed the plaintiffs,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

81

Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

and all others navigating those waters, to come there with their
vessels, and moor them to the pier; and that the license, of
necessity, includes the right to use the pier, according to the
exigencies of the case.
1. Unless it be true, that every landing place and bridge
pier erected on the shore of navigable waters without a special
authority from the legislature, is necessarily a nuisance, it is
a sufficient answer to the first position of the plaintiffs to say,
that there was not a particle of evidence in the case to support
the theory of fact on which the proposition is based. All that
appeared upon the ,subject in the court below was, that the
bridge pier in question extended several hundred feet into the
waters of the lake; but it was not even suggested that any less
extension would have answered the purpose for which the pier
was constructed, or that it was any greater than is usual in
similar erections on that shore of the lake, or that the pier, as
constructed, constituted any obstruction whatever to the public right of navigation. On the contrary, the court adopted
the theory that the vessel or her owners would be liable for the
damage done to the pier, and sustained the right of the plaintiffs to recover, entirely upon the ground that the peril of the
vessel justified the master in refusing to leave; and that the
defendants, whatever might be the consequences to the pier if
the vessel remained, had no right to cut the hawser, and
thereby expose her to greater danger, notwithstanding they
were in the possession of the pier, and it was admitted that it
was their private property. .Bridge piers and landing places,
as well as wharves and permanent piers, are frequently constructed by the riparian proprietor on the shores of navigable
rivers, bays, and arms of the sea, as well as on the lakes; and
where they conform to the regulations of the State, and do not
extend below low-water mark, it has never been held that they
were a nuisance, unless it appeared that they were an obstruction to the paramount right of navigation. Whether a nuisance or not is a question of fact; and where they are confined
to the shore, and nc positive law or regulation was violated in
their erection, the presumption is that they are not an obstruction, and he who alleges the contrary must prove it. Wharves,

SUPREME COURT.
Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

quays, piers, and landing places, for the loading and unload
ing of vessels, were constructed in the navigable waters of
the Atlantic States by riparian proprietors at a very early period in colonial times; and, in point of fact, the right to build
such erections, subject to the limitations before mentioned,
has been claimed and exercised b the owner of the adjacent
land from the first settlement of the country to the present
time. (Aug. on Tide Wat., p. 196.)
Our ancestors, when they immigrated here, undoubtedly
brought the common law with them, as part of their inheritance; but they soon found it indispensable, in order to secure
these conveniences, to sanction the appropriation of the soil
between high and low-water mark to the accomplishment of
these objects. Different States adopted different regulations
upon the subject; and, in some, the right of the riparian proprietor rests upon immemorial local usage. Io reason is perceived why the same general principle should not be applicable to the lakes, although those waters are not affected by the
ebb and flow of the tide; and, consequently, the terms "high
and low-water mark" are not strictly applicable. But the
lakes are not navigable, in any proper sense, at least in certain
places, for a considerable distance from the margin of the
water. Wherever the water of the shore, so to speak, is too
shoal to be navigable, there is the same necessity for such
erections as in the bays and arms of the sea; and where that
necessity exists, it is difficult to see any reason for denying to
the adjacent owner the right to supply it; but the right must
be understood as terminating at the point of navigability,
where the necessity for such erections ordinarily ceases.
2. Piers or landing places, and even wharves, may be private, or they may be in their nature public, although the
property may be in an individual owner; or, in other words,
the owner may have the right to the exclusive enjoyment of
the structure, and to exclude all other persons from its use;
or he may be under obligation to concede to others the privilege of landing their goods, or of mooring their vessels there,
upon the payment of a reasonable compensation as wharfage;
and whether they are the one or the other may depend, in case

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

.33

Dutton et al. vs. Strong et aL

of dispute, upon several considerations, involving the purpose
for which they were built, the uses to which they have been
applied, the place where located, and the nature and character
of the structure. Undoubtedly, a riparian proprietor may construct any one of these improvements for his own exclusive
use and benefit; and, if not located in a harbor, or other usual
resting place for vessels, and if confined within the shore of
the sea or the unnavigable waters of a lake, and it had not
been used by others, or held out as intended for such use, no
implication would arise, in a case like the present, that the
owner had consented to the mooring of the vessel to the bridge
pier.
Looking at the statement of the facts, as
derived from the
evidence reported in the bill of exceptions, it is obvious, that
every one of the foregoing conditions substantially concur in
this case; and, consequently, it must be assumed that the master attached the vessel to the pier without any authority from
the defendants, either express or implied. He had no business to transact with the plaintiff, and the vessel was not going
to the pier for freight; so that all pretence of a license utterly
fails.
That fact alone, however, under the circumstances of this
case, might not perhaps be sufficient to justify or excuse the
defendants for cutting the hawser. Every man is bound by
law so to use his own property as not to injure the property of
another; and, unless the defendants are brought within the
fair operation of that rule, they cannot be justified or excused.
But that rule is applicable to the plaintiffs as well as to the
defendants; and he who would invoke the benefit of the rule
must first comply with its requisitions.
Failing to show a license to attach the vessel to the pier, the
plaintiffs set up the peril of the .vessel, and insist that she had
a right to remain, 'otwithstanding the request to leave, during
its continuance; and, consequently, that the defendants cannot
be justified or excused for cutting her loose.
Suppose the right to remain during the continuance of the
peril, if she could have done so without danger or injury to
the property of the defendants, be admitted, still the admission
3
VOL. I.

SUPREME COURT.
Dutton et al. vs. Strong et al.

would not benefit the plaintiffs in this case, for the reason that
they or their agent had wrongfully attached the vessel to the
pier; and when it became dbvious that the necessary effect
of the trespass, if suffered to be continued, would be to endanger and injure, or perhaps destroy the pier, the peril of the
vessel imposed no obligations upon the defendants to allowher
to remain, and take the hazard that their own property would
be sacrificed in the effort to save the property of wrong-doers.
On the contrary, they had a clear right to interpose, and disengage the vessel from the pier to which she had been wrongfully attached, as the only means in their power to relieve
their property from the impending danger. They had never
consented to incur that danger, and were not in fault on account of the insufficiency of the pier to hold the vessel, because it had not been erected or designed as a mooring place
for vessels in rough weather, and it was the fault of the plaintiffs or their agent that the vessel was placed in that situation.
Reference is made by the plaintiffs to the case of Heaney et
al. vs. Heeney et al., (2 Den., 625,) as asserting a contrary doctrine; but, after a careful examination of the case, we think
it will not bear any such construction. Recurring to the facts
of the case, it will be seen that the litigation arose out of a
dispute about the title of the dock before it was completed.
With a view to get possession of the dock, the plaintiffs attached their vessel to it, and the defendants, who had previously had the possession, severed the fastenings and cast her
loose at a time when there was no danger whatever to the
dock; and it was held that, inasmuch as the occupancy of the
plaintiffs was lawful, the defendants could not terminate it by
settink the vessel adrift, so as to endanger her safety, until
they had put the plaintiffs in fault. But the court admitted
that, if the entry of the plaintiffs into the dock had been tortious, then, indeed, the defendants would have had a right to
cut her loose, doing no unnecessary damage, in order to the
enjoyment of their rights.
in view of the whole case, we are of the opinion that the
second prayer for instruction, presented by the defendants,
Fhould have been adopted by the court, and that the instruc-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

35

United Stala rs. Hensey.

Lions given to the jury in answer to their request were also
erfoneous.
Judgment of the .DistrictCourt reversed, with costs, and the cause
remanded, with directions to issue a venire facias de novo.

UNITED STATES VS. HENSLEY.

Th6 Vaper

made by Micheltoreno, and delivered to Sutter at Santa Barbera, on the 22d December, 1844, and called the "General Title," was

not a title according to the laws, customs, or usages of the Alexican
government, and all claims under it are invalid.

This case came up on appeal from the decree of the District
Court of the United States for the northern district of California, being a private land claim, prosecuted by the appellee
under the act of Congress passed March 3,1851.
In his petition to the Board of Land Commissioners the
appellee claimed confirmation of his title to a tract of land in
Butte county, known by the name of Aguas Nieves, and containing six square leagues, which, he averred, had been granted
to him by Governor Micheltoreno, in December, 1844.' It appeared that he did, on the 25th of July, 1844, solicit Micheltoreno for a grant of the land in question. His petition was
accompanied with a deselio or sketch. The Secretary of the
Government (Manuel Jimeno) was ordered to give information, taking the steps he niight deem necessary. Jimeno
referred it to Sefior John A. Sutter, captain and judge of
New Helvetia, who reported, on the 2d of September, 1844,
that the land solicited was unoccupied. There were many
other applications of the same kind on which Sutter had
also reported favorably. On the 18th of November Jimeno
advised that this and all similar applications for land on the
Sacramento river should be suspended until the governor could
make a visit to that region. Very soon after that date the
insurrection of Pico, Castro, Alvarado, and other "Chiefs
of the South," against the authority of Micheltoreno, broke
out. The American and other foreign settlers in the valley

