DECEMBER TERM'1861.

39

Weigltman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

this latter writ was directed to William Hart, junior, and served
according to the marshal's certificate, on Mary Hart, widow
and executrix of William Hart, senior, who died after the
judgment, and on J. D. Stevenson his former law partner.
A service of the citation on the attorney or counsel of the
proper party is sufficient; but the executrix of the counsel on
record was not the counsel of her testator's client. His char
acter and duties as counsel did not devolve on his own person
al representative after his death. Nor is Mr. Stevenson to be
regarded as the counsel of William Hart,junior,merely because
he had been the partner of William Hart, senior. We cannot
notice law partnerships or other private relations between
members of the bar. This may have been a partnership, solely
because it provided for a division of profits, without putting
either partner under any responsibility for the suits conducted
by the other. The courts can know no counsel in a cause except those who regularly appear as such on the record.
The citation not being served on the party as his counsel,
the cause is not brought into this court, agreeably to the act
of 1789; and the writ must therefore be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
Writ of error dismissed.
U\

WhEIGTMAN vs. THE CORPORATION O' WASHINGTON.
1. *When a municipal corporation is required by its charter to keep a

bridge in repair, if the duty was imposed in consideration of privileges granted, and if the means to perform it are within the control
of the corporation, such corporation is liable to the public for an unreasonable neglect to comply with the requirement.
2. When all the foregoing conditions concur, a corporation is also liable
for injuries to the persons or property of individuals.
3. This liability extends to injuries arising from neglect to perform the
duty enjoined, or from negligeuce and unskilfulness in its performance.

This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia. The plaintiff in error

SU-PREME COURT.
Weightman vs. Tw Corporationof Mashington.

brought case against the corporation of Washington for bodily
injuries suffered by him, in consequence of being thrown from
the bridge across Rock creek, at the termination of K street.
On the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff proved that the
charter of the city (sec. 13) provided that "the said corpora.
tion shall have the sole control and management of the bridge,
and shall be chargeable with the expenses of keeping the same in
repair, and rebuilding it when necessary." In May, 1854, the
plaintiff, a citizen of Washington, was crossing the bridge in
an omnibus, when the bridge broke down, and he was seriously
injured. On part of the defendant, evidence was given that
the bridge had been erected by skilful and scientific workmen, in good faith, upon a plan patented by the Government,
and believed to be faultless in principle; that the construction
was thought to be strong and solid, both the work and materials being of the best description; that the giving way of the
bridge was the result of an accident and of an unknown defect
in the plan of it; that when the bridge was completed, in
1850, its strength and capacity were amply tested; that a commissioner was appointed by the corporation of the city to inspect and superintend the bridge,, who performed his duties,
but did not discover any defect; that the corporation had no
notice, either through their officer or otherwise, that the bridge.
was unsafe, and that in fact there was no indication of unsoundness in it before the time of its fall.
To rebut this evidence of the defendant, the plaintiff proved
that the bridge was built by Rider, the patentee of the plan,
who warned the officers of the city corporation in vainagainst
building the arch as high as they proposed to make it; that
any bridge on that plan, unless it be horizontal, is unsafe, and
the insecurity is increased in proportion as the arch is raised;
that within a year after the bridge was put up the approach to
it was changed at each end, adding thereby about three tons
to its weight; that for several days before it fell, divers persons
observed its unsafe condition.'
The defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury that
upon the whole evidence the plaintiff was not entitled to recover; and the court gave the instructions prayed for. Aver-

DECEMER TERI, 1861.

41

Weightman vs. The Corporationof fl*ashington.

diet and judgment were accordingly given for the defendant,
and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Bradley and Mr. Carlisle,of Washington city, for plaintiff
in error, contended that the judgment of the Circuit Court
ought to be reversed by this court, because:
1. The terms employed in the clause of the 13th section of
the charter are mandatory, and impose on the corporation the
duty to keep in repair and rebuild the bridge in question when
necessary. Mason vs. _earson, (9 How., 248.)
2. The duty thus imposed on the corporation is an absolute
and purely a ministerial duty. It involves no discretionary
exercise of political or legislative power, and is precisely such
as might have been devolved upon an individual. Storrs vs.
aty of Utica, (3 Smith, 17 N. Y., 104;) Delmonico vs. City New
York, (4 Com., 1 Sand., 222;) The Mayor, &c., of Albany vs.
unlbff, (2 Com., 165;) Erie City vs. Schwingle, (22 Penn., 584;)
Rochester Lead Company vs. City of Rochester, (3 Coins., 467.)
3. The charter has provided the most ample means to enable
the corporation to discharge this duty, by the imposition of
taxes, and granting licenses; by holding and owning property,
and receiving the rents, issues, and profits of real estate, to be
employed by the corporate authorities in the-support and execution of this,among other duties, with which they are charged.
Rulson vs. City of New York, (3 Sand.,. 297; 7 John., 439; 7
Wend., 474; 2 Hill, 619; 6 ib., 463.)
4. The franchises thus granted to the corporation are the
consideration on which they have, by accepting the charter, undertaken to discharge the duties and burthens imposed on
them as conditions of the enjoyment of those franchises.
(Grant Cor., p. 18, and cases in note;) Butter vs. Chapman,
(8th Mf. & W., 36, 85; Wilcock Mun. Corp., 30; Ang. & Am.,
3d ed., chap. 2, ยง 7;) Conrad vs. Trustees of Ithaca, Weet vs.
Broclkport, (2 Smith, 191.)
5. The line of demarkation between these duties, which are
immediate parts of, or incident to their political powers, and
those which are purely and absolutely ministerial, is not always
well defined, and may sometimes give rise to doubt; but it

SUPRIEME COURT.
Wdeghtman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

may be safely affirmed that when a municipal corporation is,
distinctly charged with the execution of a specific duty for the
benefit of the public and of individuals, and means are in the
same or some other instrument put into their hands, adequate
to its full performance, they may be compelled to perform it,
and will be responsible to individuals injured by their negligent or improper performance of it. Mayor of Lynn vs. Turner, (Cowp., 86; Grant Corp., 501 ;) H~enley vs. Mayor of Lmjme,
(5 Bing., 91; S. C., 1 Bing. 1. C., 222, in error, 2 C. & F., 354,
by all the judges;) Mayor of New York vs. _Mtrze, (3 Hill, 612;)
Mayor of Albany vs. Canliff, (2 Coms., 165;) Lloyd vs. City of
New York, (1 Seld., 369;) City of lPittsburg vs. Grier, (20 Penn.,
64;) The Mayor of Baltiriore vs. $lfarriot,(9 Maryland, 160,
178;) Memphis vs. Lasser, (9 Hump., 761.)
6. The bridge thus constructed by the corporation was its
property, which they could take down and dispose of at their
pleasure. One end of it rested on soil beyond their municipal
iurisdictidn, if the whole bridge was not also beyond it, and
the corporation in its political character could have no control
over it. Yet they were bound to repair and rebuild it out of
their corporate funds, and they were responsible, if it .became
a public nuisance, to any one receiving special damage from
the manner in which they discharged that duty. Bailey vs.
The City of New York, (3 Hill, 531; S. C. 2 Deuio, 433.) Having constructed it, they had no discretionary power as to keep.
ing it in repair. Wilson vs. Mayor of New York, (1 Denio, 595;)
The Mayor of New York vs. Furze, (3 Hill, 612; Kitty's Laws,
1791, chap. 45, ยง 1.)
Mr. Davidge, of Washington city, contra. The officers of the
corporation are invested with power over the bridge as the
agents of the public, from public considerations and for public
purposes exclusively, and are not responsible for the nonfeasances or mis-feasances of sub-agents necessarily employed.
The nature of the power is public, and its object is the benefit
of the public. The bridge is a public bridge, and so alleged.
It spans a navigable stream, and one abutment only is within
the corporate limits.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

43

Weightman vs. The Corporation of Washington.

It is not denied that a public municipal corppration may
hold franchises or other property, in relation to which it is ta
be regarded as a private company, and subject to the responsibilities attaching to that class of institutions. Bailey vs. Th6
Mayor, &c., of New York, (3 Hill's N. Y. Re., 531, 540;) S. C.
on error, (2 Denio, 434;) Moodalay vs. The East India Co., (1
Brown's Ch.R., 469.) But as regards the power under con.
sideration here, it has not a single element o'f private ownership,
but stands on precisely the same footing as the powers of the
corporation over the streets of the city, which powers, it it
judicially settled, are exercised.by the corporation as agents of
the public. Smith vs. Corporation of Washington, (20 How.,
135, 148;) Van .Ness vs. Id., (4 Pet., 232.) Public agents are
not responsible for the mis-feasance or non-feasance of those
whom they are obliged to employ. To such cases the doctrine
of respondeat superior does not apply. Story on Agency, (see.
319-322;) H~all vs. Smith, (2 Bing., 156; 9 E. C. L. R.;)
Harris vs. Baker,..(4 Maul & Selw., 27;) Lave vs. Colton, (1 Ld.
Raymond, 646;) Whitfield vs. Lord Le Despencer, (Cowp.,
754;) Duncan vs. Findlater,(6 Clark'& Finell, 903, 910;) Dunlop vs. Munroe, (7 Cranch, 242, 269 ;) Bailey vs. The .Mayor,&'c.,
of New York, (3 Hill's N. Y. Re., 532;) S.C. on error,(2 Denio,
434, 450 ;) Schroyer vs. lynch, (8 Watts, 453;) Boody et al. vs.
United States, (1 Woodb. & Minot, 151, 170;) White vs. City
Council, (2 Hill S. C. R., 571;) Supervisors of Albany Co. vs.

Dorr, (25 Wend., 440.)
It may be urged that it is not sought here to hold the corporation responsible for the neglect of its official subordinates, but for neglect in the appointments of them. But admitting, argumenti gratid, that for such neglect the superior
would be liable, there is no evidence to show that the commissioner lacked capacity. Moreover, it has ben settled
by this court that, under an allegation framed as here, evi-.
dence of neglect in making the appointment or of not properly superintending the subordinate is not admissible; but
that for such neglect i recovery can be had only, if at all, upon
a declaration specially framed to meet the particular kind of
negligence relied on. Dunlop vs. Munroe, (7 Cranch, 242, 269.)

SUPRETME COURT.
Weightman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

And to the same effect is Bishop vs. Williamson, (2 Fairfield,
495, 506.)
2. At common law no action lies against public municipal
corporations or quasi corporations created for public purposes,
or against other public officers, for neglect to repair a public
bridge or highway, unless the obligation to repair rests on
tenure, prescription, or contract. The only remedy is by indictment. City of Providence vs. Clapp, (17 How., 161, and
cases cited, p. 162.) In Bro. Abr., Title Sur le case, (pl. 93,)
it is said that if a highway be out of repair so that a horse be
mired and injured, no action lies, "car est populus et serre reforme per presentment." In Russell vs. The Men of -Devon, (2
T. R., 667)-the leading case upon the subject-the precedent
in Brooke was cited and approved, and it was held that no action lay to recover satisfaction for injury done to a wagon in
consequence of a bridge being out of repair. In _Riddle vs.
The Proprietors of the Locks and Canals on Merrimac River, (7
Mass., 169,) Parsons, 0. J., took the same distinction between
corporations created for the benefit of the public, as part of the
government of the country, and those created for the benefit
of the corporators; and held, that the former are liable only
to information or indictment. Mower vs. Leicester, (9 Mlass.,
947;) Young vs. Comm's of Roads, (2 NTott and M. C., 555;
Com. Dig., Chemin, HI. 4, B. 3;) Bartlettvs. Crozier, (17 John.,
439;) Mowry vs. The Town of Newfane, (1 Bar. S.C., 645;)
White vs. City Council, (2 Hill's So. Car., 571;) lZaskell vs.
Inhabitants of Knox, (3 Greenl., 445.) The cases of Mayor Cy
Lynn vs. Turner, (Cowp., 86,) Henley vs. Mayor of Lyne, (5
Bing., 91, and S. 0., 1 Bing. N. C., 222,) are cases of contract,
where the grantorg of franchises or property held on condition
that they would repair or do certain acts. The English books
are filled 'vith indictments for neglect to repair; but no instance can be found of an action when the duty to, repair was
created by statute for the benefit of the public, and was irrespective of franchise or other private advantage.
3. But again : it is sought here to hold a municipal corporation, acting pro bono publico, responsible not only for its own
neglect to repair, but also for that of its officer in failing to

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

45

Weightman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

observe the ordinance for the inspection of the, bridge. In
Towle vs. Common Council of Alexandria, (3 Pet., 409,) the action was brought to recover damages for the non-feasance of
an officer of a municipal corporation in failing to take a bond
from an auctioneer as required by an ordinance. But this
court held the corporation not responsible. In Levy vs. City
of New York, (1 Sandf., 465,) it was held that the city was not
bound by an injury sustained in consequence of a neglect of
its officers to enforce an ordinance prohibiting swine running
at large. So also in Griffin vs. Mayor, fc., of New York, cited
in Hutson vs. Mayor, ft., of New York, (5 Sandf., 303, 304.)
4. If an action lies at all, it is only where an indictment
could be maintained. The declaration assumes that the duty
of the defendant in error to repair is identical with that of
a private corporation or individual in relation to its own property. No notice is averred of the want of repairs, nor arethe
facts requisite to support an indictment. The consequences
of holding a public municipal corporation, or other public officer, to the strict responsibility resting upon individuals and
private companies acquiring and using property for their private enjoyment and profit, must be apparent, especially as
regards a bridge or highway open at all times to the public.
The rigid rule applicable to individuals and private companies
flows f!om their exclusive rights over their own property; and
such a'rule can never be applied when the same rights do not
exist, as in the case of a bridge or highway.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
According to the transcript, the action vas trespass on the
case, and was brought by the plaintiff, to recover damages
against the corporation, defendants, on account of certain personal injuries sustained by him from the falling of a certain
bridge constructed by the authorities of the corporation, and
which, as he alleged, they were bound to keep in good repair,
and safe and convenient for travel.
Referring to the declaration, it will be seen that the plaintiff
alleged, in substance and effect, that, at the time and long be,

SUPREME COURT.
Weigdrman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

fore the bringing of the suit, there was and still is a certain common and public bridge over Rock creek leading from K street
north, in the city of Washington, to Water street in Georgetown, and that the defendants had been accustomed to keep
the same in repair, and, of right, ought to have made such repairs to the same as to have rendered it safe and convenient
for travel by the citizens generally, whether on foot, or with
their horses, carts, carriages, or other vehicles ; nevertheless,
the plaintiff averred that the bridge, on the twentieth day of
May, 1854, was in an insecure, unsafe, and dangerous condition, by reason of the default and negligence of the defendants,
so that, while the plaintiff was then and there lawfully passing
over and across the same, in an ordinary vehicle, the bridge,
in consequence of its unsafeand insecure condition, and of the
default and negligence of the defendants, broke, gave way,
and fell in, whereby the plaintiff was, with great force, thrown
and precipitated into the creek, and received the injuries particularly described in the declaration.
Issue was duly joined between the parties, upon the plea of
not guilty filed by the defendants, and upon that issue the
parties went to trial. Evidence was introduced by the plaintiff, showing that he was returning from Georgetown to the
city of Washington at the time the accident occurred, and was
riding in one of the omnibuses running between the two cities;
that while crossing the bridge in the omnibus the bridge gave
way and fell, and the vehicle, with the plaintiff in it, was precipitated into the creek, whereby he narrowly escaped drowning. His left arm was broken and his left hand crushed; and
the statement of the bill of exceptions is, that "the hand and
arm have been rendered useless for life."
He was also seriously bruised; and his injuries were of such a character that
he was confined thereby to his house for a long time, under
medical attendance; and the case shows that, throughout the
whole of that period of time, he suffered great bodily pain.
On the other hand, evidence was given by the defendants that,
before any plan of the contemplated structure was adopted,
they passed an ordinance, raising a committee to advertise for
proposals for the erection of the abutments and construction

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Weigktman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

of the bridge. That committee consisted of the mayor and
two other members of the council; and the evidence offered
by the defentfants tended to show that they took the opinion
of scientific men upon the subject, before they approved the
plan under which the bridge was built, and that the defendants
acted in good faith throughout, and with a view of building 0
bridge suitable, in all respects, for the purposes for which it
was required. They also offered evidence tending to show
that the materials of the bridge were of the best description,
that the work was carefully examined by their agents as the
same was done, and that the giving way of the bridge was solely the result of accident, arising from a defect in the plan under which it was constructed. After the bridge was built, the
defendants passed another ordinance, appointing a commissioner to inspect the bridge; and they introduced evidence
tending to show that he never ascertained or reported to them
that the bridge was unsafe, defective, and out of repair; and
they insisted at the trial, and offered evidence tending to prove,
that they had no notice from that officer, or otherwise, that
the bridge was insecure, unsafe, or defective, either in principle or in fact.
Rebutting evidence was then given by the plaintiff, showing
that the bridge was an iron bridge, with a single span of more
than a hundred feet; that it was constructed on the plan of
Rider's patent, and was built by the inventor of that improvement. He also gave evidence tending to prove that one of
the scientific persons, whose opinion was sought by the committee appointed under the first ordinance, stated to the defendants, at the time he was consulted, to the effect that, although the principle of the plan was correct, still it could not
be applied indefinitely to iron bridges; that the arch of the
bridge was higher than had ever before been attempted, and
that the contractor remonstrated against building'it so high,
but that the defendants required it to be so constructed; and
he also proved that the contractor was still of the opinion that
the bridge fell in consequence of the height of the arch. One
of the committee, also, was examined by the plaintiff, and he
testified that he was not consulted about the plan; that, al-

SUPREME COURT."
Weigitman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

though he believed it to be a good one at the time, he is now
satisfied that it was essentially and radically defective. He
also examined the commissioner of the first ward, who testified that he crossed the bridge a few days before the accident
occurred, and that it was so tremulous and shook so violently
that he was apprehensive it would fall; and divers other witnesses testified that, for several days before the bridge fell,
they had observed that several of the braces were broken, and
some of the wedges had fallen out, and the bridge was loose
and shook greatly when carriages passed over it.
At the prayer of the defendants the court instructed the
jury that, upon the whole evidence, the plaintiff could not recover in this action, and the plaintiff excepted. Under the
instructions of the court, the jury returned their verdict in
favor of the defendants.
1. Looking at the whole evidence, it is obvious that the
charge of the court cannot be regarded as correct, unless it be
true, as is contended by the- defendants, that they are not responsible in damages to an individual for injuries received by
him in crossing the bridge, although it may appear that the
injuries were received without any fault of the complaining
party, and were occasioned solely through the defect of the
bridge, and ,the default and negligence of the defendants. It
is conceded that the defendants were bound by their charter
to maintain the bridge and keep it in repair; and it is fully
proved, and not denied, that it was defective and very much
out of repair at the time the accident occurred. Full and uncontradicted proof was also adduced by the plaintiff that he
was seriously and permanently injured; and it is not possible
to doubt, from the evidence, that his injuries were received
without any fault of his own, and solely through the insufficiency of the bridge and its want of repair. Want of ordinary
care on the part of the plaintiff was not even suggested at the
trial, and the circumstances disclosed in the evidence afford
no ground whatever for any such inference.
Having shown these facts, it only remained for the plaintiff
to prove if the defendants, under any circumstances, are responsible, in this form of action, for such an injury, that they

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

49

W]dg7dman vs. The Corporation of Wash ington.

were in default, and had been guilty of negligence in suffering
the bridge to continue open for public travel while it was
known to be out of repair and insecure. Both sides introduced testimony on this point, but the charge of the court
withdrew entirely the plaintiff's evidence from the consideration of the jury. Where there is no evidence to sustain the
action, or one of its essential elements, the court is bound so to
instruct the jury; but where there is evidence tending to prove
the entire issue, it is not competent for the court, although
the evidence may be conflicting, to give an instruction which
shall take from the jury the right of weighing the evidence
and determining its force "and effect, for the reason that, by all
the authorities, they are the judges of the credibility of the
witnesses, and the force and effect of the testimony. Greenleaf vs. Birth, (9 Pet., 299;) Bank of Washington vs. Triplet et
al., (1 let., 31.) Applying that rule to the prgsent case, it is
clear, in view of what has already been stated, that the charge
of the court cannot be sustained, if the defendants are liable
in this form of action, under any circumstances, for such an
injury.
2. It is not, however, upon any such ground that the defendants attempt to sustain the instruction, but they insist
that, being a municipal corporation, created by an act of Congress, they are invested with the power over the bridge merely
as agents of the public, from public- considerations and for
public purposes exclusively, and they are not responsible for
the non-feasances or mis-feasances of the persons necessarily
employed by them to accomplish the object for which the
power was granted. Municipal corporations undoubtedly are
invested with certain powers, which, from their nature, are
discretionary, such as the power to adopt regulations or bylaws for the management of their own affairs, or for the preservation of the public health, or to pass ordinances prescribing
and regulating the duties of policemen and firemen, and for
many other useful and important objects-within the scope of
their charters. Such powers are generally regarded as discretionary, because, in their nature, they are legislative; and although it is the duty of such corporations to carry out the
VOL. i.

4

SUPREME COURT.
WMigliman vs. The Corporationof TMaslington.

powers so granted and make them beneficial, still it has never
been held that an action on the case would lie against the
corporation, at the suit of an individual, for the failure on their
part to perform such a duty. But the duties arising under
such grants are necessarily undefined, and, in many respects,
imperfect in their obligation, and they must not be confounded
with the burdens imposed, and the consequent responsibilities
arising, under another class of powers usually to be found in
such charters, where a specific and clearly-defined duty is enjoined in consideration of the privileges and immunities which
the act of incorporation confers and secures. Where such a
duty of general interest is enjoined, and it appears, from a
view of the several provisions of the charter, that the burden
was imposed in consideration of the privileges granted and
accepted, and the means to perform the duty are placed at the
disposal of the corporation, or are within their control, they
are clearly liable to the public if they unreasonably neglect to
comply with the requirement of the charter; and it is equally
clear, when all the foregoing conditions concur, that, like individuals, they are also liable for injuries to person or property
arising from neglect to perform the duty enjoined, or from
negligence and unskilfulness in its performance. At one time
it was held that an action on the case for a tort could not be
maintained against a corporation; and, indeed, it was doubted
whether assumpsit would lie against a corporation aggregate,
since, it was said, the corporation could only bind itself under
seal; but courts of justice have long since come to a different
conclusion on both points, and it is now well settled that corporations, as a general rule, may contract by parol, and, like
individuals, they are liable for the negligent and unskilful
acts of their servants and agents, whenever those acts occasion
special injury to the person or property of another. Whether
the action in this case is maintainable against the defendants
or not, depends upon the terms and conditions of their charter,
as is obvious from the views already advanced.
By the Eecond section of their charter it is provided, among
other things, that they shall continue to be a body politic and
corporate, * * * "and, by their corporate name, may sue and

DEOEWBER TERM, 1861.

51

Weighltman vs. TiLe Corporationof Washington.

be sued, implead and be impleaded, grant, receive, and do all
other acts as natural persons." They may purchase and hold
real, personal, and mixed property, and dispose of the same
for the benefit of the city. Large and valuable privileges also
are conferred upon the defendants; and the thirteenth section
of the charter provides, in effect, that the defendants shall hav e
the sole control and management of the bridge in question,
* * * "and shall be chargeable with the expense of keeping
the same in repair, and rebuilding it when necessary." Comment upon the provision is unnecessary, as it is obvious that
the duty enjoined is as specific and complete as our language
can make it; and it is equally clear, that the bridge is placed
under the sole control and management of the defendants; and,
in view of the several provisions of the charter, not a doubt is
entertained that the burden of repairing or rebuilding the
bridge was imposed upon the defendants, in consideration ot
the privileges and immunities conferred by the charter. Most
ample means, also, are placed at the disposal of the defendants,
or within their control, to enable them to perform the duty enjoined. Whatever difference of opinion there may be as to
the other conditions required to -ix the liability, on this one,
it would seem, there can be none, as the defendants have very
large powers to lay and collect taxes on almost every description of property, real and personal, as well as on stocks and
bonds and mortgages, and they also derive means for the use
of the city from granting licenses, and from the rents andprofits of real estate which they own and hold. All the condi
tions of liability, therefore, as previously explained, concur in
this case.
It is supposed by the defendants, that the decision of this
court in The Oily of Providence vs. Clapp, (17 How., 161,) is opposed to the right of the plaintiff to maintain this action; but
we think otherwise. Injury had been received bythe plaintiff
in that case, in consequence of one of the principal streets of
the city having been blocked up and encumbered with snow;
and the principal question was, whether such an obstruction
was one within the meaning of the statute of the State on which
the action was founded; and the court held that the city was

SUPREME COURT.
Weightman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

liable. Cities and towns are required by statute, in most or all
of the northeastern States, to keep their highways safe and
convenient for travellers by day and by night; and if they
neglect that duty, and suffer them to get out of repair and de'
fective, and any one receives injury through such defect,
either to his person or property, the delinquent corporation is
responsible in damages tothe injuredparty. No one, however,
can maintain an action against the corporation grounded solely
on the defect and want of repair of the highway, but he must
also allege and prove thatthe corporation had notice of the de.
feet or want of repair, and that he was injured, either in person
or property, in consequence of the unsafe and inconvenient
state of the highway. Duty to repair, in such cases, is a duty
owedto the public, and consequently, if oneperson might sue for
his proportion of the damages for the non-performance of the
duty, then every member of the community would have the
same right of action, which would be ruinous to the corporation ; and, for that reason, it was held, at common law, that no
action, founded merely on the neglect to repair, wouldlie. It
was a sound rule of law, and prevails everywhere tothepresent
time. Reference is often made to the case of Russell vs. Thne
Men of -Devon, (2 Term, 667,) as an authority to show that no
action will lie against a municipal corporation in a case like
the present; but it is a misapplication of the doctrine there laid
down. Suit was brought, in that case, againt the inhabitants
of a district, called a county, where there was no act of incorporation, and the court held that the action would not lie; admitting, however, at the sametime, that the rule was otherwise
in respect to corporations. But whether that be so or not, the
rule% here adopted has been fully sanctioned in all the English courts. Hfenley vs. The Mayor, &e., of Lyme, (5 Bing., 91.)
It was ruled in the Common Pleas by Best, Ch. J., and the case
was then removed into the King's Bench by writ of error, and
was then decided by Lord Tenderden and his associates in the
same way. Same vs. Same, (3 Barn. & Adol., 77.)
Judgment of affirmance having been given in the King's
Bench, the cause was removed to the House of Lords by another writ of error, sued out by the same party Baron Parke

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

53

Weghtman vs. The Corporationof Waskington.

gave the opinion on the occasion, all of the other judges and
the Lord Chancellor concurring. Among other things, he
said that, in order to make good the declaration, it must appear, first, that the corporation is under a legal obligation to
repair the place in question; secondly, that such obligation is
matter of so general and public concern that an indictment
would lie against the corporation for non-repair; thirdly, that
the place in question is out of repair; and lastly, that the
plaintiff has sustained some peculiar damage beyond the rest
of the king's subjects by such want of repair; and after explaining these several conditions, and showing that the case
fell within the principles laid down, he stated that it was clear
and undoubted lbw, that wherever an indictment would lie for
non-repair, an action on the case would lie at the suit of a
party sustaining any peculiar damage. JMayor of Lyme Regis
vs. Heney, (2 C1. and Fin., 331.) Numerous decisions have,
since that time, been made by the courts in this country, approving The rule laid down in that case, and applying it to
cases like the present. Erie vs. Schwingle, (22 Penn., 384;)
Storrs vs. The City of Utica, (17 N. Y., 104;) Conradvs. The Trustees of Ithaca,(16 N. Y., 159;) Browning vs. The City of Springfield, (17 Illinois, 143;) HTutson vs. The City of N ., (5 Sand.,
S. 0. R., 289;) Lloyd vs. The Mayor, &c., of the itay of N. Y,
(1 Seld., 369;) Wilson vs. City of N. ., (I Denn., 595; 2 Denn.,
450;) Bochester White Lead Co. vs. The Cily of Rochester, (3
Conn., 463;) Smoot vs. The Mayor, ft, of Wetumpka, (24 Ala.,
112;) Hicocke vs. The Trustees of thevillageofPlattsburg,(15 Barb.,
S. C., 427;) Mayor, fc., of N. Y. vs. Furze, (3 Hill, 612.) Contrary decisions, undoubtedly, are to be found, but most of the
cases are based upon a misapplication of what was decided in
Russell vs. The Men of Devon, to which reference has already
been made, and which is certainly not an authority for any
such doctrine at the present time. In view of the whole case,
we are of the opinion that the charge of the Circuit Court was
erroneous, and the judgment is accordingly reversed with
costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to issue a new
venire.

