SUPREME COURT.
O'Brien vs. Perry.

O'BRiiN vs. PERRY.
1. Under the third section of the act of 1832, persons who had claims
of a certain class under France or Spain, to land upon which they
were settlers and housekeepers, might have a right of pre-emption,
if they would relinquish their claims. A party claimed a town lot
on which he resided, and other lands adjoining. The town lot was
confirmed in 1825, and in 1834 he relinquished his claim and demanded his pre-emption of the other lands under the act of 1832
Held, that he was a settler and housekeeper on the land of which
he claimed pre-emption.
2. But the right of pre-emption did not depend on actual residence and
housekeeping in the case of a person whose claim under a Spanish
or French grant was still undetermined.
3. Where a person, whose right of pre'-emption was founded on his relin.
quishment of an undetermined claim under France or Spain, has
entered the land according to the act of 1832, and the Land Office
has cancelled his entry and issued a patent to another person for
the same land, the patent and the cancellation of the entry are both
void.
4. in the State courts of 'Missouri, when a suit at law is brought by a
patentee, the defendant may set up his prior equitable title as a bar.

This was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Missouri.
The action was brought in the Circuit Court of Washington
county, Missouri, by John O'Brien against Eliza M. Perry and
others. The plaintiff's petition sets forth that he was legally
entitled to the possession of the east fractional half of the
southeast fractional quarter of fractional section 15, in township 87 north, of range 2 east, in the county of Washington,
Missouri, containing 58 54-100 acres, into which the defendants
unlawfully entered and held him, the plaintiff, out of possession.
The defendants in their answer deny that the plaintiff is
entitled to the possession of the land, aver their own title, and
give a detailed history of it.
The cause was tried by the court without a jury, and after

DECEMIER TERM, 1861.

188

O'Brien vs. PFeiV.

the evidence and arguments thereupon were heard, the court
found the facts as stated in the opinion of Mr. Justice Nelson,
and upon these facts found, as a conclusion of law, that John
Perry, under whom the defendants claimed, by virtue of hi.r
waiver and relinquishment, was entitled to a pre-emption for
the land in controversy; that the cancellation of.his certificate
of entry was illegal and void, and therefore judgment was
given for the defendants.
The cause went to the Supreme Court of the State by appeal,
where it was reviewed and the judgment affirmed, when this
writ of error was sued out by the plaintiff.
X r. 2\oell, of Missouri, for plaintiff in error.
1. John Perry, under whom defendants claim, never was in
a condition to claim as a pre-emptor under the act of July 9,
1832, not being a housekeeper residing on the land, and not having
an unconfirmed claim.
2. There was no proof that the land embraced in Perry's
claim was ever reserved from sale. The report of the register
and receiver is no legal proof of the fact.
3. The proof of pre-emption, certificate of entry, and patent
of the plaintiff, made out a clear legal title, upon which he
ought to have recovered.
4. The land was not reserved from sale. Perry's claim
under Basil Valle was confirmed under the act of 26th May,
1824, the 4th section of which embraced the village of Mine
au Breton. The act of July 9, 1832, (sec. 3,) expressly provides that the lands embraced in the 2d class shall be subject
to sale as other public lands; those embraced in the 1st class
are reserved, and are all that are reserved.
5. The patent itself is presumed to be valid. All the prerequisites to its validity are to be presumed, and the contrary
cannot be shown by any other means than by proof that it
issued contrary to law. -Polk vs. Wendall, (9 Cranch;) .Bognell
vs. Boderick, (13 Peters;) Minter et al. vs. Jrommelin, (18 How.,

p. 87.)
6. 'Under the statute laws of Missouri the plaintiff was entititled to recover upon his right of pre-emption, although no

SUPREM:E COURT.
O'Brien vs. Pem.

patent might have been issued.
1845 and 1855, tiile Ejectment.

Revised Code of Missouri,

No counsel appeared for defendants in error.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This action was brought by the
plaintiff, O'Brien, to recover possession of a part of section
fifteen in township thirty-seven. Hl claimed title under a
patent of the United States, dated May 4, 1854, which was
founded upon a pre-emption certificate under the act of 1841,
dated July 8, 1847. His possession or settlement began in
April the same year.
The title which the defendants set up began as early as 1795,
under Basil Valle, who settled upon the premises, which were
situate at a place called Mine au Breton, in Missouri, and continued cultivating and improving the same down to the year
1806, when he sold and conveyed all his interest to John Perry,
the ancestor of the defendants. In 1807, Perry, as assignee of
Valle, presented the claim before the board of commissioners,
enlarging it to six hundred and thirty-nine acres: No decision
seems to have been made upon the claim till the meeting of
the board in 1811, when it was rejected.
In 1825, William and John Perry, who had become the
owners of the claim, had confirmed to them a town lot and
out-lot of the village of Mine au Breton, lying within and constituting a part of the original tract of six hundred and thirtynine acres, under the act of 1812 and the supplemental act of
1824. The dwelling-house of the Perrys was situate on this
village lot.
In 1883 the claim was again presented to the board of commissioners, under the act of 1832 and the supplemental act of
1833, and further proof in support of it produced. No decision
was made by the commissioners.
In August, 1834, John Perry,jr., who was then the owner, relinquishcd all right and title to the claim, by metes and bounds,
including the whole tract of six hundred and thirty-nine acres,
to the United States, and afterwards applied to the register
and receiver to make his entry as purchaser of the tract under

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.
O'Brien vs. Pemj.

the act of 1832, which was permitted on the 26th of November,
1839, satisfactory proof of possession, inhabitation, and cultivation having been furnished, and the purchase money paid.
This entry was made under the direction of Whitcomb, the
Commissioner of the Land Office; but, on an appeal to his
successor by adverse claimants, the entry was cancelled on the
5th May, 1843, three years and a half after Perry's entry, and
which decision was concurred in by the then Secretary of the
Treasury.
Subsequently, in 1847, as we have seen, the plaintiff O'Brien
was permitted to make an entry for a part of the same premises,
and in 1854 a patent was issued to him.
Upon this state of the case and condition of the title, the
court below held that, by virtue of the waiver and relinquishment of his claim under the act of 1832, Perry becamb thereby
entitled to a pre-emption of the land relinquished, and that
the subsequent cancellation of his entry by the Commissioner
was contrary to law, and void.
By the first section of the act of 1832, a board of commissioners was appointed to examine all unconfirmed claims to
land in the State of Missouri, theretofore filed in the office of
a recorder, founded upon incomplete grants, &c., under the
authority of France or Spain, prior to the 10th March, 1804,
and to class the same so as to show, 1, what claims, in their
opinion, would have been confirmed according to the laws,
usages, and customs of the Spanish government and the practice
of the Spanish authorities, if the government under which the
claims originated had continued in Missouri; and, 2, what
claims, in their opinion, are destitute of merit in law or equity
under such laws, usages, and customs, and practice of the
Spanish authorities.
The third section provided that, from and after the final report of the board of commissioners, the lands contained in the
second class should be subject to sale as other public lands, and
the lands contained in the first class should continue to be reserved from sale as theretofore, until the decision of Congress
upon them, provided that actual settlers, being housekeepers
upon such lands as are rejected, claiming to hold under such

SUPREME COURTT.
O'Brien vs. Pernj.

rejected claim, or such as may waive their grant, shall have the
right of pre-emption to enter, within the time of the existence
of this act, not exceeding the quantity of their claim, and which
in no case *shall exceed six hundred and forty acres, including their improvements. And it is made the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to forward to the several land offices in
said State the manner in which all those who may wish to
waive their several grants or claims, and avail themselves of
the right of pre-emption, shall renounce or relinquish their said
grants.
In the instructions to the board of commissioners by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, under date of 2d
Tovember, 1832, he observes, that this 3d section of the act
above recited provides that actual settlers, being housekeepers
at the date of the act, upon such claims alleged and filed in
the mode specified in the first section, as are rejected, and who
claim to hold under such rejected claim, and also, that all claim.
ants who may relinquish to the Government claims of the characters
designated in the first section, prior to any decision thereon by
the board, shall have the right of pre-emption. He also directs, that the recorder furnish to the party relinquishing a
certified copy of his relinquishment, which shall be evidence
of his right to the pre-emption privilege intended to be conferred by the act. The supplementary act of March 2, 1833,
extended the provisions of the act of 1832 to all claims for donations of land in Missouri, held in virtue of settlement and
This supplementary act embraced the class of
cultivation.
claims to which the one in question belongs. As the relinquishment was made by Perry in conformity with the third
section of this act of 1832 and the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury, it is difficult to see any well-founded ob.
jection to his right of entry of the land as a pre-emptor, which
was permitted by the register and receiver upon satisfactory
proof of inhabitation and cultivation on the 26th November,
1839. Indeed, according to the instructions from the Commissioner of the Land Office, the certified copy of the relinquishment would seem to be sufficient evidence of the right of preemption, even without further proof.

DECEM-BER TERM, 1861.
O'Brhien vs. Perry.

But this entry was cancelled on the 5th May, 1843, by directions of the then Commissioner of the Land Office, and
which raises the principal question in the case. As has already
appeared, William and John Perry, who then owned the claim,
had confirmed to them, in 1825, a town-lot and out-lot at the
village of Mine au Breton, embracing some eight or ten acres,
under the act of 1812, and the supplementary act of 1824, and
which were included within this claim. The' dwelling-house
and out-houses of the Perrys were situated on this town-lot,
and, indeed, had been thus situated since the purchase from.
Basil Valle in 1806.

The Commissioner held, that, upon a

true construction of the third section of the act of 1832, no
claimant was entitled to the right of pre-emption unless he
was an actual settler, being also a housekeeper, on the land
at the date of the act, and that the condition applied as well to
the party relinquishing his claim to the Government as to him
whose claim had been rejected. And as the town-lot, upon
which stood the dwelling-house of the Perrys, had been confirmed under the act of 1812, he was of opinion it became
thereby separated from the remaining portion of the claim,
and, therefore, they were not settlers and housekeepers on the
part entered in lovember, 1839. And this view being concurred in by the Secretary of the Treasury, the register and
receiver were directed to cancel the entry of the Perrys.
NTow, assuming the construction of the third section, as declared by the Land Commissioner, to be correct, and that the
Perrys must prove they were actual settlers and housekeepers
on the land at the date of the act, we think the conclusion arrived at not at all warranted. The confirmation of the title to
!he town-lot in 1812 did not, in any just or legal sense, affecttheir claim to the remaining portion of the land, or change the
character of the settlement. or inhabitation. For aught that
appears, the occupation and claim continued the same after
the confirmation as before, except that, being secure in the title
to the town-lot, they were concerned only in their future efforts
to obtain the title to the other portion of the land. The act
of 1812 was a general act confirming town-lots, out-lots, &c.,
to the inhabitants of villages, and the argument would seem

SUPREME COURT.
O'Brien vs. Perj.

to go the length of requiring the inhabitant to reject the confirmation of his village lot upon which his dwelling stood, or
forfeit his right to a confirmation of the adjoining plantation,
and of holding that his entire claim could not be confirmed in
parts by two different acts.
But the conclusive answer to the objection of the Commissioner is, that Perry was an actual settler and housekeeper, on
the land he relinquished to the Government, at the date of the
act, as the deed of relinquishment embraced the village lot and
dwelling-house, as well as the other portion of his claim; and
although the entry was permitted only for the portion less the
town-lot and out-lot, this was not the fault of the claimant, but
that of the register and receiver, and cannot be justly used to
his prejudice.
We have thus far assumed that the construction of the third
section of the act of 1832 by the Commissiofier, at the time
of the cancellation of the entry of Perry, was correct, and
have endeavored to show that the conclusion arrived at upon
his own premises was erroneous, and afforded no justification
for setting aside the -entry made under the direction of his
predecessor.
But this construction differed from the instructions of the
Department at the time of the passage of the act, and which
were furnished to the land officers, to guide them in its execution. As we have already said, that construction dispensed
with the necessity of requiring the claimant to prove that he
was an actual settler and housekeeper on the land, in all cases
of claims pending before the board of commissioners, and undecided. The rejected claims were declared to be public lands,
from the time of their rejection by the board; and, of course,
no relinquishment was necessary to vest the title in the Government. The claimants were then in the condition of those
who had no claim on the bounty of the Government, except
as actual settlers on the land, which furnished a meritorious
ground of right to a pre-emption. But the case of claimants
whose claims were still under consideration and undetermined
was altogether different. They might still be confirmed; and,
in that event, the Treasury would derive no benefit from them.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
O'Brien vs. Perry.

Congress, therefore, proposed to this class, that if they would
relinquish their claims to the Government, they should have
the right to enter the lands at the minimum price, in preference to all others. This was the inducement held out to them
to relinquish their claims. The Government had no pecuniary
interest, so far as the pre-emption right was concerned, after the
relinquishment, whether given to the claimant or to some subsequent settler. The minimum price was all it could receive
for the land. The proposal was a compromise, offered to this
class of claimants. Actual settlement and houseleeping on
the land, at the time of the passing of the act of 1832, were
not essential prerequisites of their claims before the board as
Spanish claims; they depended upon the settlement right,
under the act of 1807, and subsequent acts relating thereto.
Without pusuing this branch of the case further, we are
entirely satisfibd that the Commissioner of the Land Office
erred in cancelling the entry of Perry, made in 1839, and that
it was contrary to law, and void, as was also the issuing of the
patent to O'Brien, upon his subsequent entry for a part of the
same land in 1847. This was so held in Lyttle vs. The State
of Arkansas, (9 How., 314,) and in Cunningham vs. Ashley, (14
ib., 377;) see, also, Minter vs. Crommelin, (18 How., 87.) It is
true, in the first two cases, bills in equity were filed in the
court below by the persons claiming under the pre-emption
right to set aside the patent in one of the cases, and a location,
which operated to pass the legal title in the others.
But in the present case, which comes up from a decision in
the Supreme Court of Missouri, though the action was at law
by the patentee, to recover the possession, according to the
practice of that court, it is competent for the defendant to set
up a prior equitable title in bar of the suit, founded upon the
legal title to the premises in dispute.
Judgment affirmed.

