SUPREME COURT.
.FranklinBranch Bank vs. The State of Ohio.

bring the case within the 25th section. Nor can we claim it
because of the title set up under the treaty with the Indians,
because neither To-pen-na-be nor any one claiming under him
is party to the suit.
This court has decided in the cases of Owings vs. Norwood,
(5 Cranch, 344,) and of .Hendersonvs. Tennessee, (10 How., 311,)
that "in order to give jurisdiction to this court the party must
claim the title under the treaty for himself, and not for a third
person, in whose title he has no interest."
This case is, therefore, dismissedfor want ofjurisdition.

FRANIN BRANn BANK Vs. THE STATE O OHIo.

The sixtieth section of the act of the Ohio Legislature incorporating
the State Bank contains a contract for a fixed rule of taxation upon
that bank and its branches, and a subsequent act, which attempts to
assess a larger tax by a different rule is unconstitutional.
Writ of error to the Supreme Court of Ohio. The State of
Ohio, by Mr. Walcott, her Attorney General, brought suit in
the Supreme Court of Franklin county against the Franklin
Branch of the StateBank of Ohio, claiming the sum of $4,076 30,
as due from the bank to the State for taxes assessed pursuant
to an act of the Legislature, passed 5th April, 1859. The bank
pleaded that the 60th section of the charter was a contract, by
which the State bound herself to levy no other cr greater taxes
on the State Bank or its branches than what are stipulated
for in that section, and that the act of 1859, under which the
taxes claimed in this case are assessed, is void, as being a violation of the contract. The plaintiff demurred. The court
gave judgment against the defendant for the sum claimed. The
defendant took the case into the Supreme Court of the State,
where the judgment of the county court was affirmed. There.
upon the bank took this writ of error.
Mr. Stanbery, of Ohio, for the plaintiff in error.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Franklin Branch Bank vs. The State of Ohio.

No argument was made in this court for defendant in error.
Mr. Justice WAYNE. The single question in this case is,
whether the 60th section of the statute of Ohio, entitled "An
act to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio and other banking
companies," passed February 24, 1845, constitutes a contract
for a fixed amount and mode of taxation; and whether the
statute of Ohio, passed April 5, 1859, entitled "An act for the
assessment and taxation of all the property in this State, and
for levying taxes ther on, according to its value in money,"
impairs that contract.
The amount of tax due from the Franklin Branch, &c., &c.,
upon the basis of the 60th section, was $1,216 42 for the year
1859; the amount assessed against it, under the act of the 24th
February, 1855, was $4,076 30 for the same year. The case,
of course, turns upon the true construction of the 60th section; and this court has just said, in the case of the Jefferson
*Branchof the State Bank of Ohio, fc., vs. SLkelly, (No. 143,) that
the 60th section contains a contract for a fixed rule of taxation,
and that the act of April 15, 1853, which attempts to assess a
larger tax, by a differentrule, was unconstitutional. See also the
cases of Knoop vs. Piqua Bank, (16 Howard, 369;) -Dodgevs.
Woolsey, (18 Howard, 331;) Mechanics and Traders' Bank vs.
.Debolt, (ibid., 880.) In all of these cases this court held, that
the 60th section was a contract, and that the various State laws,
'which attempted to change the rule of taxation fixed by such
contract, were void;
We affirm again the unconstitutionality of the law of Ohio
under which the tax was asseised and levied against the Franklin Bank, and direct the reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio now before us by a writ of
error.
The clerk of this court will, under the direction of this court,
issue the proper mandate.

