DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

267

United States vs. Wilson.

UNITED STATES VS. JOHN WILSON.

1. A grant by Pio Pico, the last Mexican Governor of California, dated
on the 10th of July, 1846, being after the conquest of the country,
adds nothing to the strength or justice of a claim set up to the land
by the grantee.
2. But it was the practice and usage of the Mexican Government in California to set apart, for the use of the Indians, small lots of land
appurtenant to the houses in which they lived around the missions.
8. Where a person claims a lot under such a distribution among the
Indians of a mission, and shows that the grantee and his assigns
have lived upon ih for a long time, the title ought to be confirmed.
Appeal from the District Court of the \United States for the
northern district of California.
This was a claim for a tract of land lying near to the mission of San Luis Obispo, contai'ning 300,000 square varas, or
about fifty acres of land, and called La Hluerta de .Bomualdo.
The claim was based on a grant to one Romualdo, an Indian,
by Pio Pico, dated on the 10th of July, 1846. But there was
evidence to show that the grantee and those claiming under
him had been in possession from a period long anterior to the
date of the grant, and that he was put in possession by the
legal authorities of the country agreeably to the customs and
usages which prevailed concerning the distribution of lots at
the missions among the Indians, or "children of the missions,"
as they are called by the Church. The special circumstances
connected with the grant of this tract to the Indian Rornualdo
were detailed in the testimony of Bonilla, the Alcalde of the
district, who declared that he acted under the express order of
the Governor (Alvarado,) that he placed the grantee in possession, and that he kept a record of his acts, which was lost.
Mr. Black, of Pennsylvania, for the United States. :No confirmation can be had under the grant by Pico, because its execution and delivery before the conquest is not shown. Camberton, (21 How., 59;) Fuentes, (22-How., 443;) Pico, (22 How.,
406;) Teschmaker, (22 How., 392;) Vallejo, (22 How., 416;)

SUPREME COURT.
Zited States vs. Wilson.

JBolton, (23 How., 341;) Osio, (23 How., 273;) Luco,.(23 How.,
515;) Pico, (23 How., 321;) Palmer, (24 How., 125;) Castro,
(24 How., 346.) The claim must rest upon the testimony of
Bonilla and the fact of possession, and it is submitted to the
court to say whether that be sufficient. The title is good if it
was made according to the laws, customs, and usages of Mexico. There c6rtainly was a custom to distribute lands near
the missions among the neophytes. If the history of the country as ascertained from the numerous records which this court
has seen shows that the custom existed long enough and was
sufficiently uniform to give it the force of law, and if this record
proves that it was strictly observed in the present case, then,
perhaps, there is no sound objection to the affirmance of the
decree of confirmation. The honesty of the claim is not denied, and it has been, as this court knows, the constant policy
of the United States not to interpose far-fetched or capricious
objections against claims which seemed to be made in good
faith for small quantities of land, especially where the claimant
was in actual possession himself at the time of the revolution
in the government.
No counsel appeared for the claimant.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is an appeal from a decree of
the District Court for the southern district of California.
The tract of land in dispute is situated at the mission of San
Luis Obispo, called the Huerta de Romualdo, and is one thousand varas in length and three hundred in breadth, containing
some fifty acres of land. Wilson, the claimant below, derived
his claim from an Indian by the name of Romualdo, in 1846.
In 1842, Governor Alvarado directed Bonilla, the Alcalde at the
mission of Obispo, to distribute lands of the mission among
the Indians residing there, in separate parcels, as might be
deemed proper, proportioning the quantities according to the
merits and abilities of each one, putting them into possession
immediately.
The Alcalde, who is a witness on behalf of the claimants,
states that, under this order of the Governor, he distributed

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
United States vs. Wilson.

lands contigutus to the mission, some two miles in length, and
at other different points about a mile, where these Indians had
their houses and gardens. The lands were given, as to quantity, with regard to the number in the family, the maximum
generally being two hundred varas, and the minimum one hundred.
The Alcalde states that he did not set off to Romualdo the
land he claimed at the time, as the tract was of greater extension than he gave the others; but that the Indian afterwards,
in the same year, brought a special order from the Governor,
which directed him to put iRomualdo into the possession of the
entire extension of the "Huerta," on which he lived. The
.Alcalde testifies to the genuineness of this special order. He
gave the possession to the Indian accordingly. A record was
kept of the distribution of these lands in a book in his office,
as well as the orders from the Governor; but this book was
lost, with all the archives of his office, in 1846, when the American troops passed through the mission. Romualdb had worked
for the Governor, and his good conduct was recommended in
the special order for the distribution of his Huerta to him. He
was advanced in age, and had lived on this place for many years,
and had under cultivation, according to opinion of the Alcalde,
a fourth of the land.
There is a grant of Pio Pico to the Indian of the same piece
of land, dated 10th July, 1846; but this was after the conquest
of the country by this Government, and adds nothing to the
strength or justice of the claim. The right stood before the
commissioners principally upon this grant of Pio Pied, and it
was rejected for the reason stated.
The further proof by Bonilla of the claim under Alvarado
was given before the district judge. The only evidence of this
source of claim before the commissioners was the certificate
of Alvarado and of Bonilla, which was properly regarded as
incompetent and inadmissible. The district judge confirmed
the claim.
The title seems to be in conformity with the practice and
usage of the Mexican Government,*in setting apart small tracts
connected with the huts or houses in which the Indians lived

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. WiTson.

around the missions, and which were cultivated as gardens.
In the present instance, the possession and cultivation were of
considerable duration; and, according to the testimony of the
Alcalde, the distribution and assignment of the Governor was
intended to be permanent, as a home to the occupant. The
claim appears to be an honest one, unaccompanied with suspicion; and, under the circumstances, we think was properly
confirmed.
It comes within the principle of the case of The United Sates
vs. De H aro's Heirs, (22 How., 293.)
As there is some question as to the extent of the claim, the
petitioners setting up a right to a much larger tract than stated
in the evidence in the case that belonged to Romualdo, and as
the confirmation also is a confirmation to Wilson, the petitioner,
we shall modify the decree of the court below, so as to confirm
the claim as if presented in the name of'the original claimant
to him and his legal representatives; and, further, that thejudge
of the court below may direct a survey of the claim, if applied
for by the Government.
Wih these modifications the decree below is affirmed.

