DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Island City.

The decree of the court below is, therefore, erroneous, in
so far as it is affected by the assumption that the contract was
usurious.

Decree of the Circuit Court reversed, and recordremitted, with directions to proceed in conformity to the opinion of this court.

.TiiE BARQUE ISLAND CITY-Pierce et al., Claimants; Cromwell

et al., Libellants.
1. Parties who find a vessel derelict at sea, and carry her into port, are

entitled t the usual salvage, without regard to meritorious but un-

successful efforts previously made to rescue her by other parties.
2. To constitute a case of derelict it is not sufficient that the crew have

left temporarily to procure assistance; the abandonment must be
final, without hope of recovery or intention to return.

3.A ship disabled at sea is partially aided by one vessel, further assisted
by another, then left with nobody on board, at anchor, but still in
peril, while better means of rescue are sought for, and in that condition she is discovered by a third vessel, which brings her into a
safe port:-this is a case in which all three of the vessels are entitled to share in the salvage awarded.
4. A right to compensation for salvagepresupposes good faith, meritorious
service, complete restoration, and incorruptible vigilance, so far as
the property is within the reach or under the control of the salvors.
5. If salvors are guilty of embezzlement, whether at sea or in port, or
even after the'property has been delivered into the custody of the
law, their claim for salvage is forfeited to the owners.
6. The operation of this rule does not depend on the amount or value
of the property embezzled; the law visits any embezzlement, though
small, with an entire forfeiture of all claim for salvage.
7. When the embezzlement is secret and purely an individual act, it will
not prejudice co-salvors, who are innocent and ignorant of it; but
all are guilty who consent to, connive at, or conceal it; who enor fail to prevent it when they can.
courage it,
This was a libel for salvage by Hl. B. Cromwell and others,
owners of the steamer Westernport, against the barque Island

SUPREME COURT.
The Island City.

City. The libel was filed in the District Court of the United
States for Massachusetts, and was removed into the Circuit
Court on the certificate of the district judge that he was in
terested.
In January, 1857, the Island City, on her voyage from Galveston to Boston, made Cape Cod in a snow-storm. The master finding he could not get by the cape, anchored in Vineyard Sound; but finding his ground tackle \would not hold, he
cut away the masts, and brought up near the Horseshoe. The
schooner Kensington went out from Hyannis to her assistance,
but, after every effort, was not able to get her into port. The
Kensington towed her so'me distance, but finally left her anchored in four and a half fathoms of water, with a hundred
fathoms of chain out, dismasted, and without a rudder. The
owners of the Island City being informed of her situation, requested the master of the steamer B. B. Forbes to go to her
aid. He did so, and found her where the Kensington had left
her, and in the helpless condition mentioned. The steamer
took the barque in tow on Saturday, the 24th of January, with
the intention of carrying her into Boston. The severity of
the weather and the floating ice made this a work of great
labor, hardship, and peril. On Monday, the steamer's coal
being found insufficient, she took off the crew of the barque,
left her at anchor off Great Point, Nantucket Island, without
any person on board, and went to Provincetown for a supply
of coal. Several accidents delayed the steamer in getting the
necessary quantity and quality of coal, and it was not until
the Saturday afterwards that she was able to return to the
place where she had left the Island City at anchor. She was
not there. The steamer Westerntport had discovered her the
day before the return of the Forbes, got up her anchor, took
'her in tow, and brought her into Hyannis, where she was followed by the Forbes and brought to Boston.
While the Island City was in possession of the, Westernport
the officers and crew of the latter vessel broke open the chests
of the master and seamen of the barque, robbed them of their
clothes, watches, and money, carried away the quadrant and
barometers of the ship, rifled trunks on freight; and this pil

DECEM:BER TERM, 1861.

123

T7e Island City.

lage was committed extensively and upon a plan of general
plunder, by the mate and many of the seamen, without opposition from any of them. When complaint was made, some of
the articles taken were restored to their owners, but a consid
erable portion of the money and clothing was never returned.
The owners of the schooner Kensington, of the steamer R.
B. Forbes, and of the steamer Westernport, all filed libels
against the Island City for salvage, and the three cases were
heard together.
Mr. Justice Clifford, in the Circuit Court, gave his opinion
at length, and decreed that the whole amount of all the salvage services rendered by all the libellants in the three cases
was $13,000, of which $3,300 were rendered by the Kensington, $5,200 by the Forbes, and $4,500 by the Westernport.
One-third of the last mentioned sum was decreed to the owners of the Westernport, but the other two-thirds, (viz: $3,000,)
to which the master, officers, and crew of the Westernport
would otherwise have been entitled, were adjudged to be forfeited to the owners of the Island City, by reason of the misconduct of the said master, officers, and crew of the Westernport, and, so far as they were concerned, the libel was dismissed. From this decree the owners of the Westernport took
the present appeal. The other parties submitted to the decree
of the Circuit Court.
111r. -Dana,of Massachusetts, for libellants. There must be
three elements in every case of salvage: 1st, a marine peril;
2d, voluntary service upon contingent compensation; 3d, fall
and entire success.
The services rendered by the crew of the Kensington had
the two first of these elements, but wanted the last. They
failed of success; they left the barque from necessity, and
abandoned her to her chances, instead of taking her to a place
of safety where she could have been delivered to her owiers.
The service being short of entire success, the merit of it is immaterial. The court will not inquire whether the ultimate
safety of the vessel was made more or less probable by tho

SUPREME COURT.
The Island City.

service rendered, nor speculate upon the comparative degrees
of her peril in the places where she was found and where she
was left. It must be a case of salvage, or it is nothing.
The Forbes makes a claim for nothing but contract services,
to be paid on a quantum meruit. Her case, therefore, has not in
it the necessary ingredient of voluntary service upon contingent compensation. She was engaged by the owners of the
barque, was in their service, and subject to their order. Her
employment was liable to be terminated at the pleasure of the
owners of the barque. She could not, like a salvor, insist
upon retaining possession. No question can arise between the
Forbes and the real salvors. If the Forbes is entitled to compensation for contract services, it is independent of, and subiect to salvage. After all the salvage awards are given, her
claim may be heard.
Of all the three vessels that went to the aid of the Island
City, the Westernport was the only one whose service was
salvage in its nature. It had all the elements of salvage; for,
1st, the Island City was in peril; 2d, the service of the Westernport was voluntary; and, 3d, it was completely successful.
At the time when the Island City was taken possession of
by the Westernport the latter vessel was not in the possession,
actual or constructive, of her own crew, or of any salvor. She
was derelict in the true sense of the law of salvage. She lay
in an open sea, held by an insufficient anchor, surrounded by
shoals, dismasted, without a rudder, and with no one on board.
She was deserted, abandoned, forsaken. In our law, the word
derelict has not the intense signification which it bore in the
civil law. It does not mean that the owner has renounced title, but merely that the thing has been deserted, though it

may be with the hope of returning. The test is not the hope
but the power of resuming possession. In the case of a derelict vessel the title remains in the owner, with a temporary
right of occupancy for salvage in the finder. It is doubtful if
the crew of this vessel could have been compelled to return.
Their ability to do §o certainly depended on the weather, and
every circumstance that increased the peril of the barque made

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

125

The Island City.

their return less probable. The Amethyst, (Davies, 21;) The
John Gilpin, (01cott, 78;) The John Wurtz, (Olcott, 470;) Rowe
vs. Brig, (1 Mason, 373;) Swabez's Adm., Rep. 205.
The rule in cases like this is to give one-half for salvage,
making an equitable division between owner and salvor;
The John Wurtz,.(Olcott, 470;) and though it be true that the
rule is artificial and flexible, yet it is a rule, and must be adhered to, unless reasons be shown for departing from it. The
H~enry Ewbanc, (1 Sumner, 411.) The rule of giving one-half
to the salvors was followed in the cases of Rowe vs. Brig,
(1 Mason, 373;) The .Henry Ewbank, (1 Sumner, 400;) The
Boston, (1 Sumner, 828;) Sprague vs. Barrels Flour, (2 Story,
195;) The Galaxy, (1 B]. & Howl., 270;) John Wurtz, (Olcott,
460;) L'Esperence, (1 Dods., 64;) The Frances Mary, (2 Hagg:,
89;) The .Elliotta, (2 Dods., 75;) The Reliance, (2 Hagg., 90;)
The Eugene, (3 Hagg., 156;) The -Effort,(3 Hagg., 153;) Zwei
Gebroder, (3 Hagg., 430;) The Gall, (2 W. R., 70;) The Nicolina,
(2 W. R., 175;) The Britannia,(3 Hagg., 153.) And where one.
half is given, the expenses of the salvors are sometimes taken
out of the other half. The Frances .1ary, (2 Hagg., 90;) The
Reliance, (ib. in note.) In some cases one-third is given, and in
some more than one-half, as in The Waterloo, (1 B. & H., 128;)
The Cora, (4 Wash., 80;) The Charles,(Newb., 329;) The Thetis,
(2 Knapp, Pr. C., 410;) The Yonge Bastiaan, (5 Rob., 287;)
The Jubilee, (3 Hagg., 43;) The Rising Sun, (Ware, 385.) In
England, the rule not to exceed one-half is not applied to cases
of derelicts. The Inca, (Swabez's Adm. Rep., 371.) In this
case all the circumstances combine to make the resort to a
high rule of salvage proper and just. The reasons for giving
a liberal allowance are well stated in the cases of The Nath.
HUooper, (3 Sumner, 579;) The Boston, (1 Sumner, 323;) The
H7y. Ewbank, (1 Sumner, 424-5-6, 429 ;) The Missouri's Cargo,
(Sprague's Dec., 268-71;) The John Gilpin; (Olcott, 88;) The
Spirit of the Age, (Swabez's Ad. R., 286;) Barrels of Oil,
(Sprague's Dec., 93.)
As to the alleged misconduct of the salvors, the articles
of clothing which were taken from the Island City by the men
of the -Westernport were taken and used to protect them

SUPREME OOUIT.
The Island City.

against the severity 'of the weather, and the other articles
were taken on board the Westernport for safe keeping. The
men intended to return, and did return, the articles taken;
and if any articles were not returned, it was by accident or
negligence. There was no intention of any one belonging on
board the Westernport to steal or embezzle any article.
Mr. Curtis, of Massachusetts, for claimants. The vessel was
not derelict, because the crew left her to obtain coal and provisions, and with inten.t to return. The Aguila, (1 0. Rob.,
37;) Taylor vs. P-yor, (1 Gal. R., 133;) The .Emulous,(1 Sum.,
209;) The Bee, (Ware's R., 845;) The Dodge, (Healey, 4Wash.,
651.) To entitle a party to salvage, not only must the service
rendered be meritorious, but the possession taken must be lawful. The Amelia, (1 Oranch, 1;) The Dodge, (Hlealey, 4 Wash.,
651;) The Barefoot, (1 Law and Eq., 661.) The jus disponendi
Which belongs to the owner is not interfered with by any principle of admiralty law; and if a vessel be found, though with
no one on board, under such circumstances that the defenders
knew, or ought to have known, their services w'ere not desired,
and they take possession, with intent to supplant the master
and owners in giving her relief, they have no claim for compensation. The Upnor, (2 Hag., 3;) The Barefoot, (1 Law and
Eq., 661;) The India, (1 W. Rob., 408;) The Amethyst, (Davies' It., 23.) The court is always jealous to maintain the
rights of those who have begun a salvage enterprise, and are
prosecuting it in good faith. New comers are not allowed to
interpose and dispossess them for covetous and selfish ends.
They must prove an absolute necessity for such interposition.
The Charlotte, (2 Hag., 361;) The -Eugene Bourne, (3 Hag.,
160;) The .Effort, (3 Hag., 167-8;) The Glasgow Paek~t, (2 W.
Rob., 306.)
But whatever salvage, if any, may have been earned by
the master, officers, and crew of the Westernport was forfeited
by embezzlement and by gross negligence in the custody and
care of the property which came into their possession. The
law is clear, that any embezzlement works a forfeiture. The
Blaireau, (2 Oranch, 240;) The Boston, (I Sum., 339;) The

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Island City.

Rising Sun, (Ware's R., 379.) :Not only so, but the law demands of salvors what Judge Story terms "incorruptible vigilance," (1 Sum., 341-2;) and gross negligence, still more wilful
carelessness, is cause of forfeiture. The -Duke of -ianchester,
(2 W. Rob., 56, 471;) The Barefoot, (1 Law and Eq., 661;)
The Cape Packet, (3 W. Rob., 122;) The Glory, (2 Law and
Eq., 551.) Actual embezzlement of the most cruel kind, robbery of shipwrecked mariners, and extensive plunder of their
effects, are clarly proved.
There was one complete salvage service performed by the
successive efforts of the three vessels, and the Circuit Courtproperly allowed but one salvage compensation. That compensation ($13,000) was large and liberal. The distribution
of it was discretionary, and should not be changed on appeal,
unless it manifestly appears that some important error has
been committed. The Sybil,'(4 Wh., 98;) Hobart vs..Drogan,
(10 Pet., 108.)
There is no error in the distribution of the amount allowed
the Westernport. The same proportion (one-third) was allowed
in the Blaireau,(2 Oranch, 240,) to the salving vessel and cargo;
and that proportion has been adopted in many other cases.
Mr. Justice Story says, in the case of the ship H7enry Ewbank
and cargo, (1 Sum., 426,) that one-third is the proportion habitually adopted, and to induce a departure from it very peculiar
and pressing circumstances must be shown; and he refers to
many cases in support of his position. In this case there are
no such peculiar or pressing circumstances.
Mr. Justice GRIER. If the barque "Island City" was derelict when she was rescued by the Westernport, the libellant
would be entitled to the usual allowance for salvage in such a
case, without regard to previous unsuccessful attempts to rescue
her by the Forbes and the schooner Kensington.
The owners of the barque have not appealed from the decision of the court on the libel filed by the other alleged salvors.
But the decision of those cases may be collaterally challenged
in this, in so far as they affect the rights of the libellant, if his
vessel was entitled to the whole, and has received but one-third.

SUPREME COURT.
The IMand City.

The first question, then, is, whether the salved barque was
derelict, or totally abandoned by her crew and the others who
claim to have commenced the salvage service, which, it is admitted, was successfully concluded by the Westernport.
When the barque was discovered by the Westernport, on
the 30th of January, 1857, in Vineyard Sound, she was dismasted, and her rudder gone; she was held only by her stream
anchor and a heavy chain. She was liable, in case of a storm
of wind from the east, to be driven by the ice on shoals, and
lost. The crew had left her thus apparently abandoned. The
Westernport was, therefore, justified in taking possession of
her, and taking her to a place of safety in the port of Hyannis,
and to have a liberal salvage compensation, even if it should
turn out that the barque had not been derelict.
To constitute a case of derelict, the abandonment must have
been final, without hope of recovery, or intention to return.
If the crew have left the ship temporarily, with intention to
return after obtaining assistance, it is no abandonment, noi
will the libellant be entitled to the s'avage as of a derelict.
The testimony in this case fully justifies the decision of the
court below, that when the barque was discovered by the
Westernport she was not derelict.
The peril from which the barque was finally rescued by the
interposition of the Westernport was begun previous to the
23d of January, when the barque was first discovered by the
schooner, and the salvage service was first commenced. The
barque was in her greatest peril at that point, and was with
much difficulty taken by the schooner to a place of greater
comparative safety; but she was unable to put the barque in
a place of absolute safety in the port of Hyannis. The peril
was not ended. The schooner being unable to complete the
rescue, gave notice, by telegraph, to the owners at Boston, who
despatched the steamer Forbes to the assistance of the barque.
The Forbes then takes possession of her, and, finding it
impracticable, on account of the ice, to take her into the port
of Hyannis, attempts to take her to Provincetown. After
encountering much peril and difficulty from the tides and the
ice, it is discovered that their supply of fuel is insufficient,

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Island Ciy.

under the circumstances, to take themselves, with the barque
in tow, to Provincetown. They then conclude to anchor the
barque, with her remaining anchor and heavy chains, in a
position of greater comparative safety, where she would most
probably be able, though not out of peril, to ride out the storm
till the Forbes should return. The crew of the barque departed in the steamboat, intending to return, believing they
could render more service by expediting her return, while they
could be of no service by remaining on board the barque.
They were detained at Provincetown much beyond their expectation, from the impossibility of sooner obtaining a supply
of coal, and were unable to return till after the Westernport
had taken possession of the boat, and brought her safely into
the port of Hyannis. We concur, therefore, in the opinion of
th Circuit Judge, that the barque was not abandoned after the
salvage service commenced; that it was one continuous peril
from which the barque was rescued, and that each of the several
salvors contributed to the final result. The amount -allowed
for the salvage service was liberal, and the apportionment of it
among the several salvors just and proper.
It has been contended here, that the court, in apportioning
the salvage allowed to the Westernport as between the owners
of the boat and the crew, should not have followed the established rule of giving but one-third to the ship, and two-thirds
to the crew; that it is the power of steam, which is the chief
agent in the rescue, and the danger, if any, is to the boat and
cargo, and the enterprise and perils of the crew comparatively
unimportant. We admit that there may be cases in which a
court might be justified in not adhering ridgidly to the rule;
but in this case, the question was not properly raised by the
pleadings or evidence, so as to justify the court in departing
from it. The evidence shows that considerable danger and
hardship was encountered by the crew, and it is only after the
court have adjudged their claim to have been forfeited by their
misconduct, that fault has been found with the apportionment.
Tn establishing a new rule as regards steamboats, the parties
interested in the decision of the question, and claiming adverse
interests, should both be heard, and a proper issue made be9
VOL. I.

SUPREME COURT.
T7e Island City.

tween them, where the testimony taken should have direct
reference to the issue to be decided. In this case the crew
had no counsel to contest the question adversely to the boat.
Lastly, it has been contended, that the decree of the court,
forfeiting the salvage apportioned to the crew on account of
their misconduct, is unnecessarily harsh and severe, and ought
to be reversed. The principles of law which should govern
the case are correctly stated by the Circuit Judge in the following summary from adjudged cases:
"Public policy encourages the hardy and industrious mariner to engage'in these laborious and sometimes dangerous enterprises, and with a view to withdraw from him every temptation to embezzlement and dishonesty, the law allows him,
in case he is successful, a liberal compensation. Those liberal
rules as to remuneration were adopted, and are administered
not only as an inducement to the daring to embark in such
enterprises, but to withdraw, as far as possible, every motive
from the salvors to depredate upon the property of the unfortunate owner. While the law is thus liberal as to compensation, it requires on the part of the salvors the most scrupulous
fidelity. It visits, says- a learned judge, any embezzlement,
although small, with an entire forfeiture of all claim for salvage. It not only withholds the extraordinary reward allowed
to the honest salvor as a premium for his courage and hardihood, but, by way of penalty for his fraud, deprives him even
of a quantum meruit for his labor. While the general interests
of society require that the most powerful inducements should
be held out to men to save life and property about to perish
at sea, they also require that those inducements should likewise be held forth to a fair and upright conduct with regard
to the objects preserved. Compensation for salvage service
presupposes good faith, meritorious service, complete restoration, and incorruptible vigilance, so far as the property is
within the reach or under the control of the salvors. Salvors
are required by the nature of their undertaking, and by a due
:consideration of the large award allowed them for their services,
to be vigilant in preventing, detecting, and exposing every act
of plunder upon the property saved; and if they are guilty of

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Isdand iy.

embezzlement, whether at sea, in port, or even after the property is delivered into the custody of the law, it works a forfiiture of their claim to, salvage. When,secret, and purely an
individual act, it is justly held not to prejudice co-salvors, who
are innocent. But all may become guilty by consenting thereto, or by connivance, concealment, or encouragement afforded
to the actors, or by not preventing the act when it is in their
power."
On a careful examination of the testimony, we concur with
the court below in their application of these principles to the
case before us.
The embezzlement proved was not the secret act of one or
two of the crew. A general system of plunder seems to have
been carried on while the barque lay at the wharf in Hyannis,
and before the crew returned to claim their property. In this
the officers and crew of the Westernport seem all to have been
actively or passively implicated. Locks were broken, chests
and trunks forced open, and clothing, money, and other articles of value were carried away, and never returned. Those
who. did not actively participate in this systematic and general
pillage have connived and consented" thereto, and have justly
been decreed to have forfeited all right to compensation.
.Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed, with costs.

