DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

809.

Farnivs. Tesson.

F RtNi vs. TESSON..
1. \Where a contract is joint, and not several, all the obligees who are
alive must be joined as plaintiffs.
2. If one of the joint obligees be dead, a suggestion of that fact is suffi.
cient to show a right to sue in the names of the survivors.
8. f by the condition of a bond the money to be recovered be not for
the joint benefit of all the obligees, the suggestion of that fact cannot alter the obligation; but all the parties having a legal title'to
be for the use
recover must join in the suit, and the judgment will
to the
entitled
of the party named in the condition and equitably
money.
4. The rule is that a covenant may be construed as joint or several according to the interests of the parties appearing upon the face of
the obligation, if the words are capable of such a construction, but
it will not be construed as several by reason of several interests if ite
be expressly joint.
5, Where some of the obligees of a bond who should be joined as plain.'
tiffs in a suit brought upon it are omitted in order to give jurisdiq.
tion in the case to a Federal court, such a reason, even if alleged in
the pleading, would not cure the omission.
6. A defendant can object to a non-joinder of plaintiffs, not only by demurrer, but under the plea of the general issue, or on motion td
arrest -he judgment.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern.district of Illinois.
Tesson & Dangen recovered a. judgment against Bontcum
and Carrey in the Circuit Court of Peoria county, Illinois, on
the 12th of September, 1857, for $8,000. On the same day an
execution was issued directed to Woodford county, and a levy
was soon after made on real and personal property. Bonteurir
and Carrey filed a bill on the equity side of the court for an
injunction to stop further proceedings under the judgment, and
the injunction was directed to issue according to the prayer of
the bill, "upon the complainants entering into bond in the penal
sum of sixteen thousand dollars with Christian Farni and Peter.
Farni, conditioned according to law." A bond was accordingly "

SUPREME COURT.
Farni vs. Tesson.

executed, in which the two Farnis with lBontcum and Carrey
were the obligors, and Tesson, Dangen, Tuber, Garesche, and
Miner the obligees. This bond, it was conceded, was not
framed in accordance with the order of the court, but upon its
being filed the injunction was issued. Afterwards the plaintiffs, perceiving the insufficiency of their bond, had a new one
executed, to which the parties were the same as to the former
one; but the conditions were different. This bond was filed
by the clerk of the court without the authority of the court
and without the knowledge of the defendants in the bill, who
on discovering the fact moved to dissolve the injunction, because no sufficient bond had been filed prior to the issuing of the
writ. The plaintiffs afterwards moved for leave to file a newr
bond; but no action was taken upon their motion, and in October, 1858, the injunction was dissolved, and after some time
they dismissed their bill. At December term, 1858, Tessofa
brought suit on the second injunction bond against Christian
and Peter Farni in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois. The suit was brought in his
own name as surviving partner of the firm of Tesson &Dangen,
omitting as plaintiffs the other three obligees to whom the bond

had been given, and making only two of the four obligors who
executed it defendants. To avoid the objection of non-joinder
of the other obligees the plaintiff averred that he was the only
one interested in the judgment enjoined; that Miner, one of
the obligees, was the sheriff who held the execution enjoined,
and the other obligees were merely the agents or trustees of
Tesson. The defendants demurred to the declaration, and the
plaintiff amended it; but the names of the parties to the action
were the same in the amended as in the first declaration, and
the averments of their several and separate interests in the bond
remained unchanged. To this amended declaration the defendants, in accordance with a stipulation they had made to
plead to the merits, on the 26th of February, 1859, filed their
plea of non estfactum, with an affidavit that the writing sued
on was never delivered by them. Replication was filed to this
plea and issue upon it to the country, and a verdict and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff. The defendants ex-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

311

Farnivs. Tesson.

cepted to the instructions given by the courtto the jury, which
related, however, to points not touched on in the opinion of the
Supreme Court. Before signing thebill of exceptions thejudge
put on record a written explanation to the effect that the objection to the non-joinder of the proper parties, though made by
the defendants on the trial, had been understood by the court
to have been waived, and was only pressed upon a motion made
to arrest judgment, when it was overruled as merely technical.
This overruled objection is the only matter in the record to
which the opinion of the Supreme Court was addressed, and
it has seemed necessary to state only such of the facts as form
a necessary introduction to that opinion. The defendants sued
out this writ of error.
M7r. Fuller, of Illinois, and Mr. Carlisle, of Washington, for
plaintiff in error. The bond on which this action was brought
was a joint undertaking by four persons to pay five others
jointly the sum of $17,000. Two of the obligees were the
plaintiffs in the judgment enjoined; two others were agents or
trustees for them; and the fifth was the sheriff, who had the
execution enjoined.
The sheriff, Miner, one of the obligees, was a citizen of Illinois, of the same State as the defendants in this case;, so the
plaintiff avers, and so the fact was. This contrivance in pleading was therefore resorted to to support the jurisdiction. of the
United States court; for, if the suit had been brought in the
name of all the obligees, it must have failed, because one of the
plaintiffs, Miner, would have been a citizen of the same State
with the defendants. Can this pleading be supported by tho
authorities? It must be kept in mind that this is an action. of
debt on the penalty of the bond, and that all the authorities
make a wide distinction between this form of action and one
of covenant upon the undertakings in the conditional part of
the obligation, and most, if not all, the cases turn on this distinction. Keeping this in mind, we refer to 1 Williams Saunders, 291, 1st Am. Ed., (Cabell vs. Vaughan,) where it is said
"all the obligees or covenautees, if alive, ought to join, in the
action; if dead, that fact should be averred." The plaintiff

SUPREME COURT.
Farnivs. Tesson.

in this case averred in substance that the obligees not joined
Were still alive. 1 Chitty's Pleadings, 9; 1 Saunders' Pl. &
Ev., 9; Pearce vs. Hichcock, (2 Comstock, 388;) Arnold et al.
vs. Talmadge, (19 Wendell, 527;) Bailey vs. Powell, (11 Missouri, 414;) Sims & H ollis vs. Harris, (8 B. Monroe, 55;) Gayle
et al. vs. Marlin, (3 Alabama, 593.) This defect of parties may
be taken advantage of by demurrer, plea in abatement, objection at the trial, motion in arrest of judgment, or by writ of
error. 1 Chitty's Pleadings, 12 a; Cabellvs. Vaughan, (1 Saund.
Rep., 291.)
The plaintiff filed a declaration, which was demurred to. ie
then amended by filing two new counts, to which the defendants stipulated that they would plead to the merito, (and this
was all the answer they ever made to it.) They did plead to
the merits; at the trial, insisted on the objection. The judge
overruled it then-overruled the motion in arrest, because he
thought the objection too technical to be sustained; yet the
authorities all say that the objection was a .good one at any
stage of the proceedings, and ought to prevail when insisted on.
There is no surprise to plaintiff in this, for he has deliberately taken the hazard of trusting that the court would disreg rd long and well-settled rules of common law pleading, in
order to extend the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
Mr. Vinton, of Washington city, for defendant in error. It
has been a rule of practice from an early period of the common
law that covenantees may sue separately in covenant, if the interest and cause of action be several, though the covenant be
in terms joint; but if an action of debt be brought on the same
obligation to recover the penalty for breach of covenant, all
the obligees must join in the suit. 1 Chitty's Plead., 3,6, and
7;Eccleston vs. Clepsam, (1 Saund., 153, and note 1.)
The inquiry naturally presents itself, why was this distin tion in the rule of practice where the suit is on the same instrument?
When debt was brought to recover the penalty of the bcnd,
the severe rule of the common law gave judgment for the
tvhole penalty according to the letter of the obligation, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

313:

Farni is. Tesson.

not only shut out all inquiry into the damage which the obligee had sustained, but provided for the obligor no relief in
any other form. And so great was ithis hardship of the common law that the court of equity made relief in such cases one
of its special grounds of jurisdiction, which directed an issue
of quantum damnificalus, and enjoined the excess of the judgment beyond the damage actually sustained. 2 Selwin N.
P., 517.
If the obligee by his action of debt claimed the penalty of
the bond according to its letter, it was but just that he, too,
should be held to its letter, and compelled, though his interest
were separate, to sue in the names of all the obligees. But if
he brought covenant on his obligation, he recovered such damages only as he had actually sustained; and as he thus relaxed
his" hold upon the letter of the bond, the rule of practice was
relaxed also in his favor by allowing him to sue separately, if
his interest and cause of action were separate, though the
terms of the obligation were joint. The law remained on this
footing until the passage of the statute of the 8 and 9 William
IMl, ch. 11, sec. 8; which enabled the obligor to compel the obligee in an action of debt on the penalty to assign the breaches
of the condition of the bond, and limited his recovery to the
damage actually sustained.
Since the passage of that statute, the action of debt on a penal
bond is virtually put on the same footing with the action of
covenant on the obligation. The result of an action on a penal
bond, whether debt or covenant be brought, is now substan.
tially the same to both parties in the suit. The English statute
on this subject has been everywhere adopted in this country,
and the record of this case shows that tle plaintiff assigned
the breaches of the condition of the bond, and recovered what
was equitably due him, being some seven thousand three hundred and odd dollars. When the reason for this distinction in
the rule of practice ceased to exist, the distinction itself ought
also to have ceased.
But a conclusive answer to this objection to the non-joinder
of proper parties to the suit is, that it was waived by the plaintiffs in error in the court below. He who remains silent when

SUPREME COURT.
-Farni

vs. Tesson.

it is his duty and interest to speak, will not be allowed to
speak afterwards to the prejudice of another. Having remained
silent, then, the defendants had no right to make the objection
on motion to arrest.the judgment, nor to insist upon it in this
court as a ground of error to reverse the judgment. The stipulation to plead to the merits was plainly an agreement to
waive the objection of want of parties as a defence to the suit,
and not, as is claimed by the plaintiffs in error, an agreement not
to avail themselves of this defence in a particular form only,
such as by demurrer to the declaration or plea in abatement.
Mr. Justice GRIER. The amendments made to the declaration after demurrer have not removed the original mistake,
as to the parties who should have been joined as plaintiffs. In
an action of debt on bond, the demand is for the penalty.
The condition of the bond is no part of the obligation. It is
true, the j udgment for the penalty will be released, on performance of the condition annexed to it. The plaintiff may declare on it as single, and defendant would then have to pray
oyer of the deed, and have the condition put on the record, so
that he could plead a performance of it, or any other defence
founded on it. The bond being set forth at length in the
declaration, precluded the necessity of oyer, but did not relieve
the pleader from the mistake patent in his plea. He sues on
a several covenant to pay a sum of money to A, and shows a
covenant to pay A B and C jointly. If one of the joint covenantees be dead, a suggestion of that fact is sufficient to show
a right to sue in the names of the survivors. If, by the condition, the money to be recovered be not for the joint benefit
of all, the suggestion of that fact cannot alter the obligation;
but will show only that, though all the parties to it should
join in the suit, and show a legal title to recover, the judgment
will be for the use of the party named in the condition, and
equitably entitled to the money. The true reason for the
course pursued by the, pleader in this case, though not alleged
in the pleading, was, perhaps, to give jurisdiction to the Circuit
Court of the United States, by omitting the names of obligees
who are citizens of Illinois. But it is admitted that such a

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

315

Farni vs. Tesson.

reason, even'if alleged in the pleading, would not have cured
the omission.
It is an elemental principle of the common law, that where
a contract is joint and not several, all the joint obligees who
are alive must be joined as plaintiffs, and that the defendant
can object to a non-joinder of plaintiffs, not only by demurrei
but in arrest of judgment, under the plea of the general issue.
When there are several covenants by the obligors, as, for
instance, to "pay $300 to A and B, viz: to A $100, and B
$200," no doubt each may sue alone on his several covenant.
The true rule, as stated by Baron Parke, is, that "a covenant
may be construed to be joint or several, according to the interests of the parties appealing upon the face of the obligation,
if the words are capable of such a construction; but it will not be
construed to be several, by reason of several interests, if it be
expressly joint." In this case, the covenant is joint, and will
admit of no construction. The condition annexed cannot
affect the plain words of the obligation.
It has not been denied on the argument that such is the
established rule of the law, and such the plain construction of
the bond; but it is insisted, that the court should disregard it
as merely a technical rule, which does not affect the merits of
the controversy. The same reason-would require the court to
reject all rules of pleading. These rules ar'e founded on sound
reason, and long experience of their benefits.
It is no wrong or hardship to suitors who come to the courts
for a remedy, t.6 be required to do it in the mode established
by the law. State legislatures may substitute, by codes, the
whims of sciolists and inventors for the experience and wisdom of ages; but the success of these experiments is not such as
to allure the court to follow their example. If any one should
be curious on this subject, the cases of Randon vs. Toby, (11
tow., 517;) of Bennet vs. Butterworth, (ib., 667;) of MkcFaul
vs. Ramsey, (20 How., 523;) and Green vs. Custard, (23 How.,
484,) may be consulted.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed,with costs.

