DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Law vs.

533

Crow.

LAW vs. CRoss.
1. An agent may sue his principal in his own name on the contract by
which he was employed, though he be a member of a mercantile
house through which the correspondence necessary in the-transaction of the business was carried on.
2 The partners of the agent would not be parties to his contract with
his principal, even if he agreed to make them sharers in the profits
of it.
8. It is not erroneous for a judge of the Circuit Court to disregard the
written points of counsel and charge the jury in his own way, if
he submits the facts fairly and gives his opinion fully on every
question of law arising in the case.
4. Where an agent goes beyond the letter of his instructions, the principal must within a reasonable tirerepudiate the act, or else be bound
by his acquiescence.
5. The customary meaning of a word among merchants is a matter of
fact'for the jury to decide upon evidence.
6. A letter written by the master of a vessel to an agent of the owner,
advising what shall be done for the owner's interest in an emergency created in part by the act of the master himself, which advice
was followed by the agent to whom it is addressed, may be given in
evidence as part of the res gestae.
7. Where an agent buys an article for his principal and the price goes
down, another agent of the same principal has no authority to repudiate the contract unless specially directed to. do so.

Writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the southern district of New York.
This was assumpsit brought in the Circuit Court by Alexander Cross, a subject of the British Queen, against George
Law. The declaration (or complaint) contained the common
counts, which the defendant answered with the plea of nonassumpsit and a notice of set-off.
It appeared on the trial that Law, the defendant, established

a line of steamers to run between Panaima and San Francisco.
The line was composed of the Isthmus, the Republic, the Columbus, and the Antelope, which left New York to take their places

SUPREME COURT.
Law vs. Cross.

in the line at different times, in the spring of the year 1850.
The defendant employed Cross, the plaintiff, as his agent to
make purchases of coals for the use of these ships. Ile (the
plaintiff) was a member of a firm consisting of himself and four
others, who were engaged in trade at Valparaiso, under the
name of Cross, Hlobson & Co., and at San Francisco under the
name of Cross & Co. The defendant addressed his letters
uniformly to-Alexander Cross, but they were answered in the
name of Cross, Hobson & Co.
The plaintiff made several purchases of coals for the defendant's ships under, and, as he alleged, agreeably to the special
orders of the defendant. But for some of those purchases the
defendant denied his liability to pay, averring that his directions concerning them had been disregarded and violated.
When the Antelope was about to sail for the Pacific, the defendant advised Cross of the fact, and directed him to purchase
for her 350 tons of good coal at Valparaiso, and draw for the
price. This was repeated twice afterwards. The plaintiff advised the defendant promptly that coal was scarce at Valparaiso, but he had purchased a lot for the Antelope at the fine
port of Coquimbo, one day's sail further north. The c6al was
kept at Coquimbo, ready to supply the Antelope when she
would come. But she arrived at Valparaiso, long after she
was expected, iin a crippled condition, and was obliged to stop
there for repairs. The master, by way of saving time, thought
it best to buy other coals at Valparaiso, where they could be
put on board while the repairs were in progress. Being so
supplied, he recommended that the coals purchased by Cross
at Coquimbo should be sent to San Francisco. This advice
was adopted, the -coals were shipped for San Francisco, at a
freight of $17 per ton, and the defendant was informed of the
whole transaction, without delay.
The defendant also directed the plaintiff to purchase two
cargoes of coal afloat, and send them to San Francisco as soon
as possible. Within four days after the receipt of this order,
the plaintiff answered that the order had been filled by the
purchase of 500 tons, the cargo of the Lady Lilford, to be delivered by that vessel at San Francisco; and 444 tons more, the

DECEMBER TERM, 1361.
Law vs. Cross.

cargo of the .Duncan,which was then at sea, with the right to
cancel the contract if she failed to arrive in sixty days. Full
details as to prices and freight accompanied this communication. The cargo of the Lady Lilford was duly delivered at San
Francisco, received and paid for. The Duncan arrived within
the stipulated time, but her master being unwilling to carry
the coals further, they were shipped on board two other vessels.
The Charles V. took 350 tons, and the balance, together with
the 300 tons at Coquimbo, went by the Amelia. Oliver Charlick, the general agent of the defendant at San Francisco, refused to accept the coals brought by the two last naned yes-.
sels, and after various delays and much negotiation, they were
sold at auction for whom it might concern.
The plaintiff's claim was for the price of the cargo bought
at Coquimbo for the Antelope, the price of the Duncan's cargo
bought for the general purposes of Law's line, with the freights,
duties, expenses, and commissions, less the amount of the sales
at San Francisco.
After the evidence was closed the defendant's counsel divided
the law of the case into twenty-eight points, and requested the
court to instruct the jury on each of them. Mr. Justice Nelson, who presided at the trial, gave his opinion of the legal
principles involved without reference to this request. The
substance of the charge, omitting details, and briefly stated,
was this:
1. Cross had a right to sustain this action in his own name,
though he was the partner of others, who did some or all of
the business; because the contract was made by the defendant with Cross alone, and the correspondence showed that the
defendant never recognised anybody but him as being concerned.
2. It was a question for the jury to determine whether the
purchase of the Duncan's cargo, while- the vessel was still at
sea, was a purchase of coal afloat in the proper sense of the
word as used in the defendant's order, but in the opinion of
the judge it could make no substantial difference whether the
contract was before or after the arrival of the vessel at the port
of Valparaiso.

SUPREME COURT.
Law vs. Cross.
3. Whether the plaintiff's purchase of coal at Coquimbo for
the Antelope was within the order to buy it at Valparaiso, so
as to make the defendant responsible for the price of it, might
be doubtful, under the peculiar circumstances of the case; but
the shipping of that coal to San Francisco was undoubtedly
beyond the authority given to the plaintiff; and the advice of
Captain Hackley, the master of the Antelope, that it should
be sent there, did not help the matter. But,
4. If the defendant was informed that his agent had, on his
own -judgment, departed from his instructions, he (the principal) wis bound, within a reasonable time, to advise the agent
that he did not mean to ratify his acts. Otherwise, he must
be taken to have acquiesced in what was done, and was coneluded from disputing the agent's authority. This rule, the
judge said, was essential to secure just dealing between principal' and agent, but whether this case came within its operation was a question of fact for the jury.
5. No authority to Charlick, the defendant's agent at San
Francisco, had been shown, which made his repudiation of
Cross's acts equivalent to a repudiation by Law, the common
principal of both; but if specific authority to that effect had
been given, itwould be sufficient.
Under these instructions the jury found a verdict in favor
of the plaintiff for $15,933 79, on which the court gave judg
ment, and the defendant took this writ of error.
.3r. S. D. Law, of New York, and Hr. Gillet, of Washington city, for the plaintiff in error.
.Afr. Lane, of New York, for defendant in error.
Mr. Justice GIRIER. The objection that this suit should
have been brought in the name of Cross, Hobson & Company,
instead of Alexander Cross, has no support, either in law or
the facts in evidence. The contract on which the suit-was
brought was with Cross alone. Law had established a line of
steariaers on the Pacific, to run from Panama to San Francisco.
It became necessary to supply them with coal at Valparaiso,

DECEM1BER TERM, 1861.
Law vs. Cross.

and to. have purchases of it made there, in expectation of their
arrival round the cape, and for suppliesat San Francisco.
Cross being in New York in January, 1850, and about to
go to Valparaiso, was employed by Law to make purchases of
coal for him at Valparaiso. His letters of instruction are all
directed to Cross alone, and contain no intimation of any
other party in the transaction. Cross was a member of the
mercantile firm of Cross, Hobson & Co., doing business in
Valparaiso. The same firm had a house also in San Francisco., Through these houses much of the correspondence
necessary in the transaction of the business was carried on.
That Cross was a member of each of these firms, was but an
accident in the case, and would not necessarily make them
parties to the contract more than if any other individual or
firm had been his agents; and even if Cross had agreed to
make them equal shares in the profits arising from the contract, they did not thereby become parties to it. The firm
had no contract with Law on which they could sustain a suit,
or be liable to him. Much stress was made in the argument
of this case, that the firm, in their correspondepce with Law,
giving information of what had been done, used the words
"we" and "us." There was certainiy no grammatical impro.
priety in the use of these pronouns; but the inference that
the firm were not acting for Mr. Cross, and that Law'had
made some contract with them which does not otherwise appear, is certainly not a necessary one either in law or in fact.
Every letter of instruction as to purchase of coal was sent by
Law to Cross individually. His letter of instruction also to
the master of the Antelope directs a consignment of the vessel to Cross, and not to the firm. The letters of credit were
to Cross alone, on the faith of which he alone could draw bills
to make the necessary payments.
A congeries of instructions, so called, amounting to the number of twenty-eight, were requested. The court, without confusing the jury with a special answer to each one of these
propositions, properly submitted the facts to the jury, and
gatre them instructions as to the law. A large number of

SUPREME COURT.
Law vs. Cross.

these points, which involve questions of law, were ruled in
the charge as reqiuested by the counsel.
The case was argued here, in some measure, as if it had
been an appeal in admiralty, or motion for a new trial.
To comment on all the objections attempted to be raised in
the case would be tedious and unprofitable. It will be sufficient to notice the real questions in the case, and the instructions given by the court. If these were correct, the court below were not bound to answer specifically each question in
the catechism, nor this court to comment thereon.
I. As to the cargo of the Duncan, it was objected that there
was no authority to the agent to make such purchase.
The defendant had, by his letter of May 28, 1850, instructed
the plaintiff as follows:
"I want you to purchase me two cargoes of coal afloat, and
send it to San Francisco as soon as possible; consign it to
your house there for me," &c. This cargo was purchased on its
way to Valparaiso, with an option to refuse it if it should not
arrive in sixty days. The coal afterwards arrived, but the
master of the vessel refused to take it to San Francisco, and
another vessel was chartered to take it. There was some dispute as to what was meant by the term "afloat," and testimony was given as to its meaning among merchants.
The court submitted the question to the jury.
We can discover no error in this instruction.
II. As to the coal purchased at Coquimbo, and afterwards
sent to San Francisco by the Amelia, Law had instructed Cross
to buy 350 tons of coal at Valparaiso for the Antelope, which
was expected to arrive at Valparaiso by the first of June; but
she did not arrive till 28th of August, in consequence of delay
in starting and detention 6n the way. In July Cross wrote to
Law that he had purchased the coal for the Antelope, not at
Valparaiso, but at Coquimbo, stating as a reason that coal was
scarce and difficult to procure, and he was fearful the vessel
might arrive and not find a supply, and Coquimbo was but a
day's sail further on the way, the coal cheaper, and a safer and
easier place to ship it. But when the Antelope arrived after-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Law vs.

5394.

Cross.

wards, she was so much disabled as to require repairs, and being delayed at Valparaiso for that purpose, the master preferred
to have other coal purchased at Valparaiso, which could be put
on board while his vessel was being repaired, and directed the
coal at Coquimbo to be sent to San Francisco.
The defendant objected that this purchase was not within
his instructions.
It presented a case where the agent, acting, as he supposed,
for the best interest of hi§ distant principal, under the circumstances, had nevertheless gone beyond the letter of his instructions. But, as the coal was purchased for the principal, it belonged to hir if he chose to accept it. If the price had risen,
and Cross had sold it, Law mightjustly have claimed the profit;
and when informed by his agent of what he had done, if the
principal did not choose to affirm the act, it was his duty to
give immediate information of his repudiation. Ile cannot,
by holding his peace, and apparent acquiescence, have the benefit of the contract if it should afterwards turn out to be profitable, and retain a right to repudiate if otherwise.
The principal must, therefore, when informed, reject within
a reasonable time, or be deemed to adopt by acquiescence.
The rule is said to be a "stringent one upon the principal in
such cases, where, with full knowledge of the acts of the agent,
he receives a benefit from them, and fails to repudiate the acts."
See Hoyt vs. Thompson, (19 N. Y., 218.)
Whether there was such acquiescence or not the judge left
fairly to the jury.
I[I. The letter of Hackley was part of the res gesta, and properly admitted. The court instructed the jury that Mr. Law
was bound by his advice or direction, because it was outside
of his authority. The defendant cannot complain of this instruction.
IV. On the arrival of this coal at San Francisco the price
of coal had fallen, and it became the interest of Law to have
the loss thrown on Cross. Accordingly, Charlick, Law's agent
to attend to his steamboats on the Pacific, assumed the power
of repudiating the contract, andset up as a pretence that the
coal was not good. As he refused to receive it, the coal was

SUPREME COURT.
Law vs. Cross.

consequently sold for the benefit of whom it might concern,
and bid in by Charlick for a sum which paid the freight only,
leaving the price paid for the coal by Cross unpaid.
The court properly instructed the jury that the authority of
Obarlick, as shown, was not such as to authorize him to repudiate the purchase, leaving it to the jury to say, from the evidence, whether the defendant bad communicated to Charlick
any specific authority to reject the coal, and also whether the
coal was of proper quality or not, aid what was the contract,
or whether there was any parole contract between Cross and
Charlick.
There can be no error imputed to this instruction, except
that the jury were left to presume a private instruction to Charlick, of which there was no evidence. But plaintiff in error
cannot complain of errors in his favor.
These are all the material points in the case that were properly raised on the trial below, and it is not necessary to vindicate our decision by a more minute examination of the facts.
The court below has given correct instructions as to the questions of law really involved in the case, and properly refused
to confuse the case by a specific answer to each of the twentyeight points. Those not answered in the instructions we have
noticed were either answered affimatively or were wholly irrelevant.
Judgment of the Circuit Court affirmed.

