SUPREME COURT.
Dermolt vs. Wallach.

for that reason, would be to decide the whole legal merits of
the case, and this we cannot do on a motion to dismiss or
quash the writ.
Motion denied.

DERMOTT VS. WALLACH.

1. In replevin, the plea of property is a good plea in bar of the action.
2. Where thd plea, without averring property in the defendant or a
stranger, traverses the plaintilT's allegation of property in himself,
it might be held defective on demurrer, but it is good in substance
3. The addition of a similiter to the plea of property is but matter of
form, and its omission does not affect its validity.
4. Where the plea of property is put in by the defendant, but is not
tried by the jury, it is a mistrial and an error, for which the judgment will be reversed.
5. An omission to join issue upon an avowry for rent in arrear, or other.
wise to notice it on the record, is a mere irregularity, cured by the
verdict.
Charles S. Wallach brought replevin in the Circuit Court
for the District of Columbia against Ann R. Dermott. In
his declaration the plaintiff averred that certain articles of
household furniture were taken by the defendant and detained
against sureties and pledges. The defendant pleaded that
"the goods and chattels in the declaration mentioned are not
the property of the said plaintiff, and of this she puts herself
on the country." The defendant also avowed the taking of
the goods for rent in arrear, setting out the lease, and the
amount due thereon. To the avowry the plaintiff replied riens
en arriere,but did not formally join issue on the plea of property by putting in a similiter. The defendant prayed the
court to instruct the jury on several points, all of them having
relation to the one question whether the rent had become due
and payable to the plaintiff, as alleged by her. The court refused to give the instructions prayed for, and the jury found
that the rent claimed by the defendant "at the time when, &c.,

DEOEMBER' TERM, 1861.

9T

.Dermott vs. lrallach.

was not in arrear and unpaid, nor was any penny thereof," assessing the damages of the plaintiff for the taking and detention
at one cent. The court gave judgment for the plaintiff, that he
have return of the goods, with the damages assessed by the
jury and costs.
faryland, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Brent, of ML
Mr. Carliste and Mr. Coxe, of Washington city, for defendant in error.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This action was replevin, brought
by the plaintiff below, Wallach, against the defendant, for taking certain goods and chattels of the plaintiff from a house
called the Avenue House, situated in the city of Washington.
The defendant pleaded: 1. That the goods and chattels
in the declaration mentioned were not the property of the plaintiff. 2. Avowed the taking, by way of distress, for rent due
and in arrear, under special circumstances stated, concluding
with a verification. 8. Like avowal for rent due and in arrear
generally.
The plaintiff replied to the first avowry, no rent in arrear
and unpaid. No notice is taken in the pleadings of the second
avowry.
The jury found a special verdict, that no rent was due or in
arrehr upon the issue joined on the first avowry, and assessed
the damages; and judgment was given that the plaintiff recover the gobds and chattels, and have a return of the same,
&c. No notice is taken in the verdict or judgment of the plea
of property.
The plea of property in replevin is a good plea in bar of the
action. It is true, the plea in this case is not in due form, and
might have been held defective on demurrer; but it is good
in substance. The form is to plead property in the defendant,
or in a stranger, traversing property in the plaintiff, which
traverse raises the material issue to be tried-the averment of
property in the defendant or a stranger being by way of inducement. Either plea constitutes a good defence, because it
VQL. 1.

7

STPREME COURT.
Dermott vs. Wallach.

shows property out of the plaintiff; and prima facie, therefore,
he is not in condition to maintain the action. 12 Wend. R.,
80, 84, 85.
The plea in this case avers the fact directly, by stating that
the goods and chattels in the declaration mentioned are not
the property of the said plaintiff. Under this plea, it was
competent for the defendant to have proved property in herself, or in a stranger, as this would have tended directly to
support the issue; and if the defendant had sustained her plea,
and proved property out of the plaintiff, she would have been
entitled to a return of the goods and chattels without an avowry, as it would appear the plaintiff, at the time, had no right
to take or detain them.
As this plea of property is a good bar to the action, and as
the record shows it has not been tried or found by the jury,
there has been a mistrial below, for which the judgment must
be reversed, and the case sent down, and a new venire ordered. There is a good bar to the action remaining untried, and
not yet found for the plaintiff, and hence he is not entitled to
the judgment rendered in his behalf in the court beloW.
It appears that the similiter was not added to the plea of
property; but this is now regarded as matter of form, and its
omission does not affect its validity.
The omission to join issue upon the second avowry, or to
notice it in the finding of jury or in the judgment of the court,
is cured after verdict.
There is, also, a second plea by the plaintiff to the first avowry, which issue has not been noticed in the verdict, or on the
record; but, as the finding of the first issue rendered the second immaterial, the omission, in this respect, is not important.
Judgment reversed and venire facias de nov ordered.

