253

DEOEMIBER TERM, 1861.
Rogers vs. Law.

ROGERS VS. LAW.

1. A claim for money lent where no demand for payment was made of the
borrower in his lifetime against his executors until thirty-three
years after the date of the loan, is properly rejected by a court of
equity on distribution of the borrower's estate.
2. L. and wife conveyed to trustees the interest of the wife in certain estates, to be converted into money and invested by the trustees for
the use of the wife during life, after her death for the use of the
husband, and after the death of both to their daughter; and L. covenants that whenever it shall be ascertained and known what sum
will thus be secured to the daughter, he will immediately thereupon
secure to her a like sum to be paid out of his own estate. Held,
that the value of the interest conveyed to the trustees for the ultimate use of the daughter must be ascertained by the conversion of
the property into money or its equivalent, and such conversion is a
condition precedent to the obligation of the father to secure a like
sum to the daughter.
3. Testator gave certain legacies to his grandchildren, annexing to the
legacies the condition that if either of the legatees, shall claim, ask,
or demand, sue for, recover or receive any part or portion of his
estate, rights, or credits, either in his lifetime or after his decease,
under or by virtue of certain deeds, (particularly describing them,)
then and in that case the bequest, &c., should be void. One of the
grandchildren died under age. Upon the distribution of the testator's estate the two surviving grandchildren set up a claim under
the interdicted deeds, and in the same proceeding they demanded
the legacies. The claim finder the deeds was finally disallowed on
its own demerits. Held, that by setting up that claim the grandchildren forfeited their right to the legacies.
4. A condition annexed to a legacy that the legatee shall make no claim
or demand upon the testator's estate for a debt which, if not relinquished, might be recoverable, is lawful, and if the legatee accepts
the testator's bounty he must take it cume onere.
/

Appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.This was a proceeding for the distribution of the estate of
Thomas Law, deceased, among his creditors and legatees.

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers vs. Law.

TE e same cause was here before, and is reported as Adams et al.
vs. Law, in 17 Htoward, 417. It was then remanded, and was
fui ther proceeded in according to the opinion of this court.
The questions which arose afterwards were on the following
claims:
1. Lloyd N. Rogers made a claim as creditor for money lent
in 1822. It was not shown that this debt had ever been demanded of the decedent in his lifetime, nor of his executors
before 1855.
2. Lloyd N. Rogers also claimed as creditor under the deed
which will be found described in the opinion of Mr. Justice
Nelson.
3. The two children of Lloyd N. Rogers and the administrator of a third one, deceased, (grandchildren of the testator,)
claimed legacies of $8,000 each. These legacies were given
upon the condition that the legatees should not claim or demand, sue for, or receive any portion of the testator's estate
under certain deeds mentioned and described in the will.
Mr. iason Campbell, of Maryland, for the appellants. 1. The
fact of the loan by Mr. Rogers to Mr. Law in 1822 is
established ; the only objection worthy of notice is that arising out of the lapse of time. The statute of limitations is not
interposed by the residuary legatee, but by Mr. May, administrator of two specific legatees. They have no interest in the
question. Enough will be left to pay them, whether this claim
be allowed or not. But by the law of Maryland (which is the
law of the District) it can be set up only by the executor, who
in this case has not pleaded it. Bowling vs. Lamar, (1 Gill, 362;)
Spencer vs. Spencer, (4 Mar. Ch., 465.)
2. The validity of the claim of Mr. Rogers under the deed
to Calvert and Peter was affirmed by this court on the first
appeal; but assuming that itwas not, it should be affirmed now.
The auditor has overlooked the evidence on this point, which
shows that the value of the property secured to Mrs. Rogers by
that deed was $36,552 45; and Mr. Law's covenant pledged
his estate to an equal amount.
3. The claims of the legatees were erroneously rejected by

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

255

Rogers vs. _iw.

the court. In this the court committed the grave error of supposing that the case was one of election. The claims of these
legatees, under the deeds mentioned in the will, are as creditors, and creditors are never put to an election. Kidney vs.
Coussmaker, (12 Ves., 154;) Deg vs. Deg, (2 P. Wins., 418;) 2
Wms. on Exrs., 888; 2 Story Eq., ยง 1075. The doctrine of
election is wholly inapplicable here. It is founded altogether
upon an implied condition that he who accepts a benefit under
an instrument must renounce all inconsistent benefits, and as
the courts imply the condition they give the party affected by
it his right of choice between the two. 1 White's Lead. Gas. in
Eq., 233. But where the testator himself expresses the condition none can be implied, and such is this case. This condition
has not been broken. Eliza P. Rogers, one of the legatees,
died. under age and unmarried, and never received a dollar.
The acts of her brother and sister cannot affect her interests.
Ward on Legacies, 139. The other two legatees claimed nothing prior to this suit. What they claimed here was declared
by this court to be without foundation. The other claims,
under the marriage settlement, are made exclusively by
their father. There has been no money received byany of the
family from Mr. Law's estate, on any of the accounts interdicted by hirm. Suppose, however, the condition to have been
broken, there is no bequest over, and so the condition is merely
in terrorem, and will not work a forfeiture. 2 Wins. on Exrs.,
790; 2 Jarm. on Wills, 46 ; Ward on Legacies, 139; Wheeler
vs. .Bingham, (3 Atk., 368.)
I

31r. May and Mr. Brent, of Maryland, for appellees. 1. Mr.
Rogers withheld his claims, as creditor, until this cause
was remanded. His claim for money lent to Mr. Law in
1822 is altogether stale. The plea of limitations is sufficiently relied on by the residuary devisee, and the auditor sc
reports. This is sufficient in equity. McCormick vs. Gibson,
(3 BI., 499;) 1 Mary. Dig., 411; Binney's case, (2 Bl., 99;) War.
field vs. Banks, (11 Gill & Johnson, 98.) It is true that in' actions by creditors against the executor or administrator, in re-

SUPREME COURT.
.Rogers vs. Law.

spect to personal estate, the statute can be pleaded only by the
personal representative. But this contest practically relates
to the proceeds of Mr. Law's real estate. Besides this, the
objection of staleness need not be made by exception or plea.
Lingan vs. tenderson, (1 BI., 236 ;) Salmonvs. Clagelt, (3BI., 125;)
1 Md. Dig., 411; H~epburn's case, (3 B1., 95;) 2d Md. Oh. Dec.,
231.
2. These remarks apply equally to Mr. Rogers's claim under
the deed, and that claim must also fail on its merits. Mr. Law
did not covenant to pay any sum until he had notice of the
ascertained value of the funds received by Peter and Calvert,
as trustees for the use of his daughter. There is no proof which
tends to show that any property ever came to the trustees for
the purposes of that trust. X-or is there any proof of his ever
having had the enjoyment of the residuum of his wife's trust
estate, for which he had stipulated.
3. It is too clear for argument that the testator designed to
give those legacies to his grandchildren, on the express condition that neither they nor any one of them should claim anything out of his estate by reason of those deeds. Such an intention is legal. 6 Page, 388; 1Eden., 492; 2 Amb., 157; 8
Gill, 203; 5 Md. Rep., 306; 2 Gill, 181.
Mr. Justice NELSON-T. This is an appeal from a decree of
the Circuit Court of the Unites States for the District of Columbia.
The appeal is from a decree of the court below, entered
there upon the going down of the miandate of this court, in
pursuance of its decision when the case was formerly here, on
an appeal by the executor and trustee of the estate of Thomas
Law, the settlement of which is the subject of litigation.
The case is reported in the 17 How., 417. This court reversed so much of the decree in the court below as gave to the
grandchildren of the testator by Eliza, his daughter, wife of
Lloyd N. Rogers, an interest, under certain limitations, in the
deed of marriage settlement of the 19th March, 1796, amounting to the sum of $66,154 81, and affirmed the residue of said

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.
Rogers vs. Law.

decree. This sum, by the decision, fell, of course, into the
residuum of the estate of Law, for distribution among the
creditors, legatees, and distributees.
When the case came again before the auditor appointed by
the court below, several claims were presented for allowance,
which were heard and examined by .him, and his decision
thereon reported to the court; and, after exceptions and argu.
ment, the report was confirmed. These several claims are now
the subject of review by this court, upon the present appeal.
The first is a claim by Lloyd N. Rogers, as a creditor of the
estate, and is founded upon an alleged loan of money to the
testator, Law, as early as 1822. This claim was rejected by
the auditor, upon the ground the proofs were not satisfactory
that the loan had ever been made by Rogers. The lapse of
time, also, since it was alleged to have been made, some thirtythree years, without, for aught that appears, presenting it to
the testator in his lifetime, or against the estate since his death,
strongly confirms the conclusion of the auditor. We think the
item was properly rejected.
The next claim is also by Lloyd N. Rogers, as a creditor of
the estate, and is founded upon a deed executed by, Thomas
Law, the testator, and Eliza Parke Law, his wife, on the 9th
August, 1804, to George Calvert and Thomas Peter. The
deed conveys to the grantees all the right and interest, real or
personal, of Eliza P., the wife, and of Thomas Law, the husband, in right of his wife, to which she might or would be entitled from the estate of George Washington, or from the
estate of her father, John Parke Custis, in trust, to convert
the same into money, &c., &c., and to apply the interest or income of $10,000 to the sole use of the said Eliza P. during her
lifetime. This sum was also made subject to her absolute disposition by will, or, in case of dying intestate, to be conveyed
to her heirs; and, after deducting the $10,000 from the fund,
to apply the rents, issues, and profits of the residue to the sole
use and benefit of the said Eliza P., for and during her life,
and, after her death, to pay the said income to Thomas Law,
the husband, (if then living,) for and during his life; and after
the death of both, then to convey the whole of the residue to
VOL. i.
17

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers vs. Law.

Eliza, the daughter. And then comes the covenant of Thomas
Law, which constitutes the ground of the present claim. The
said Thomas covenants, to and with the trustees, that whensoever the full amount and value of the funds shall be ascertained and known, which may or shall come to their (the trustees') hands, in virtue of this trust, and it can be thereby ascertained what sum shall be secured, to come ultimately therefrom to his said daughter, Eliza, after the death of her father
and mother, that he will immediately thereupon secure to his said
daughter a like sum, to be paid to her out of his estate at the death
of her said father and mother.
It will be seen by this deed that it was made the duty of the
trustees, as soon as practicable, and without sacrifice of the
interest of Mrs. Law in the estates of George Washington, and
her father, John Parke Custis, to convert the property into
money, and invest the same in stock or other securities; and,
after setting apart the sum of $10,000, assigned to her absolutely, the income of the residue was to be applied to her for
life, and, after her death, to the husband, if he survived, for
life; and, at his death, the whole, principal and interest, to be
transferr~d to Eliza, the daughter. And it was this residue,
thus ultimately to be transferred to her, which, when ascertained and known, the father covenanted immediately thereupon to secure to her a like sum, to be paid out of his estate
at the death of both parents. The conversion of the residue
of the estate thus limited, and ascertainment of the amount
of it in money or stocks or other securities, as prescribed in
the deed, are, by the very terms of the covenant, a condition
precedent to the obligation of the father to secure a like sum
to the daughter. An appraisal or valuation of this residue of
Mrs. Law's interest in the two estates will not answer the condition. The amount must be ascertained by a conversion of
the property into money, or its equivalent. This is not only
the fair meaning of the terms of the covenant, but the obvious
intent of the parties in the connection in which it is found.
This being, in our view, the true construction of the covenant, it is only necessary to say, that there was no evidence
before the auditor that its condition had been complied with,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

259

Rogers vs. Law.

either in the lifetime of the testator or since his death. We
are of opinion, therefore, that the claim was properly rejected.
The third claim arises upon a codicil to the will of the testator, Thomas Law, which bequeaths to the three grandchildren, the children of his daughter Eliza by Lloyd N. Rogers,
$8,000 each, upon this, express condition, that if the grandchildren, as heirs or devisees of their late grandmother, Mrs.
Law, shall claim or demand, &c., any portion of his estate,
rights, or credits, under or by virtue of certain indentures in
the said codicil specially enumerated, then, and in that case,
the bequest in the codicil to benull and void.
The other legatees und.er the will of the testator object to
the allowance of these three legacies, for the reason that the
condition upon which they were to become null and void has
happened, namely, a claim against the estate of the testator as
heirs or representatives of their grandmother, Mrs. Law. The
auditor, after stating the facts of the case as presented to him,
and the question of law arising out of them, referred it to the
c.urt 'below for their direction.
The court held, that the sum of $32,585 76, which had been
awarded to Lloyd N. Rogers, as administrator of Eliza, his
wife, and which was claimed and allowed under one of the interdicted deeds, and which belonged to her children, as distributees, if claimed, or received by them, would be inconsistent with their right to the legacies according to the condition of the bequest, and by the decree gave the choice to the
legatees to take the legacies under the will, or the distributive
shares of the fund. The court were of opinion that no claim
had yet been made for the distributive shares; but that, according to the true meaning of the bequest, the legatees were
not entitled to both funds, and that, for the purposes of the
settlement of the estate, they should be put to their election
within a time mentioned. We are inclined to think, upon the
facts in the case, a claim had already been made of the fund
by the legatees and those representing them, which came from
the estate of the testator through their grandmother, under
and by virtue of one of the interdicted deeds, and which operated to annul the legacies; but, as the views of the court

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers vs. Law.

below, and the decree in pursuance thereof, lead to the same
result substantially, it is unnecessary to interfere with them.
The condition upon which the legacies were to fall is very
specific and explicit: that "if the said children," "or either
of them, or any person or persons on their behalf or account,
or in behalf or on account of either of them, as heir or heirsat-law, or devisees or devisee of their grandmother," "shall
claim, ask, or demand, sue for, recover, or receive any part or
portion of my estate, rights or credits, either in my lifetime
or after my decease, under or by virtue of certain indentures
-enumerating three-or under or by virtue of any other inlenture," "which the said Thomas Law and E. P. Law, or E.
P. Custis, meaning Mrs. Law, may have been parties, or to
which any other person or persons with the said Thomas Law
may have been parties for the benefit of E. P. Law, or E. P.
Oustis, or her heirs; then, and in that case, the bequest, &c.,
shall be null and void."
Besides the distributive shares to the grandchildren, which
the court below held as coming from one of the interdic'ted
deeds, and inconsistent with the condition upon which the bequests oF' the legacies were made, the two surviving grand.
children had set up a claim in that court to an interest amounting to the sum of $66,154 84, under the interdicted deeds of
1796, 1800, and 1802, and which sum was awarded to them by
the decree of the court. On an appeal to this court the decree
was reversed, and the claim disallowed, as will be seen in the
report of the case already referred to. We are of opinion this
claim and litigation were in. violation of the condition annexed
to the bequest of the legacies. The legatees are forbidden to
claim, ask, demand, sue for, recover, or receive any portion of
the estate of the testator under these deeds, as the representatives of their grandmother.
The testator in his will had stated his fears that he had settled upon the children of his daughter-these grandchildren
-more than the other grandchildren would receive from his
estate, unless his property should rise in value, in which case
he would make another will. This impression, doubtless, led
to the stringent condition annexed to the bequest in the codicil

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Rogers vs. Law.

which was executed nearly two years later. The condition is
not put upon the possession, recovery, or receipt of any portion of his estate under these deeds, but upon a claim or demand, or suit for the same; and the testator directs, if the terms
of the bequest are not acceptable to the grandchildren, that
his executor shal contest with them to the utmost their right
to claim the legacies. It may well, we think, be doubted, if
the judgment of the court against their claim, under these
deeds, aftgr a long and expensive litigation, can save the legacies from a breach of the condition. The very special terms
of it would seem to have been intended to save the estate from
any such litigation, so far as regarded the right to the enjoyment of the legacies.
An objection was taken, on the argumeut, to the legal effect
and operation of this condition, but we entertain no doubt as
to its force and validity. The condition is lawful, and one
which the testator had a right to annex in the disposition of'
his own property. The legatees are not bound to accept the
bequest, but, if accepted, it must be subject to the disabilities
annexed; it must be taken cum onere, or not at all.
There are some other items of minor importance, to which
exceptions have been taken, but we see no well-grounded objection to them.
The decree of the court below affirmed.

