DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Hecker vs. Fowler.

HEEECKER vs. FOWLER.

The court will not dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court on the
ground that there is no error apparent on the face of the record.
This was covenant brought in the Circuit Court for the
southern district of New York. While the cause was pending there, it was referred by consent. The referee found for
the plaintiff. The court entered judgment on the award, and
the defendant below took this writ of error. The defendant
in error (plaintiff below) moved to dismiss the writ of error,
and affirm the judgment.
Mr. Andrews, of New York, in support of the motion. The
facts are not found in a general or special verdict, nor agreed
on in a case stated, and there is no bill of exceptions. This
court must, therefore, affirm the judgment, unless there is
error apparent on the face of the record. Graham vs. Bayne,
(18 low., 60;) Guild vs. Frontin, (18 How., 135;) Suydam vs.
Williamson, (20 How., 427;) Kelsey vs. Forsyth, .(21 How., 85;)
Campbell vs. Boyreace, (21 How., 223.) There is no error on
the face of this record.
Mr. Monroe, of New York, resisted the motion.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. We are asked to dismiss this
writ because no error appears on the face of the record. It is
not necessary, by the practice of this court, for the party who
brings a cause here to specify upon the record the- errors he
complains of, ard they are not even informally brought to our
notice until the argument is heard. Want of jurisdiction and
irregularity of the writ are the only grounds for dismissal.
Where a judgment appears to have been rendered which the
party is entitled to have revised in this court, and it is also
seen that it comes here for such revision upon proper process,
duly issued, all other questions must await the final hearing.
To say that there is no error in this judgment, and affirm it

SUPREME COURT.
Dermolt vs. Wallach.

for that reason, would be to decide the whole legal merits of
the case, and this we cannot do on a motion to dismiss or
quash the writ.
Motion denied.

DERMOTT VS. WALLACH.

1. In replevin, the plea of property is a good plea in bar of the action.
2. Where thd plea, without averring property in the defendant or a
stranger, traverses the plaintilT's allegation of property in himself,
it might be held defective on demurrer, but it is good in substance
3. The addition of a similiter to the plea of property is but matter of
form, and its omission does not affect its validity.
4. Where the plea of property is put in by the defendant, but is not
tried by the jury, it is a mistrial and an error, for which the judgment will be reversed.
5. An omission to join issue upon an avowry for rent in arrear, or other.
wise to notice it on the record, is a mere irregularity, cured by the
verdict.
Charles S. Wallach brought replevin in the Circuit Court
for the District of Columbia against Ann R. Dermott. In
his declaration the plaintiff averred that certain articles of
household furniture were taken by the defendant and detained
against sureties and pledges. The defendant pleaded that
"the goods and chattels in the declaration mentioned are not
the property of the said plaintiff, and of this she puts herself
on the country." The defendant also avowed the taking of
the goods for rent in arrear, setting out the lease, and the
amount due thereon. To the avowry the plaintiff replied riens
en arriere,but did not formally join issue on the plea of property by putting in a similiter. The defendant prayed the
court to instruct the jury on several points, all of them having
relation to the one question whether the rent had become due
and payable to the plaintiff, as alleged by her. The court refused to give the instructions prayed for, and the jury found
that the rent claimed by the defendant "at the time when, &c.,

