DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

209

Johnston vs. Jones et al.

JOHNSTON VS.

JONES ET AL.

1. A bill of exceptions should contain only so much of the evidence as
is necessary to present the legal question raised. When more than
this is inserted in the bill it is an irregularity to be condemned as a
departure from established practice, inconvenient and embarrassing
to the court.
2 Where a series of propositions are embodied in the instructions of the
court which are excepted to in a mass, the exception must be overruled if any one proposition be sound.
3 The right which the owner of awater-lot has to the accretions in front
of it depends on its condition at the date of the deed which conveyed him the legal title, and cannot be carried back by relation to
the date of a title-bond previously assigned to him, and under which
he procured the deed.
1. Maps, surveys, and plats are not necessarily and of themselves mde.
pendent evidence, and are therefore to be received only so far as
they are shown to be correct by other testimony in the cause.
5. Where a lot had no water front, and tie plaintiff who was the owner
of it had therefore no right to any part of the accretions for which
he was suing, and it is apparent from the record that the fact was
so found by the jury, this court will not reverse for an error committed by the court below with respect to the rule by which the
alluvium should be divided among those who are owners.
6. Jones vs. Johnston, (18 How., 150,) and Deerfield vs. Arms, (17 Pick.,
45,) affirmed as laying down the rule to which this court adheres
for measuring the rights of riparian proprietors in the accretions
formed along the water line.
7. Where a lot was conveyed by A to B as having a water front, and reconveyed by B to A as having no such front, and afterwards conveyed by A to the plaintiff, a deed from B to the plaintiff made
after suit brought cannot be given in evidence toshow the right of
the plaintiff to a water front, apd consequently a title in the alluvium.
8. If there was a mistake in the original deed, the remedy should have
been sought in chancery, by a proceeding against all parties interested, the rights of third persons cannot be affected by a private
agreement and a deed made in pursuance of it.
VOL. 1.
14

SUPREME COURT.
Johnstonvs. Jones et al.

9. A witness cannot be permitted to make a calculation founded upon a
map which is not itself original and reliable evidence, and permission to ask a question calling for such a calculaticn is properly refused by the court.
10. The extent to which a cross-examination maybe carried beyond what
is necessary to exhibit the merits of the case, must be guided and
limited by the discretion of the judge who presides at the trial, and
is not the subject of review in a court of error.
11. This court will not interfere with the practice of the Circuit Courts
concerning the order and time of introducing evidence, nor reverse
a judgment for the rejection of evidence as rebutting, which ought
to have been given in chief.
Writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois.
William S. Johnston brought ejectment in the Circuit Court
against John A. Jones and another for a part of the land formed
by accretion on the shore of Lake Michigan, north of the north
pier of the harbor of Chicago. The cause was tried in the Circuit Court, and a verdict and judgment were given for the
plaintif, when the defendant brought it up to this court by
writ of error, where it was reversed, and a venre facas de novo
awarded. The facts as they appeared upon the record at that
time are fully stated in the opinion of Mr. Justice .Nelson, 18
IHow., 150. On the second trial the same evidence was given,
with no new additions, except the two documents pertaining
to the plaintiff's title which are mentioned in the opinion of
Mr. Justice Swayne. That opinion also contains a statement
of the facts upon which the several rulings of the Circuit
Court upon the admissibility of evidence were based, and
quotes at sufficient length the instructions which were given
to the jury The verdict and judgment were in favor of the
defendant, and the plaintiff took this writ of error.
.Dr Wills, of Illinois, for plaintiff in error, argued that the
errors of the Circuit Court apparent on this record entitled
the plaintiff to a reversal of the judgment on such radical

6

DECKMBER TERM, 1861.

211

Johnston vs. Jones et al.

grounds as would insure to him the ultimate recovery of the
property in dispute.
The defendant has always insisted that lot 84 never had a
-lake shore front. This has been his favorite line of defence.
It is the fundamental question in the case, and if the fact be
as the defendant alleges, then the plaintiff had no right from
the beginning to the land he claims. This, however, is a question of fact not to be argued here, except as it arises incidentally in the discussion of the points of law ruled by the court.
If it be established that the lot (34) had originally a lake
front, was it not conveyed with the accretions to the plaintiff by
the deed of October, 1835? Was it intended to reserve any
part of the laud which had become attac-hed to its eastern
border? The whole of the accretions passed by the description, "Water lot 34, and the tenements and hereditaments
thereunto belonging." Such was the manifest intent of the
parties.
But if the deed of October, 1835, does not bear on its face
the evidence of the parties' intentions to pass the accretions,
then the deed of July, 1857, was admissible as evidence of the
original intention to do so, and it was error not to receive it
for that purpose.
If the accretion did not pass by the deed of 1835, and the
deed of 1857 is not admissible for the purpose mentioned, then
in falling back upon the deed of 1835 just as it is, it becomes
important to know when the title of the plaintiff under that
deed commenced. It began not at the date of the deed, (October 22, 1835,) but at the date of the title-bond of June 10,
1835. This raises a new question of fact-raises it fairly-and
the instruction which compelled the jury to exclude it from
their consideration was erroneous. The jury should have
been charged to inquire whether the lot had a lake front at
the date of the title-bond, and if it had, to find a verdict for the
plaintiff. The title which the plaintiff took under the deed
related back to the date of the title-bond.
Even if all these points were against the plaintiff, he is entitled to recover against this defendant by virtue of his claim
of title and his prior possession under his deed.

The defend.

SUPREME COURT.
Johnston vs. Jones et aL

ant is a mere intruder upon the previous possession of the
plaintiff.
The court did not allow the proper value to be given to the
maps and surveys. A map referred to in a deed is part of the
deed, aud as much to be considered as if expressly recited.
The court should not have refused to let the plaintiff's counsel ask the witness Jones (a brother of the defendant) whether
the defendant had paid him anything for lot 35 when it was
conveyed. The power of cross-examination is the great test
for the discovery of truth. The plaintiff was deprived of a
clear right.
The testimony of Greenwood was rebutting, and it was er.
roneously regarded by the court as evidence in chief. But
aside from this the court erred in excluding it when there was
no allegation of trick, surprise, or injury which the plaintiff
could sufferby receiving it out of the regular order.
The rule given to the jury for dividing the accretions among
the several owners of the lots having lake fronts was entirely
wrong.

lr Fuller, of Illinois, and Mr Carlisle, of Washington city,
for defendants in error. This cause has been tried by a jury
under instructions from the judge who presided in the court
below, couched in the very words of the opinion delivered in
this case by Mr. Justice Nelson, and upon the issue which
this court there determined was the only proper issue for the
consideration of the jury On that trial a verdict was rendered
for the defendants below
The plaintiff brings the case here, and directly questions the
former decision of this court in this very case. He likewise
assigns seven specific errors in the rulings of the court on the
trial below, in the course of the trial.
Except a deed made by John H. Kinzie to the plaintiff in
1857, the titles of the respective parties are precisely the same
as they were on all the former trials, and the facts but of
which the controversy arose having occurred twenty-five years
ago, are, of course, unchanged.
In the opinion of the court, in 18 Howard, 150, is a full

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

213

Johnston vs. Jones et al.

statement of the material facts in the case, and it will appear
by examination of that opinion that the following propositions
were stated and decided by this court as the law of the case
FIRST. That both plaintiff's and defendant's lots were conveyed with express reference to the recorded plat of Kinzie's
addition to the town of Chicago, which description was conclusive upon the parties until that reference was reformed.
18 Howard, 153.

SECOND. That the true issue to be tried by the jury was,
whether or not, at the time of the deed to the plaintiff, lot 34
(plaintiff's) had a water line upon the lake north of the north
pier of the Chicago harbor. 18 Howard, 157
THIRD. That in dividing the accretion, the pier front of the
accretion should be taken into account. 18 Howard, 157-8.
With these points decided by this court as the law of this
case, the parties again went to trial, and the court below gave
the instructions to the jury which are found in the record.
The issue of fact, indicated by this court as the only important question to be tried by the jury, was distinctly presented
to the jury, who found the defendants not guilty; or, in other
words, that the plaintiff's water lot 84, Kinzie's addition to
Chicago, had not a water line on the east side north of the
north pier of the Chicago harbor at the date of his deed, October, 1835.
This finding of the jury is conclusive upon the parties as to
the question of fact, and leaves the plaintiff without any right
or interest to question the rule of division of the accretion laid
down by the court.
It is immaterial to him what that rule is; for he has nothing
to be divided, and he should not trouble this court or these
defendants to review the former decision upon 'his point, for
a merely abstract and speculative purpose.
He is not harmed or helped by any decision of any question
that does not, when decided, apply to his interests in this case;
and for this, as well as other obvious reasons, we shall not discuss the former decision of this court upon this part of the
case, holding it to be settled law

SUPREME COURT.
ohnsion vs. Jones et aL

The facts being unchanged, the law of the case, once declared, remains the law
With the exception of the deed made since the commencement of this suit, every link in the chain of title, every deed
of either party to the record, and every fact, remain the same.
Yet the plaintiff's counsel insists, in a voluminous printed
argument of about one hundred pages, that this court should
review and change its opinion upon those identical facts and
deeds, already fully considered and solemnly pronounced.
This will not be allowed. In the language of Mr. Justice
"It has been settled by the decisions of this court,
Gner
that after a case has been brought here, and decided, and a
mandate issued to the court below, if a second writ of error
is sued out, it brings up for revision nothing but the proceedRoberts vs. Cooper, (20
ings subsequent to the mandate."
Howard, 481,) where several similar decisions of this court upon
this point are referred to, all to the same effect.
So much for the general question, now examine the points
peculiar to the last trial below
1. It is an inflexible rule that the plaintiff in ejectment must
recover, if at all. upon his legal title, as it stood at the commencement of the suit, or, at least, at the date of the demise
laid in the declaration. Goodlitle vs. Herbert, (4 Term., 680;)
Wood vs. Martin, (11 Illinois, 547,) Pitn vs. Yaw, (13 Illinois,
251.) Binney's Lessee vs. The Canal Go., (8 Peters, 218.)
If, therefore, the deed from Kinzie of 1857 was necessary to
give the plaintiff the legal title to the premises sued for, it could
not help him in this suit, because it was made since the action
was brought. It was, however, offered as a volunteer reformation of the deed from John H. Kinzie to Robert A. Kinzie, made
in 1835-not as conveying a title of itself, but as an enlargement of the estate and premises conveyed by that deed-to
get rid of the decision of this court that the parties were bound
by the references in their respective deeds to the recorded plat,
until that reference was reformed, if it needed and was susceptible of reformation.
Instead of going into chancery to reform the deeds, where
the mistake would be alleged and proven if it could be, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

215

JToAnston vs. Jones et al.

all parties in interest brought before the court, the plaintiff
went to a person who, twenty-two or three years before, had
madte a deed to defendant, Jones, of lot 35, and all "his interest east thereof," and under which deed Jones had ever since
occupied and claimed to own the premises in dispute, and who
had, at a subsequent date, conveyed to Robert A. Kinzie lot
34, according to the "recorded plat of Kinzie's addition," and
from whom (Robert A. Kinzie) plaintiff had acquired his title,
by the same description, and gets from him an instrument reciting that he intended to convey to said Robert A. Kinzie "all
the accretions formed on the water line of lot 34," and that
"disputes had arisen about the title to those accretions ," therefore, "to settle the same," he conveys them all for twenty-five
dollars to the plaintiff, who then seeks to recover them by virtue of this deed made without notice to the defendants, or any
one in interest with them, by means of an action of ejectment
begun eight years before the deed was made.
2. Another exception arises upon the ruling of the court
below, that it was incompetent for the witness Greeley to
compute the rate and amount of growth of the accretion in
1834 and 1835, by his own calculations, based on Lieutenant
Allen's maps and diagrams.
There was no error in this, because it was not alleged that
there was any ambiguity in those maps themselves, and being
admitted in evidence, it was for the jury to say what light they
threw upon the issue on trial, and not for the witness. And
besides, the maps themselves, not being positive, original evidence, could not properly be made the foundation of such evidence from the witness, which, at most, could only be matter
of opinion based on hearsay testimony, or, res inter alios acta.
The witness had no personal knowledge of either Lieutenant
Allen, his maps, or of the accretion, and his opinion upon
those matters was not competent testimony to go to the jury,
who alone should draw any proper influences from the maps
and reports which were in evidence.
3. The court refused to allow Captain J D. Webster to testify what were his duties as superintendent of the harbor iu
1841 and 1842, with a view of proving what were Lieutenant

SUPREME COURT.
Johnston vs. Joe et al.

Allen's duties as such officer in 1834-5, and thus adding to
the weight, as evidence of Lieutenant Allen's reports and
maps. In this the court below was right. It was not the
proper way of proving what were the official duties of an officer of the Government, nor would it tend to prove what were
Lieutenant Allen's duties eight years before, while superintending the building of the piers, or in any degree to prove
whether plaintiff's lot had or had not a water line north of the
north pier at the date of his deed.
4. The court below did not err in refusing to allow plaintiff's counsel to cross-examine Benjamin Jones in the manner
proposed. Jones had testified in chief for the defendants,
and plaintiff's counsel on cross-examination put the questions
objected to, not to show that he was an incompetent witness.
but to affect his credibility with the jury This was wholly
within the discretion of the judge who tried the cause. It is
always within his discretion to control the cross-examination
of witnesses, designed to affect their credibility Ample opportunity was afforded plaintiff's counsel in this case, but
whether or not a certain question should be put, and if answered, what its effect might be, was solely for the judge who
tried the case to decide, and having exercised his undoubted
authority to direct and control the cross-examination, his decision is not subject to revision here. Teese et al. vs. .untington et al., (23 Howard, 2.)
5. The court refused to allow the plaintiff to examine S. S.
Greenwood upon anything not rebutting to the proof made by
defendants. Plaintiff had closed his case, except the right
specially reserved to examine G. S. Hubbard, as appears on
page 194, printed record. But when itibecame his turn to
offer rebutting evidence to defendant's proof; he proposed to
accumulate testimony upon the main issue, by asking the witness Greenwood where the water line was, east of or upon lot
84. The court refused this, because it was not rebutting testimony; it related to the very point the plaintiff was bound
to prove in the first instance, and having proved it as far as be
desired, except as to the introduction of Hubbard, he rested,
and, according to all rules, the door was closed against cumu-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

217

.Tohnston vs. Jones et al.

lative proof from him on the points at issue, unless the court
saw fit to open it. "The mode of conducting trials, the order
of introducing evidence, and the times when it shall be introduced, are properly matters belonging to the practice of the
Circuit Courts, with which this court ought not to interfere."
T. B. R?. Co. vs. Simpson, (per Story, J., 14 Peters,
The P
448.) If the plaintiff wanted Greenwood's testimony on this
point, he should have called him at first, or reserved the right
to have done so later in the trial. Not having done this, he
has no right to complain that the court applied to him the ordinary rules of practice in all common law courts.
6. The only remaining exception which we propose to conrder, is the objection to the charges of the court relating to
the weight which the various maps and plats were entitled to,
as instruments of evidence. Except Lieutenant Allen's maps
or diagrams, every map and plat offered and admitted in evidence was made by a living witness, present on the stand at
the trial of the case, and every fact in controversy was within
the memory and knowledge of a cloud of living witnesses.
Manifestly the maps were only properly admitted in evidence
to explain, illustrate, and apply the testimony of the witnesses.
Where was the water line, with reference to the east line of
plaintiff's lot, at date of his deed 9 was the issue on trial. A
witness could not make a map that would determine that issue
more effectually than his statement on oath, and a map made
anywhere, or at any time, was only valuable as proved to have
been made by one competent to do so, and present to verify his
work. It had no inherent, intrinsic weight as evidence. This
disposes of all the maps allowed to go to the jury for any purpose except certain diagrams made byLieutenantAllen in the
years following 1834 down to 1839, and of these it seems sufficient to say, that it does not appear that his reports of soundings were within the sphere of his official duty, for what his
official duty was nowhere appears in the case, and so they
were not evidence according to the decision of this court, in
Ellicoit et al. vs. Pearl, (10 Peters, 412,) and, even if done
officially, his acts could not bind or affect the rights of the
parties to this suit.
But the issue was, where was the water line with reference

SUPREME COURT.
Johuton,vs. Jones et at.

to the east line of plaintiff's lot 34 at the date of his deed,
and not how deep the water of Lake Michigan was somewhere
else, and neither the soundings nor reports of soundings at
other places tended to determine the issue on trial. Besides,
the maps were before the jury, to be judged of by them, ii
connection with the other evidence in the case. 1 Phillips on
Evidence, Cowen & Hill's Notes, 236, 282, and 283, 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, see. 139, 7 Carrington & Payne, 483, 3lorris et al. vs. The Lessee of H amus Neils, (7 Peters, 554.) In the
last case the court said that an ancient plat of the city of Cincinnati, though the only one in existence, and the only recognised plat of the city, was not conclusive upon the questions
of boundary of lots in that city This part of the case may
be dismissed with the remark that when the exact and single
issue of fact before the jury is kept in view, it becomes apparent that maps and plats of other places, and points relating
to other dates and periods of time. could not, in the very nature of them, throw any light on that issue, and could only
serve to apply the testimony of the witnesses to the premises
in question. Not a single one of the maps or plats offered in
evidence was referred to, as in any way connected with the titles of the parties, except the recorded plat of Kinzie's addition,
and by that this court decided the parties are bound until it
is changed. 18 Howard, 153.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE. This case was before this court atDecember term, 1855. It is reported as then presented, in 13 Howard, p. 250. The judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings. The action below was ejectment, brought to recover a part of the land formed
by accretion on the shore of Lake Michigan, north of the north
pier of the harbor, in the city of Chicago. The land in controversy was claimed to belong to water lot *No. 34, in Kinzie's addition to that city The plaintiff in error sought to recover it, in virtue of his ownership of that lot. Upon the last
trial, many days were consumed in submitting to the jury the
parol and documentary evidence of the parties. The former
was printed as the cause proceeded.
At the close of the argument, prayers for instructions to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

219

Johnston vs. Jones el al.

jury were submitted by both parties. All the testimony given
in the case, the instructions asked for by both parties, and the
entire charge of the court as given, are embodied in the record.
They make an aggregate exceeding four hundred and fifty
printed pages. The bill of exceptions embraces all this matter
It commences with an introduction, setting forth that the
whole of the printed evidence was made a part of it, and terminates with a supplement containing the exceptions taken'by
the plaintiff in error. Six of these exceptions are to the
rulings of the court in excluding testimony They are in this
form.
"2. Also to the ruling of the court in excluding the testimony of Samuel S. Greeley, as stated on pages 133 and 184 of
the printed report." The pages of the "printed report" do
not agree with the pages of the printed record. The reference,
therefore, affords no aid in finding the matter referred to.
The 8th exception is as follows. "Also to the charge- of the
court as contained on page 453, and as stated on page 462."
It is then stated that, in compliance with the rule of this
court, and for the sake of greater caution, the plaintiff below
"specially excepted on the trial, and the exceptions were allowed by the court," to the parts of the charge which follow
The first part of the charge, as thus set out, contains a distinct, legal proposition. To this the plaintiff distinctly excepted. This was proper. Then follows nearly two pages containing the views and reasonings of the court, comments upon
the evidence, and several legal propositions. Thevare follow"To the instructions as given by the
ed by this exception
court to the jury, the plaintiff then and there excepted." Exception was also taken to the refusal of the court to give to the
jury the instructions prayed for by the plaintili
It has been found irksome and inconvenient to the court to
look through this record and find the parts that are necessary
to be considered. The necessity of performing this office has
imposed upon us a labor which would have been avoided if
the bill of exceptions, had been properly framed. In 2 Peters,
15, -Pennockand Sellers vs. Douglas, Mr. Justice Story remarked
upon the irregularity, inconvenience, and expense of putting

SUPREME COURT.
Johnston vs. Jones et aL

the entire testimony in a case into the bill of exceptions, and
expressed the regret of the court that such a practice should
prevail.
In 4 Howard, 297, Zeller's Lessee vs. Belcert and others, Mr.
Justice Nelson, in delivering the opinion of the court, said
"This mode of making up the error books is exceedingly inconvenient and embarrassing to the court, and is a departure
from familiar and established practice." "Only so much of
the evidence given on the trial as may be necessary to present
the legal questions thus raised and noted, should be carried
into the bill of exceptions. All beyond serves only to encumber and confuse the record, and to perplex and embarrass both
court and counsel."
The court desires to put on record again its condemnation
of this irregularity, and to express the hope that a better practice may prevail hereafter in all cases intended to be brought
before this court for revision.
The 38th rule of this court, adopted at January term, 1832,
directs that thereafter "the judges of the Circuit and IDistrict
Courts do not allow any bill of exceptions wnich sball contain
the charge of the court at large to the jury, in trials at common
law, upon any general exception to the whole of such charge,
but tha t the party excepting be required to state distinctly the
several matters in law in such charge, to which he excepts, and
that suh matters of law, and those only, be inserted in the
bill of exceptions, and allowed by the court."
The rule was not observed in this case. It is questionable
wheth-.r the exceptions, in respect of the greater part of the
charge, are so distinct and specific that this court, if the point
had b en made, could consider them. It is well settled, that
if a se :les of propositions be embodied in instructions, and the
instru tons are excepted to in a mass, if any one of the proposit , ) ns be correct, the exception must be overruled. 3 Seld.,
273, Uunt vs. i41-aghee; 2 Kernan, 313, Decker vs. Matthews.
We have,
TVe point was not made by the defendants.
thersfore, not thought it necessary to consider it. As it may
an ie hereafter in other cases, we have deemed it proper thus
to vall attention to the subject.

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

221

ohnston, vs. Jones et al.

The same evidence substantially was given upon this trial
which was given upon the former trial, as reported in 18Howard.
It would unnecessarily encumber this opinion here to repeat
it. The only features claimed to be new by the plaintiff in
error are-Ist, the title bond of Robert A. Kinzie to Gordon S. Hubbard, of June 10, 1835, for lot 34, and othef property therein described. Johnston, the plaintiff, became the
assignee of this bond, and under it procured his deed of October 22, 1835, from Robert A. Kinzie, for lot 84. 2d. The deed
from John H. Kinzie to the plaintiff, dated July 1, 1857 This
deed was offered, but not received in evidence.
The plaintiff in error relies upon the following exceptions.
They will be considered as we proceed.
1. The court instructed the jury "that the controversy
turned upon what the fact was, on the 22d October, 1835, as
to this water front. Had lot 34 a water front at that time north
of the north pier 9"
The instruction was according to the ruling of this court,
when the case was formerly here. 18 How., 157
The counsel for the plaintiff in error insists that the deed
from Robert A. Kinzie to Johnston related backtothe date of
the title bond from Kinzie to Hubbard, and that this was a
new element in the case, which required a ch'ange of the rule,
as to the point of time to which the attention of the jury should
have been directed. We do not think so. The doctrine of
relation cannot be made to work such a result. It is a legal
fiction, invented to promote the ends of justice. It is a general rule, that it shall do no wrong to strangers. It is applied
with vigor between the original parties, when justice so requires; but itis never allowed to defeat the collateral rights
of third persons, lawfully acquired. 4 J R., 234, Jackson vs.
Bard, 3 Caine's Rep., 262, Case vs. DeGoes; 18 Vin. Abr.,
287, Relation B., 13 Coke, 21 Menville's Case, 7 Ohio S. R.,
291, Wood vs. Furguson.
The plaintiff could recover only upon a legal title. That
title was vested in him, if at all, by the deed from Robert A.
Kinzie of the 22d of October, 1835. The equities subsisting

SUPREME COURT.
Torhston vs. Jones et al.

at any time between those parties could not in any wise affect
the result of the action.
We are satisfied with this instruction. Under it the jury
found a verdict for the defendants.
2. It is objected that the court did not instruct the jury correctly as to the value, as evidence, of the surveys, maps, and
plats exhibited by the plaintiff upon the trial, but that, on the
contrary, it was stated that they were not Independent evidence, and that the jury were to receive them onJy in so far
as they were shown to be correct by the other testimony in
the case.
The facts touching these maps and plats are not stated
in the bill of exceptions. We have been compelled to look
over much of the testimony in our search for them. Without
intending to lay down any general rule upon the subject, or
to question the soundness of the authorities relied upon by the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, we content ourselves with saying, that we are not satisfied that the court below committed
any error in what was said in this connection.
8. It is insisted, that the court erred in laying down the rule
for the partition of the alluvium. It would be sufficient to say,
that the jury having found that lot 84, at the time referred to,
had no water front north of the north pier, the question did
not arise. The instructions given and those refused were, in
this view of the subject, abstract and speculative propositions.
Those given, whether right or wrong, could not have injuriously
affected the plaintiff. A party cannot be allowed to complain
of an error which has ,donehim no harm. 9 Gill, 61, Ramsey
et al. vs. Jenlans.
But as the views of the court have been misapprehended, and
that misapprehension may mislead in other cases, we prefer to
deal with the subject as if it were properly before us. The
court below instructed the jury in the language used by this
court when the case was here in 1855. Upon that occasion,
it was intended to adopt the rule laid down by the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts in 17 Pickering, 45, 46, Deerfield vs.
Arms. That court said. "The rule is-, to measure the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

223

Jolnston vs. Jones et aL.

whole extent of the ancient bank or line of the river, and compute how many rods, yards, or feet each riparian propr-etor
owned on the river line, 2, the next step is, supposing the former
line, for instance, to amount to 200 rods, to divide the newly
formed bank or river line into 200 equal parts, and appropriate
to each proprietor as many portions of this new river line as he
owned rods on the old. When, to complete the division, lines
are to be drawn, from the points at which the proprietors respectively bounded on the old, to the points thus determined,
as the points of division on the newly formed shore. The new
lines thus formed, it is obvious, will be either parallel, or diverg.ent, or convergent, according as the new shore line of the
river equals, or exceeds, or falls short of the old." It is further
said "It may require modification, perhaps, under particular circumstances. For instance, in applying the rule to the
ancient margin of the river, to ascertain the extent of each proprietor's title on that margin, thegeneral line ought to be taken,
and not the actual length of the line on that margin, if it happens to be elongated by deep indentations or sharp projections.
In such case, it should be reduced by an equitable and judicious estimate to the general available line of the land upon
the river."
To this rule we adhere. With the qualification stated, it
may be considered as embodying the views of this court upon
the subject. In this case, if lot 34 had been found to have had
a water front north of the north pier at the time stated, the
pier front would have had nothing to do with the partition to be
made. The lake front, where the accretion occurred, only
could have been regarded. The whole of thatfront should have
been taken as the basis of the adjustment.
4. The court refused to instruct the jury as prayed upon the
subject of the possession of the alluvium in controversy by the
plaintiffin error. It is sufficient to say, that both the prayers
upon that subject assume as an element, that lot 34 bad. to
some extent, a front on the lake north of the north pier. The
verdict of the jury, for the purposes of this case, is conclusive
upon that subject. It is frankly admitted by the counsel for

SUPREME COURT.
Jolinston vs. lones et al.

the plaintiff in error, that if the lot bad no such front, his propositions had no application to the case.
5. The court rejected the deed of John H. Kinzie to the
plaintiff, when offered in evidence.
Robert A. Kinzie was the patentee of the land upon which
his addition to the town of Ohicago was laid out. He conveyed lot 34 to John H. Kinzie by a deed which, in describing
the lot, referred to the ornginal plat of the addition. John H.
Kinzie conveyed the lot back to Robert by a deed describing
it, with a reference to the plat as recorded. The original plat
showed a water front to this lot. On the plat as recorded, this
fact was wanting. The deed from John H. Kinzie to Johnston
was executed for the consideration of twenty-five dollars, to
correct the alleged error in the deed from John H. to Robert
A. Kinzie, in pursuance of a covenant for further assurance in
the deed of Robert A. Kinzie to Johnston, and thus to give the
plaintiff a title to the alluvium claimed to belong to that lot,
if he had notsuch title already
If there were any mistake in the original deeds, of which
Johnston had a right to avail himself, the remedy should hav6
been sought by a proceeding in chancery had for that purpose,
with all the proper parties before the court. The agreement
of the parties themselves that there was such error, and a deed
made in pursuance of that agreement, cannot affect the rights
of third persons. A further and fatal objection to the admission of the deed in evidence is the time at which it was executed. It bears date more than seven years after the filing
of the declaration in this case. In ejectment, the plaintiff must
recover, if at all, upon the state of his title as it subsisted at
the commencement of the suit. Evidence of any after acquired
title is wholly inadmissible. 4 Term R., 680, Goodlitle vs. -Yerbert; 11 Illinois, 547, Wood vs. Martin, 13 Illinois, 251, .Pilkin
vs. Yaw; 8 Pet., 218, Binney vs. The Canal Co.
6. "The ruling of the court, in excluding the testimony of
Samuel S. Greeley, as stated on pages 133 and 184 of the
printed report."
This, we suppose, refers to the following passage in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Johnston vs. Jones et al.

testimony of this witness, as it appears in the printed record.
"2. (Presenting Allen's map of 1838.) Look at the accretion
at the north side of the north pier, and tell me whether the
ratio of increase between what is represented there in '34 and
'37, and what was made from '37 to '88, call for any accretions
made in '34 and '35, and if so, to what extent and in what
year'?"
The facts disclosed in the testimony show that Allen's map
was not itself original and reliable evidence. A calculation
founded upon it was therefore clearly inadmissible. The admissibility of this evidence, as regards other objections, would
depend upon a proper foundation being laid for it. As it is
not necessary, we have not gone into any inquiry upon that
subject.
7th. "The ruling of the court, in excluding the testimony
of Capt. J D. Webster, as shown on page 191 of the printed
report."
It appears, in the testimony of this witness, that he went to
Chicago, in 1841 or 1842, as an officer of the United States.
The following also appears.
"Question. Did you hold the position of superintendent of
harbors here-the same that Captain Allen did once?
"Answer. Yes, sir, I did, for a while.
"Question. State whether it was any part of your duty, as
superintendent of the harbor, to report to the Government the
changes that were occurring in and about the harbor'?"
The latter question was objected to, and the objection sustained.
The testimony which the question objected to sought to
elicit would, in itself, have been immaterial and irrelevant.
If intended, as part of the evidence proposed to be drawn out,
to prove the duties of Lieut. Allen at a former period, as the
language of the court, in deciding the point, seems to imply, it
was inadmissible also upon that ground. The official duties
of Lieut. Allen could not be proved in that way
8th. "The rulings of the court, in excluding evidencetending to affect the credibility of one of defendant's witnesses,
VOL. L

15

SUPREME COURT.
Johnstcn vs. Jones et al.

Benjamin Tones, as stated on pages 860 and 362 of the
printed record."
The witness Tones was the brother of the defendant Jones,
and had been examined in chief for him. In his cross-examination, he stated that his brother formerly owned lot 85, adjoining lot 34, that it bad been sold at sheriff's sale, bought
in by Deunison, by Dennison conveyed to him, and afterwards
by him back to his brother.
He was asked "Did you pay Dennison anything?"
This question was objected to by the defendants, and overruled by the court.
We estimate at its highest value "the power of cross-examination." The extent to which it may be carried, touching
the merits of the case, was defined by this court in 14 Peters,
445, The Philadelphia and T. B. B. C. vs. Simpson. The
rule there laid down, this court has since adhered to. A crossexamination for other purposes must necessarily be guided and
limited by the discretion of the court trying the cause. The
exercise of this discretion by a Circuit Court cannot be made
the subject of review by this court. We have looked through
the long and searching cross-examination to which this witness
was subjected. There would have been no error if the objection had been overruled. There was none in sustaining it.
9. "The ruling of the court, in excluding the evidence of
Theophilus Greenwood, offered by the plaintiff, as rebutting
evidence to the evidence of possession of the alleged accretion
by defendants, at the date of the deed to the plaintiff, as stated
on page 424 of the printed report."
Upon looking through the testimony of the witness, we find
he was allowed to testify fully upon the subject of possession.
The court expressly held, that be should be permitted to do so.
The plaintiff in error then proposed to prove by him where,
at a certain time, "the actual water line east of or upon water
lot 84 was, in reference to the east line of said lot 34;" * *
"which the court refused, on the ground that it should have
been introduced as evidence in chief, not as rebutting." That
this evidence was of the former and not of the latter character,
seems to us too clear to admit of discussion.
vIz.,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
United States vs. Knight's Adm'r.

"The mode of conducting trials, the order of introducing
evidence, and the times when it shall be introduced, are matters properly belonging to the practice of the Circuit Courts,
14 Peters,
with which this court ought not to interfere."

448,

. and T. B. B. Co. vs. Simpson.

These are substantially all the points pressed upon our attention by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, in his able and
elaborate argument. They are all to which we deem it necessary to advert.
We find no error in the record. The judgment below must
be affirmed, with costs.

Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

'UNITED STATES VS. KNIGHT'S A.Dm'R.

1. A complete espediente in a laud title according to the laws and cus-

2.

8.

4.

5.

6.

toms of Mexico consists of a petition with desefio annexed, order
of reference, decree of concession, and copy of the grant.
Where there is no map annexed to the petition, no order of reference,
or inform6, but the decree of concession follows immediately after
the petition, the inference is a reasonable one that no order of reference or inform6 was ever made in that case.
Where the decree of concession appears to have been made without
an informg upon that petition, and yet recites an inform6 as having
been made by a certain alcalde, and that alcalde did actually mak6
an inform upon anotherpetition to a former governor, the presumption is that the recital refers to the inform6 actually made.
If the inform4 was originally adverse to the petitioner, but was altered after the conquest so as to make it a favorable report, and it is
recited in the decree as a favorable report, the inference is that the
decree was not made until after the alteration, and consequently
not until after the conquest of the country.
The fact that an espediente is included in an index made by an Ameri-'
can officer in 1847 and 1848 shows that it was in the archives when
that index was made, but it shows nothing more, The index can.
not in any sense be regarded as a Mexican record.
The papers of the espediente in question not being previously filedL

