SUPREME COURT.
Silliman vs. Hudson River Bridge Co.- Coleman vs. Same.

the propeller made a sheer to the eastward after she passed the
steam-tug, and the four boats arranged abreast.
Objections were also made to the computation of the damages, but none of them can be sustained.
One of the objections was, that the court erred in allowing
damages for the injury to the cargo as well as to the boat; but
the point has been so often ruled that the carrier, who is responsible for the safe custody and due transportation of the
goods, may recover in cases of this description, that we do not
think it necessary to do more than to express our concurrence
in the rule adopted by the Circuit Court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

SILLIMAN vs. HUDSON Rivxit BRIDGE COMPANY.-COLEMAN VS.
SAME.
1. In a case where the judges of the Circuit Court have divided in
opinion upon several questions, one of them being whether the
court has jurisdiction, the question of jurisdiction must be determined before any opinion can be expressed on the others.
2. If the judges of this court, as well as the court below, are equally
divided on the question of jurisdiction, the case will be remitted for
such further action as may be required by law and the rules of court.
3: Where the record (of an equity case) goes down in this condition, it
is the established rule to dismiss the bill and leave the plaintiff to
his remedy by appeal.
4. Whether the evidence is sufficient to prove an averwent in the
plhadings, is a question of fact, and cannot, therefore, be brought
into this court upon a certificate of division.
Both these cases came up on certificates of the judges of the
Circuit Court that they were divided in opinion on certain
points raised at the trial.
The questions on which the judges divided in the cou:t below are mentioned in the opinion of Mr. Justice Nelson. The
argdments of counsel here were mainly on the merits of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

583

Silliman vs. Hudson River Bridge 0o.-Coleman vs. Same.

cause; but this court being also divided; nothing was determined except the points of practice noted at the head of this
report.
Mr. Beach, of New York, and Hr. Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, for complainants.
Mr. Pruyn, of New York, for defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON. These were suits in equity, in which
the bills were filed in October, 1856, to obtain a decree for an
injunction perpetually restraining the defendant from erecting
a bridge across the Hudson river, at Albany, authorized by an
act of the Legislature of the State of New York, passed on the
9th day of April, 1856. The defendant answered both bills,
to which general replications were filed and proofs taken, and
the causes brought on for hearing, and heard .together, upon
pleadings and proofs.
And upon the hearing of each of the said causes, the following questions occurred, to wit:
T'irst. Whether or not the court, under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, has the power perpetually to restrain
the erection of the bridge across the Hudson river, atAlbany,
proposed to be erected by the defendants in the manner provided for or authorized by the acts of the Legislature of the State
of :New York, mentioned in the pleadings and proofs herein,
in case the plai.-niE, being the owner of vessels holding coasting licenses, shows, to the satisfaction of the court, that such
bridge, if erected, will materially obstruct, 'delay, or hinder
such vessels in the navigation of said river, while engaged in
commerce between said State of New York and other States.
Second. Whether or not the evidence in this case shows that
the bridge in controversy will, if erected, constitute a material
obstruction and impediment to the navigation of the Hudson
river for the vessels of the plaintiff, mentioned in the pleadings and proofs.
Third. Whether or not the defendant is entitled to a decree
has an
dismissing the bill, on the ground that the complainant
I
I

SUPREME COURT.
Silliman vs. Hudson River Bridge Co.-Colemanvs. Same.

adequate remedy at law for all injury he may sustain by reason of the erection of the said bridge, should the same be
erected as proposed.
On which several questions the opinions of the judges were
opposed.
Whereupon, on motion of the defendants, by their counsel,
that the points on which the disagreements bath happened
may, during the said term, be stated under the direction of the
judges, and certified under the seal of the court to the Supreme
Court of the United States, to be finally decidedIt is ordered that the said points of disagreement, together
with the pleadings and proofs herein, be, and they hereby are,
certified, according to the request of the defendants, as aforesaid, and of the act of Congress in that case made and provided.
This court, after hearing the arguments of counsel for the
respective parties, and upon consideration of the first question,
are equally.divided in opinion, and, consequently, no instruc-

tions can be given to the court below concerning it. And,
baing thus divided on the first question, which involved the
jurisdiction of the court below over the subject-matter of the
suits, no opinion can be properly expressed upon the two remaining questions. These two questions can become material
only, or be inquired into, after jurisdiction has been entertained in the cases, and the court bound to proceed to a final
disposition of them.
We may add, also, that the second question is one which,
according to a decision of this court, is not properly certified
here, the question being one of fact. 8 How., 258.
This being the condition and posture of the bases, it becomes
proper and necessary to remit them to the court below, for the
purpose of enabling that court to take action upon them, and
such further proceedings as the rules of the court or principles
of law may require. The rights and interests of both parties
call for such a disposition of the cases here; for, as the judges
of-the court below were divided in opinion upon the question
of jurisdiction, when the cases go down, as they must, for final
disposition in that court, the bills in the two cases, according

DECEMBER TERM, i861.

585

Pindell vs. Mullikin et al.

to the established rule of proceeding, under the circumstances
stated, are to be dismissed, and a decree to that effect entered,
so that the parties aggrieved may, if they think proper, bring
up the questions on appeal for review from the final decree.

PINDELL VS. MULLIKIN ET AL.

A bill claiming title to, and praying for po.;session of, lands will be dis,
missed, if the complainant and those through whom he claims have
taken no steps to assert their right for twenty years; the land being,
all that time, in the adverse possession of the defendants and their
ancestor.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Missouri.
This was a bill in equity brought in the Circuit Courof the
United States for the district Missouri, by Richard Pindell, of
Kentucky, against Napoleou B. Mullikin, Jerome B. Mullikin,
Charles B. Wiggins, and Virginia, his wife, John R. Shepley,
William H. McPherson, P. Dexter Tiffany, Samuel, Willi,
James Clements, jr., and David H. Armstrong, citizens of the
State of Missouri.
The complainant prayed to have decreed to him fifty arpents
of land in the neighborhood of St. Louis, and deduced his title
from John R. Sloan, the sole heir and legal representative of
one John Sloan, to whom the land claimed was alleged to have
been conveyed by David Musick. The defendants had been
in possession of it for more than twenty years before the filing
of the bill.
John Sloan, the father of the plaintiff's grantor, died in 1818,
without having recorded any deed fro.m the previous owner to
himself. It was supposed to have been lost as early as the
death of Sloan. No steps were taken for forty years to assert
any claim under it. According to the allegations of the bill,
the representatives of Sloan knew all the time of his title to
the land, yet they commenced no suit at all, and their assignee
only after a lapse of forty years. J. R. Sloan, the son under

