SUPREME COURT.
Leeonard et al. vs. Davis et al.

L3SONARD ET AL. VS. DAViS ET AL.
1. If it be stipulated in a contract that a duty arising out of it shall be
performed by a particular officer, the performance of such duty by
deputies, under his direction, will not satisfy the terms of the contract, nor bind the parties, except in cases where it was known that
such officer was accustomed to act by deputies.
2. Where parties contract for the sale of a quantity of logs, to be delivered at a future time, and the vendee binds himself to take all mer.
chantable logs at a certain price, the vendor does not, by his assent
to such contract, make warranty that all the logs he delivers shall
be merchantable, but only leaves it optional with the vendee to reject such as are not.
3. Logs floating in the water are in the constructive possession of the
owner, and when sold a symbolical delivery is sufficient to pass the
title.
4. When the terms of sale are agreed on, and the bargain is struck, and
everything the seller has to do with the goods is complete, the contract of sale becomes absolute, as between the parties, without actual
payment or delivery; the buyer becomes the owner and takes the
risk of all subsequent accidents to the goods.
5. He is entitled to the goods on payment or tender of the price, and not
otherwise, when nothing is said at the sale as to the time of delivery,
or the time of payment.
6. But if the goods are sold upon credit, and nothing is agreed upon as
to the time of their delivery, the vendee is immediately entitled to
the possession and the right of property vests at once in him.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
This was assumpsit brought in March, 1858, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan, by F.
B. Leonard and 0. P. Ives, citizens of the State of New York,
against C. Davis, a citizen of Michigan, A. E. Loomis and J.
C. Dore, citizens of Illinois, and T. Newell, a citizen of Connecticut, partners in the lumber business at Muskegon, in the
State of Michigan, under the firm name of C. Davis & Co. The
suit was brought on a written contract for certain saw-logs. The

DECEMEBER TERM, 1861.

477

Leonard el al. vs. Davis et aL

defendants pleaded the general issue, with notice of ret-off,
averring that but a part of the logs ever came to their possession, and of this part but a few were merchantable, the balance of them being worthless, and claiming damages for the
inferior quality of the logs. Verdict and judgment for defendants, with costs. Motion for new trial denied. A writ of erroi
to the Supreme Court of the United States was sued out by
plaintiff.
The facts in controversy are stated very fully in the opiuion
of Mr. Justice Clifford.
Mr. Bussell, of Michigan, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Van Arman, of Illinois, for defendants in error.'
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
Some brief reference to, the pleadings in the cause will be
necessary, in order that the precise nature of the controversy
may be clearly understood. It was an action of assumpsit
brought by the present plaintiffs, and the declaration contained
two special counts, framed upon a certain written agreement
signed by the parties.
According to the allegations of the first count, the defendants, on the 6th day of November, 1856, bought of the plaintiffs a certain described parcel or lot of pine saw-logs, situated
in and about the Muskegon river and lake, in the county of Ottowa, and State of Michigan, and the claim as there made was
for the entire amount, agreed to be paid as the consideration
for the purchase and sale of the lumber.
Referring to the second count, it will be seen that it was, in
all respects, substantially the same as the first, except that the
pleader assumed throughout that the agreement between the
parties was executory; and, consequently, alleged that the plaintiffs agreed to sell, and that the defendants agreed to purchase
the same parcel or lot of pine saw-logs as that described in the
first count, averring readiness to perform on the part of the
plaintiffi, and default on the part of the defendants.

SUPREME COURT.
Leonard et al. vs. Davis et al.

Process was duly served upon the defendants, and on the
30th day of March, 1858, they appeared and pleaded the general
issue, giving notice in writing at the same time of certain
special matters to be given in evidence under that plea.
Among other things, they alleged in the notice, that not
more than seven hundred thousand feet of the saw-logs agreed
to be furnished by the plaintiffs ever came to their hands, and
that not more than one-fourth part of the quantity so received
was merchantable; and that, through that default and wrong
of the plaintiffs, they, the defendants, suffered damages to the
amount of five thousand dollars, for which amount they claimed
to recoup the damages demanded by the plaintiffs. They also
averred, that the plaintiffs were indebted to them in the sum
of three thousand dollars for money lent and money paid and
advanced; and they also'gave notice that they would prove
such indebtedness at the trial, by way of set-off to the damages
claimed by the plaintiffs, as more fully set forth in the transcript. Such was the substance of the pleadings on which the
parties went to trial.
Before proceeding to state the evidence, and the rulings and
instructions of the court, it becomes necessary to advert to the
situation of the saw-logs, and the surrounding circumstances
at the time the agreement was made. Both parties agree that
the lot or parcel of logs in controversy had been cut in the
forest during the winter preceding the date of the contract by
one A. B. Furnam, and had been by him transported to the
river and upper waters of the lake, and driven down the same
to the association boom, so called, where the larger portion of
the logs were situated at the time the agreement was executed.
Divers persons own timber lands bordering on the upper waters
of that lake, and during the winter season of the year cut sawlogs, either for sale or to be transported over those waters to
their mills, to be manufactured into boards. Such logs are
usually branded with the initials of the owner's name, or some
other mark by which the property of one owner may be distinguished from that of another; and all the logs thus collected during the winter season, although belonging to different individuals, are floated down the river during the spring

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

479

Leonard el al. vs. Davis et al.

freshet in one "drive," so called, and secured in the association boom, which is in the lake, and is large enough to contain the whole quantity, and afford ample space to enable the
different owners to select their own marks and arrange the
logs in rafts to be transported to their private booms.
Claim was made by the plaintiffs for the entire amount of
the consideration agreed to be paid for the logs specified in the
contract. To maintain the issue on their part, the plaintiffs
introduced the contract described in the declaration, and offered
evidence tending to prove the situation and quantity of the
logs; and that the defendants, or one them, had admitted that
they had neglected to measure and scale the logs according to
the agreement. One of the defendants was the treasurer of
the association or incorporation owning the boom, where the
logs, or the principal portion of them, lay at the time the con
tract was made.
Prior to the date of the contract, the same defendant had
presented a draft to the plaintiffs for the price or charge of
driving down the river and into the boom of the association a
certain quantity of saw-logs, equal in board measure to fourteen
hundred and forty-four thousand feet. Said logs belonged to
the plaintiffs, and they offered the draft, with the receipt of the
defendant thereon, to show that the defendants, or some of
them, had knowledge of the quantity and locality of the logs
at the date of the agreement.
To the admission of that evidence the defendants objected,
and the court excluded it, and to that ruling the plaintiffs excepted. Various other exceptions also were taken by the plaintiffs to the rulings of the court in the course of the trial, to
which more particular reference will presently be made.
Five prayers for instruction were presented by the plaintiffs,
but the~court refused the entire series, and instructed the jury
substantially as follows: That the contract declared on was
executory; that the title to the logs did not pass till after admeasurement; that admeasurement was equally for the benefit
of both parties; and that the boom-master was made the common agent for that purpose. That if the jury found from the
evidence that it was impracticable for the boom-master to do

SUPREME CO-URT.
Leonard et al. vs. Davis et al.

the scaling alone, and it was the custom of the associaticn for
him to have assistants, then the scaling in this case might be
lawfully done by such assistants under his orders. That it was
equally incumbent upon the plaintiffs and defendants to have
the logs scaled and measured, and that the plaintiffs could only
recover for such logs as had been scaled and come to the possession of the defendants. That the contract imported a warranty that the logs were merchantable, and that the defendants
were entitled to a reasonable opportunity to ascertain the quality of the logs. That if the jury found that the quality could
not be determined till after the logs had been rafted up and
taken to the defendants' boom, and then only by sawing them
up, or chopping into them, they, the defendants, had a right to
do so; and further, that if the jury found that the unmerchantable logs were entirely worthless, the defendants were entitled
to recoup their damages for such defects, without returning
the logs, or giving notice to the plaintiffs.
Under the instructions of the court, the jury returned their
verdict in favor of the defendants, and the plaintiffs excepted
both to the refusal of the court to instruct as requested and to
the instructions given.
Comparing the terms of the contract with the instructions
given to the jury, it is obvious that the former was misconstrued by the court, and that injustice has been done to the
plaintiffs.
Referring to the contract, it will be seen that the first sentence thereof declares that the defendants "bought of" the
plaintiffs "a quantity of pine saw-logs, got out last winter by
A'. B. Furnam, supposed to be about fourteen hundred and
forty-four thousand feet, in board measure, at the rate of four
dollars and fifty cents per thousand for those afloat in the booms
and bayous near the head of the lake, and four dollars and
twenty-five cents per thousand feet for those on the bank, or
in marsh near the lake and boom."
All of the logs sold were to be counted, measured, and scaled
by the boom-master, meaning the person in charge of that
business at the association boom, where the logs, or the principal portion of them, were situated when the contract was

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

481

.Leonardet al. vs. Davis el al.

made, or by such other person as the parties might agree on,
as the logs were rafted up preparatory to be transported to the
private boom of the defendants.
Recurring again to the agreement, it will be seen that it
bears date on the sixth day of NSovember, 1856, and by its terma
the defendants were to pay for all the logs rafted up that fall,
on the fifteenth day of December following; and for all such
as were not rafted up until the next spring, they were to pay
monthly at the end of each month during the rafting season
of the succeeding year. But it is evident that the parties well
understood; that a certain portion of the logs included in the
sale would remain back, even after the close of the next rafting
season; and they accordingly provided that the balance, not then
rafted up, should be settled for by the defendants as soon as they
could be measured and the "scaling" completed.
By the terms of the contract, the defendants were to tat a
all the merchantable logs in the described lot or parcel; an I
inasmuch as the time and amount of the payments would I e
affected by the promptitude or negligence of the defendants in
rafting up the logs, it was expressly stipulated that they shoul d
raft up and secure as many of the logs as they could that fal,
and as many as possible of the residue during the next sprinjg,
before the annual "drive" came down.
Beyond question these provisions were inserted in the cotttract for the benefit of the plaintiffs, and it is quite obvious
that they were necessary to the protection of the rights of the
plaintiffs, because the defendants were not required to make
payments any faster than they could i'aft up and secure the
logs, so as to render them available for the purpose for which
they were purchased. Such of the logs as remained back, after the annual "drive" of the succeeding spring came down,
were to be scaled where they lay, whether on the banks, in the
booms or bayous, and were to be paid for by the defendants
at the contract price, without further delay to raft them up.
Whether the logs were merchantable or not, was to be determined by the boom-master, who was specially designated in
the contract to count, measure, and scale them for the parties.
He might perform that duty himself, or if he had deputies
VOL. I.

31

SUPREME COURT.
Leonard et al. vs. Davis et aZ.

who usually assisted him in performing that work, and that
custom was known to these parties at the time the contract
was made, then he might properly cause the work to be done
by such deputies under his direction; and such a performance
of the duty assigned to him in the contract would be a lawful
performance of the same, and would be obligatory upon both
of these parties.
All the logs, however, were to be counted, measured, and
scaled by the boom-master, or such other person as the parties
might agree on; and unless the boom-master had regular deputies who were accustomed to assist him in such duties, and
that custom was known to the parties at the time the contract
was made, then it is clear that the work could only be done
by the person designated in the contract, unless the parties
substituted another in his place.
Merchantable logs only were bought and sold by the parties,
but it is a great mistake to regard that provision as a warranty
of the logs on the part of the plaintiffs. Unless the parties
were destitute of all experience, they must have known that
in so large a lot of logs there would be some, and perhaps
many, that would not scale as merchantable; and it was doubtless from that consideration that the provision was inserted,
that the defendants should take all of that description, and, of
course, they were not bound to take any of inferior grades.
Regarded in that light, it is evident that the provision was
foe the benefit of both the seller and purchaser, as it furnished
a clear and unmistakable description of what was bought and
sold: we say bought and, sold, because it is evident from what
has already been said that the title to the logs passed to the
defendants. Most of the logs were in the association boom at
the time the contract was made; and as they were floating in the
water, the law did not require an actual delivery, in order to
vest the title in the defendants. While floating in the water,
they were only in the constructive possession of the owner;
and, under such circumstances, a symbolical delivery is all
that can, in general, be expected, and is amply sufficient to
pass the title. Ludwig vs. Fuller, (17 Me., 166;) Boynton vs.
Vteazie, (24 Me., 288;) 2 Kent's Com., 492; M1acomber vs. Par

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Leonard et al. vs. Davis et aL

ker, (13 Pick., 175;) Hatc ngs vs. Gilchrist, (23 Vt., 88;) Gibson vs. Stevens, (8 How., 384.)
When the terms of sale are agreed on, and the bargain is
struck, and everything the seller has to do with the goods is
complete, the contract of sale, says Chancellor Kent, becomes
absolute as between the parties, without actual payment or delivery, and the property and the risk of accident to the goods
vests in the buyer. He is entitled to the goods on payment
or tender of the price, and not otherwise, when nothing is said
at the sale as to the time of delivery, or the time of payment.
But if the goods are sold upon credit, and nothing is agreed
upon as to the time of delivering the goods, the vendee is immediately entitled to the possession, and the right of property
vests at once in him. 2 Kent's Coin., (9th ed.,) 671; Bradeen
vs. Brooks, (22 Me., 470;) Davis vs. Moore, (13 Me., 427.)
Nothing in fact remained to be done in this case, so far as
the sale and purchase were concerned. Defendants bought
and plaintiffs sold, without condition or reservation, and the
measurement was simply to ascertain the amount to be paid by
the defendants. Sellers had nothing to do but to receive the
agreed price, unless the boom-master refused to act, which
contingency did not happen him in the case. Cushman vs.
Holyoke, .(34 MAe., 292;) Riddle vs. Tarnum, (20 Pick., 280.)
It is clear, therefore, that the title in the logs passed to the
defendants at the. time the contract was executed. Cunningham
vs. Ashbrook, (20 Mi., 553;) Cole vs. Transp. Co., (26 Vt., 87.)
Having stated our views as to the construction of the contract constituting the foundation of the suit, the errors in the
instructions given to the jury will be manifest without any additional explanations; and we need only say, in this connection,
that they are of a character to affect the merits of the controversy, and lead necessarily to the reversal of the judgment.
Some of the rulings at the trial, to which exceptions were
also taken by the plaintiffs, present, directly or indirectly, the
same legal questions as those involved in the instructions given
to the jury, and in respect to all such the explanations already
given will furnish a proper -guide at the next trial. That remark, however, does not apply to the first and third exceptions,,

484

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Jackalow.

which were well taken upon other and distinct grounds. Evidence was offered under both those exceptions, tending to show
the quantity of the logs, which was a material matter in dis-.
pute at the time.
It cannot be doubted that the evidence offered had some
tendency to support the issue; and if so, it was the duty of the
court to receive it, and allow it to be weighed by the jury.
We forbear to remark upon the other exceptions, because the
explanations already given as to the true construction of the
contract will sufficiently demonstrate the error in the rulings.
In view of the whole case, we are of the opinion that the
rulings and instructions of the Circuit Court were erroneous.
The judgment is accordingly reversed, with costs, and the
cause remanded, with direction to issue a new venire.

UNITED STATES VS. JACKALOW.

1. To give a Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction of an offence
not committed within its district, it must appear, not only that the
accused party was first apprehended in that district, but also that the.
offence was committed out of the jurisdiction of any State, and. not
within any other district of the Uaited States.
2. Whether a particular place is within the boundaries of a State is not
a question of law for the court, but a matter of fact for the jury to
determine.
3. A special verdict finding that the offence was committed by the prisoner
at a place designated, but omitting to find that it was outside the
limits of any State, must be set aside.
This was an indictment against John, alias Johnny, alias
John Canoe, alias Jackalow, a native of the Loo Cboo Islands,
for piracy on the high seas, found and tried in the Circuit Court
-of the United States for the district of New Jersey, and came
into the Supreme Court on a certificate of the judges that they
were divided in opinion.
The jury, in a special verdict, found that the offence charged

