r3tTPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. vs. Hart.

and the cause remanded, with directions to that court to dismiss the petition.
Decree accordingly.

BACON ET AL. VS. HART.

1. Where a writ of error is taken to the District Court, but no citation
served on the defendant in error agreeably to the act of 1789, the
writ will, on motion, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
2. A service of the citation on the attorney or counsel of the defendant
in error is sufficient.
8. But where the attorney of record is dead, it will not do to serve it on
his executrix or other personal representative.
4. Nor can the service be legally made on another member of the bar
who had been a partner of the deceased counsel.
5. The courts cannot notice law partnerships or other private arrangements, and counsel cannot be known hs such, unless by their appearance on the record.
Mr. Stanton, of Washington city, for the defendant in error,

moved that the writ of error in this case be dismissed for want
of a citation.
Mr. Chief Justice TAiNEY. We have looked into this record, and find that the writ of error must be dismissed. The
action was in the nature of an ejectment, and brought to recover possession of land. The plaintiff below was William
Hart, junior, a citizen of New York, residing at Manilla. His
counsel in the cause was William Hart, senior. In March,
1858, judgment was rendered by the court for the plaintiff.
In October of the same year a writ of error was sued out, returnable on the first Monday in December next thereafter, and
service of the citation was on the 9th of October admitted by
William Hart, senior. But this writ of error was not returned
during the term to which it was made returnable, and failed,
therefore, to bring up the case. A second writ of error was
taken by the defendant below in August, 1859, returnable to
the ensuing December term of this court. The citation under

DECEMBER TERM'1861.

39

Weigltman vs. The Corporationof Washington.

this latter writ was directed to William Hart, junior, and served
according to the marshal's certificate, on Mary Hart, widow
and executrix of William Hart, senior, who died after the
judgment, and on J. D. Stevenson his former law partner.
A service of the citation on the attorney or counsel of the
proper party is sufficient; but the executrix of the counsel on
record was not the counsel of her testator's client. His char
acter and duties as counsel did not devolve on his own person
al representative after his death. Nor is Mr. Stevenson to be
regarded as the counsel of William Hart,junior,merely because
he had been the partner of William Hart, senior. We cannot
notice law partnerships or other private relations between
members of the bar. This may have been a partnership, solely
because it provided for a division of profits, without putting
either partner under any responsibility for the suits conducted
by the other. The courts can know no counsel in a cause except those who regularly appear as such on the record.
The citation not being served on the party as his counsel,
the cause is not brought into this court, agreeably to the act
of 1789; and the writ must therefore be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
Writ of error dismissed.
U\

WhEIGTMAN vs. THE CORPORATION O' WASHINGTON.
1. *When a municipal corporation is required by its charter to keep a

bridge in repair, if the duty was imposed in consideration of privileges granted, and if the means to perform it are within the control
of the corporation, such corporation is liable to the public for an unreasonable neglect to comply with the requirement.
2. When all the foregoing conditions concur, a corporation is also liable
for injuries to the persons or property of individuals.
3. This liability extends to injuries arising from neglect to perform the
duty enjoined, or from negligeuce and unskilfulness in its performance.

This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia. The plaintiff in error

