DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
O'Brien vs. Smith.

O'BRIEN vs. SmITH.
1. Where a cheek drawn in the afternoon of Saturday is presented for
payment on the morning of the next Monday there is no negligence
or delay which will discharge the drawer.
2. The holder of the check being the cashier of an unincorporated banking
association, and holding it for the use of the concern, may recover
upon it in his own -name.
James O'Brien, the defendant below, on the 18th of September, 1858, drew his check on Chubb & Bro. for $1,150,
and passed it to the Bank of the Metropolis in part payment
of a debt which he owed there, and which was due that day.
The drawee's place of business was in the same street with the
Bank of the Metropolis, and only eighty feet distant. The
Bank of the Metropolis.took the check on a Saturday, about
two o'clock in the afternoon, and presented it for payment
on the following Monday at eleven o'clock in the morning.
Chubb & Bro. had failed in the mean time, and payment was
refused. The check was duly protested, and notice of its dishonor was regularly given to the drawer.
The Bank of the Metropolis was not an incorporated institution, but a private partnership, carrying on business under
that name. Richard Smith, its cashier, held the note for the
use of the concern, and brought assumpsit in the Circuit Court
to recover the amount of the check from O'Brien, the drawer.
The defence was that the Bank of the Metropolis ought to
have demanded payment of the check on the day it was received, and that the postponement of the demand from Saturday until Monday was a want of diligence which discharged
the drawer from all liability on the paper.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury that if the plaintiff
took the check on the 18th in the afternoon, and presented it
for payment on the morning of the 20th, the intervening day
being Sunday, there was no delay or negligence which would
have the legal effect of discharging the drawer. To these instructions the defendant excepted, and upon the verdict and

SUPREME COURT.
O'Brim vs. Smith.

judgment being rendered against him, he took this writ of
error.
Mr. Davidge and Mr. Ingle, for plaintiff in error, argued: 1.
That reasonable diligence was not used in presenting the check.
Admitting that the demand might have been delayed until
the next day, if that had not been Sunday, yet, as this check
was received on Saturday, the custom of merchants required
it to be presented the same day, and this custom is extended
by analogy to the execution of all contracts. 2. The Bank of
the Metropolis is not chartered, and the paper sued on is held
by the defendant in error for the benefit of an unincorporated
partnership. He has no legal title to the paper, and cannot
recover in his own name. Olcott vs. Rathbone, (5 Wend., 490;)
Sherwood vs. Bays, (14 Pick., 172.)
Mr. Carlisle, for defendant in error. 1. The presentation of
the check on Monday morning was in reasonable time. Story
on Bills, ยง 419; Grant on Banking, 50, 200. 2. The plaintiff,
as cashier of the bank and holder of the check for the use of
the bank, can recover. It was so held in Law vs. .arnell, (7
J. Scott N. S., 282,) which was this very case.
. Mr. Chief Justice TANE Y. We think the decision of the
Circuit Court was right upon both of the points raised in the
argument. The authorities referred to by the counsel for the
defendant in error are conclusive, and it cannot be necessary
to discuss here questions which we consider as too well settled
to be now open to serious controversy.
,]udgment of the Carcuit Court affirmed.

