484

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Jackalow.

which were well taken upon other and distinct grounds. Evidence was offered under both those exceptions, tending to show
the quantity of the logs, which was a material matter in dis-.
pute at the time.
It cannot be doubted that the evidence offered had some
tendency to support the issue; and if so, it was the duty of the
court to receive it, and allow it to be weighed by the jury.
We forbear to remark upon the other exceptions, because the
explanations already given as to the true construction of the
contract will sufficiently demonstrate the error in the rulings.
In view of the whole case, we are of the opinion that the
rulings and instructions of the Circuit Court were erroneous.
The judgment is accordingly reversed, with costs, and the
cause remanded, with direction to issue a new venire.

UNITED STATES VS. JACKALOW.

1. To give a Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction of an offence
not committed within its district, it must appear, not only that the
accused party was first apprehended in that district, but also that the.
offence was committed out of the jurisdiction of any State, and. not
within any other district of the Uaited States.
2. Whether a particular place is within the boundaries of a State is not
a question of law for the court, but a matter of fact for the jury to
determine.
3. A special verdict finding that the offence was committed by the prisoner
at a place designated, but omitting to find that it was outside the
limits of any State, must be set aside.
This was an indictment against John, alias Johnny, alias
John Canoe, alias Jackalow, a native of the Loo Cboo Islands,
for piracy on the high seas, found and tried in the Circuit Court
-of the United States for the district of New Jersey, and came
into the Supreme Court on a certificate of the judges that they
were divided in opinion.
The jury, in a special verdict, found that the offence charged

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

485

United States vs. Tackalow.

in the indictment was committed by the prisoner at a certain
place described and designated, but did not find whether that
place was within the jurisdiction of any State, within any district of the United States, or upon the high seas. Did this
verdict authorize the Circuit Court to pronounce judgment of
death against the prisoner? That was the question on which
the judges divided.
Mr. Bates, Attorney General,and Mr. Keasley, of New Jersey,
for the United States.
No counsel appeared for Jackalow.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This case comes before us on a division of opinion of the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of New Jersey.
The first count in the indictment charges that the prisoner,
with force and arms, on the high seas, in waters within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, on board of an American
vessel called the "Spray," piratically, feloniously, and violently
did assault one John F. Leete, the master of the vessel, putting
him in bodily fear, and did feloniously, &c., seize, take, and
carry away thirty pieces of gold coin, &c., of the goods and
effects of the said master, contrary to the form of the statute,
&c. The indictment also avers that the district of New Jersey
is the district in which the prisoner was found and first apprehended for the offence.
The jury found a special verdict, that the offence charged
in the first count was committed by the prisoner on board the
"Spray," which at the time was lying in the waters adjoining
the State of Connecticut, between Norwalk harbof and Westchester county, in the- State of New York, at a point five miles
eastward of Lyons's Point, (which is the boundary between the
States of New York and Connecticut,) and one mile and a half
from the Connecticut shore at low-water mark.
The indictment was found under the 3d section of the act
of Congress of May 15, 1820, -which enacts that if any person
shall, upon the high seas, or in any open roadstead, or any

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. ,TackaZow.

haven, basin, or bay, or in any river, &c., commit the crime of
robbery in or upon any ship or vessel, or upon any of the ship's
company, &c., or the lading thereof, &c., on being convicted
before the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
into which he shall be brought, or on which he shall be found,
shall suffer death.
There is a proviso which declares that nothing in the section
shall be construed to deprive any particular State of its jurisdiction over the offence, when committed within the body of
a county, or authorize the courts of the United States to try
such offenders after conviction or acquittance for the same
offence in a State court.
The 2d section of the 3d article of the Constitution provides
that "the trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment,
shall be byjury; and such trial shall be held in the State where
the crimes shall have been committed; but when not commil:ted within any State, the trial shall be at such place or places
as the Congress may by law have directed."
A material question in this case, in view of this provision
of the Constitution, was, whether or not the offence was committed out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, because,
if not, inasmuch as it was not committed within the State of
New Jersey, the Circuit Court of the district of that State had
no jurisdiction. That jurisdiction depends upon two facts:
first, that the offence was committed out of the jurisdiction of
any other of the States of the Union; and, second, that the
prisoner was first apprehended in the district of New Jersey.
Crimes committed against the laws of the United States out
of the limits of a State are not local, but may be tried at such
place as Congress shall designate by law, but are local if committed within the State. They must then be tried in the district in which the offence was committed. (15 How., 488, 6th
amendment of the Constitution of U. S.)
,In many of the statutes prescribing ofinces against the laws
of the United States, there is an express limitation excluding
offences committed within the jurisdiction of a State. The
acts of 1790 and 1825 are of this despription.
Under these statutes the question presented in this case could

DECEMEBER TERM, 1861.

487

Unitd States vs. laccalow.

not arise, as the offence could not be committed within the
limits of the State.
We agree, however, that the omission of the limitation in
the act of 1820 constitutes no objection to the legality and force
of the act, as it is competent for Congress to prescribe the
punishment of offences committed on the high seas, open roadsteads, in any haven, basin, or bay, or in any river where the
sea ebbs and flows, as there described, although within the
limits of a State. But in these cases, as we have seen from
the constitutional provision referred to, the indictment and
trial must be in a district of the State in which the offence was
committed.
Now, the special verdict finds that the offence in this case
was committed upon the "Spray," lying in waters adjoining
the State of Connecticut, between Norwalk harbor and Westchester county, in New York, at a place five miles eastward of
Lyons's Point, and a mile and a half from the Connecticut
shore. Whether this place thus described is out of the jurisdiction of a State or not, is not found, and is, of course, necessarily left to the court to determine. The learned judge of
the District Court, sitting in the circuit with the presiding
judge, in a very carefully considered examination of the question, came to the conclusion that the place where the offence
was committed was within the jurisdiction of New York; and
it appears that two of the eminent judges of the highest court
of the State of New York entertained different opinions on
this question. (3 Seldon, 295.)
We have not referred to this boundary of New York for the
purpose of determining it, or even expressing an opinion upon
it, but for the purpose of saying that the boundary of a State,
when a material fact in the determination of the extent of the
jurisdiction of a court, is not a simple question of law. The
description of a boundary may be a matter of construction,
which belongs to the court; but the application of the evidence
in the ascertainment of it as thus described and interpreted,
*itL a view to its location and settlement, belongs to the jury.
All the testimony bearing upon this question, whether of maps,

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Knight's Administrator.

surveys, practical location, and the like, should be submitted
to them under proper instructions to find the fact.
We do not think the special verdict in this case furnishes
ground for the court to determine whether or not the offence
was committed out of the jurisdiction of a State, and shall
direct that it be certified to the Circuit Court, to set aside thp
special verdict, and grant a new trial.

UNITED STATES VS. KNIGHT'S ADMINISTRATOR.

1. After a cause has been argued and decided, the court will not hear a
motion to change the decree based on affidavits taken to show facts
which do not appear in the reccrd.
2.' This court will not suffer its judgment upon an appeal to be influenced
in any respect by new testimony offered here, even in a case which
is within its general chancery powers, much less where it is exercising merely the special jurisdiction conferred by Congress in respect to California land claims.
The
necessity for this rule, and the legal principles on which it is
8.
founded, discussed by the Chief Justice.
4. The court does not doubt its power to open a judgment rendered at
the present term and continue or rehear the cause, if, upon the record, one of the judges who concurred in the decision supposes it
to be erroneous.
This cause (a California land claim brought here on appeal
by the United States from the decree of the District Court)
was reached on the docket at the present term, was called in
its regular order, and was argued by counsel on both sides;
the opinion of the court upon it was delivered, and a decree
pronounced, that the decree of the District Court be reversed
and the cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the petition
of the claimant. (See ante, p. 227.)
At a subsequent day of the term, Mr. 1?everdy Johnson, for
the claimant, moved the court so far to modify its order entered therein, as to remand the cause to the court below for

