SUPIREME COURT.
Wapkinglon and Turner vs. Ogden.

adopted a new constitution, in which it was declared
'year -,
that taxes should be imposed upon banks in the manner provided for by the act of 13th April, 1852, cannot be applied to
the State Bank of Ohio or its branches, without a violation of
the contract contained in the charter of 1845. Having now
noticed every essential point made in the argument in support
of a claim, to subject the Bank of the State of Ohio and its
branches to a higher rate of taxation than that stipulated in
its charter, we will close this opinion in the language of the
Chief Justice, in Knoop's case: "I think, that, by the 60th section of the act of 1845, the State of Ohio bound itself by a contract to levy no higher tax than the one there mentioned upon
the banks or stocks of the banks organized under that law during
the continuance of their charters. In my judgment, the words
used are too plain to admit of any other construction."
We shall direct a reversal of the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Ohio in this case, and direct a mandate to be issued
accordingly.
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio reversed.

WASHINGTON AND TUBtNER vs. OGDEN.

1. Where a written agreement for the sale of lands, executed and sealed
by vendor and vendee, binds one party to make a deed for the property, and the other to pay a certain sum, part in cash, within sixty
days, and the remainder in annual instalments, with a bond and
mortgage for the deferred payments, the covenants are concurrent
and reciprocal, constituting mutual conditions to be performed at
the same time.
2. The vendor, in such a case, is not bound to convey, unless the first
instalment be paid, nor is the purchaser bound to pay unless the
vendor is able to convey a good title free from all incumbrances.
3. Where the agreement to purchase is expressly made dependent on the
"surrender and cancelment" of a former agreement of the vendor
to sell the same land to another person, it is a condition precedent,
that the former agreement shall be cancelled and surrendered.
4; Where the words of the covenant on the part of the vendor are, that

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

451,

Waslington and Turner vs. Ogden.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

he will "make a deed" for the property, there is a covenant that
the land shall be conveyed by a deed from one who has a good title
and full power to convey.
A plaintiff who sues-upon an agreement containing such a covenant
must aver and prove, not merely his readiness to perform it in the
words of the contract, but that he had a good title which he was
ready and willing to convey by a legal deed.
The want of such an averment in the declaration will not be cured by
the verdict upon the presumption that the facts necessary to sup-%
port it have been proved before the jury, if it appears by the record
that no such proof was offered.
Where the terms of an agreement make the sale of land dependent upon
the cancellation and surrender of a previous agreement with another
person, the acquiescence of the former vendee or his assigns, or the
mutual understanding of all parties interested in the former contract that it shall be regarded as at an end, is not equivalent to a
surrender and cancellation of it.
Acquiescence expressed by parol and mutual understanding that a title
shall be released cannot be made a substitute for a deed of release
or surrender; executed and recorded deeds, under seal, can be surrendered and cancelled only by other deeds under seal.
An objection to the form of the action or other defect in the pleadings
will not be noticed in this court, when it appears from the undisputed facts of the case that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover
in any form of action.

Writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois.
This suit was originally broughit in the Superior Court of
Cook county, Illinois, but removed thence to the Federal Circuit Court upon the petition of the defendants and proof that
they were both citizens of Virginia, while the plaintiff Was a
citizen of Illinois.
The plaintiff filed his declaration in debt, claiming a right
to recover the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars, being the
amount payable and due on the paper copied by Mr. Justice
Grier in his opinion, with interest thereon from the expiration
of sixty days after the date of the paper, to wit, 20th July,
1859. The declaration describes fully the property which

SUPREME COURT.
Washdngton and Turner vs. Ogden.

Washington and Turner agreed to buy from Ogden, and whic
is designated in their agreement merely as the property described in the John S. Wright contract of June 4, 1855. The
narr. further avers that the contract with Wright (to whom the
same land had been previously sold by the plaintiffs) was surrendered and cancelled, and that the plaintiffs were ready at
all times to mace a deed to the defendants for the property sold.
'The defendants demurred first, and the declaration wad
amended. Then pleaded thirteei pleas, craving oyer four times
of the paper on which suit was brought, and which was fully
set out in plaintiff's declaration. The plaintiff demurred to
some of the pleas, and some of the demurrers were sustained
and some overruled. The pleadings were at length settled so
as to raise the questionsWhether the plaintiff was ready and willing to perform his
part of the contract by making the proper conveyance to the
defendants of the lands described in the agreement.
Whether the contract previously made with Wright for the
sale of the same lands was surrendered and cancelled within
sixty days, agreeably to the terms of the contract between the
present parties.
Whether it was necessary that Wright should release his
title by a written deed.
Whether the plaintiff, in demanding securities for the deferred payments, which he had no right to ask, absolved the
defendants from the obligation of tendering the thirty-five
thousand dollars now sued for.
Evidence on both sides was given, documentary and oral.
The court decided the points of law and the jury found the
facts in favor of the plaintiff, for whom a verdict and judgment
were rendered for debt and interest, amounting to $36,481 66.
The defendants thereupon took this writ of error.
Mr. Arrington, of Illinois, for plaintiffs in error. The declaration is fatally defective. It alleges no title in Ogden, nor any
right to convey, but merely his readiness to deliver a deed.
The contract was an agreement to sell land, and that implies
transmutation of property from one man to another. 2 Black-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Washington an.1 r uner vs. Ogden.

stone, 446; Williamson vs. Berry, (8 Howard, 544;) Thomas vs.
Van Ness, (4 Wendell, 549.) A deed might be executed without conveying any title. The declaration should have averred
title in Ogden and a readiness to execute such a deed as would
be effectual to transfer that title. 1 Chit. Pl., 327; Thomas
vs. Van Ness, (4 Wendell, 549;) Glover vs. Tuck, (24 Wendell,
153;) Tyler vs. Young, (2 Scam., 146;) Burn vs. McNulty, (2
Gilman, 128.) You cannot compel a vendee to take a lawsuit
instead of the land. Bank of Columbia vs. Hagner, (1 Peters,
455.) Performance must always be alleged according to the
intent of the contract. It is not sufficient to follow merelythe
words. 1 Chit. Pl., 325.
The declaration does not allege notice to the defendants of
the surrender and cancellation of the Wright contract, and this
being a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of the vendor,
should have been stated. 1 Chit. PL., 328; Com. Dig., 0. 73,
74; 2 Pars. Cont., 182. These defects in the declaration are
not aided by the verdict. 1 Chit. Pl., 673; Dodson vs, Campbell, (1 Sumner, 319;) Addington vs. Allen, (11 Wendell, 375.)
The court below assumed that a bare declaration by the plaintiff that Wright's contract was forfeited would be legally equivalent to a surrender and cancellation of it. This was clearly
erroneous, and misled the jury. Caldwell vs. United States, (8
Howard, 366;) Tucker vs. .ioreland, (10 Peters, 58;) United
States vs. Beitling, (20 Howard, 254.)
The court said that if it was the agreement and understanding of all parties in interest that the contract was at an end,
then it might be regarded as substantially surrendered and
cancelled. This statement tended to mislead the jury, whether
as a rule of law it was true or false, for there was no 'evidence
of any such understanding or agreement.
An error still more extraordinary is found in the sentence
that "the offer of the property for sale and a declaration of forfeiture after default of payment might be sufficient as showing
the exercise of the option on the part of the grantor." It is
true that in Chrisman vs. Miller, (21 Ill., 226,) it was held that
the mere act of offering the land for sale after default of the
purchaser is sufficient to put an end to the contract. From

SUPREME COURT.
Washington and Turner vs. Ogden.

this the judge of the Circuit Court.deduced the startling inference that the mere offer of Ogden to sell the land to Washington and Turner was, per se, a performance of his covenant with
them to have the contract with Wright surrendered and cancelled. The surrender and cancellation of Wright's contract
-was a condition precedent to that which Ogden made with
Washington and Turner, and the court had no right to estimate
either the importance or necessity of a compliance with it.
Mr. Fuller, of Illinois, and Mr. Carlisle,of Washington city,
for defendants in error. In actions against a purchaser on a
contract for the sale of land, the plaintiff is not bound to show
that he has title to the land. The contract admits at least
primafacie his title, and the onus is on the defendant to show
that he has not. Bretthauph vs. Thurmand, (3 Richardson, 216 ;
Brown vs. Bellows, (4 Pickering, 179;) -Dwightvs. Cutler, (3 Mich,
566;) Espy vs. Anderson, (14 Penn., 311.)
Under the Wright contract, neither Wright himself nor his
assignee had any interest or estate in the premises, and could
acquire none, except by complying with the terms of it. This
had not been done, and Ogden had a right to treat the contract as at an end. He exercised that right by selling the property to the defendants. Wright and his assignee, Clapp, both
knew this, and acquiesced in it. This was a complete surrender and cancelment of the contract. Chrisman vs. Miller,
(21 Ill., 227;) Steele vs. Bigg, (22 Ill., 643.) Although the contract was not released of record, that formed no valid objection
to the title, as was decided in Greenleaf vs. Queen, (1 Peters,
138;) Espy vs. Anderson, (14 Penn., 308.)
The duty of defendants was to pay the money sued for, and
execute bonds and mortgage. No notice from the plaintiff
was required. The averment of the plaintiff's readiness to
perform hic part of the contract was sufficient. 1 Chit. Pl.,
326; Bowsen vs. Johnson, (1 East., 208;) Tiernj vs. Ashe, (18
Pickering, 546;) West vs. Emmons, (5 Johnson, 179;) Williams
vs. Bankc of United States, (2 Peters, 96.) A time and place
being fixed for the performance by the defendants of their part
of the contract, and they not having attended, and the first act

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

455

Washington and Turner vs. Ogden.

of performance resting on them, the plaintiff could do nothing
but be ready to perform his part. In the absence of the defendants, he could do no more. The averment of readiness to
perform is sufficient, especially after verdict. 1 Chit. Pl., 359.
Mr. Justic GRIER. The very numerous exceptions to the
sufficiency of the pleadings, and the correctness of the instructions given by the court, all depend on the construction given
to the covenants of the agreement, which is the foundation of
the suit. It is in the following words:
"CHICAGO, June 20, 1859.
trustee
Chicago Land Company,
Ogden,
M.
D.
"We will give
sixty-seven thousand and five hundred dollars for the property
described in the John S. Wright contract with the trustees of
the Chicago Land Company, dated June 4, 1855, or thereabouts, and pay for the same as follows: thirty-five thousand
in cash within the next sixty days, and the balance in one, two,
and three years, in equal instalments, with six per cent. interest, payable annually. It is understood that it is all payable
at the office of Ogden, Fleetwood & Co., in Chicago. In the
event of our being deprived of the water front on block 35,
Elston's addition to Chicago by Robins, a difference in the
purchase-money shall be made, corresponding to the value of
the property lost. The said M. . Ogden, trustee, &c., agrees
to sell to John A. Washington and Win. F. Turner, both of
Virginia, the above described property for the said sum of
sixty-seven thousand five hundred dollars, payable as above;
and on the payment of the said thirty-five thousand dollars
cash, within the next sixty days, he will make a deed to said
Washington and Turner for said property, and take a bond
and mortgage on the same, for payment of the balance of
thirty-two thousand five hundred dollars, to be paid as above
stated. This agreement is to be dependent on the surrender
and cancelment of said contract with said Wright."
It is evident that the covenants of this contract are not independent. They are concurrent or reciprocal, constituting mutual conditions to be performed at the same time. The vendor
is not bound to convey, unless the money due on the first in-

S UPREME COURT.
WaMwngton and Turner vs. Ogden.

stalment be paid; nor is the purchaser bound to pay unless the
vendor can convey a good title, free of all incumbrance. The
agreement shows that the vendor at that time was not able to
give a satisfactory title, having a deed on record, by which he
had covenanted to convey the same land to another. It is therefore made a condition precedent by this agreement, that this
previous contract should be surrendered and cancelled. The
declaration avers that the contract with Wright was surrendered and cancelled on the 28th day of June, and that the
plaintiff has been- ever ready and willing to receive the money
at the time and place, and "to deliver to defendants a deed of the
property." -Bit there is no averment in the narr.that the plaintiff had a good and sufficient title, free from all incumbrance,
which he was ready and willing to convey. It is true, the
words of his covenant are, "that he will make a deed" to his
vendees on receipt of the first instalment. But the meaning
of these words in the contract requires that the deed shall
convey the land, and it is not sufficient to aver his readiness
to perform, merely according to the letter of the contract. ' The
performance must always be averred according to the intent
of the parties. It is not sufficient to pursue the words, if the
intent be not performed. The legal effect of a covenant to
sell is, that the land shall be conveyed by a deed from one who
has a good title, or full power to convey a good title.
A sale, ex vi termini, is a transfer of property from one man
to another. It is a contract to pass rights of property for
money. This defect in the declaration cannot be cured by the
verdict, under a presumption that the facts necessary to support it have been proved before the jury, because it appears by
the record that no such proof was offered to aidthe insufficient
averments of the declaration.
It appears, also, that the averment with regard to the snirende'r and cancelment of the contract with Wright, even if
sufficiently pleaded, was wholly without proof to support it,
and that the court instructed the jury that they might presume
it without proof. It is clearly a condition precedent, without
the literal performance of which the purchasers were not
bound to pay their money. The vendor had, on the 4th of

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

457

Washington and Turner vs. Ogden.
I

June, 1855, covenanted to sell this land to John S. Wright,
on payment of certain instalments. The vendors had reserved
to themselves very stringent and unusual powers of declaring
the contract forfeited in case of non-payment of the several
instalments. John S. Wright, on the third of July, 1837,
by his deed, conveyed all his right and title to the premises to
Timothy and Walter Wright. This deed was recorded 13th
July, 1837.
T. & W. Wright, on the 3d day of December, 1857, conveyed
to James Clapp, and the deed was recorded on the 12th of
December, 1857. These deeds could not be surrendered or
cancelled by parol. Both the original and the record should
have been cancelled and surrendered by act of the parties
thereto under seal; if not by all, yet certainly by Clapp. This
was not done. The plaintiffs in error had prepared their money.
Their agent called on Ogden to obtain an abstract of the title,
and a proper surrender or release of the outstanding title, and
was instructed fo prepare properbonds and a mortgage. Ogden
promised to attend to having a proper surrender executed, but
none was shown or tendered to the agent; on the contrary,
Ogden handed him a mortgage and notes to be sent to the purchasers to be executed by them. They refused to sign instruments in that form, and returned them to their agent. He
returned them to Ogden, stating, among other reasons, that
they expected a proper release or surrender of the outstanding
title, and that in the absence of such a release Ogden could
not make a good title nor give possession. A second mortgage and bonds were then drawn and sent to the purchasers by
Ogden, which were also objected to, and another promise given,
"that the release should be attended to."
But no such deed of release or surrender was made, executed,
or tendered to the purchasers within the sixty days. Olapp
did not execute a release till after the 1st of September, which
was antedated as of the 15th of August. On this evidence,
which was uncontradicted, it was clearly the duty of the court
to have instructed the jury that the plaintiffs below had not
made out a case which entitled them to a verdict; on the-contrary, the court instructed the jury as follows:

SUPREME COURT.
Washington and Turner vs. Ogden.

"2d. By the terms of the John S. Wright contract, if default
were made in the payment of the instalment due in 1859, it
was competent for the Messrs. Ogden, at their option, to declare it forfeited and at an end as a contract for conveyance,
and the land might be granted to another. No release or conveyance in writing by Wright or his assignee was absolutely
necessary in such case, in order to put an end to the contract
to convey. Strictly speaking, Wright, having parted with his
interest in the land to Clapp, had no power over the contract;
but if he, with the acquiescence and consent of Clapp, after
default of payment, delivered the contract to Mr. Ogden, and
it was the agreement and understanding of all parties in interest that the contract was at an end, then it might be regarded
as substantially surrendered and cancelled. That the offer of
the property for sale, and a declaration of forfeiture after default of payment, might be sufficient, as showing the exercise
of the option on the part of the grantor."
This instruction was excepted to by defendants. It was a
very grave error to instruct the jury that the acquiescence of
Clapp, and the mutual understanding of the parties to that
transaction, might be regarded by the jury as an actual cancellation and surrender as between the parties to this suit. Acquiescence expressed by parol, and mutual understanding that
a title should be released, cannot be made a substitute for a
deed of release or surrender, executed and recorded. Deeds
under seal can be surrendered and cancelled only by other
deeds under seal. No prudent man would accept a title with
full notice on record, and knowledge of such an outstanding
title. This contract, by its plain terms, is "dependent on such
surrender and cancelment being made within the sixty days."
It is a condition precedent, without the performance of which,
within the term specified, the purchaser had a just right to declare the contract annulled. To entitle the plaintiffs below to
recover in thi" suit, the declaration should have averred that
such deeds of surrender and cancellation had been duly executed; that the plaintiff had a perfect title, free of all incumbrances, and was able as well as willing and ready to convey
a good title to the plaintiff on the day named in the agreement.'

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
.mcCooz vs. Smith.

But he was not able to prove such averments, if they had been
made, and his case failed both in its pleadings and its proofs;
consequently there was error in ruling the demurrers of the
plaintiff to the 4th, 6th, and 7th pleas of defendant in favor of
plaintiffs. The pleas alleged proper matters of defence to the
suit, either in whole or in part. They were sufficient on general demurrer, which goes back to the first error in pleading.
And from what we have already said, the first error in pleading is found in the declaration. It is not necessary to discuss
more at large the form of the pleadings, or whether the action
should not have been convenant and not debt, as the plaintiff
was not entitled to recover in any form of action, according to
the undisputed facts in evidence.

Thejudgment of the Circuit Court reversed, and venire de novo.

MaCooL VS. SMITH.

1. A statute of Virginia, passed after the 1st of March, 1784, when Virginia ceded to the United States her territory north and west of the
Ohio, has not, and never had, any force within the limits of Illinois.

2. In ascertaining who is meant by next of kin in a statute of Illinois regulating descents or a distribution, the computation must be made
according to the rules of the common law.
3. It is a sound rule, that whenever a Legislature in this country uses a
term, without defining it, which is well known in the English law,
it must be understood in the sense of the English law.
4. By the rules of the common law, terms of kindred, when used in a
statute, include only those who are legitimate, unless a different intention is clearly manifested.
5. In Illinois a plaintiff in ejectment cannot recover upon a title which
he acquired after the commencement of the suit. Such a recovery
would be against an inflexible rule of the common law and an express statute of that State.
6. One statute is not to be construed as a repeal of another if it be pos-

sible to reconcile the twc together.
Writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois.

