DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

889

United States vs. Covillandet al.

which- cannot be disregarded without subjecting them to misconception and suspicion, and the profession to the already
too prevalent impression that it is not practiced with all the
forbearances of the strictest honesty or of the highest moral
principle.
With these views, we shall direct the judgment of the court
below.to be affirmed.
We ought t3 have said, also, that there was no error in re.
ceiving the letter of Mr. Stuart to Farnsworth and Burgess as
evidence, complaining of their want of fidelity as his lawyers.
It was not confidential, or meant to be so, in the sense of its
having any connection with the merits of the case, for Mr.
IStuart
had authorized it to be communicated to another
lawyer, for the purpose of obtaining from Farnsworth and Burgess an immediate settlement of the- debt.

UIZITED STATES VS. COVILLAND ET AL.

1. A confirmation of a Mexican land title in a proceeding conducted
2.

8.

4.

5.

in the name of the original grantee is binding upon the United
States, and upon all the assignees of the original grantee.
When a survey is executed conformably to the decree of confirmation,
the alienees of the original grantee may intervene to protect their
own rights.
When the survey is completed, and a patent issued to the original
grantee, his assignees can assert their rights 'against him in the
ordinary courts of the country.
But the extraordinary tribunals, proceeding under the act of 1851,
cannot order a second patent to issue for a part of the land previously confirmed to the original grantee.
If such a decree were made, it would not bind the Government, and
would be a nullity as between the original grantee and his assiguees.
Charles Covilland, Jose Manuel Ramirez, William It. Samp-

son, administrator of John Sampson, Charles B. Sampson, Robert B. Buchanan, and Gabriel T. Suezy, presented their Petition to the Board of Land Commissioners, at San Francisco, on

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Covilland et al.

the 31st of May, 1852, claiming to be confirmed in their title to
two tracts of land lying on the Yuba and the Feather rivers.
The title set forth in the petition was derived from Captain
John A. Sutter, whom the petitioners alleged to be a regular
and legal grantee from the Mexican Government. It was alleged that Sutter had two grants,. one made by Governor Alvarado for eleven leagues, in 1841, and the other by Micheltorena, in 1845, for twenty-two leagues, and thd land claimed
in the present case was averred to be part of these grants. The
conveyances from Sutter to the petitioners were set out and
produced before the board.
The evidence which the petitioners laid before the board and
before the District Court to establish the title of Sutter under
his two grants was nearly the same in this case as in the case of
Sutter vs. The United States,- (21 How., 170,) where there was a
final decree confirming his claim under the title from Alvarado
for eleven leagues, and rejecting that under the Micheltorena
title for twenty-two leagues.
The record does not show precisely what quantity of laud
was conveyed by Sutter to Covilland and, his associates, but
the boundaries described in the deeds include a comparatively
small part of Sutter's original claim. The Board of Commissioners confirmed the claim of the petitioners for the quautity of land included in their deeds as part and parcel of the
lands granted to Sutter, and previously confirmed by the board
to him.
Upon appeal by the United States to the District Court, the
decree of the board was confirmed with certain immaterial
modifications, and this appeal to the Supreme Court was then
taken by the United States.
Mr. Stanton, of Washington city, for the United States, resisted the claim of the present parties on the grounds:
1. That the title of Sutter to the whole grant of eleven leagues
being confirmed, the authority of this court is exhausted.
2. That the specific tract claimed in this case cannot be ascertained until the Sutter tract of New Helvetia shall be located.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

841

United States vs. Covilland et aL

.Mr.Crittenden, of Kentucky, for the appellees. 1. The petition of the claimants and proceedings thereon are in strict accordance with the statute. (9 Stat. at Large, 683.) 2. There
is no error in the decree. 3. The decree cannot be made erroneous by a fact not appearing in the record, namely, that a
patent had been decreed or issued to Sutter for the whole tract
of land. 4. The issuing of a patent to the claimants is no part
of the decree, it is only consequential; and though the issuing
of a patent to Sutter for the whole tract might be a valid reason
to justify the Executive Department for refusing to issue a
patent to the claimants for a part, yet that does not make the
decree itself erroneous. It only makes ineffectual a part of the
decree, or defeats what would otherwise have been a consequence of the decree. 5. The decree contains nothing to the
prejudice of the United States, and ought not, therefore, to be
reversed.
Mr. Justice CATRO'. Covilland and four others petitioned
to have confirmed to them two tracts of land, as joint owners,
assuming to derive title 'from John A. Sutter. His claim was
confirmed for eleven leagues by the decision of this court, in
1.858, and which judgment is reported in 21 How., 170. It
appeared, in that case, that Sutter had assigned to others a
great portion of his original grant; nevertheless, the suit against
the United States seeking a confirmation was prosecuted in his
name, regardless of that fact.
That a confirmation in the name of the original grantee,
divesting the legal title of the United States, is binding on the
Government and on the assigh1ees, is the established doctrine
of this court. It was so held in the case of Percheman, (7 Peters,
56,) which decision has been adhered to, and was recognised
in Sutter's case, (21 How., 182,) of which this case is, in fact,
a part.
To this course of decision the courts adjudicating titles to
lands situate in California are requested to conform by the
11th section of the act of March 3,1851; nor can their decisions affect injuriously the rights of assignees. The 15th sec,
tion of the act so provides.

SUPREME COURT.
Singleton vs. Touchard.

The decree made by this court in 1858, in favor of Sutter,
remanded the proceeding to the surveyor general's office in
California, to have a survey made of the land conformably to
our decree, to the end of having a patent founded on the survey, divesting the title of the United States. In executing
the survey, Sutter's assignees may intervene and protect their
rights, according to the act of June 14, 1860.
We are not aware that the survey has been executed; but
when it is finally completed, and a patent issued to Sutter, his
assignees can assert their rights against him in the ordinary
courts of the country. But the extraordinary tribunals, proceeding by force of the act of 1851, cannot order a second
patent to issue for a portion of Sutter's grant. Such judgment
could have no effect against the Government; and as between
Sutter and the petitioners, would be a nullity, being prohibited by the 15th section of the act of 1851.
1 is ordered that the judgment be reversed, and the petition be dkmissed.

SINGLETON vs. TOUCHARD.
1. Where a plaintiff in ejectment claimed under a Mexican title, con.

firmed and patented according to the act of 1851, the defendant
cannot oppose to it another Mexican title not finally confirmed, but

pending in the Supreme Court on appeal by the Attorney General.
2. In such case the plaintiff has a legal title, while the defendant's title
(if it be a title) is but inchoate and equitable, and will not avail
him in an action at law.
Gustave Touchard, a subject of the French Emperor, brought
ejectment in the Circuit Court for the northern district of California, against James Singleton and seventeen others, for a
tract of land situate in the county of Santa Clara, California,
being a portion of what is known as Yerba Buena rancho. All
the defendants answered, averring the title of the land claimed
by the plaintiff to be in the public authorities of the city of
San Jos6, and all, except two of them, admitted that they were

