DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

283

United States vs. JFallejo.

so far as we know, and the practice under it, in case of a surrender and reissue, are that the pending suits fall with the surrender. A surrender of the patent to the Commissioner within
the sense of the provision, means an act which, in judgment of
law, extinguishes the patent. It is a legal cancellation of it,
and hence can no more be the foundation for the assertion of
a right after the surrender, than could an act of Congress which
has been repealed. It has frequently been determined that
suits pending, which rest upon an act of Congress, fall with
the repeal of it. The reissue of the patent has no connection
with or bearing upon antecedent suits; it has as to subsequent
suits. The antecedent suits depend upon the patent existing
at the time they were commenced, and unless it exists, and is
in force at the time of trial and judgment, the suits fail.
It is a mistake to suppose, that, upon this construction,
moneys recovered on judgments in suits, or voluntary payment
under the first patent upon the surrender, might be recovered
back. The title to these moneys does not depend upon the
patent, but upon the voluntary payment or the judgment of
the court.
We are satisfied the judgment of the court below is right,
and should be affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES VS. VALLEJO.

1.' A claim for laud in California admitted by the United States to be
regular and genuine confirmed to the proper owner, (the original
grantee or his assigns,) though the nominal claimant be one who
derives title through a deed bearing date while the proceedings were
pending and before the decree of concession.

Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
district of California.
This was a claim for a tract of land in Sonoma county, California, two leagues and a half in length by a quarter of a league
in width, and called Agua Caliente. M. G. Vallejo filed his
petition before the Land Commission claiming the tract above

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Falldo.

described under a deed from Lazaro Pifia, to whom it had been
granted in 1840 by Governor Alvarado. Before any testimony
was taken in the case the attorneys of Vallejo withdrew from
it and the Commission rejected the claim for lack of any proof,
either of the original grant or of the alleged conveyance to
Vallejo. Vallejo appealed to the District Court, and introduced a complete espediente from the archives showing that the
grant had been made to Pifia in 1840, and the journal of the
Departmental Assembly, which proved that the title had been
confirmed in 1845. The original grant was not produced, but
was alleged to have been lost. But while the decree of concession to Pifia was dated July 13, 1840, the deed conveying
the land to Vallejo under the same title bore date December
4th, 1839. This circumstance was not explained. In 1859 the
District Court confirmed the title to Vallejo, reserving, however, the rights of the heirs and assigns of Piffa, so that the
confirmation might inure to the benefit of any parties who
could show a better title than Vallejo, "derived from the original grantee by deed, devise, desceut, or otherwise." From
this decree the United States appealed.
Mr. Black, of Pennsylvania, for the United States. The titlepapers in this case are clearly genuine. There is no doubt that
Pifia petitioned for land; that Alvarado granted it; that the
title was properly recorded and afterwards approved by the
Departmental Assembly. If Pifia were the claimant berore
the court instead of Vallejo, the United States would not oppose his claim. But the conveyance to Vallejo is dated more
than six months before the land was granted. In October,
1839, Pifia had petitioned Vallejo, as Commandant General, to
grant him the tract in question, and Vallejo had given him a
provisional concession, to last until he should have time to get
a title from the Government. On the 4th of the following
December Pifia, conveyed the land to Vallejo, and on the 13th
of July of the next year his grant issued. This conveyance was
a fraud upon the Mexican Government. Pifia had no right to
sell to another an expectant grant, for which he was asking in
his own name and for his own benefit. Vallejo had already

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

285

United States vs. rallejo.

received from the Government as many leagues as the law allowed to be united in one hand. The colonization law did not
contemplate that parties who had received the full measure of
the Government bounty should swell their possessions by getting grants in the names of other persons. Pifia, by making
such a deed as this, forfeited his claim on the Government.
He assigned it to Vallejo, who could not press it in his own
name. When the grant issued it vested no right in Pifia, for
he had abandoned his claim; neither did it inure to the benefit of Vallejo, who had lost his capacity to take. It was,
therefore, void.
Mr. 1everdy Johnson, of Maryland, for the appellee. The
facts of this case being admitted, as well as sufficiently proved
otherwise, there is no ground for appeal. On the part of tlze
claimant, it is denied that the Mexican colonization laws forbade a party to sell out his right to land for which he had a
pending petition, and it is wholly against, the -principles ofjus-'
lice, as administered in our courts, to say that a title which
has been made to one person shall not inure to the benefit of
another by whom it has been bought and paid for. At all
events, the United States have no title, and, therefore, no right
to interfere between the grantee and his alienee.
Mr. Justice WAYINE. This claim is founded upon a grant
from Governor Alvarado to Lazaro Pifia of the date of July
18, 1840. The original grant was not produced, and is supposed to have been lost during the war between the United
States and Mexico, in which the grantee was killed. The espediente is numbered by Jimeno and noted in his index. It
exists complete among the archives. The journal of the Departmental Assembly shows that the grant was approved October 8, 1845. Pifia, the grantee, occupied the land for several
years. The error of date in the conveyance from Pifaa to Vallejo cannot raise a suspicion against the regularity of the grant.
It is the opinion of this court that the original claim is a good
and valid claim, and that the same should be, and hereby is
confirmed.
Decree of the .District Court affirmed.

