SUPREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

Judgment of the District Court reversed, and the cause remanded
with directions to overrule the demurrerfiled by the defendants,
issue a writ of inquiry to ascertain the plaintiff's damages, and
after the return of the inquisition to enterjudgment in his favor,

WOODS VS. LAWRENCE COUNTY.

1. Where the charter of a railroad company authorizes the counties
"through which it may pass" to subscribe to its stock, a county
lying between the two termini of the road may subscribe without
waiting until the route is actually located.
2. If the statute requires the grand jury to fix the amount of the subscription and to approve of it, and upon their report being filed empowers the commissioners to carry the same into effect by making
the subscription in the name of the county, and if thes6 things be
done agreeably to the law, the county cannot afterwards deny its
obligation to pay the amount subscribed.
8. Where the charter provided that payment of the stock should be
made upon such terms and in such manner as might be agreed on
between the company and the county, an agreement to pay in bonds,
with coupons attached for the semi-annual interest, is binding, and
the bonds being issued accordingly, are lawful and valid securities.
4. In a suit brought to recover the arrears of interest on such bonds it
is not necessary for the holder to show that the grand jury fixed
the manner and terms of paying for the stock; nor is it a defence
for the county to show that the grand jury omitted to do so. it is
enough that the manner and terms of payment were agreed upon
between the company and the commissioners.
5. In a suit brought upon the coupons by a bonafide holder his right to
recover is not affected by the fact that the railroad company sold the
bonds at a discount of' twenty-five per cent., contrary to the charter,
which forbids the sale of them at less than their par value.
This was an action of debt brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the western district of Pennsylvania, by
Alexander G. Woods, a citizen of N~ew York, against the
.county of Lawrence, in the State of Pennsylvania, to recover
-theamount of certain coupons for interest on bonds given by

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

tbLe defendant to the Northwestern Railroad Company. The
defendant denied its obligation to pay the coupons or the
bonds.
The plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, gave in evidence the act of the Pennsylvania Legislature by which the
NYorthwestern Railroad Company was incorporated. Section
1 appointed certain persons therein named to open books, receive subscriptions, and organize a company with all the powers and subject to all the duties, restrictions, and regulations
prescribed by the general railroad law of the State. Section
2 fixes the capital stock at 20,000 shtres of $50 each, to be increased to $2,000,000 hereafter, if found. expedient. Section
3 fixes the termini and prescribes the gauge, &c., of the road
to be built. Section 4 authorizes the company to use any section of five miles when finished, as fully as the whole might
be used if it were all finished. The remaining three sections
of the act are as follows:
"SEcTI
5. That said company be, and they are hereby, authorized to borrow money to an amount not exceeding the
capital stock of said company, upon bonds to be issued by said
company, whenever the said president and directors shall deem
the issue of such bonds expedient: -Provided,That the rate of
interest on said bonds shall not exceed seven per centum per
annum, and that said bonds shall be convertible into the stock
of said company, at the option of said company and the holder
or holders of said bonds, and that no bond shall be issued for
a sum less than one hundred dollars.
"SECTIoN 6. That the president and directors of said com-

pany are hereby authorized to pay to the stockholders, in the
months of January and July in each year, interest at the rate
of six per centum per annum on all instalments paid by them,
and to continue to pay the same until the road shall be completed; and all the profits or earnings of the said railroad
within the said time shall be credited to the cost of construction; and all interest paid shall be charged to the cost of construction, but no interest'shall be paid on any share of stock
upon which any instalment that has been called for remains

SIUPREM1E COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

unpaid, and. the stock of said company shall not be subject to
any tax in consequence of the paymeni of the interest hereby
authorized, nor until the net earnings of the company shall
amount to at least six per centum per annum upon the capital
invested.
" SECTION 7. That the counties through parts of which said
railroads may-pass shall be, and they are hereby, severally authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of said railroad company, and to make payments on such terms and in such manner as may be agreed upon by said company and the proper
county: Provided, That the amount of subscription by any
county shall not exceed ten per centum of the assessed valuation thereof; and that before any such subscription is made,
the amount thereof shall be fixed and determined by one grand
jury of the proper county, and approved by the same. Upon
the report of such grand jury being filed, the county commissioners may carry the same into effect, by making, in the name
of the county, the subscription so directed by the said grand
jury: -Provided,That whenever bonds of the respective counties are given in payment of subscriptions, the same shall not
be sold by said railroad company at less than par value, and
no bonds shall be in less amount than one hundred dollars;
and such bonds shall not be subject to taxation until the clear
pltofits of said railroad shall amount to six per cent. upon the
cost thereof; and that all subscriptions made, or to be made, in
the name of any county, shall be held and deemed valid, if
made by a majority of the commissioners of the respective
counties.
It was proved that the grand jury of Lawrence county, on
the 21st of May, 1853, passed a resolution recommending that
the county commissioners "subscribe stock to the Northwestern Railroad to the amount of $200,000, agreeably to the act
of Assembly incorporating said company, and to issue bonds
for the payment of said stock, making the conditions such as
will best promote the interest of said railroad company and the
county of Lawrence."
On the 20th of August, 1853, the a)unty commissioners

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

subscribed $200,000 for the county to the capital stock of the
railroad company, by affixing their names and their official
seal to the following instrument:
"By authority of an act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, passed the 9th day of February,
A. D. 1853, entitled 'An act to incorporate the Northwestern
Railroad Company,' and by virtue of the action of the grand
jury of the ,county of Lawrence had at-May session, A. D.
1853, at the court of said county, fixing and determining the
amount of subscription to be made to the said Northwestern
Railroad Company by said county of Lawrence, we, the undersigned, commissioners of said county, do hereby subscribe;
for and in the name of the county of Lawrence, to the capital
stock of the Northwestern Railroad Company, the sum of two
hundred thousand dollars, being four thousand shares in said
capital stock. It is understood that whenever the amount of
this subscription is required from the county of Lawrence by
the said company, it is to be paid in the bonds of this county;
to be given in sums of not less than one thousand dollars each,
payable in twenty years after date, or such other time after
date as may be agreed upon between the commissioners of
Lawrence county and said railroad company. The interest on
said bonds to be paid semi-annually, and said interest to be
paid by said railroad company until such time as the Northwestern Railroad is completed.
"In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our bands and
affixed the seal of the said county of Lawrence, this 20th day
of August, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and flft1-three."
To pay th: --abscription, bonds were signed, sealed and delivered to the railroad company in the following form:
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Lawrence, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, is indebted to
the Northwestern Railroad Company, in the full and just sum
of one thousand dollars, which sum of money said county
agrees and promises to pay, twenty years after date hereof, to
the said Northwestern Railroad Company, or bearer, with interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, payable semiannually, on the first day of January and July, at the office

SUPREIME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in the city of Philadelphia, upon the delivery of the coupons severally hereto annexed; for which payments of principal and interest,
well and truly to be made, the faith, credit, and property of
said county of Lawrence are hereby solemnly pledged, under
the authority of an act of Assembly of this Commonwealth,
entitled 'An act to incorporate the Northwestern Railroad
Company,' which said act was approved the ninth day of February, A. D. eighteen hundred and fifty-three.
"In testimony whereof, and pursuant to said act of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, and resolution of the county commissioners, in their official capacity, passed the
the commissioners of said county have signed, and the
clerc of said commissioners has countersigned these presents,
and have hereto caused the seal of said county to be affixed
, A. D. one thousand eight hundred
day of
this
and fifty--."
To each of these bonds forty coupons were attached, of which
the following is a specimen:
"COUNTY OF LAWRENCE.
For thirty dollars.
"Warrant, No. 37.
Being for six months' interest on bond No. -, payable on the
first day of January, A. D. 1873, at the office of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in the city of Philadelphia.
, Clerk."
$30.
On the part of the defendant, it was not only proved, but it
was conceded by the plaintiff to be true, that the presentment
or recommendation of the grand jury was made before the
railroad company was organized; that the subscription by the
commissioners was made before the railroad was located, and
that, in fact, the railroad or any part of it never was located
within the limits of Lawrence county. It was also proved
that the bonds of the county, after they came into the hmads of
the railroad company, were disposed of, not at their par value,
as the act of incorporation requires, but for seventy-five per
cent. of that value.
The defendants on these facts asked the Circuit Court to
charge that-1. The county was not authorized by the act of
-

-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

891

Woods vs. Lawrence County.
/

Assembly to make this subscription. 2. The subscription is
void because the grand jury did- not prescribe the manner and
terms of payment. 3. The county was not authorized to issue
the bonds. 4. The sale of the bonds, contrary to law, at a less
price than par, avoided them in the hands of the purchaser.
Upon the points of law the judges of the Circuit Court differed in opinion, and made a certificate of their division, which
brought the cause into this court.
Mr. Smith, of Pennsylvania, for the plaintiff. The constitutional authority of the State of Pennsylvania by her Legislature to delegate to a county or its officers the power of making
a subscription to a railroad company, and to pay for such subscription in bonds of the county, is not an open question, and is
not raised here. Two questions are raised, and these are-1.
'Whether the act in evidence does give the authority; and, 2.
Whether the fact that the bonds were sold by the railroad
company at less than their par value destroys the plaintiff's
right to recover. Of these two. questions in their proper
order:
I. The couilty, represented by its commissioners, or a majority of them, is authorized "to subscribe to the Caliital stock
of said railroad company, and to make payments on such terms
and in such manner as may be agreed upon by said company"
and said county. That this language, although general and
somewhat indefinite, will include the power as exercised by
the commissioners of Lawrpnce county in issuing the bonds iu
question in this case, and is intended so to do, hardly seems to
admit of doubt. NIFo one'supposed that any county or municipal corporation could subscribe to the stock of any railroad
company in any other way than by borrowing money upon its
credit. This could only be done by the issue of bonds, or some
othersort of securities, well known in the moneymarket. The
counties had neither silver nor gold with which to pay their
subscriptions. The only "manner" in which they could
"make payment," was/by the issue of their promises to pay.
The form of bonds payable to bearer, with coupons attached,
was the most convenient to all interested, and such securities

SUPREME COURT
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

were most available in the money market. That the Legislature intended to give to the commissioners of the several counties described in the act, authority to issue bonds similar tc
those in dispute, is evident from the second proviso of the seventh section, which provides that "the bonds of the respective
counties, given in payment of subscriptions, shall not be sold
by said railroad company at less than their par value." The
county, the railroad company, and all parties concerned, so
understood the authority given, and have acted under it accordingly. The bonds have been issued, put into the market,
and sold to the highest bidder, without a word of dispute as
to the power of the commissioners to make them, until such
time as repudiation became more convenient than payment.
This question has been before the Supreme Court of the
State of Pennsylvania, and the authority of the commissionere
of Lawrence county to issue the very bonds in dispute has been
sustained. The County of Lawrence vs. The Northwestern .Bailroad Company et al., (8 Casey, 144;) Diamondvs. Lawrence County,
(1 Wright, 853.) In the last case Mr. Justice Woodward, in
giving the opinion of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania upon
the que tions which arose, says: "It is not necessaryfor us to
discuss the irregularities of the subscription made by the
county, nor the authority of the county to make it. In th6
case in 8 Casey, the subscription was held to be valid, and we
should, doubtless, reach the same conclusion again if we were
to review the whole ground. But because it is not necessary
we forbear to do it." The act has been passed upon, and the
validity of similar subscriptions for railroad purposes has been
affirmed also by the Supreme Court of the United States in
'Curtis vs. The County of Butler, (24 How., 435.)
On the question of authority in the county to make the subscription, it is objected, "that the presentment or recommendation of the grand jury was materially deficient in not setting f6rth or prescribing the terms and manner of payment,
and the subscription, consequently, was void, for want of authority."
The act requires that the amount of the subscription "shall
be fixed and 'Jetermined by one grand jury of the proper county,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

393

Woods vs. Lawrence County.

and approved by the same." A grand jury of Lawrence county
resolved that the commissioners be, and are hereby, recommeuded to subscribe two hundred thousand dollars to the stock
of the railroad company, and to issue bonds for the payment
of said stock, making the conditions such as will best promote
the interests of both parties. This is a substantial if not a
literal compliance with the terms of the act, and was accepted
and acted upon as sufficient to give the commissioners the authority to make the subscription.
II. The validity of the subscription and the issue of the
bonds in *question having been established, we come to the
second point to be discussed: How far are these bonds affected
by the second pi'oviso of the seventh section of the act, "that
whenever bouds of the respective counties are given in payment of subscriptions, the same shall not be sold by said railroad company at less than their par value?"
The fact that
the plaintiff is a bona fide holder of the bonds in dispute, for a
valuable consideration, was not put in issue upon the trial.
As between the county and the railroad company, the defence set up by the county would be good poro tanto at least,
but it is difficult to see how it can affect a bona fide holder, foi
a valuable consideration without notice. The bonds have been
given to the company in payment of stock; the company has
received them at their par value. If the bonds, however,
which have been received as cash are not of that value, a fraud
has been practised upon other stockholders, who paid in money,
or its equivalent. But the bonds being made payable to bearer,
and thus made negotiable securities, the county will have to
pay them and the interest thereon, whether they have purchased a hundred dollars' worth of work or only seventy-fiveThe proviso that the bonds shall not be sold at less than their
par value is not a condition precedent that can affect the covenants upon them. That proviso assumes that the bonds have
been issued and given in payment of stock, dollar for dollar,
and imposes the prohibition upon both the county and the railroad company. The county should not have subscribed, nor
should the railroad company have received their securities, unless they were equivalent to the cash paid by other stockhold-

894 ,

SUPTREME COURT.
Woods vs. lawrence County.

ers. If it were not intended by the Legislature, and expected
*by the county and the railroad company, that these bonds
should be negotiable in the money market, the proviso was
unnecessary. The railroad company may have violated the
provisions of the act, and committed a fraud upon the county
and other stockholders; that is a question among them. These
bonds have been thrown upon the money market. They have
passed from hand to hand, as other negotiable securities, until
they have come into the possession of the plaintiff. Hle calls
upon the makers of these securities to pay them according to
their stipulations; the county cannot make successful defence by
setting up fraud or a violation of the provisions of the act on
the part of the railroad company. The purchaser of the bonds
was required to look to the face of those insteuments alone for
the terms upon which he took them. lHe was bound to inquire whether they had been executed by persons having authority to pledge the faith and credit of the county. Their
delivery could be presumed from the fact that they were found
in the market.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania occupies a peculiar position upon the question of the negotiability of securities similar to the bonds in controversy. In the case of Cart vs. Le
Fever, (3 Casey, 4'13,) Mr. Chief Justice Lewis, in giving the
opinion of the court, says: "We do not desire to have any
doubt on the question whether the holder of bonds issued by
a corporation, payable to bearer, may maintain an action on
them in his own name. Such bonds are not strictly negotiable
under the Idw merchant, as are promissory notes and bills of
exchange. They are, however, instruments of a peculiar character, and being expressly designed to pass from hand to band,
and by common usage actually so transferred, are capable of
passing by delivery so as to enable the holder to maintain an
action on them in his own name." In the case in 8 Casey,
already referred to, the parties and the court seem to have regarded these bonds as negotiable and in the hands of bona fide
holders, and not subject to equities between the county and
the railroad company. The proceedings are based upon the
assumption that the county will be bound to pay the par value

DECEMBER TER1M, 1861.

395

TMoods vs. Lawrence County.

of. any of the bonds which may have been passed off by the
railroad company, although disposed of fraudulently and in
violation of the provisions of the act. Iow, upon any other
assumption, could the court have decreed in that case that the
company should return the bonds in their possession to the
county and pay the par value of those which had been put into
ciculation? But in the case of Diamond vs. Lawrence County,
(1 Wright, 353)-decided since this case was tried in the Circuit Court-they have taken the broad ground, that "such
bonds have not the quality of commercial paper in Pennsylvania; they are but bonds, and, even in the hands of innocent
and remote purchasers, they are subject to the equities existing against them, when in the hands of the first purchasers
from the compafiy. The interest coupons are subject to the
same equities." In this position, as they admit, "they stand
alone; all the courts, American and English, are against them."
It is respectfully submitted that this decision is not binding
upon the Supreme Court of the inited States. The doctrine
of lex loci contractus does not apply here. In questions of a
purely local character, the decisions of the State judicatories
should, perhaps, govern; but, although these bonds may be
said to be creatures of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, so soon
as they were thrown upon the market they put off their local
and assumed a character as broad as commerce itself.
Mr. Taylor and Mr. MeCoomb, of Pennsylvania, for defendant. The power to subscribe was not given to the county of
Lawrence by name, but only to those counties "through parts
of which said railroad may pass." A county through which
it may not pass has certainly no authority by this act to subscribe. It is a contingent power, which may or not take effect
upon the happening or not happening of an uncertain future
event, and it remains in abeyance until the event occurs.
Dartmouth College Case, (4 Pet. Cond. Rep., 575.) In point of
fact, it had not occurred at the time when the subscription was
made. The railroad was not then located in the county or in
any part of the county. It has not yet been located; it probably never will be. It is confidently submitted, that for this

SUPREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

reason the power did not and does not exist to make the sub.
scription.
It is unreasonable to understand the words of this act in a
sense v'hich would justify such a subscription before the road
is located. Even if the grand jury and commissioners could
be sure that the road would pass through some part of the
county, it may be that it will pass through an insignificant
corner of it. Before an actual and final choice of the route it
is impossible to say how-much ought to be subscribed; for
until then no one can tell how much benefit or injury the construction of it may do to the public interest of the county.
In determining what the action of the county authorities ought
to be the locality of the road is an indispensable and decisive
element, without which no calculation'approaching to the truth
can be made.
To say that Lawrence county has power to subscribe because
it is one of the counties through which it may pass-that is,
one of those in which it is possible that a part of the road may
be located-is a proposition wholly untenable. It may pass
through any one of nine counties, but it is not possible that it
should pass through all of them. Had all these counties the
power to subscribe? If all of them had subscribed on the assumption that each one was to have the road running through
it, some of them would certainly have cheated themselves, and
exercised a power never conferred by law. The court avoids
this absurdity by simply declaring that a county through which
the railroad may pass is one in which the route of it has been
located and some progress made in the building of the road.
This construction is also objectionable on constitutional
grounds. In the celebrated case of Sharpless vs. Philadelphia,
(21 Penn. St. Rep., 147,) the constitutionality of an act like
this was put on the legislative power of taxing, and to make
it an exercise of the taxing power it'must be a burden imposed
upon the people of a district which has a special interest in the
public improvement to which the revenue raised is intended to
be applied. Lawrence county could have no special interest
in this road unless it passed through her territory. The existence of that interest was the test of her power to subscribe,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

and the extent of it was the only measure by which the pru.
dence of exercising the power could be judged of. This court
has declared that if a law admits of two interpretations, one of
which brings it within and the other presses it beyond the constitutional authority of the Legislature, it is the duty of the
courts to adopt the former construction. UnitedStates vs. Coombs,
(12 Pet., 76.)
Granting that if the whole road were made, it must necessarily pass through Lawrence county; still, the whole road
may never be made. The third section of the charter authorizes a connection with any other road at any intermediate
point on the line, and the fourth section enacts that when five
miles are completed it may be used as if the whole were finished.
The company has the righl to make a road from some point,
selected by itself, on the Pennsylvania railroad west of Johnstown, to the Ohio State line. But there is nothing to prevent
it from making five miles in Allegheny county, connecting at

one end with the Pennsylvania railroad, and at the other with
the Allegheny Valley railroad. Will this court say that such a
S orthwestern railroad in contemplation of law passes through
Lawrence county? Can it be tolerated that such a monstrous
fiction shall be used for the mere purpose of plundering the
public and enriching unscrupulous speculators?
Again: it is contended by the plaintiff that the road was
located through the county before subscription, "because the
company itself, by the very act of accepting the subscription,
had determined upon the completion of the road through at
least a part of the county." This proposition, when analyzed,
amounts to this: the acceptance of a subscription from the
county is a contract by the company to locate the road through
the county, and a contract to locate is equivalent to a location.
But "a stipulation for a particular route of the projected railway is, in other respects, .againt the policy of the law, and
therefore illegal." Pittsburg and Steubenville -Railroad Co. vs.
-Biggar,(10 Casey, 458.) Now, to say that an illegal contract
to locate is equivalent to a location is absurd. Besides, the
proposition under discussion is, that there was no power to
subscribe until after location; hence, to say that there was a

SUPREME OOURT.
oods- vs. Lawrence County.

location by virtue of the subscription, and that there was
power to subscribe by virtue of the location, is but reasoning in
a vicious circle.
The power to issue the bonds in question is not given to the
county by the act incorporating the railroad company. This
is a power which must be given in the most direct and unmistakable manner, either in express words or by necessary implication. A doubtful charter does not exist, because whatever is doubtful is decisively certain against the corporation.
Commonwealth vs. Brie N. E. Railroad Co., (8 Casey, 351.)
Again: plaintiff finding no rest for the sole of his foot ia
the express words or necessary implication of the statute, plants
himself upon the agreement of the parties, and says the county
was authorized to make payments in such manner as might
be agreed upon by the company and the county. Coupon
bonds were so agreed upon; the county was therefore authorized to issue them. This argument is quite fallacious. The
power to issue bonds is one thing; the exercise of that power
is another. If there were power in the county to issue bonds,
then the agreement of the parties might make bonds a manner
of payment, but it is preposterous to say that the power was
given merely because it was assumed.
The true force and effect of the clause authorizing the parties to agree upon the manner and mode of making payment
will be clearly evinced by ascertaining the difficulty intended
to be overcome thereby. Now, this railroad company was incorporated, "subject to all the duties, restrictions, and regulations" prescribed by the general railroad law of 1849. If we
turn to that law, section 8, it is found that the railroad
company is restrained from accepting any subscription upon
any other terms than those therein prescribed. These terms
were, "to be called in and paid at such times and places and
in such proportions and instalments, not, however, exceeding
five dollars per share, in any period of thirty days, as the directors shall require." If, therefore, the enabling act haa
stopped short with the simple grant tQ the county of authority
to subscribe, any subscription made must have been subject
to the terms aforesaid; not because the county had no power

DEOEMBERi

TERM, 1861.

Woods vs. Lawrence County.

to bargain for others, (for her authority was unrestricted in
that respect, as that of a natural person,) but because the company had no authority to accept. To suppose that a county,
whose means of payment could be accumulated only by the
slow process of taxation, would subscribe any considerable
amount of stock, subject to the calls and forfeitures in said
section mentioned, was simply absurd. Wherefore, that the
company might take any benefit under the grant of authority
to the county to subscribe, it was necessary that the company
itself should be authorized to accede to a subscription, to be
paid "at such times and places, and in such proportions and
instalments," as, by the county, was thought practicable, having regard alone to its ordinary source of revenue, taxation;
we say ordinary, because the extraordinary method of recourse
to loan is not even hinted at, much less authorized, in the act.
A release, then, to the company from the statutory restraint
aforesaid was the object in view. To this end, the clause
"and to make payments," &c.,, was introduced; and the object was supposed to be accomplished, when thereby the consent of both parties as to terms and manner of payment was
substituted for the arbitrary calls of the directors of the company, as provided in the statute. In purport or effect the
clause conferred no new or additional power upon the county;
it only removed from the company a legal disability.
But let it be conceded that the statute authorizes the issuing
of bonds, what manner of instrument is to be understood as
designated by that word? An instrument executed and delivered by the obligor, signed and sealed by him, not legally
assignable in any but the one way provided by the act of 1715;
that is, under the hand and seal of the obligee, before two credible witnesses, and when assigaed, subject to all the equities
then existing between the original parties :-such is a bond in
law, in equity, and in the popular sense of the word. It would
be so understood by the members of the Legislature when they
voted for the bill. It is a term of art, too; and terms of art
are to be understood in their technical sense when used in
, statute. Brockett vs. bhio and -Pennsylvania _ailroad Co., (2
Efarris, 148;) Kctchum vs. Tyson, (8 Murphy, 314;) Smith vs.

SUPREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

.Harman, (6 Mod., 143;) 9 Bac. Abridg., 238, 244. A coupon
bond could not have been contemplated by this act. The
variable law merchant may, if it will, adopt and protect these
specialties as commercial paper, but statute laws must be executed according to the sense and meaning they had at the time
they were passed. Commonwealth vs. Brie &. N. B. _Railroad Co.,
(3 Casey, 339.) The difference between a bond in its true sense
and an instrument such as this, which leaves the county naked
and defenceless against the frauds of the railroad company, is
one of unspeakable importance.
The provision in the charter that the bonds should not be
sold by the railroad company for less than their par value is a
condition of their validity. The words of the statute are part
of the bond, and incorporated with it, and those words are apt
and properto create a condition. Bear vs. Whisler, (7 W., 19;)
Westenberger vs. Reist, (1 Harris, 598; 2 Coke Litt., 223;) Smith
vs. Bowditch X..F.Ins. CG9., (6 Cush., 448; Angell on Ins., 189;)
Hamilton vs. Elliott, (5 S. & R., 375; 2 Pars. on Cont., 15;)
Thomas vs. Commissioners of Allegheny, (8 Casey, 229;) Lawrence
County vs. N. F. Railroad Co., (8 Casey, 152.) The consequence of a breach of the condition subsequent is to rescind,
annul, and make void the obligations of the boud, and equity
will not relieve against such a forfeiture of what, otherwise,
might have been the right of the obligee.
Mr.HYamilton, of Pennsylvania, in reply. As to the defendant's proposition, "That there was no authority vested in the
county of Lawrence to make subscription to the stock of said
Northwestern Railroad Company; and that the bonds are
consequently void;" we answer, that this defence was overruled twice by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in cases
involving directly the validity of this same subscription and
the bonds issued in pursuance thereof. Commonwealth ex rel.
Lawrence County vs. The Northwestern -ailroad Co., (8 Casey,
144,) and Diamond vs. Lawrence County, (1 Wright, 353.) In
the first of these cases the court say, in the opinion delivered
by the Chief Justice, that "notwithstanding the unskilfulness
and inexperience with which this affair was managed by the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Woods vs. Lawrence Counj.

county authorities, we think that enough was done to constitute a valid subscription to the capital stock of the company,
and thus to furnish a valid basis for the issuing of the bonds."
In the other case the same doctrine was reaffirmed.
The power to execute and issue bonds or other certificates of
indebtedness belongs to all corporations, public as well as private, and is inseparable from their existence. Commonwealth
ex rel. 1?einboth vs. D. Fitzsimmons et al., members of the Select
and Common Councils of the City qf .Pittsburg,in the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania-(not yet published.)
The authority given by the Commonwealth to the defendants to incur the debt or obligation by subscription, necessarily included the authority to give the creditor the usual evidences of a debt.-lbid.
In the case just cited there was authority to the city of Pitts
burg to subscribe to the capital stock of the Allegheny Valle'1
railroad, but no express authority to issue bonds in paymei !
thereof. The city executed and delivered to the company, i:;
payment of the subscription, its bonds payable to bearer, with
coupons annexed, and 'the Supreme Court held them to bo
valid, notwithstanding the absence of express authority to issus
them. We submit, therefore, that the question has been authoritatively decided against the county, and is not now open
to discussion upon general principles.
It is alleged by the defendant: "That the sale of the bonds
of Lawrence county, given in payment of her subscription, below
their par value, contrary to the provisions of the act of Assem-'
bly, by the railroad company, avoided the bonds in the hands
of the purchaser."
The same defence was made to these and similar bonds in
several cases, in the Supreme Court of the State, and overruled. In the Commonwealth ex rel. Lawrence County vs. The
Northwestern Railroad Company, the relator obtained a money
decree against the defendant for the bonds which it had negoiated below par. This decree could only have been rendered
upon the hypothesis that the bonds were obligatory on the
county in the hands of bonafide holders. In the Comm. ex rel.
Thomas vs. The Commissioners of Allegheny County, (8 Casey,
VOL. 1.
26

SUPREME COURT.
Moods vs. Lawrence County.

218,) affirmed in The Comm. ex. ret. vs. The Select and Common
Councils of JPittsburg, (10 Casey, 496;) The Comm. ex rel. Armstrongvs. The Commissionersof Allegheny County, (1 Wright, 277;)
The Comm. ex rel. Middleton vs. Same, (1 Wright, 237;) and Same
ex rel. Beinboth vs. Same (not yet reported,) the court held that
the sale of the bonds by the failroad 'companies beloW par, in
violation of the prohibition contained in the statutes which
authorized their issue, might be a good defence as an equitable
defalcation, on behalf of the obligors, against the principal of
the debt, but not against the interest.
There are exceptions to the rule that the assignee of an ordinary bond takes it subject to a right in the obligor to defalcate
against the assignor, 'or show want of consideration or nonexistence of the debt. As when the bond is delivered to the
obligee to enable him to raise money, or the obligor encourages the transfer of it. Eldred vs. Hazlett, (9 Casey, 307.) Nor
has the assignee anything to do with agreements between the
original parties inconsistent with the purport or legal efect of
the instrument. Davis vs. Barr, (9 S. & R., 141.) The condition prescribed by the act was both collateral to the bonds
and inconsistent with their legal effect.
The provision in question having been intended for the benefit and protection of the county, it was competent for the commissioners to waive it, which they did, in point of fact, by executing and delivering to the company instruments obliging
the county to pay to the holder or bearer thereof.
The bond of a corporation, payable to bearer, passes by delivery, and the holder may sue in his own name; or, in other
words, the obligation of the contract is to pay the bearer.
These bonds were intended for the market, and were made
negotiable by the contract of the parties. Although not negotiable in the mercantile sense of the term, yet the county, having agreed that they should pass from hand to hand by delivery
and be payable to bearer, is estopped from denying to them
the character and effect of regularly negotiable paper. Ohio,
ex rel. i_-oran Bros. vs. Com. of Clinton Co., (6 Ohio S. IR., 285;)
Legal Int., Dec. 10, 1858, per GRIER, J., in X' Coy vs. Washingtov C6. ; Lafever vs, Carr, (3 Casey, 413;). Morris Canal Co.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

403

Woods vs. Lawrence County.

vs. isker, (N: J. Rep.;) Delafield vs. State of Illinois, (2 Hill,
189;) Stoney vs. Trust Co., (11 Paige, 365.)
In tParsons on Contracts, 240, it is said: "We regard the English authorities as making all instruments negotiable which are
payable to bearer, and which are also custoinably transferable
by delivery, within which definition, we suppose, the common
bonds of railroad companies will fall. Usage must have great
influence in determining this question. The true test as to
whether an instrument is negotiable or not should depend on
whether any writing is necessary in order to its transfer."
The condition prescribed in the act was a rule to the company exclusively, and was only intended to apply to the bonds
of the county that might be delivered directly to the company
in payment of the subscription to its capital stock.
What notice, actual or constructive, had the plaintiff that
the bonds in controversy were ever in the hands of the company? The county was authorized to subscribe to the stock,
but not limited, to any particular mode of payment. The commissioners might have sold the bonds of the county in the market, and paid for the stock with the proceeds; or they might
have borrowed money and applied it to that purpose, with or
without the issue of bonds. Besides, it is a part of the defendant's case that the county had no authority to issue bonds at
all in payment of said subscription. The bonds themselves
contain no ear-marks tending to show that they had passed
through the hands of the company, nor is there any circumstance on the face of them to give notice of the default of the
company.
Assuming that the plaintiff had notice of the condition in
the act, and that these particular bonds had been in the hands
of the company, how was he to ascertain whether or not they
had been put in circulation by the company at less than their
par value? If they were in fact sold in disregard of the condition, the obligor would not be likely to know of tle fact, because it must necessarily have occurred after the delivery of
the bond. The company would not be likely to publish its
own wrongful act, or to give information such as would impede
the circulation of the bonds or impair their value.

SUPREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

The provision in restraint of the use of the bonds is not a
condition, but is in the nature of a collateral and independent
covenant. The county, by the contract of subscription and the
delivery to the company of its bonds, became a stockholder, and
was entitled to participate in the management of the affairs of
the company.
The contract, therefore, between the county and the company
was not executory, but an executed contract. The' holder of
the bond would be entitled, according to its tenor, to look to
the obligor for payment, and the county to resort to the company's statutory obligation for indemnity for any violation ot
the prohibition to sell the bonds at less than par. It is like the
case of a grantee taking a covenant against a known incumbrance. Ia case of breach of the covenant, he cannot withhold the purchase money, but must resort for indemnity to an
action on his covenant.
Mr. Justice WAYNE. This is an action of debt brought
upon coupons for interest attached to bonds, which had been
passed by the county of Lawrence to the Northwestern Railroad Company, in payment of its subscription for two hundred
thousand dollars to the capital stock of that company.
It is here upon a certificate of a division of opinion between
the judges of the Circuit Court.
The company was incorporated as the Northwestern Railroad Company on the 9th February, 1853, with the power to
build a railroad from some point upon the Pennsylvania or the
Alleghany Portage railroad, at or west of Johnstown, by the
way of Butler, to the Pennsylvania and Ohio State line, at some
point on the western boundary line of Lawrence county. It was
to be done on the most eligible route, &c., &c., and to be connected with any railroad then constructed, or which might
thereafter be built, at either end or at any intermediate point
on the line thereof. The capital stock was to be twenty thousand shares, of fifty dollars each, with power to increase it to
two millions of dollars, if the directors of the company should
think its exigencies required that to be done. \The company
was authorized, in either
event, in respect to the amount of
10

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

405

Woods vs. Lawrence County.

capital, to build the road by borrowing money on its bonds, bearing interest at seven per centum, not exceeding the amount of its
capital, and with the further limitation, that no bond should
be issued for less than one hundred dollars. The seventh and
last section of the act is, that the counties, through parts of
which the railroad may pass, are severally authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of the company, and to pay its subscription in such manner as might be agreed upon between
the county and the company. But no county could subscribe
more than ten per cent. upon its assessed valuation; and before
any subscription could be made, its amount was to be determined
bya grand jury of the county, and approved byit. And when
that had been done and filed, the county commissioners were authorized to make the subscription as the grand jury had directed.
Then follows a proviso, that when the bonds of the county
were passed to the railroad company, they should not be sold
by it at less than their par value. The meaning of that proviso will be given hereafter, when we shall consider the fourth
question upon which the judges were divided in opinion.
Upon the trial of the case, the plaintiff gave in evidence the
recommendation and direction of the grand jury for the subucription. It was executed by the commissioners to the amount
of two hundred thousand dollars, for the payment of which
the county was to issue bonds, with such conditions as might
best promote the interests of the railroad company and of the
county of Lawrence. The plaintiff also gave in evidence one
of the coupons upon which he had sued, attached to the county
bonds. We give a copy of it, that the obligation ofthe county
to pay those coupons and their bonds, when the latter shall
become payable, may be better understood:
0oUNTY OF LAWRENCE.

Warrant No. 37 for 30 dollars. Being for six, months' interest on bond No. -, payable on the first day of January,
A. D. 1873, at the office of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, in Philadelphia.
, Clerk.
$30.
Here the plaintiff rested his case.
The defendant gave in evidence the agreement for the sub.

SUPREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

scription, as made by he commissioners. We have examined
it in connection with the presentment of the grand jury, and
found both properly in conformity with the section of the act
giving to the counties, severally, the right to subscribe. It is
recommended and determined, that the subscription of the
county of Lawrence shall be two hundred thousand dollars,
or four thousand shares of the capital stock of the railroad
company, it being understood, that, whenever the amount of
it should be required by the company from the county, it should
be paid in bonds of sums not less than a thousand dollars, payable in twenty years after date, or at such other times after
the date of the bonds as might be agreed upon between the
commissioners of the county and the railroad company, the
interest upon the bonds to be paid semi-annually by the rail.
road company, until the time when the road shall have been

completed.
The defendant then gave other evidence, to prove that when
the grand jury made its presentment, the railroad company had
not been organized; also, that when the subscription was made,
the company had not fixed upon its line, 'or that any part of it
should be run within the limits of Lawrence county, and then
that no part of it had ever been built within that county.
It was also proved by the defendant, that the company, in
using the bonds of the county to get money upon them for the
construction of the road, had sold them at a discount of twentyfive per cent., but not with having credited the county with
less than their par amount.
Thus the case stood when it was submitted to the jury, and
the defendant asked the court to give the following instructious:
1. That there was no authority vested in the county of Lawrence to make the subscription to the Northwestern Railroad
Company, and that the subscription and the bonds which had.
been issued-for its payment were void.
2. That the recommendation and report of the grand jury
were materially deficient, in not setting forth or prescribing
the terms and manner of paymentand that the subscription
was void on that account.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

407

Woods vs. Lawrence County.

3. That the county of Lawrence was not authorized to issue
the instruments or bonds in question.
4. That the county bonds, which had been given in payment
of the subscription, having been sold below their par value,
was contrary to the provision of the act incorporating the railroad company, and were, therefore, avoided in the hands of
purchasers.
We observe, in respect to the first, second, and third questions, that they are not now open questions in this court. They
were in effict comprehended in the case of Curtisvs. The County
of Butler, which this court passed upon at the last term, as well
in respect to the constitutionality of the act of the 9th of February, 1853, as to what was the proper construction of it. This
court then decided, after mature deliberation upon all the
sections of the act, assisted by the arguments of Mr. Stanton
and Mr. Black, which were in every particular fully up to the
occasion, that, by the 7th section of the act of the 9th February, 1853, the counties through parts of which the Northwestern railroad may pass were authorized to subscribe to the
capital stock of the company, and to make payments on such
terms as might be agreed upon between the company and the
county; and that the subscription was valid, and binding uport
it, when made by a majority of its commissioners. It was also
then decided, that the power given to the county to subscribe
included its right to issue lhonds, with coupons for interest
attached, for the payment of its subscription. The constitutionality of the act was admitted in the argument .then, as it
has been in this case. But it is now urged, in addition to
what was then said, that as the county of Lawrence had not
been empowered by name to subscribe, such omissions must
suggest a purpose of the Legislature, when passing the act, to
accommodate itself to what is asserted to have been, at that
time, the constitutional law of PNnnsylvania, as it had been
expounded by the Supreme Court of that State, in respect to
the right of the Legislature to empower a county to subscribe
and tax the people of it to pay for railroads and other improve.
ments of a like kind, which were not positively to be construi.ted within its territory.

SUPR EME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

One of the cases cited is that of the Commonwealth, ex relatione -Dysartvs. Me Williams and Isett. It was a quo warranto,
in which it was alleged that they had usurped the office of
supervisors and assessors of Franklin township, under and by
virtue of the act of the 13th April, 1846, and of assessing, levying, and collecting taxes, for the use and benefit of the Spruce
Creek and Water Street Turnpike Company. And it was decided thai the defendants, as supervisors, had the power to
levy and collect a tax to enable them to subscribe for shares
of the stock of the turnpike company, at the cost of the inhabitants of the township, in virtue of the authority vested in the
supervisors of townships by the act of the 15th of April, 1834,
and because the 16th section of the act of 1846, incorporating
the turnpike company, had provided that the supervisors of the
public highways, in the townships through which the road may
pass, " were authorized to subscribe in the name and behalf
and for the use of its inhabitants any number of shares, not
exceeding three thousand six hundred, in the capital stock of
the turnpike road." The decision is not put upon the locality
of the route of the road, though, in fact, it was located and
passed through the township of Franklin; but upon the constitutional power of the Legislature to pass both acts just mentioned, and that, in doing so, it did not differ in principle from
the power given to tax for the purpose of repairing roads and
bridges, and for such other purposes as may be authorized by
law.
. Before leaving this case, we recommend it as a whole, and
particularly the decision of Mr. Justice Bell, to the perusal of
such of the profession who may be engaged in a case of quo
warranto in the State of Pennsylvania.
The other case cited of Me.Dermond vs. Kennedy, (Brightley's
fReports, 332,) which was taken to the Supreme Court and
affirmed, is, that a municipal corporation, under a power to
make such by-laws as shall be lecessary to "promote the
peace, good order, benefit, and advantage of the borough," and
to assess such taxes as may be necessary for carrying the same
into effect, is not authorized to levy a tax for the payment of a
part of the expense to be incurred by a railroad company in
-

DEOEIMBER TERM, 1861.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

bringing the line of their road nearer to the town than it had
been originally located. Judge Reed places his conclusion,
exclusively, upon the disability of a borough corporation to
exercise rights on private property, except for corporate purposes; and he says, it can no more raise a tax, and grant the
avails of it to a railroad, because it is believed to be advantageous to the borough, than they could do anything else, for
there is no relation or connection between the railroad and the
borough. Neither of the cases cited have any application to
sustain the position taken-that the Legislature meant, by
omitting the names of the counties in the act of the 9th February, 1853, that it had not the power to authorize them to
subscribe to the capital stock of a railroad which was not to
be run within its territory.
Nor do these cases countenance the idea, that the power
given to the county to subscribe was not exercisable in present!,
but was in abeyance until the passing of the railroad through
it. It is true, when a charter is given for franchises or property to a corporation, which is to be brought into existence by
some future acts of the corporators, that such franchises or
property are in abeyance until such acts shall have been done,
and then they instantaneously attach. But not to distinguish
the acts enjoined or permitted, to give to the corporation its
intended purpose and object, is to confound the franchises
with such acts, and would nullify the means by which the franchises are to be produced.
A franchise is a privilege conferred in the United States by
the immediate or antecedent legislatibn of an act of incorporation, with conditions expressed, or necessarily inferential from
its language, as to the manner of its exercise and for its enjoyment. To ascertain how it is to be brought into existence, the
whole charter must be consulted and compared. If that depends upon co-operatin:- subscriptions of money, to be borrowed upon securities of indebtedness bearing interest, payable yearly, or at times within the year, until the security is
finally payable, it must be intended that all the parties, to
whom has been given a right to subscribe, may use it to aid
the beginning and the completion of the object; in other

SUPREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

words, when there is no express limitation as to the time ol
making the subscription, that it was optional with those who
could do so to make it, when most convenient oi' advantageous
to themselves. In this instance, we find that certain persons
were named in the first section of the act as commissioners to
-

receive subscriptions and to organize the company; and that
the counties, through parts of which the railroad may pass,
were permitted to make their subscriptions with those commissioners, and that they could receive them. Then, it was
intended that the subscription should precede the organization; and no one, who reads the whole act, will doubt that the
latter depended upon the subscription of the larger, if not the
whole number of the twenty thousand shares of which the capital stock was to consist.
The road was to be built with money to be borrowed on the
bonds of the company, and upon the bonds of such of the
counties meant in the act which might choose to subscribe.
Until the subscription received had indicated the responsibility
of the parties to be equivalent to the contemplated cost of the
road, or that it would become so, there was neither an inducement to organize the company, nor security for capitalists to
lend upon.
We conclude that there is no weight in the suggestion of
its having been meant by the Legislature that the road was
to be carried within a county before it could subscribe. The
subscription depended upon the presentment of the grand jury,
and tbe agreement of the commissioners to take for the county
four thousand shares of the company's capital stock. And it
was agreed that the subscription was to be paid for in bonds
of the ccunty of not less than a thousand dollars, payable in
twenty years after date, or at such other time as the company
and the county might agree upon. The company having
agreed to pay the interest until such time as the Northwestern
railroad should be completed, the county bonds were made
and paid to the company accordingly; and we have no doubt
of the obligation of the county to pay them.
But it is now said, that such of the county bonds as were
sold by the president and directors of the railroad at a discount

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

411

Woods vs. Lawrence County.

are "avoidable" in the hands of the purchasers of them, because the act for making and paying them to the company declares that the company shall not sell them "at less than their
par value." Such are the words of the statute; and it was
proved and conceded by the plaintiff that they were sold at a
discount of twenty-five per cent.
The words of the seventh section are, that whenever bonds
of the respective counties are given in payment of subscrip.
tions, the same shall not be sold by said railroad company at
less than par value.
Those words have a meaning, but not such as it was assumed
to be when the court was asked to instruct the jury upon the
fourth prayer. A comparison of the seventh section, in which
they are, with the fifth and sixth sections of, the act, will show
that they were meant to secure to the counties the par value
of their instalments, as those were to be paid in bonds, from
any reduction by the sale of them at a discount, to the loss of
the county, after the railroad company had received them in
payment. The words are, whenever bonds of the respective
counties are given in payment, the same shall not be sold by
the railroad company at less than par value, &c.; and such
bonds shall not be subject to'taxatibn until the clear profits of
the railroad shall amount to six per cent. upon, the cost of it.
Such was the understanding of the commissioners and the
railroad company when they entered into their agreement for
the subscription. The agreement itself, the stipulation that
the subscription was to be paid by bonds, the undertaking of
the company that it would relieve the county from the payment of interest of its bonds, and that the interest should be
on their par value until the entire railroad was completed-and
every section of the act shows it to have been the intention of
the Legislature to have the railroad constructed by money to
be borrowed upon bonds, payable at a distant date-indicate
the correctness of our interpretation of the limitation upon
the sale of the county bonds at less than par. And the conclusion is strengthened by consulting the sixth section of the
act, giving to the company the right to pay an interest of six

SUIREME COURT.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

per cent. per annum to the stockholders, on instalments for
subscription paid by them, until the railroad should be finished;
and requiring, when that happened, that all interest which
had been paid in the meantinie should be credited to the cost
of the construction of the road-in that, placing all of the
stockholders upon an equality as to the cost of the road, and
securing to them the number of shares for which they had
subscribed, and for which they had paid by instalments. Without such an arrangement, that equality could not have been
produced, and this result in respect to the subscription of the
counties paid by bonds would have followed. If the railroad
could have sold the bonds at less than par, after they had been
received in payment, and charged the discount to the counties,
in that case' the latter could not have received the number of
shares for which they had subscribed, by permitting a part of
the sum, for which they were authorized to tax the counties,
for the ultimate payment of the bonds, to be diverted to a
purpose neither contemplated nor allowed by the act; and, in
respect to the county of Lawrience, its subscription would have
been reduced to fifty thousand dollars less than the amount of
the bonds which it had issued and paid to the railroad, supposing the whole to have been sold At 25 per cent. less than their
par value, in that Way reducing its dividend-three thousand
dollars per anpum-when the clear income of the company,
after it had been finished, should become 6 per cent. per annum
upon the cost of the road.
We are confirmed in the opinion, that the limitation upon
the company that it should not sell the bonds of the counties
at less than par, after it had taken them in payment of the
subscription, had no other meaning than this, that they should
not so sell them at the expense of the counties-causing any
loss to them less than their par value, as they were payable to
the company at par in twenty years, with an annual interest
of six per cent.
It has also been insisted, that the county of Lawrence could
not subscribe before the Northwestern Railroad Company had
been organized, or before its line had been indicated by a sur-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Woods vs. Lawrence County.

vey on the ground and a part of it had been fixed for constructio4 within the county; and it is said that no part of it had
been built in it.
Having already shown that the right to subscribe was given
to enable the company to organize, and that organization was
essential before the route of the road could be determined, and
that there was no direction in the act when that was to be
done, and that a wide discretion had been given as to the point
of its beginning, and how it should be continued in the counties, and where it should terminate on the Pennsylvania and
Ohio State line, we must declare that the objection has neither
pertinency nor force against the subscription made by the
county of Lawrence. Another objection is, that the right to
subscribe depended upon a part of the road having been built
within the county.
We deem it only necessary to repeat what has just been said,
that the act indicates no point at which the line of the road
should be begun. That, taken in connection with the fourth
section of the act, it could not have been the intention to require a part of the railroad to be built in each county before
it should subscribe; its language being, that its franchises
should be used and enjoyed'when five miles of the railroad
had been finished, as fully as if the whole road had been completed.
We therefore answer, that there was authority in the county
of Lawrence constitutionally, and by the proper construction
of the act of the 9th February, 1858, to subscribe to the stock
of the Northwestern Railroad Company as the subscription
was made; and that the bonds issued by the county, and given
in payment of its subscription to the railroad company, are
valid, and binding upon the county to pay and redeem them
according to their tenor.
We answer to the second prayer, that there was no deficiency in the action of the grand jury in making its present.
ment, or in setting forth the terms in which the subscription
should be made.
We answer to the third prayer, that the county of Lawrence
was authorized to issue such bonds as they did issue, and pass

414

SUPREME COURT.
The Ship Marcellus.

to the railroad company in payment of its subscription to the
Northwestern Railroad Company.
To the fourth prayer, we answer, that the sale of the county
bonds, by the railroad company, at less than par, does not avoid
them in the hands of the purchaser.

THE SHIP MAR ELLs-Baxter, Claimant; Camp, Libellant.
I In a case of collision between two sea-going vessels, where the only
question proposed by the pleadings is one of fact, where there is
much discrepancy between the witnesses as to every averment, and
where both the courts below have concurred in their decision, it is
not to be expected that this court will reverse the decree upon a
mere doubt founded on the nuinber or credibility of the witnesses.
2 in such a case the appellant has all presumptions against him, and the
burden of proof is thrown on him to show affirmatively that an error
has been committed, and if there be sufficient evidence on the record to support the decree which was made, the appellant cannot get
it reversed by establishing a theory, supported by some of the witnesses, on which a different decree might have been rendered.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Massachusetts. In admiralty.
Hugh N. Camp, Edward W. Brunsen, and Charles Sherry,
partners, doing business in New York city, under the firm of
Camp, Brunsen & Sherry, filed their libel in the District Court
for Massachusetts, against the ship Marcellus, of Boston, her
tackle, apparel and furniture, alleging that they were the owners of one hundred and seventy boxes and forty hogsheads of
sugar, worth ten thousand dollars, laden on board the schooner
Empire, bound from Boston to Bristol, Rhode Island; that
while the schooner, with the sugar on board, was sailing out
of Boston harbor, in the narrows between Gallup and Lovell's
islands, the ship Marcellus carelessly and negligently ran afoul
of her, striking her on her larboard side, nearly amidships, so
that she sunk and the sugars were totally destroyed and lost.
The circumstances of the collision are minutely set forth in

