DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Whie's Administrator vs. The United States.

deponents on one side ought to be believed rather than ten on
the other. In such cases, the concurrent finding of two courts
ought to satisfy the losing party.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.

WHITE'S ADMINISTRATOR VS. THE UNITED STATES.

This court will not award a mandamus to the judge of the District
Court, commanding him to permit the intervention of one claimant in
a proceeding instituted by another for the confirmation of a distinct
title under a Mexican grant.
Thomas B. Valentine, for himself and other tiarties in interest, presented his petition to the Supreme Court setting
forth that he held the title of Juan Miranda, to whom a grant
was made by the Mexican Government of a tract of land in
California known by the name of the Arroyo de San Antonio;
that one Ellen E. White, administratrix of Charles White, deceased, petitioned the Land Commission for confirmation to
herself of another title derived from Manuel Ortega for the
same land, and her proceeding came by appeal into this court,
where an order was made remanding the cause to the District
Court, so that the claimants under Miranda might have an opportunity to contest the claim of White agreeably to the 13th
section of the act of 1851; that the mandate was filed in the
District Court and a motion made by the petitioner for leave
to iittervene, which was refused by the District Court in disregard of the order of thi6 court. The petitioner, being without
other remedy, prays for a mandamus.
Mr. Blacc, of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Green, of Missouri, for
the relator.
Mr. Cashing, of Massachusetts, for White.
Mr. Bates, Attorney General, for the United States.
Mr. Justice GRIER.

"

The motion for a; mandamus in this

SUPREME COURT.
White's Administratorvs. The United States.

case is founded on a mistaken apprehension of the judgment
of this court as it is reported in 23 Howard, 249.
Ortega had married the daughter of Miranda; they lived as
on&family, and entered into possession of the land claimed.
Ortega's title purported to be founded on a petition to Governor
Alvarado, dated 12th June, 1840; a reference report and marginal decree signed by Alvarado, 10th of August, 1840, "which
was returned to him to serve as a security during the other
operations indicated."
It was never completed by a final
grant, and was not to be found among the archives, but its
execution was proved by Alvarado himself. Miranda, in 1844,
petitioned for a grant of the same land, alleging that he had
been in possession of the land for more than four years. This
inform6 was in the usual form, and is found among the archives. The court being divided in opinion as to the authenticity of the Ortega title, (and a majority expressing a doubt.,)
at first decided to send the record back to the District Court,
to have the conflicting claims of the father and son-in-law settled by a proceeding under the 13th section of the act of 1851.
But our attention was afterwards drawn to the fact, that the
proceeding, under the proviso in this section, was intended
only for cases where both parties claimed under a confirmed
Mexican grant by derivative titles, and as Ortega and Miranda
claimed under several and distinct titles, the case did not come
within the provisions of the 13th section. The court then reversed the decree of the District Court, and not being fully
satisfied on the evidence as to the genuineness of Ortega's papers, sent the case back for further examination. There was
no order that a stranger to the record should be allowed to interplead and set up another grant, as a reason why the claimant's title should not be confirmed, for ie appears from the
opinion of the court that they objected to the proceeding because the Miranda grant had been used to combat that of Ortega in this proceeding. The first decree did not order the
court below to allow the claimants under Miranda to interplead in this suit; and if it had done so, it was wholly annulled
and set aside by the order and decree afterwards made on the
1st of May, 1860. It was like a judgment in a common law

DECEMBER TERM, .1861.

503

Ex Parte Gordon.

case, where a judgment is reversed and a venire de novo ordeFed-;
and the reason given by the court was, "that the District Court
might not be trammeled in their future consideration of the
case on all its merits."
The motion for a mandamus is therefore refued.

Ex PAnTE GoRDoN.
1. A writ of prohibition cannot issue from this court in cages where
there is no appellate power given by law, nor any special authority
to issue the writ.
2. Neither a writ of error, writ of prohibition, nor certiorari, will lie
from this court to a Circuit Court of the United States, in a criminal case.
3.The only mode of bringing a criminal case into this court is upon a
certificate of the judges of the Circuit Court that their opinions
are opposed upon a question raised at the trial.
4 No party has a right to ask for such a certificate, nor can it be made
consistently with the duty of the court, if the judges are agreed
and do not think there is doubt enough upon the question to justify
them in submitting it to the judgment of this pourt.
5.After a party has been convicted and sentenced in the Circuit Court
for a criminal offence, and after a warrant is in the hands of the
marshal, commanding him to execute the judgment, the Circuit
Court itself has no power to recall it; and certainly this court, having no appellate power over the proceeding, cannot prohibit aministerial officer from performing the duty which the Circuit Court
has legally imposed upon him.
This was an application by Nathaniel Gordon for an alternative writ of prohibition to the judges of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the southern district of New York, and
its officers, and the United States marshal, to restrain them
from further proceeding in a case wherein the said Gordon
had been found guilty of piracy and sentenced to death; and
also for a writ of certioraricommanding the judges to send up
the papers. process, and all proceedings in the said cause, to

