DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

491

Flanigan et al. vs. Turner.

FLANIGAN ET AL. Vs. TURNER.

A respondent sued in admiralty for repairs to a vessel cannot deny
that he is sole owner if the vessel has been sold by the order of
another court, and he has claimed and received the proceeds as sole
owner.
This was an admiralty suit in personam, commenced by the
libel of Andrew Flanigan, John S. Beacham, George P. Beacham, Lenox Beacham, and Samuel Beacham, partners trading
as A. Flanigan & Co., against Robert Turner, owner of the
steamboat Susquehannah, in the District Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland. The libellants claimed
$2,762 for work done and materials furnished in repairs to the
Susquehannah at the request of Turner, who was either owner
or agent for the owner. Turner answered that Flanigan & Co.
were joint owners of the boat with him and others, and, therefore, had no right to recover against him for the work. He
also alleged and showed that a bill was pending in a State
court, brought by himself against these libellants and others,
to dissolve the partnership, sell the vessel, and after paying, expenses, &e., divide the proceeds ratably among the several
owners. This cause was then suspended until that in the
State court should be decided. The last mentioned proceeding went on, the vessel was sold under it, and Turner claimed
the proceeds as sole owner; the other parties consented, and
the court so ordered. The present cause was then pressed ir:
the District Court, and a decree made there in favor of the
libellants for the amount found to be due for their work and materials-$2,665 73, with interest from 1st July, 1857, and costs.
Turner, the respondent, appealed to the Circuit Court, where
the decree was changed to $2,827 88. Turner appealed to the
Supreme Court, and attempted to reverse the decree of the
Circuit Court upon the grounds which will be found stated in
the opinion of Judge Nelson.

Mr. Barrol,of Maryland, for respondent.

SUPREMIE CO UIRT.
.Flanigan et aZ. vs. Turner.

.Mr. Perrine,of Maryland, for libellants.
Mr. Justice NTELSON. This is an appeal from a decree in
admiralty of the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The libel was filed by the appellees against Turner, the appellant, in personam, for materials and repairs on the steamboat
Susquehannah, in the port of Baltimore. It was filed 25th
February, 1858.
The respondent set up, by way of plea, that he had previou'sly filed a bill in equity against the libellants and others
in the Circuit Court for Baltimore city, as joint owners and
partners with him in the Susquehannah, for the purpose,
among other things, of charging them with their proportionate share of the expenses of the repairs claimed; that the defendants in that bill had put in their answers, and that the suit
was still pending. This plea was overruled; and the respondent answered the libel, setting up, substantially, the same matters as stated in the bill of complaint.
Further proceedings in the admiralty suit were suspended,
by an order of the district judge, to await the result of the
suit in equity in the Baltimore court, that suit having been
first commenced, and jurisdiction of that court over the subject-matter having first attached.
A receiver was appointed in the equity suit, and, under an
interlocutory order of the court, the vessel was sold and proceeds brought into the court, to abide the result of the litigation.
Subsequenily, Turner, the complainant, appeared in court
and dismissed his bill in equity, and then claimed the fund in
court, the proceeds on the sale of the Susquehannah, as belonging to him, he being the only person interested or entitled
to it. There being no opposition to the application, as, indeed,
there could not be, the defendants, in the bill in equity, in
their answers, having not only denied any joint interest in the
vessel, but insisted that the complainant was the owner, the
application was granted, and the proceeds paid over.
After the bill in the Baltimore City court was dismissed, the

DECEMBEIA TERM, 1861.

493

Flaniganet al. vs. Turner.

suit in the admiralty proceeded, and, on the 4th Januarjy, 1859,
a decree was rendered by the District Court in favor of the
libellants, for $2,665 73, and interest, which, on appeal to the
Circuit Court, was affirmed, with some modifications as to the
amount.
The principal ground of the defence to the libel was, that the
libellants were joint owners of the vessel with Turner, and
hence the court had no jurisdiction of the case, either to settle
the partnership accounts, or to adjust in any way the equities
of the joint owners.
But the answer to this defence is, that the proofs in the case
are full to show, that the libellants were not joint owners of
the Susquehannah; but, on the contrary, that she was owned
solely by the respondent. She was purchased by him from
the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company 7th November, 1856, and the conveyance taken in his
own name. He afterwards attempted to sell the vessel to an
association in Baltimore, of which the libellants, or a part of
them, were members, but failed to complete the sale. The
dismissal of the bill in equity, in which he attempted to charge
these libellants, among others, for the expenses of the purchase
and repairs of the Susquehannab, and receiving the proceeds
of her sale, which were in court, upon the allegation that he
was solely interested in the fund, go far to confirm the other
proofs in the case, that the libellants had no interest in the
vessel, as owners, at the time of the repairs; and, as is admitted, they were made at his request, that they were made
on his credit.
The expenses of the repairs and of the materials furnished
the vessel were satisfactorily proved, and, unembarrassed with
the attempt to'prove the joint ownership, the case is a very
simple and plain one. That attempt having failed, the decree
belowv was right, and should be affirmed.
.Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

