SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt vs. Swldm.
In equity proceedings the proofs and allegations must agree.
A party can no more succeed upon a case proved, but not alleged, than upon a case alleged, but not proved. 9 Cranch,
19, Simms vs. Guthrie et al.; 9 Pet., 483, HMarrisonvs. Nxon;
10 id., 178, Boone vs. Chiles; 3 Barb's C. R., 613, Tri/p vs. Vincent et al.; 3 Ohio R., 61, Bank United States vs. Shultz; 5 Dana,
552, Sadler vs. Grover; 1 J. J. Marsh, 237, Breckenridge vs.

Ormsby.
4. That the complainant not having "conducted to completion," within the life of the contract, "the business in that
trade" growing out of this voyage of the Harriet Erving, that
branch of the case is not within the contract of May 7th, 1849,
and hence not before us.
It follows, in our judgment, that the court decided correctly
in sustaining this exception.
It may be that the complainant has a valid claim to be paid
for his services under an implied contract upon the principle
of quantum meruit. But as that is an inquiry outside of the
ease as now before us, it is neither necessary nor proper that
we should express any opinion upon the subject.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, with costs.

HOYT VS. SHELDEN, Ex'R OF THOMPSON, AND THE LONG ISLAND
RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. This court cannot review the proceedings of a State court, on the
ground that the judgment or decree violates the Federal Constitution, unless it appears from the record that the point was distinctly
raised in the court below.
2 The clause in the Constitution on which the party relies, and the right
claimed under it, must have been called to the attention of the
court, and the decision of the court, with the subject so before it,
must have been against the right claimed; otherwise no writ of
error will lie.
In error to the Superior Court of the city of Nhew Yoik.
This was a writ of error to the Superior Court of the city of

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Hfoyt vs. Shelden.

New York, "being possessed of the record and proceedings
upon a remittilur from the Court of Appeals of the State of
New York." It was a bill in equity, filed in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, by Jesse Hoyt, the plaintiff
in error, against Abraham G. Thompson, George B. Fisk, the
Long Island Railroad Company, and the Statutory Representatives of the State of Michigan. All the defendants except the
representatives of the State of Michigan demurred. The demurrers were argued before one of the judges of the Supreme
Court, who overruled them. From this decision the defendants appealed to the general term of the Supreme Court, when,
under a State statute the case was transferred to the Superior
Court of the city of New York, where the appeal was argued,
and the decision of the Supreme Court. overruled, the demurrers allowed, and the bill dismissed. From this decision the
plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment
of the Superior Court was reversed, and the demurrers overruled, but defendants had leave to answer. About this time
the defendant, Abraham G. Thompson, died, and Henry Shelden was qualified as his executor, and was made a party defendant. The Superior Court, on receiving the remittitur from
the Court of Appeals, rendered judgment for the plaintiff on
the demurrers, and ordered the defendants demurring to answer to the bill. Shelden and the Long Island Railroad Company filed their answers. Testimony was taken, and the court
made a decree for plaintiff. Shelden appealed from this decree of a single judge at a special term, to the general term of
the Superior Court, and obtained a reversal of it, with an order
for a new trial. From the decision of the general term the
plaintif Hoyt took the cause to the Court of Appeals, which
affirmed the judgment of the Superior Court, made it final
against plaintiff, as he had stipulated that it should be, and
remitted the record and proceedings to the Superior Court.
The Superior Court, on filing the remititur from the Court of
Appeals, ordered that final judgment be.rendered against the
plaintiff, and that his bill be dismissed. Thereupon plaintiff
sued out a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United
States to the Superior Court, in Which he made Shelden, as

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt vs. Shhden.

executor of Thompson; and the Long Island Ralroad Company,
defendants in errog. Pending this writ of error Shelden died,
and Edward G. Thompson, as his successor, and as administrator with the will annexed of Abraham G. Thompson, was
made a party by order of this court.
The power and jurisdiction of this court to review the proceedings of the State court was denied by the defendant's
counsel.
On the part of the plaintiff in error, it was contended that
by a. certain act of the New Jersey Legislature, and by the
record of a judicial proceeding in the Court of Chancery of the
same State, the title to the property in dispute was vested in
the persons under and through whom he claimed it, and that
the State court of New York in deciding against him, and dismissing his bill, refused to give full faith and credit to the reccords and judicial proceedings of the State of New Jersey, as
required by Art. IV, Sec. 1, of the Federal Constitution. The
right which he had under the Constitution being refused him
in the State court, his remedy was to reverse the proceeding
on a writ of error from this court.
The defendants' answer to this was, that no such question
had been raised in the State court. No claim of any right
under the Federal Constitution was asserted, nor was the attention of the court called to it in any manner whatever. It is
not enough that such a point might have been made. It must
appear that it was actually made.
Mr. Hoyt, of New York, for plaintiff in error.
Messs: .Blatchford and Stoughton, of New York, for Thompson's administrator.
Mr. De Forest, of New York, for the Long Island Railroad
Company.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. This being a writ of error directed to a State court, it is incumbent upon the plaintiff, in
order to give jurisdiction to this court, to show that one of the

DECEMIBER TERM, 1861.
Hoyt vs. Shelden.

questions enumerated in the twenty-fifth section of the act of
Congress of 1789, Ch.20, arose at the trial, and that a right he
claimed under the Constitution of the United States, or an act
of Congress, was decided against him.
In the argument here, he alleges that the construction and
effect of the first section of the fourth article of the Constitution was drawn in question, and the right to the property in
dispute, which he claimed under it, was decided against him.
The section referred to is in the following words:
"Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the
public acts, records, and judicial proceeding of every other
State. And the Congress may, by general laws, prescribe the
manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be'
proved, and the effect thereof."
And he now contends that, by virtue of the act of the Legislature of New Jersey, and the proceedings and decree of the
Court of Chancery of that State, and the sale by the receivers
under the authority of that court, as set forth in the bill of
complaint, the right to the property in controversy vested in
the vendees, under whom he claims title; and that the State
court, by deciding against him, refused to give full faith and
credit to the records and judicial proceedings in New Jersey,
as required by the clause in the Constitution above quoted.
But, in order to give this court the power to revise the judgnent of the State court on that ground, it must appear upon
the transcript, filed by the plaintiff in error, that the point on
which he relies was made in the New York court, and decided
against him; and that this section of the Constitution was
brought to the notice of the State court, and the right which
he now claims here claimed under it. The rule upon this subject is clearly and fully stated in 18 How., 515, Maxwelt vs.
.Newbold and others, as well as in many other cases to which it
is unnecessary to refer.
This provision of 'the Constitution is not referred to in the
plaintiff's bill of complaint in the State court, nor in any of the
proceedings there had. It is true, he sets out the act ofthe Legislature of New Jersey, the proceedings and decree of the Chancery Court of that State under it, and the sale of the property

SUPREME COURT.
'The Steamer St. Lawrence.

in dispute by the authority of the court, which, he alleges,
transferred the title to the vendee, under whom he claims, and
charges that the assignment set up by the defendants was fraudulent and void, for the reasons stated in his bill. But all of
the matters put in issue by the bill and answers, and decided

by the State court, were questions which depended for their
decision upon principles of law and equity, as recognised and
administered in the State of :New York, and without reference
to the construction or effect of any provision in the Constitution, or any act of Congress. This court has no appellate power
over the judgment of a State court pronounced in such a controversy, and this writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.

THE STEAMER ST. LAwRENCE-Meyer et al., Claimants; Tapper

et al., Libellants.
1. The jurisdiction of the Federal courts in admiralty and maritime
aaes is given in general terms by the Constitution, and the extent
of it is to be ascertained by a reasonable and just construction of
the words used when taken in connection with the whole instrument.
2. No State can enlarge i.t, nor can an act of Congress or rule of court
make it broader than the judicial power may determine to be its
true limits.
3. Congress may prescribe the forms and mode of proceeding in the
tribunals it establishes to carry this power into execution.
4. Brief history of the legislation of Congress upon this subject.
5. Congress has given to this court the authority to alter and change
the forms and i odes of proceeding, and it was under this authority
that the 12th rule of admiralty practice was made in 1844, which
permitted a proceeding in rem wherever the State law gave a lien.
6. It was by virtue of the same authority that the rule was changed in
1858, and the privilege denied to a suitor of taking out process in
?em, on the mere ground that State law made his claim a lien.
7. But the abrogation of the rule of 1844 by that of 1858 dies not
imply that the court had become convinced, in the interval, that it
wanted jurisdiction in cases to which the former rule applied. The

