DECEiMBER TERM, 1861.
Conway el al. vs. TayZor's Executor.

to confirm the titles under which the defendants claim, its
want of correctness cannot now be a reason for their forfeiture.

Judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouriaffirmed.*

CONWAY ET AL.

vs.

TAYLOIt's EXECUTOI.

1. A ferry franchise on the Ohio is grantable, under the laws of Kentucky, to a citizen of that State who is a riparian owner on the
Kentucky side; and it is not necessary to the validity of the grant
that the grantee should have a right of landing on the other side or
beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
2 The concurrent action of two States is not necessary to- the grant of
a ferry franchise on a river that divides them. A ferry is in respect
to the landing, not to the water; the water may be to one, and the
ferry to another.
3. After a citizen of Kentucky has become the grantee of a ferry franchise, and his riparian rights have been repeatedly held sufficient to
sustain the grant by the highest legal tribunal of the State, the
same question is not open here; the adjudications of the State courts
are a rule of property and a rule of decision which this court is
bound to rccognise.
4. A license to establish a ferry which does not extend across the river
may be less valuable for that reason, but not less valid as far as it
goes.
5. The laws of Kentucky relating to ferries on the Ohio and Mississippi
are like the laws of most, if not all, the other States bordering on
those rivers: they do not leave the rights of the public unprotected,
and are not unconstitutional. The franchises which the State
grants are confined to the transit from her own shores, and she leaves
other States to regulate the same rights on their side.
6. A ferry franchise is property, and as sacred as other property.
7. An injunction to protect the exclusive privilege to a ferry does not
conflict or interfere with the right of a boat to carry passengers or

* Five other cases or writs of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri, all depending on the legal prinelple solved by this opinion of Mr. Justice Grier, were
determiz.ed at the same time.

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

goods in the ordinary prosecution of commerce without the regularity or purpose of ferry trips; that remedy applies only to onewhich is run openly and avowedly as a ferry-boat.
8. The authority to establish and regulate ferries is not included in the
power of the Federal Government to "regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States and with the Indian tribes."
9. The authority to regulate ferries has never been claimed by the General Government, has always been exercised by the States, never by
Congress, and is undoubtedly a part of the immense mass of undelegated powers reserved to the States respectively.
Appeal from the Court of Appeals for the State of Kentucky.
James Taylor, executor of James Taylor, deceased, and Robert Air, filed their bill in equity in the Circuit Court of Campbell county, Kentucky, against Peter Conway, John J. Simmons, John Sebree, Ernest Klinschmidt, Bernard Delmar,
John Schenburg, Thomas Dodsworth, Daniel Wolff, and the
Common Council of the city ofNewport. The prayer of the bill
was, that defendants might be enjoined from invading certain
ferry rights claimed by plaintiffs as set forth in their bill. An
account was also prayed' for, and a decree against the defendants, in respect of the moneys received by them in violation of
the rights of complainants. The defendants filed answers to
the bill, and after the taking of much testimony and hearing
of the cause, a decree was passed for plaintiff in accordance
with the prayer of their bill. From this decree defendants appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky, where
an order was entered modifying the decree of the court below,
but still adverse to defendants. The cause was then removed
to the Supreme Court of the United States upon a writ of error
under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
All the leading facts of the case are stated in the opinion of
Mr. Justice Swayne.
Mr.Stanbery, of Ohio, for appellants. In considering the
nature and extent of the title set up by the plaintiffs below we
have only to look to their ferry license from Kentucky, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

605

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

their coasting license from the United States. And as their
case is founded on an exclusive privilege to which the United
States license does not extend, they must be confined wholly
to their ferry license. This, by their own showing, is a ferry
license from the Kentucky side to the Ohio side, not from the
Ohio side also to the Kentucky side; and although they ask an
injunction against running our boat "between Cincinnati and

Newport," yet the decree below only finds the ferry right to
extend from Kentucky to Ohio, and nof from and to both sides
of the river; and the injunction is accordingly limited against
transportation by our boatfrom the Kentucky shore. The decree of the Court of Appeals finds that the place of landing of
the Commodore, our boat, on the Kentucky side, is at a public
landing; that the right of wharfage at that place belongs to
the city of Newport; and that the owners of the Commodore
had a right, under the city of Newport, to land their boat at
that place.
Here, then, we have as established facts, a navigable river
dividing two States, a public wharf, and a vessel navigating
the river under, a license from the United States, and a decree,
notwithstanding the license, which forbids that.vessel to transport persons or property from that landing across the river to
the opposite shore.
Whilst this injunction remains, a single voyage or trip by
our boat, carrying persons or property, from our wharf in Kentucky to the Ohio side, is forbidden; our license affords no
protection to us for any sort of transportation from that landing across the river. If, after this decree, the Commodore
should be engaged in commerce between Pittsburg and Cincinnati and intermediate ports, and should touch at Newport,
she might land passengers and freight, but could not receive
passengers or freight to be transported to Cincinnati; so that,
by this decree, her right under the license of the United States
is to that extent annulled. The decree, therefore, is erroneous
in the extent to which it goes, and on that ground it should
be reversed.
But the license of the Commodore should have protected her
in making regular trips as a ferry boat between Cincinnati and

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

Newport. The only ground upon which she is prohibited from
doing so is that such transportation is in violation of a ferry
franchise granted to appellees by the State of Kentucky. No
such ferry franchise'exists. It cannot be denied that the license
of the Commodore gives her the right to the free navigation of
the river to and from all the ports upon it, at least until some
paramount and exclusive right is shown on the other side.
The appellees accordingly set up an exclusive and paramount
right in virtue of a fer.ry franchise. They deduce this franchise
from the State of Kentucky alone, and under that grant they
claim in their bill an exclusive right to carry on all the transpoitation across the river from and to both sides. The Circuit
Court of Campbell county sustained the'ir franchise to the full
extent; but in the Court of Appeals the franchise was limited
to a ferry franchise from Kentucky to Ohio, and denied as to
a ferry franchisefrbm Ohio to Kentucky.
Keatucky possesses no exclusive jurisdiction even to the middle of the river, and has no power to grant an exclusive right
over amy part of it; the compact makes all jurisdiction over
the river co'wcurrent, and this compact, by adoption, has become a part of the law of the United States. Wheeling Bridge
case, (13 . Jw., 518.)
It is said that "a corporation can have no legal existence
out of the sovereignty by 'vhich it is created." Aug. and
Ames on Corps., Sec. 161. And this is equally true of all other
franchises.
Take the case of a franchise for a toll-bridge across the Ohio,
only authorized by a grant from Kentucky, and to make the
supposed case parallel with the case at bar, let the Kentucky
franchise only authorize the bridge and transportation over it
from Kentucky to Ohio; could such a franchise be sustained
or pleaded in restriction of any common right, lawfully exercisable, if no valid franchise existed?
The boat was engaged, under the authority of the United
States, in carrying on lawful commerce, over a navigable river,
between Ohio and Kentucky. In opposition to thisprnmafacie
right, the appellees set up an exclusive and paramount right to
carry on all the commerce across the river from Kentucky to

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.
Conway et al. vs. TaylorAs Executor.

Ohio, at the same place, and so far to forbid and restrict our
right. Admitting, for the purpose of the argument on this
point, that a ferry franchise would have such effect, we say no
such franchise can exist by authority from Kentucky alone,
and none other is set up by the appellees. Nor can it be said,
that aside from a ferry franchise, Kentucky can, under her sovereign power, lay an embargo upon this commerce along the
shore of the river within her jurisdiction. That power was
surrendered to the United States.
But if the appellees had shown a valid ferry franchise over
the Ohio river, the running of defendants' boat, even if engaged in the business of ferriage, could not be enjoined by the
appellees. She was engaged in commerce between the two
States, over a navigable river, for transportation of persons and
things across such a river is commerce, under whatever name it
may be carried on.
Now-if we admit that the business of ferriage, when applied
to such commerce, is subject to police regulations by one or
both the States, there was no valid ground upon the footing
of their franchise upon which the appellees were entitled to
enjoin this boat.
The statutes of Kentucky recognise what is called a ferry
right on the Ohio river as a riparian right of the owner of the
coast bordering on the river, and the franchise to exercise this
right is grantable to such riparian proprietor exclusively. None
but a resident of Kentucky can have a ferry grant; the riparian proprietor has an exclusive right to the grant; no new ferry
can be established within one mile and a half of an established
ferry, except where an impassable stream intervenes, or in
front of a town, and then not within four hundred yards of the

established ferry.
Under the influence of this exclusive grant the commerce
across this great river has been embarrassed for more than a
quarter of a century; not merely in so far as the citizens of
Ohio are concerned, but also to the detriment of the citizens
of Kentucky. As early as the year 1830 attempts were made,
on the Kentucky side of the river, towards relief; in that year
the trustees of Newport applied for the grant of another ferry.

SUP1EIvIE COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

The case is reported in 6 J. J. Marshall, 134. The application
was refused on the ground that Taylor owned the entire river
front at Newport, and, as such riparian proprietor, was exclusively entitled to all ferry rights belonging to it. The court say:
"It does not certainly appear, whether or not the public interest requires the establishment of another ferry; but as the parties have waived that question, we will consider it on the
ground on which they have placed it. That ground was, the
ownership of the river bank in front of Newport, and it was
held to be in Taylor; so that application failed.
In the year 1850 the Common Council of Newport made
another application for a ferry. This application, after being
granted by the County Court, was resisted by Taylor, and
taken to the Court of Appeals. It is reported in 11 B. Monroe, 361.
The application failed. This case settled, the question as to
any second ferry from Newport; and it is a conclusive construction of the Kentucky statutes as to ferries across the Ohio,
that, no matter what may be the demands of public convenience, no new ferry can ever be established there without the
consent of Taylor or his heirs. It surely does not require argument to show that such an interdict upon commercial intercourse over the Ohio river, under whatever' name it may be
established, is an unlawful regulation.
This interdict, as we have seen, was established upon the
footing of an exclusive ferry license, and an exclusive riparian
ferry right. But what foundation supports these ferry privileges; what gives them birth and calls them into exercise?
Simply the public convenience-nothing else. The proprietary ferry right which Kentucky undertakes to confer upon her
citizens who own land on the Ohio river, cannot be exercised
without a license from the State. It is a right in which the
public are concerned, and no license is given to the riparian
proprietor until the public convenience requires a ferry.
The foundation of the grant, therefore, is the public convenience. This is universal law, as well as Kentucky law, for
ferries are publiei juris. When, then, public convenience, in
aid of which one ferry is established, in the progress of time

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Conway el al.vs. Taylor's Executor.

requires a second ferry within a mile of the first, how can it be
said that this public convenience shall be baffled and frustrated
by the prior grant? It may be that a second ferry is more
imperatively necessary, within that distance, than was the first;
and yet the very grant, made solely to subserve the public
convenience-not for private profit, but for public profit-becomes the instrument to oppose and to frustrate the very end
for which it was established.
It is true, the court in the case quoted indicate one remedy,
and that is, an application to the Legislature of Kentucky for
another ferry. We do not know what might be the result of
such an application, nor is it at all material to inquire or speculate about. We are just now only concerned as to the ferry
regulations which the Legislature has made, and not as to
those which may be made. If we show a State regulatio '
which is repugnant to a Federal right, our relief is not to b is
sought from the grace and favor of the State, but by an appe A
to the Federal authority.
This case was brought to test the validity of these con
mercial restrictions. The Commodore, with a license from tI. o
United States, and with a lease from the city of Newport 11)
use the public wharf at the foot of Monmouth street as a
place of landing, embarked in the business of transportatioa
across the river. No proceedings were instituted against h(r
by the State of Kentucky, or under public authority; but she
has been enjoined at the instance of private persons upon the
grouna of certain ferry regulations, which in effect give them
a monopoly of all the navigation and commerce from the entire river front of the city of Newport. The Court of Appeals,
says that our voyage from Ohio to the public landing is lawful. No ferry franchise or riparian right is allowed to prevent
that sort of transportation, because Kentucky has chosen tot
that extent to admit the public right of navigation. But as.
to the return voyage our boat must go empty; not a person
or thing can be taken back. What is called by the Court of
Appeals an interdict forbids it.

"To this extent," says the

court, "the State claims jurisdiction for the protection and
preservation of her own established ferries, and by virtue of
VOL. i

.

39

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

her sovereignty over her own territory, on which, in the eases
prohibited, persons and property must be landed from or received for transportation across the river." From this language one would infer that the court had reference to a subject-matter purely of State cognizance and regulation-a subject-matter over which, in virtue of her sovereignty, the State
possessed absolute control and power to establish regulations
looking exclusively to her own grants and the privileges and
franchises created by herself.
We see, however, that this State sovereignty is not claimed
by the. court to extend beyond the Kentucky shore, but is con.
fined to her "own territory, on which, in the cases prohibited,
persons~and property must be landed." But are we to infer
from this that Kentucky, in virtue of her sovereignty over the
Kentucky coast on the Ohio river, can make any sort of regulation, however much it may interfere with navigation and
commerce? or that she can establish, according to her own
supreme discretion, exclusive grants and privileges which
shall interdict all other commerce from her shores? What
would the navigation of the Ohio be worth if such embargoes
could be laid along the coast? and especially on what a tenure
should we hold the public right of commerce and intercourse
between the States? These great public rights do not come
under State sovereignty even when their exercise requires the
use of her soil. This court has said in Tnrner vs. Boston, (7
How., 283,) that commerce does not stop at the boundary line
of a State, nor is it confined to acts. done on the water. It
extends to such acts done on the land as interfere with, obstruct, or prevent its due exercise.
It is further said by the Court of Appeals, that "The right
thus claimed by the State over its own territory o1i the river,
a.nd for the protection and benefit of its own grantees of the
ferry privilege, it has not at any time denied to the States on
the other side." In.other words, as Kentucky requires a landing on the Ohio side to make her own ferries available, she
therefore concedes to the Ohio ferry a similar privilege of
landing on the Kentucky shore; but beyond this privilege of
transportation from* Ohio and disembarkation on Kentucky

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

soil, no further privilege is given to the Ohio ferryman. Here
Kentucky does not regulate, but forbids. She does not say to
the Ohio ferryman, you shall provide a safe boat; keep your
landings in repair; run at convenient intervals; and make reasonable clharges: all these would be regulations; but she absolutely forbids. If Ohio, under the useful power of regulation,
had pursued a similar policy, what intolerable annoyance
would have followed. Then, on both sides of the river, exclusive ferry franchises and exclusive riparian rights would
bring all the commerce and intercourse across the river to
this singular condition-that each ferry could transport only
in one direction; and that as half the trips of each ferry would
be without freight or passengers, and therefore without compensation, the charge for the transportation one way must be
so increased as to cover the expense of the return trip. Such
a regulation just doubles the charge upon the public. By
means of these regulations, Kentucky has in fact mofiopolized
all the commerce betweei Cincinnati and Newport, for no
ferry can ever be run from the Ohio shore while this interdict
upon the return voyage remains.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky has not always been so
clear upon the point of Kentucky sovereignty in the matter
of these exclusive ferry regulations. Vide Arnold vs. Shields?
/
(5 Dana, 18.)
of
the
compact
between Virginia and Kentu.cky,
Now, aside
which recognises a concurrence of jurisdiction over the Ohio
river in the States which lie upon its border, the same result
would follow if the exclusive jurisdiction of Kentucky extended, as has been sometimes argued, to low-water mark on
the Ohio shore. Such exclusive jurisdiction is subordinate to
the intercourse and commerce across this river between the
two States, and this common right is secured not only by the
compact, which has become by adoption a statute of the United States, but by the Federal Constitution.
We maintain, therefore, that the statute of Kentucky securing to the appellees an exclusive right, not merely to transport
persons and things at their ferry, but to prevent all ferriage or
transportation along the river shore, for a prescribed distance,

SUPIEME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's E Yxcutor.

above and below, under any circumstances and without any
regard to the public necessity or convenience, is unconstitutional; and that there was error in the decree of the Court of
Appeals, in holding this enactment as paramount to the right
of the Commodore under her, license from the United States.
Gibbons vs. Ogden, (9 Wheaton, 1.)
The Wheeling Bridge case (12 How., 630) settles principles
which must control the case at bar.
1. The bridge belonged to the class of subjects which appertain to State regulation, for it was entirely within the State
of Virginia, both abutments being on the soil of that State.
2. In authorizing the bridge the State of Virginia had made
such regulations concerning the structure as were deemed in
her discretion no obstruction to navigation.
3. Navigation in respect to all vessels was unimpeded, except that, as to six or seven large steamers, the height of the
bridge was an obstruction in certain stages of water.
Notwithstanding all this, the bridge, so erected under State
regulation, was declared by this court to conflict with the commerce and navigation of the river.
Furthermore, the assertion of this right was not founded.
upon any special authority from the United States, in the form
of a coasting license, but upon the common right to the free
navigation of the river; and, consequently, the right of the
owners of the Commodore to free navigation, uninterrupted
by obstructions, embargoes, or exclusions, under State authority, would have been perfect even without the coasting license,
and its denial by the State judiciary would authorize the intervention of this court.
Mr. Stevenson, of Kentucky, for appellees. We shall maintain for the appellees, that the statutes of Kentucky establishing and regulating ferries over the Ohio and Mississippi rivers,
within the Commonwealth of Kentucky, constitute a legitimate
exercise of State sovereignty, are clearly within the reserved
powers of the State, and are not inconsistent with, or antagonistic to, the Constitution of the United States, or any statute
passed by Congress in pursuance thereof; and that if the es-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

613

Conway et al. vs. Taylors Executor.

tablishment and regulation of ferries over the Ohio and Mississippi rivers were conceded to be commercial regulations,
within the scope of Federal authority, the State statutes would
still be valid, until Congress had exercised its power of regulating ferries over these rivers by direct legislation, which has
not been done.
It may be safely affirmed, that there is scarcely a State in
the Confederacy, lyfig upon a river, which has not, from the
adoption of the Constitution, and before that period to the
present time, claimed and exercised, without question, the exclusive right of establishing and regulating ferries over the
rivers thus constituting their boundary.
So long an exercise of sovereign power by States, withoutdispute, during the entire period of a generation or more, of
those who framed the Constitution, and were most active and
distinguished in the leading cases in which its construction
was to receive a permanent impress, is a fact which, while of
itself it cannot enlarge the reserved rights of the States, affords
the most persuasive proof of the popular acquiescence in the
justice of the claim, and the propriety of its exercise by th
•respective States, rather than by the Federal Government.
This long and hitherto unquestioned right of the State governments to establish and regulate ferries has not been confined to rivers like the Ohio, Mississippi, Cumberland, Tennessee, Susquehannah, Potomac, and the Delaware, but anterior to the adoption of the Federal Constitution, and continuously since the States have exercised the exclusive jurisdiction
of establishing ferries over our largest lakes separating States;
and New York established, at an early day, a ferry over
Niagara river, the boundary line between the United States
and Canada, and its judicial action in this particular was upheld by an emDinent judge now upon this bench. People vs.
.Babcockl, (11 Wendell; "587;) Gibbons vs. Ogden, (9 Wheat., 1.)
When the Revolution took place the people of each State became sovereign, and in that character held the absolute right
to all their navigable waters, and the soils under them, for,
their own common use, subject only to the rights since surrendered by the States to the General Government. Ilartinvs.
I
T'addell, (16 Peters, 410.)

SUPREME COUR1T.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

The Government of the United States is one of limited powers. It can exercise authority over no subjects, except those
which have been delegated to it. Ntew Orleans vs. The United
States, (11 Peters, 735;) Pollard's Lessee vs. H~agan and others,
{8 How., 223.)
That the Ohio river was wholly within the limits of Virginia
up to 1st March, 1784, cannot be doubted. Upon that day
she granted to the United States "all the right, title, and
claim, as well of soil as of jurisdiction, which this Commonwealth hath to the territory or tract of country within the
limits of the Virginia charter, situate, lying, or being to the
northwest of the river Ohio," &c.
This language, not less by its terms than by the judicial
construction uniformly given to it in Federal and State courts,
made the northwestern margin of the Ohio river the southern
boundary of the territory described in this leed of cession to
the United States.
Virginia retained in full and absolute ownership all which
was not disposed of; and the entire river Ohio, and every portion of it, remained her property, and subject to herjurisdiction,
and so continues, except so far as this right has been alienated"
and parted with. The title of Virginia was admitted by Congrcss to the territory ceded by its resolution of 6th September,
1780, asking for its cession to aid in the accomplishment of
the Revolution, by the act of 13th September, 1783, declaring
the terms on which the cession would be accepted, by resolution of 1st March, 1784, announcing the acceptance of the deed
of cession, by the resolution of July 7, 1786, requesting Virginia to revise and so to alter such deed of cession as to empower
the United States to make a division of the territory granted
unto the proposed new States, and especially by the ordinance
of July 13, 1787, in which it is declared that "there shall be
formed in the said territory not less than three, nor more than
five States, and the boundaries of the States, as soon as Virginia shall alter her deed of cession, and consent to the same,
shall become fixed," &c.
These various acts wou'd seem to. constitute an estoppel on
the United States, and upon Ohio claiming under that title.
So, too, this court held on this question. "But when, as in

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

615

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Exector.

this case, one State is the original proprietor, and grants the
territory on the one side only, it retains the river within its
dominion, and the new created State extends only to the
river. The river, h6wever, is its boundary." Handly vs. Anthony
et al., (5 Wheaton, 379.) It is equally unquestionable that,
under the various acts of the Legislature of Virginia and of
Congress, Kentucky, for the whole extent that her soil touches
the Ohio river, has succeeded to the territorial rights and
sovereignty of Virginia, subject only to the -restrictions and
conditions embraced in these statutes, none of which interfere with the question now in issue. The extent of Kentucky upon the Ohio river is as clearly the same, and her jurisdiction and her water-line the same, as had been that of
Virginia prior to the deed of cession of Virginia to the United
States in 1784.
The boundary between Virginia and Kentucky is an interior line, except where they cross the Ohio river.
Congress, by an act approved 4th February, 1791, (1st Statutes
at Large, 189,) consented that the said district of Kentucky,
within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and
according to its actual boundary on the 18th December, 1789,
should, upon the 1st day of June, 1792, be formed into a new
State, and as such be received and admitted on that day into
the Union..
This act of 18th December, 1789, is what is known as the compact with Virginia. There was no State formed out of the
territory ceded by Virginia to the United States at the passage by Congress, on 4tl4 February, 1791, of the act admitting
Kentucky. The United States was the sole proprietor and
coterminous owner of the territory north of the Ohio .river,
and is bound by the consent of Congress that Kentucky should
be formed into a State, according to its actual boundaries on
18th December, 1789.
The solemnity of a compact by Congress is thus given to
this boundary line, as it existed in Decemlier, 1789, as that
which separated Kentucky from the Northwestern Territory.
The subsequent admission of Ohio, Indiana, and 'Illinois
into the Union, could not abridge or modify the terms of this

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

compact by varying the boundary line without the consent of
-Kentucky.
Kentucky has always claimed that the counties within her
territory, calling for the river Ohio as a boundary line, extended
to the low-water mark on the northwestern side of the Ohio
river. Church vs. Chambers, (3 Dana, 278;) .lThcFall vs. Commonwealth, (2 Metcalfe, Ky. R., 394;) Stanton's Ky. Revised
Statutes, 211; 4 J. J. Marshall, 158; .McFarlandvs. .ifcKnight,
(6 Ben. Mon., 510.)
And that claim seems to have been fully sustained by this
court, in the case of Randly vs. Anthony et al., already cited.
The sovereignty of Kentucky is, therefore, vested to lowwater mark on the northern bank of the Ohio river.
To this extent its jurisdiction is as unbounded as over any
other portion of its territory; subject, however, to any limitation or restriction of the Constitution of the United States, or
the laws of Congress passed in pursuance thereof.
We concede, that, in the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, the free navigation of the Ohio river is guarantied.
The ferry statutes of Kentucky are, it is submitted, in no
way inconsistent with the free use and navigation of the Ohio
river as a national highway.
The control by States of ferries and ferry landings are clearly
police regulations.
It is claimed by the other side that the powers delegated to
Congress "to regulate commerce among the States," is an implied restriction upon the jurisdiction of the States over the
C)hio and similar rivers, and all State laws granting exclusive
ferry privileges, upoa such streams, are upon this ground null
,and void.
To test the truth of this assumption, let the consequences
which must follow its adoption be exhibited.
The right to a ferry does not at all depend upon the right
co, or property in, the waters over which it passes. The
right of ferry is a franchise, consisting in the right to transport persons, carriages, vehicles, &c., for hire, and therefore
,the property of waters may be in one, and the right of ferlT in
ancther. 15 Pickering's Rep., 253; 2 Hilliard on Real Prop-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Conway e al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

erty, 51.' Ferrymen have the same common right to navigate
these waters with their boats, as fishermen, coasters, or shipmasters, with their boats and vessels, and the United States
with her navies. The franchise of a ferry does not confer or enlarge, take away or impair the right of navigation.
15 Pickering, 253. A ferry must include the right to land.
Tomlin's Law Dictionary, "Ferry ;" 7 Grattan's Va. Rep., 212;
Peter vs. Kendall, (6 Barn. & Cress, 301.) It is not necessary for
the grantee of a ferry to own the land on both sides of the
water. People vs. Babcock, (11 Wend., 587;) 15 Pickering, 254;
7th Grattan, 212; 6th Barn. & Cress., 302. So far from it,
ferries between New York and New Jersey, and between New
Jersey and Pennsylvania, have existed from a remote period.
Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, Illinois, Missouri, and Iowa have
established ferries over the Ohio and Mississippi rivers from
their respective shores, without question of right, and for a
long period. Chosen Freeholders of H udson Co. vs. State, (4
Zabriskie, 723;) 10th Barbour, 237-8; Bowman's Devisees
Burnlcy vs. Watk7en et al., (2 McLean, 377;) Cincinnati vs.
White's Lessee, (6 Peters, 431;) Walker vs. Taylor, (5 How., 64;)
.les vs. St. Clair Co., (8 How., 569;) Fanning vs. Gregoire,
(1.6 How., 524;) Phelps vs. Bloomington, (1st Iowa (Green) R.,
498.)
Where a State grants lands, it may impose restrictions, which
shall be deemed proper, on the grantee; but where the grant
is without restrictions the grantee holds the land and all the
appurtenances which belong to it.
Some of the rights which appertain to the soil are of a public nature, and the uses of them are, consequently, subjects of
legal control. Ferriage and wharfage belong to this class.
That these and kindred subjects of purely internal police
were not, and could not have been, by the Constitution of the
United States, committed to the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, seems evident from the impossibility which would attend
the regulation of such subjects by the Federal Government.
There are twenty-seven counties on the Ohio and Mississippi
rivers in Kentucky, containing, perhaps, 300 ferries. They are
judicial and legislative grants, within prescribed distances, to

SUPREMTE COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

the grantees of the soil. The statutes regulating theta impose
certain conditions, and exact of the grantees proper accommodations, skilful ferrymen, and safe boats and good landings.
Bond and security are required of the grantees for a compliance with all the requisitions of the statute. And for this the
State grants exclusive licenses, and regulates the rates of
ferriage.
It is essential to the public accommodation of the citizens
of Kentucky that these ferries and their landings should be
constantly kept up. It is essential to the intercourse between
the States. How could the Federal Government establish or
undertake any system for the establishment or regulation of
these ferries and landings? How could Congress know anything of the wants of a ferry in the various counties in Kentucky, bordering on the two rivers, for a distance of eight hundred miles? How can the Federal Government exercise jurisdiction over the landings without acquiring title to the soil ?
If, however, these ferries, thus granted upon Kentucky soil,
by the sovereign power of the Commonwealth, are regulations
of commerce, and, as such, wholly within the power of Congress, the jurisdiction of the General Government must be extended and become equally exclusive over all the landings and
wharves within the States from which these ferries are established.
All State laws establishing and regulating ferries, wharves,
and public landings, within their own territorial limits, become
direct usurpations upon the exclusive power of Congress to
regulate commerce, and it follows that the admitted, constantly
exercised, exclusive power of the States to develop their internal resources, control their roads and public rivers, protect
their fisheries, establish health and inspection laws, in a word,
to guard and protect the rights, property, and happiness of its
people, perish under the construction which 6rects this colossus
of consolidation upon the reserved rights of the States.
This argument, that would include ferries within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress rather than within the police
powers of the States, rests on the fallacy that all navigation is
commerce.

DECEMIBER TERIM, 1861.
Conway et aL. vs. Taylor's Execulor.

Commerce may, and does under certain circumstances, include navigation, and navigatioA is certainly one of the means
by which commerce is carried on.
It may be conceded, too, that the power to regulate navigation is the power to prescribe rules in conformity with which
navigation must be carried on. It extends to the persons who
conduct it as well as to the instruments used. 12 Howard,
815-16.
It was the traffic and intercourse with foreign nations aniong
the States and with the Indian tribes which was comprehended
by the word commerce as used in the Constitution. This construction is supported because it is essential to reconcile and
maintain harmony in leading and well established decisions of
this court. City of New York vs. uin, (11 Peters, 131;) Gibbons vs. Ogden, (9 Wheat., 1;) Brown vs. State of Maryland, (12
Wheat., 419;) License Cases, (5 How., 589; ib., 627-8;) Rolmes
vs. Jennison, (14 Peters, 614.)
The Federal Government could exercise no jurisdiction over
ferries, because "the power to regulate commerce," if exclusive, confers upon Congress no power to regulate the "wharf
or common" at Nqewport from which this ferry is-granted. New
Orleans vs. U. S., (10 Peters, 736;) Corfield vs. oryel, (4 Wash.
C. R., 379.) It has been expressly decided that whatever soil
below low.water mark is the subject of exclusive ownership
belongs to the State on whose maritime border and within
whose territory it lies, subject to any lawful grants of that soil
by the State, or the sovereign power which governed its territory before the Declaration of Independence. Den vs. Jersey
Co., (15 How., 212;) Martin vs. Waddell, (16 Pet., 867;) Pollard's Lessees vs. -agan, (3 fow., 212.)
And this doctrine applies with greater force to the Ohio
river, which was owned entirely by Virginia, and is still held
by 'Virginia and Kentucky within their territorial limits, subject to the limitation before referred to.
But it is held by the State not only in subordination to, but
in trust for, the enjoyment of certain public rights, among
which the right of taking fish and of establishing ferries,
building wharves, &c. The Commonwealth holds the property

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.
Df this soil for the conservation of these public rights of ferriage, fishery, &c., and, under its reserved rights, may regulate
the same. From the ownership and legislative power of the
State over it, not less than from its duty to preserve unimpaired
the public uses and private rights in which it is held, it may
legally do any act or forbid any'act which would render the
right less valuable, tend to its destruction, or prevent its enjoyment. Vattel, Book I, Oh. 20, § 246; Corfield vs. Coryell,
(4 Wash. C. R., 376;) Smith vs. State of i31aryland,(18 Howard,

S. 0. R., 75.)
Thejuspublicum of navigation and free intercourse cannot
limit thejus privatum which a State has in the soil covered by
its waters, including fish of all descriptions, and its right to its
shores. Smith vs. State of Maryland, (18 Howard, 74;) Corfield
vs. oryell, (4Wash. 0. R., 379-80.)
It has been expressly held that the reserved right of the
States to establish and reff'ulate ferries upon the waters separating them from other States is not inconsistent with the
power on the part of Congress to regulate commerce. Babcock
vs. State, (11 Wend., 590;) Fanningvs. Gregoire,(16 How., 534.)
If the establishment and regulation of ferries upon the Ohio
and Mississippi rivers be not within the reserved rights of the
States, still, as such statutes are clearly essential to preserve
the peace and protect the public and private interests within
the limits of such States, this court would uphold and maintain these laws as the exercise of a concurrent power on the
part of the State, till the General Government found it expedient to legislate, or until it became apparent that such State
action was in direct conflict with the acts of Congress upon
the same subject-matter. Sturges vs. Crowningshield,(4 Wheat.,
196;) Wilson vs. The Black Bird Creek Mfarsh Co., (2 Peters,
245;) Prigg vs. Pennsylvania, (16 Peters, 539;) New York vs.
Milne, (11 Peters, 103;) H[olmes vs. Jennison, (14 Peters, 540;)
15 Peters, 589.
It is now well settled that steam ferry-boats are not within
the provision of the acts of 1793 for the enrolment and licensing of vessels, or of the act of 1838. The United States vs.
S eam F erry Boat "Win. Pope," (Newberry's Admiralty Rep.,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

621

Conway et aZ.vs. Taylor's Executor.

256;) The Steamboat James Morrison, (ib., 241;) "Ottawa," (1
Newberry, 536.)
If the act of 18th February, 1793, for enrolling and licensing vessels, or the two azts amendatory thereto, passed 7th
July, 1838, (5 Stat. at Large, 304,) and 30th August, 1852, do
not include ferries and steam ferry-boats, then, whatever the
extent of Federal power, as there has been no legislation by
Congress upon the subject, it follows, no conflict arises between
Federal and State jurisdiction, and the ferry statute of Kentucky will be upheld.
Many of the State laws regulating vessels in ports and harbors, appointing harbor-masters, erecting wharves, regulating
cargoes and ballast, places of anchorage, prescribing rules for
the navigation of our largest rivers and lakes, are strong illustratiols of the concurrent power of the States with the General Government, even in matters of commerce, until there is
a direct antagonism. Cooley vs. The Board of Wardens of Philadelphia, (12 Howard, 311;) The "John Gray" vs. The "James
.Frazer," (21 Howard, 184;) Fitch vs. Livingston, (4 Sandford,
493;) 1 Parker, C. C. R., 659; Groves vs. Slaughter, (15 Peters,
509-574;) Corfield vs. Coryell, (4 Wash. C. C. R., 371;) HYolmes
vs. Jennison, (14 Peters, 594;) 18 Connecticut Rep., 500.
State laws have always been upheld by this court, except in
cases wher they were in conflict, or were adjudged by the
court to be in conflict, with the act of Congress. Sennot et al.
vs. Davenport, (22 How., 244;) 2 Woodberry's Writings, 221;
Woodberry & Minot, iR., 401-451; 12 Wheaton, 441; 3 Howard, 230; .Milnor vs. -RailroadCompany, (6 Am. L. R., 9.)
James Taylor, as the owner and patentee in 1787 of the land
on which the town of Newport was located, became vested
with all the riparian rights of fishery, of ferry, &c. The State
could not directly or indirectly divest him of any one of these
rights, except by a constitutional exercise of the power of eminent domain. Bowman & Burnley vs. Walker, (2 McLean, 382;)
Thurman vs. Morrison, (14 Ben. Mon., 367.) Being thus seized
of the land and all its riparian rights, he entered into a contract
with the State, by which he surrendered one hundred and
eighty acres of .thisground for the town, and the Legislature

SUPIREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

ratified his reservation of all other rights, especially an exclusive right of ferry from the entire space in front of Newport.
6 J. J. Marshall, 134.
After this contract was ratified, it was beyond the control
of the State or Federal Government. Walker vs. Taylor, (5
How., 64;) 10 Peters, 662; 2 McLean, 882; 6 Wheaton, 579.
This franchise of a ferry extended to the ontire esplanade
in front of said town, and has been run by Taylor, as grantee

of the patentee and proprietor, since 1799, subject to the conditions which the ferry laws impose. He may be required to
run one or more boats, but his right to the entire franchise extends to every part of this wharf or esplanade. 6 J. J. Marshall, 134; 11 Ben. Monroe, 861; 16 Ben. Monroe, 699.
All the right of wharfage has been decided to be in the city
of Newport; it is held in express servitude to his superior and
exclusive right of ferry.
The city of Newport can grant no greater title than it possesses; consequently, can neither lease nor convey any part of
this public esplanade for the purpose of injuring or lessening
the superior claim of Taylor to the exclusive ferry franchise,
from every part of the public esplanade.
This right is upheld and preserved by the Federal and State
constitutions. It has been sanctioned by the Legislature and
the courts of Kentucky, as vested and exclusive.
This court will follow the decision of the court below, if the
franchise of ferry, and laws regulating and establishing it, are
not, as we have attempted to show, in no manner inconsistent
with the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. The appellees filed their bill in
equity in the Circuit Court of Campbell county, Kentucky,
seeking thereby to enjoin the appellants from invading the
ferry rights claimed by them as set forth in their bill, and also
praying for an account and a decree against the appellants in
respect of the moneys received by them in violation of the alleged rights of the complainants. The appellants answered,
proofs were taken, and the case brought to hearing.
The Circuit Court of Campbell county entered a decree

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

623

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

against the appellants. They removed the cause to the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky. That court modified the decree of
the court below, but also decreed against them. They thereupon brought the cause to this court by a writ of error under
the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789. It is now presented here for adjudication.
The case made by the pleadings and proofs is substantially
as follows:
On the 29th of April, 1787, James Taylor, of Virginia, received from that State a patent for 1,500 acres of land lying
upon the Ohio and Licking rivers, at the confluence of those
streams, and above the mouth of the latter.
In 1792, James Taylor, the patentee, by his agent, Hubbard
Taylor, laid out the town of Newport, at the confluence of the
two rivers, upon a part of the tract of fifteen hundred acres.
According to the map of the town as surveyed and thus laid
out, the lots and streets did not extend to either of the rivers.
A strip of land extending to the water-line was left between
the street, running parallel with and nearest to each river.
In July, 1793, John Bartle applied to the Mason county
court for the grant of a ferry from his lot in Newport, on Front
street, across the Ohio to Cincinnati. An order was made accordingly, but the appellate court of Kentucky reversed and
revoked it on the 15th of May, 1798, upon the ground that it
did not appear that his lot extended to the Ohio river.
On the 29th of January, 1794, a ferry was granted to James
Taylor, of Virginia, by the Mason county court, from his landing in front of Newport, across the Ohio river, with authority
to receive the same fares which were allowed upon transportation from the opposite shore. A ferry across the Lickiug was
also granted to him.
On the 20th August, 1795, a re-survey and plat of the town
of Newport was made, by which the eastern limits of the town
were extended to "Eastern Row," and the strip of ground between the Ohio river and the northern boundary of the town,
and between Licking river and the western boundary of the
town, were endorsed, "Common or esplanade, to remain common forever." This plat was made by Roberts.

SUPREME COURT.
Conway el al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

On the 14th December, 1795, an act was passed by the Legislature of Kentucky incorporating the town of Newport, in
conformity with the re-survey and plat of Roberts.
The preamble, and so much of the act as is deemed material
in this case, are as follows: "Whereas it is represented to the
present General Assembly, that one hundred and eighty acres
of land, the property of James Taylor, in the county of Campbell, have been laid off into convenient lots and streets, by the
said James Taylor, for the purpose of a town, and distinguished by the name of Newport, and it is judged expedient
to vest the said land in trustees and establish the town:
"§ 1. Be it therefore enacted by the General Assembly, That
the land comprehending the said town, agreeably to a plat made
by John Roberts, be vested in Thomas Kennedy and others,
'who are hereby appointed trustees for the same, except such
parts as are hereafter excepted.'
"§ 7. Be it further enacted, That such part of said town as
lies between the lots and rivers Ohio and Licking, as will appear by a reference to the said plat, shall forever remain for
the use and benefit of said town for a common, reserving to the
said James Taylor, and his heirs and assigns, every advantage and
privilege which he has not dis'osed of, or which he would by law be
entitled to."
The streets and lots exhibited by the Roberts's plat of 1795,
as by that of 1792, did not extend to either the Ohio or Licking river.
The disputed ground between the northern boundary of
Front street and the Ohio river varies in width according to
the inflexions in the line bounding the margin of the river at
high-water mark, from five to ten poles; and the distance from
high to low-water mark varies from seventeen to two hundred
yards, and was not included in the 180 acres laid out for the
town. This area is denominated "the esplanade."
In 1799, James Taylor, of Virginia, the patentee, conveyed
to his son, James Taylor, of Kentucky, this strip of ground,
between Front street and the Ohio river, together with the
other land adjacent to the 180 acres laid out in the plat of the
town in 1795, and also the ferry franchise.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

625

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

James Taylor, of Kentucky, from the time of the conveyance by his father to him, in 1799, continued to run the ferry
from the ground in front of Newport, on which it was originally established.
In consequence of the passage of the act of 1806, by the Legislature of -Kentucky, concerning ferries, James Taylor, of
Kentucky, applied to the Campbell county court in 1807 for
the establishment of the ferry granted to his father; and the
ferry was re-established in his name, and he executed a bond,
and continued to run the ferry from almost every part of the
ground or esplanade, in front of the town of Newport, from
that period to the time of the filing of the bill in this case.
In 1830 the town of Newport applied to the Campbell county
court for the grant to said town of a ferry, from the esplanado
across the Ohio river to Cincinnati, which application was r(
fused. An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals, and Et
the June term, 1831, the order of the Campbell county con t
was affirmed.
This case is reported in 6 J. J. Marshall, 184.
James Taylor, of Virginia, and his grantee and son, Jam 6
Taylor, of Kentucky, continued, therefore, uninterruptedly le
run this ferry from 1794 until the commencement of this sui.
The proof shows, also, that he constantly exercised acts of owl..
ership over the whole common in front of Newport, and ditl
not permit even the quarrying of stone without his consent;
that he was in the habit of landing his ferry-boats at various
points on this common or esplanade from time to time, and
that he acquiesced in its free use as a common for egress and ingress by the people of the town, but always claimed and exercised the exclusive ferry privilege.
"After the incorporation of the town of Newport as a city,
the city of Newport applied, in 1850, a the February term of
the Campbell county court, for the grant of a ferry across the
Ohio river, to the president and Common Council of the city
of Newport. No notice was given of the applicotion, and the
ferry was granted."
At the time of this application, James Taylor, of Kentucky,
VOL. i.

40

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

bad departed this life, leaving a Wvill, and appointing his son,
*JamesTaylor, his executor, and making a particular devise of
this ferry, and requiring his executor to rent it until the taking
effect of the devise, as provided in the will.
As soon as the action of the Campbell county court granting a ferry to the city of Newport was known, a writ of error
was sued out from the Circuit Court by the executor and devisees of James Taylor, of Kentucky, to reverse the order of the
county court, whereby the ferry was granted. The order was
reversed. The city of Newport took the case to the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky. That court, in March, 1850, affirmed
the judgment of the Circuit Court. This case is reported in
11 Ben. Monroe, 361.
It appears in the proofs, that the ferry boats-used by the appellees were duly enrolled, inspected, and licensed under the
laws of the United States.
No claim is set up in the bill as to any ferry license from
Ohio, or to any right of landing on the Ohio side.
In 1853 the appellants built the steamer Commodore, and
constituted themselves "The Cincinnati and Newport Packet
Company," for the purpose of running that steamer as a ferryboat from Cincinnati to Newport, and from Newport to Cincinnati. They rented, for five years, a portion of the esplanade
in front of Monmouth street, in the city of Nvewport, from the
Common Council of that city.
The Commodore was a vessel of 128 tons burden, and in all
respects well appointed and equipped.
The appellants caused her to be enrolled on the 4th of January, 1854, at the custom-house at Cincinnati, under the act
of Congress for enrolling and licensing vessels to be employed
in the coasting trade and fisheries, with Peter Conway as master, and obtained on the same day, from the surveyor of customs at the port of Cincinnati, a license for the employment
and carrying of the coasting trade.
They commenced running her as a ferry-boat from Cincinnati to Newport, and from Newport to Cincinnati, on the 5th
of January, 1854.

DEOLMBER TERM, 1861.

627.1

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

Her landings were at the wharves on each side of the river,
opposite to each other, the landing in Newport being at the
foot of Monmouth street.
The right of the Commodore to land there, for all lawful
purposes, was not contested in the Court of Appeals, and was
not questioned in the argument here.
In January, 1854, the appellees exhibited their bill in equity,
against the appellants.
In the same month a preliminary injunction was granted,
restraining the appellants from running the Commodore as a
ferry-boat between the cities of Cincinnati and Newport.
In the progress of the cause, proceedings -were instituted
against the appellants for contempt of the 'court in violating
this injunction. It was then made to appear that the appellants had, on the 6th of March, 1854, obtained a ferry license
under the laws of Ohio. This fact appears in the record, and
is adverted to in the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
Upon the final hearing, the Campbell Circuit Court decreed,
that an account should be taken of the ferriages received by
the appellants on account of the Commodore, and that they
"be and they are, each and all of them, perpetually enjoined
from landing the boat called in the pleadings and proof the
'Commodore,' or any other boat or vessel, upon that part of
the Kentucky shore of the Ohio river lying between the lots
of the cityof Newport and the Ohio river, designated upon the
plat of the town of Newport as the 'esplanade,' and including
the whole open space so designated, for the purpose of receiving or landing either persons or property ferried from, or to be
ferried to, the opposite shore of the Ohio river.
"It being hereby adjudged against all the defendants to this
action, that the entire privilege and franchise of ferrying persons and property to and from said part of the Kentucky shore
of the Ohio river is in the plaintiffs alone; and it is hereby
adjudged, that the receiving of persons,, animals, carriages,
wagons, carts, drays, or any other kind of vehicle, either loaded
or empty, upon said boat or any other vessel at said part of
the Kentucky shore, for the purpose of being transported
and landed upon the opposite shore of the Ohio river, and

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.
C

the landing of persons, animals, and the kind of property
above described, which had been received upon said boat or
other vessel at or from the opposite shore of the Ohio river,
and transported across said river, upon said part of the Kentucky shore, is an infringement of the ferry franchise of the
plaintiffs, and is hereby perpetually enjoined; and this injunction shall extend to and embrace all persons claiming under
the defendants to this action."
In reviewing this adjudication, the Court of Appeals held:
"The judgment is erroneous in the extent to which it perpetuates the injunction, and to which it restrains the Commodore
and the defendants in landing upon the slip in question, persons and property trausported from the Ohio shore, and in adjudging, as it seems to do, the exclusive right of ferrying from
both sides of the river to be in plaintiffs alone. The transporbtion as carriedon was illegal and properly enjoined, and the injunction should have been perpetuated against future tran3portation of a like kind, either under color of any license obtained,
or to be obtained, from the authorities of the United States
under the existing laws, or without such license, unless anthorized to transport from the Ohio shore, from a ferry estallished on that side under the laws of that State; and they
might have been restrained or prohibited, under all or any circumstances, from transporting persons or property from this to
the other side, (within the interdicted distance above or below
an established ferry on this side,) unless authorized under the
laws of this State to do,so; and the exclusive right of ferrying
from the Kentucky side should have been declared to be in the
plaintiffs.
"Wherefore the judgment perpetuating said injunction, and
adjudging the exclusive right of ferrying from both sides of
the river to be in the plaintiffs, is reversed, and the cause as
to that is remanded, with directions to perpetuate the injunction to the extent just indicated, and to adjudge the right as
above directed.
"And afterwards, to wit, on the 9th day of February, 1860,
the following order was entered on the records of this court:
Cilty of Newporc vs. Taylor's -Executorset al. Judge CanmpbetL

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

629

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

'

"It is ordered that the mandate be amended as follows:
That the judgment perpetuating the said injunction is reiersed,
and the cause as to that is remanded, with directions to perpetuate the injunction to the extent just indicated, and to adjudge the right, as above directed."
It is objected by the appellants, that no such ferry franchise
exists as was sought to be protected by this decree, because it
was granted under the laws of Kentucky, and did not embrace
a landing on the Ohio shore. It is insisted that such a franchise, when, confined to one shore, is a nullity, and that the
concurrent action of both States is necessary to give it validity.
Under the laws of Kentucky a ferry franchise is grantable
only to riparian owners. The franchise in this instance was
granted in pursuance of those laws. Any riparian ownership,
or right of landing, or legal sanction of any kind beyond the
jurisdiction of that State, is not required by her laws.
The riparian rights of James Taylor, deceased, and of his
executor and devisees, in respect of the Kentucky shore, have
been held sufficient to sustain a ferry license by the highest
legal tribunal of that State, whenever the subject has been
presented. The question came under consideration, and was
discussed and decided in the year 1881 in 6 J. J. Marshall,
134, Trustees of Newport vs. James Taylor; in 1850 in Ben.
Monroe, 361, City of Newport vs. Taylor's heirs; in 1855 in this
case, 16 Ben. Monroe, 784; and, finally, in 1858, in the 'ty
of Newport vs. Air & Wallace. (Pamphlet copy of Record.)
These adjudications constitute a rule of property, and a rule
of decision which this court is bound to recognise. Were the,
question an open one, and now presented for the first time for
determination, we should have no hesitation in coming to the
same conclusion. We do not see how it could have been decided otherwise. This point was not pressed by the counsel
for the appellants. The judgments referred to exhaust the
subject. We deem it unnecessary to go again over the same
ground.
The concurrent action of the two States was not necessary.
fIA ferry is in respect of the landing place, and not of the

,630

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

water. The water may be to one, and the ferry to another."
13 Viner's Ab., 208, A.
In 11 Wend., 590, The People ys. Babeock, this same objection was-urged, in respect of a license under the laws of New
York, for a ferry across the Niagara river. The court said:
"The privilege of the license may not be as valuable to the
grantee, by not extending across the river; but as far as it
does extend, he is entitled to all the provisions of the law, the
object of which is to secure the exclusive privilege of maintaining a ferry at a designated place."
The point has been ruled in the same way in a large num
.berof other cases:
2 McLean, 377, Bowman's Devisees and others vs. Burnley and
others; 3 Yerger, 390, Jfemplds vs. Overton; 1 Green's Iowa
Rep., 498, Phelps vs. Bloomington; 4 Zabriskie, 723, Freeholders vs. The State; 8 How., 569, Wills et al. vs. St. Clair County
et al.; 16 How., 564, Fanning vs. Gregoire.
In the case last cited, (Fanning vs. Gregoire, 16 How., 564,)
the argunents on file show that this objection was pressed
with learning and ability. In the opinion delivered, the court
seems to have assumed the validity of such a license, without in
terms adverting to the question. Another question was fully
discussed and expressly decided. This point does not appeai
in the report of the case.
Our attention has been earnestly invited to the following
provisions of the ferry laws of Kentucky, under which the
license of the appellees was granted:
":None but a resident of Kentucky can hold the grant of a
ferry. Sec. 5, Stanton's Revised Statutes, p. 540.
"Ary sale or leasing of a ferry right, or contract not to use
it, made with the owner of a ferry established on the other
side of the Ohio or Mississippi, shall be deemed an abandonment, for which the right shall be revoked. Sec. 12.
"Any one who shall, for reward, transport any person or
thing across a water-course from or to any roint within one
mile of an established ferry, unless it be the owner of an est blished ferry on the other side of the Ohib and Mississippi

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

rivers so transporting to such point on this side, and any
owner or lessee, or servant, of the owner of a ferry on the
other side of either of those rivers, who shall so transport from
this side, without reward, shall forfeit and pay to the owner
of the nearest ferry the sum of sixteen dollars for every such
offence, recoverable before a justice of the peace. Sec. 14.
"No ferry shall be established on the Ohio river within less
than a mile and a half, nor upon any other stream within less
than a mile of the place in a straight line, where any existing
ferry was pre-established, unless it be a town or city, or where
an impassable stream intervenes.
"No new ferry shall be so granted within a city or town,
unless those established therein cannot properly do all the business, or unless public convenience greatly requires a new
ferry at a site not within four hundred yards of that of any
other." See. 15.
We have considered these in connection with the other provisions of those laws. Whether they are wise and liberal, or
the opposite, are inquiries that lie beyond the sphere of ouT
powers and duties.
Considered all together, they have not seemed to us to de
serve the character which has been ascribed to them. Whil
they fence about with stringent safeguards the rights of the
holder of the ferry franchise, they do not leave unprotected
the rights of the public. If they give the franchise only to the
riparian owner and citizen of the State, they surround him
with sanctions designed to secure the fulfilment of his obligations.
The franchise is confined to the transit from the shore of
the State. The same rights which she claims for herself she
concedes to others. She has thrown no obstacle in the way of
the transit from the States lying upon the other side of the
Ohio and Mississippi. She has left that to be wholly regulated
by their ferry laws. We have heard of no hostile legislation,
and of no complaints, by any of those States. It was shown in
the argument at bar that similar laws exist in most, if not all,
the States bordering upon those streams. They exist in other
States of the Union bounded by navigable waters.

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

Very few adjudged cases have been brought to our notice
in which the ferry rights they authorize to be granted have
been challenged; none in which they have been held to be invalid.
A ferry franchise is as much property as a rent or any other
incorporeal hereditament, or chattels, or realty. It is clothed
with the same sanctity and entitled to the same protection as
other property.
"An estate in such a franchise and an estate in land rest
upon the same principle." 3 Kent's Com., 459.
Lastly, it is urged that the Commodore, having been enrolled
under the laws of the United States, and licensed under those
laws for the coasting trade, the decree violates the rights which
the enrolment and license gave to the appellants in respect of
that trade by obstructing the free navigation of the Ohio.
Here it is necessary to consider the extent of the injunction
which the decree directs to be entered by the court below.
The counsel for the appellants insists that, "as respects transportation from the Kentucky side, and from the Commodore's
wharf at the foot of Monmouth street, that vessel is enjoined,
under ' all or any circumstancesfrom transportingpersons or property' to the opposite shore, unless under the authority of the
State of Kentucky."
We do not so understand the decree. If we did, we should,
without hesitation, reverse it. An examination of the context
leaves no doubt, in our minds, that the court intended only to
enjoin the Commodore, under "all or any circumstances, from
transporting persons or property" from the Kentucky shore in
,iolation of theferry rights of the appellees, which it was the purpose of the decree to protect. The bill made no case, and
asked nothing, beyond this. The court could not have intended to go beyond the case before it. That the appellants
had the right after as before the injunction, in the prosecution
of the carrying and coasting trade, and of ordinary commer.cial navigation, to transport "persons and property" from the
Kentucky shore, no one, we apprehend, will deny. The limitation is the line which protects the ferry rights of the al
pellees.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

683

Conway et al. vs. Taylor's Executor.

Those rights give them no monopoly, under "all circumstances," of all commercial transportation from the Kentucky
shore. They have no right to exclude or-restrain those there
prosecuting the business of commerce in good faith, without
the regularity or purposes of ferry trips, and seeking in nowise
to interfere with the enjoyment of their franchise. 'To suppose that the Court of Appeals, in the'language referred to,
intended to lay down the converse of these propositions, would
do that distinguished tribunal gross injustice.
The Commodore was run openly and avowedly as a ferryboat; that was her business. The injunction as to her and
her business was correct.
The language of the court must be considered as limited to
that subject. The zeal with which this point was pressed by
the counsel for the appellants has led us thus fully to consider
it.
The enrolment of the Commodore ascertained her ownership, and gave her a national character.
The license gave her authority to carry on the coasting trade.
Together they put the appellants in a position to make the
question here to be considered.
The language of the Constitution to which this objection
refers is as follows: "The Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes." Art. 1, § 8, clause 4.
The character and extent of the power thus conferred, and
the boundaries which separate that power from the powers of
the States touching the same subject, came under discussion
in this court, for the first time, in Gibbons vs. Ogden, (9 Wheat.,
1.) It was argued on both sides with exhaustive learning and
ability. The judgment of the court was delivered by Chief
Justice Marshall. The court said: "They" (State inspection
laws) "form a portion of the immense mass of legislation which
embraces everything within the territory of a State not surrendered to the General Government; all which can be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves. Inspection
laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as Well
as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State, and

SUPREME COURT.
Conway et al. vs. Taylor's -Executor.

those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, &c., are parts of
this mass."
The proposition .thus laid down has not since been questioned in any adjudicated case.
The same principle has been repeatedly affirmed in othei
cases, both in this and the State courts.
In Fanning vs. Gregoire, (9 How., 534,) before referred to,
this court held:
"The argument that the free navigation of the Mississippi,
guarantied by the ordinance of 1787, or any right which may
be supposed to arise from the exercise of the commercial power
of Congress, does not apply in this case. Neither of these interfere with thepolice powers of a State in granting ferry licenses.
When navigable rivers within the commercial powers of the
Union may be obstructed, one or both of these powers may be
invoked."
Rights of commerce give no authority to their possessor to
invade the rights of property. He cannot use a bridge, a canal,
or a railroad without paying the fixed rate of compensation.
He cannot use a warehouse or vehicle of transportation belonging to another without the owner's consent. No more can
he invade the ferry franchise of another without authority from
the holder. The vitality of such a franchise lies in its exclusiveness. The moment the right becomes common, the franchise ceases to exist.
We have shown that it is property, and, as such, rests upon
the same principle which lies at the foundation of all other
property.
Undoubtedly, the States, in conferring ferry rights, may pass
laws so infringing the commercial power of the nation that it
would be the duty of this court to annul or control them. 13
How., 519, Wheeling -Bridge case. The function is one of
extreme delicacy, and only to be performed where the infraction is clear. The ferry laws in question in this case are not of
that character. We find nothing in them transcending the
legitimate exercise of the legislative power of the State.
The authorities referred tc must be considered as putting
the question at rest. The ordinance of 1787 was not partica-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861
Conway el al. vs. Tay9or's Executor. ,

larly brought to our attention in the discussion at bar. Any
argument drawn from that source is sufficiently met by what
has been already said.
The counsel for the appellees has invoked the authority of
Cooley vs. The Board of Wardens of -Philadelphia,(12 How.,
299,) in which a majority of this court held that, upon certain
subjects affecting commerce as placed under the guardianship
of the Constitution of the United States, the States may pass
laws which will be operative till Congress shall see fit to annul
them.
In the view we have taken of this case, we have found it
unnecessary to consider that subject.
There has been now nearly three-quarters of a century of
practical interpretation of the Constitution. During all that
time, as before the Constitution had its birth, the States have
exercised the power to establish and regulate ferries; Coikgress never. We have sought in vain for any act of Congrers
which involves the exercise of this power.
That the authority lies within the scope of "that immense
mass" of undelegated powers which "are reserved to the States
respectively," we think too clear to admit of doubt.
We place our judgment wholly upon that ground.
There is no errorin the decree of the Court of Alpeals. It is
tderefore affirmed, with costs.

