SUPREME COURT.
Bags of Lifted.

4,885 BAGS oF LINSEED- Wills, Claimant; Sears, Libetlant.
1. A vessel was chartered for a voyage from Boston to Calcutta and back,
and the agents of the charterers at Calcutta sub-chartered her to
other persons there, who loaded her with goods consigned to parties
in Boston, under special bills of lading, which did not refer to the
original charter party: Held, that the rights of the ship-owners to
the freight, payable by the consignees, and their lien for it upon
the goods, depended entirely on the contract expressed in the bills
of lading, and not upon anything contained in the charter party.
2. The lien of a ship-owner for freight being but a right to retain the
goods until payment of the freight, is inseparably associated with
the possession of the goods, and is lost by an unconditional delivery
to the consignee.
8. But if the cargo is placed in the hands of the consignee, with an understanding that the lien for freight is to continue, a court of admiralty
will regard the transaction as a deposit of the goods in the warehouse, and not as an absolute delivery, and on that ground will consider the ship-owner as being still constructively in possession so far
as to preserve his lien.
4. That such an understanding did exist between the parties must appear
in the evidence, or be plainly inferable from the established local
usage of the port, otherwise there is no possession, actual or constructive, to support the lien.

Appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of the United

."
States for the district of Massachusetts.
The libel in this case was filed in the District Court by Paul
Sears, Reuben Hopkins, James Smith, Alexander Child, William IN. Batson, and Rowland H. Crosby, owners of the ship
Bold Hunter, against four thousand eight hundred and eightyfive bags of linseed, seven thousand pockets of linseed, and
fifteen hundred and thirty bags of pegue cutch. The goods
lilelled were part of a larger quantity brought to Boston from
Calcutta by the Bold Hunter for Augustine Wills, and were
at the time in store. The libellants demanded $14,948 57 as
freight, less $5,000, which had been paid on account; and for

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

109

Bags of LinseeaT.

this balance of freight they insisted that their lien had not
been waived or impaired by the delivery of the goods under
the circumstances.
After warrant and monition were issued, and the goods
seized by the marshal in pursuance thereof, Rufus Wills, administrator of Augustine Wills, deceased, carne in as claimant,
and made answer to the libel, denying that the libellants had
any lien on the goods for the freight.
The parties did not dispute about the facts of the case. It
appeared by their mutual admissions that the libellants were
owners of the Bold Hunter, and, in October, 1856, chartered
her to Tuckerman, Townsend & Co. for a voyage from Calcutta
to Boston, at $15 per ton on whole packages, and half that
rate on loose stowage. The charter party contained the usual
lien clause, with a stipulation that the freight should be paid
in five and ten days after discharge at Boston, the credit not
to impair the ship-owner's lien for freight. On the ship's arrival
at Calcutta, the charterers did not furnish an entire cargo, and
procured some shipments on freights-among others, one to
Augustine Wills-for which the master signed bills of lading,
in the usual form, at various rates of freight, all less than thc
charter rates. These bills of lading were passed over to the
libellants by Tuckerman, Townsend & Co. in part settlement
of the charter money, and the libellants undertook to collect
the freights.. The ship arrived at Boston in October, 1857.
The larger portion of the goods consigned to Wills were discharged by the consent of all parties, without being landed,
into the ship Cyclone, bound to London, and the remainder
were delivered to the claimant, who took them t the customhouse stores, and entered them" in bond in the name of Augustine Wills. When the Bold Hunter arrived, Augustine Wills,
the consignee, was sick, and he died before the goods were all
discharged. Rufus Wills, the claimant, acted as his agent before his death, and was his administrator afterwards. The
goods were discharged and delivered without qualification,
and nothing was said about holding them or any part of them
for freight. The claimant, before the death of the consignee,
paid $65,000 on the freights, but afterwards declined to pay any

SUPREME COURT.
%

Bags of Linseed.

more, saying that he did not know how the estate of Augustine Wills would turn out.
The District Court dismissed the libel, and the decree was
afterwards affirmed by the Circuit Court. Whereupon the libellant took this appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States.
Mr. . G. Loring, for the libellants.
1. The ship-owner has a lien on the goods, which is independent of possession, and not necessarily lost by delivery to
the debtor. This lien does not imply a right of property, but
the privilege of resorting to the thing for payment, in preference to general creditors. The Volunteer, (1 Sumn., 551;)
Logs of Mahogany, (2 Sumn., 603;) Raymond & Tyson, (17
How., 53;) Valin Com. on Code, art. 24; 2 Boulay Paty Com.
on Code, 479; Abbot on Shipping, 127, 284; The 11reernan,
(18 How., 188;) The Yankee Blade, (19 How., 90;) Dupont de
INemours vs. Vance, (19 How., 171.) Waiver of the lien cannot
be inferred from the fact that a portion of the cargo was at
the request of the claimant discharged into another vessel to
be carried to London. The libellants had a right to resort to
that which remained in store at Boston for payment of their
freight upon the whole. Abbot on Shipping, 377; Aug. on
Car., 360; Soddergreen vs. -Flight, (6 East., 422;) Boggs vs.
Iartin, (1 B. Monr., 239;) Bernal vs. _Prin, (1 Gale, 17.) There
being a stipulation in the charter party that the credit to be
given for the freight should not impair the lien, that instrument does not receive its proper meaning unless the lien follows the goods into the hands of the consignee. It does follow them, subject only to the agreement of the ship-owner
that he will not enforce it for a few days.
2. The admiralty jurisdiction is the "' chancery of the seas,"
and gives relief wherever a court of equity would do so in a
similar case. In equity an agreement for a lien binds the
thing and creates a trust as between the parties. Fletcher vs.
Morey, (2 Story, 565.) The consignee, if not an immediate
party to this contract, (the charter party,) knew of it, claimed
the credit under it, and cannot allege that the lien of the libel.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Bags of linseed.

lants was lost by delivery. The lien may be enforced against
him without regard to the possession. Collyer vs. Fuller, (1
Turn. & Rup., 469;) Alexander vs. Yeriot, (1 Bailey Ch., 223;)
Read vs. Hill, (2 Dessau, 552;) -Dow vs. Her, (Spear's Oh. R.,
413.)
3. Even if this case be adjudged by the rules of the common
law, it is with the libellants, for the courts of common law will
give effect to the intentions of the parties. Small vs. Moates
(9 Bing., 574;) Wilson vs. Kymer, (1 Maule & Selwyn, 167;)
.Bigelow vs. .Ueaton, (6 Hill, 43;) S. C., 4 Denio, 496; .Dodsley
vs. Trarley, (12 Ad. & Ell., 632;) H ussey vs. Thornton, (4 Mass.,
405.)
Mr. S. TW. Bates, of Massachusetts, (with whom were Messrs.
Story and May,) for the claimant, contended that the lien for
freight was lost by the delivery; that the libellants stand upon
the same footing with other creditors, and are left to their
remedy in personam.
1. The carrier's lien for freight is a right to hold, not a right
to take. It begins with, rests upon, and ends with, the possession. Delivery has always been held a waiver, or rather an
abandonment, of the right.
2. Augustine Wills, whom the claimant represents, was no
party to the agreement made by Tuckerman & Co. with the
ship-owners. He could have known nothing about it. He did
not know upon what vessel the goods were shipped until they
arrived at Boston. A sub-freighter or consignee is not bound
by the charter party, his bill of lading not referring to it. Abbot on Shipping, 6th ed., 287-8; Paul vs. Birch, (2 Atk., 621;)
Mitchell vs. Scafe, (2 Camp., 298;) Faith vs. -E.Ind. Co., (4 B.
& A., 630;) Shepard vs. De Bernales, (13 East., 570.)
3. The libellants say that the maritime law is derived from
the civil law, and the civil law gave a privilege to carriers
which did not depend upon possession, and was not lost by
alienation. This confounds the common law lien of carriers
with the carriers' privilegium under the civil law. They are
different things. The privilege of the civil law did not depend upon possession, because the carrier had no right to re-

SUTPREME COURT.
Bags of Linseed.

tain possession. It was a mere preference over other creditors.
But by the common law the carrier may keep the goods until
the freight is paid; so he may by the maritime law; and under
both systems, for the same reason, his hen is gone when he
parts with the goods. -Parkervs. Hill, (2 Wood &Minot, 106;)
-Raymond vs. Tyson, (17 How., 53;) Parson's Mere. Law, 345.
Some maritime liens are like the privileqium of the civil law;
for instance, a lien for supplies or materials which may be enforced by one who never was in possession. Van Bokelyn vs.
Ingersoll, (5 Wend., 315.) But not so of liens like this.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. The rights of the parties in
this case depend altogether on the contract created by the bill
of lading. That instrument does not refer to the charter party,
nor can the charter party influence in any degree the decision
of the question before us. Augustine Wills was not a party
to it, and it is not material to inquire whether he did or did
not know of its existence and contents; for there is nothing
in it to prevent Wills & Co., the sub-charterers, or Augustine
Wills, the consignee, from entering into the separate and distinct contract stated in the bill of lading, and the assignees
took the rights of Wills & Co. in this contract, and nothing
more. The circumstance that it came to hands of the shipowners by assignment from the sub-charterers, who knew and
were bound by all the stipulations of the charter party, cannot
alter the construction of the bill of lading, nor affect the rights
or obligations of Augustine Wills.
Undoubtedly the ship-owner has a right to retain the goods
until the freight is paid, and has, therefore, a lien upon them
for the amount; and, as contracts of affreightment are regarded
by the courts of the United States as maritime contracts,
over which the courts of admiralty have jurisdiction, the shipowner may enforce his lien by a proceeding in rem in the pro-.
per court. But this lien is not in the nature of a hypothecation, which will remain a charge upon the goods after the shipowner has parted from the possession, but is analogous to the
lien given by the common law to the carrier on land, who is
not bound to deliver them to the party until his fare is paid;

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.
Bags of Linseed.

and if he delivers them, the incumbrances of the lien does
not follow them in the hands of the owner or consignee. It
is nothing more than the right to withhold the goods, and is
inseparably associated with his possession, and dependent upon it.
The lien of the carrier by water for his freight, under the
ordinary bill of lading, although it is maritime, yet it stands
upon the same ground with the carrier by land, and arises
from his right to retain the possession until the freight is paiu,
and is lost by an unconditional delivery to the consignee. It
is suggested in the argument for the appellant, that, as a general rule, maritime liens do not depend on possession of the
thing upon which the lien exists; but this proposition cannot
be maintained in the courts of admiralty of the United States.
And, whatever may be the doctrine in the courts on the continent of Europe, where the civil law is established, it has been
decided in this court that themaritimelien for a general average
in a case of jettison, and the lien for freight, depend upon the
possession of the goods, and arise from the right to retain them
until the amount of the lien is paid. Rae vs. Cutler, (7 How.,
729;) -Dupontde .emours J. Co. vs. Vance and others, (19 How.,
171.)
In the last mentioned case, the court, speaking of the lien
for general average, and referring to the decision of Rae vs.
Cutler on that point, said: "This admits the existence of a
lien arising out of the admiralty law, but puts it on the same
footing as a maritime lien on cargo for the price of its transportation, which, as is well known, is waived by an authorized
delivery without insisting on payment."
After these two decisions, both of which were made upon
much deliberation, the law upon this subject must be regarded
as settled in the courts of the United States, and it is unnecessary to examine the various authorities which have been
cit~d in the argument. But it may be proper to say, that while
this court has never regarded its admiralty authority as restrided to the subjects over which the English courts of admiralty exercised jurisdiction at the time our Constitution was
adopted, yet it .has never claimed the full extent of admiralty
VOL. I.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Bags of Linseed.

power which belongs to the courts organized under, and governed altogether by, the principles of the civil law.
iBut courts of admiralty, when carrying into execution maritime contracts and liens, are not governed by the strict and
technical rules of the common law, and deal with them upon
equitable principles, and with reference to the usages and necessities of trade. And it often happens that the necessities
and usages of trade require that the cargo should pass into
the bands of the consignee before he pays the freight. It is
the interest of the ship-owner that his vessel should discharge
her cargo as speedily as possible after her arrival at the port of
delivery. And it would be a serious sacrifice of his interests
if the ship was compelled, in order to preserve the lien, to remain day after day with her cargo on board, waiting until the
consignee found it convenient to pay the freight, or until the
lien could be enfoi'ced in a court of admiralty. The consignee,
too, in many instances, might desire to see the cargo unladen
before he paid the freight, in order to ascertain whether all of
the goods mentioned in the bill of lading were on board, and
not damaged by the fault of the ship. It is his duty, and not
that of the ship-owner, to provide a suitable and safe place
on shore in which they may be stored; and several days are
often consumed in unloading and storing the cargo of a large
merchant vessel. And if the cargo cannot be unladen and
placed in the warehouse of the consignee, without waiving the
lien, it would seriously embarrass the ordinary operations and
convenience of commerce, both as to the ship-owner and the
merchant.
It is true, that such a delivery, without any condition or
qualification annexed, would be a waiver of the lien; because,
as we have already said, the lien is but an incident to the possession, with the right to retain. But in cases of the kind
above mentioned it is frequently, perhaps more usually, understood between the parties, that transferring the goods from the
ship to the warehouse shall not be regarded as a waiver of the
'lien, and that the ship-owner reserves the right to prcceed in
-em to enforce it, if the freight is not paid. And if it appears
by the evidence that such an understanding did exist between

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

115

Hogg vs. Ruffer.

the parties, before or at the time the cargo was placed in the
hands of the consignee, or if such an understanding is plainly
to be inferred from the established local usage of the port, a
court of admiralty will regard the transaction as a deposit of
the goods, for the time, in the warehouse, and not-as an absolute delivery; and, on that ground, will consider the shipowner as still constructively in possession, so far as to preserve
his lien and his remedy in rem.
But in the case before us, there is nothing from which such
an inference can be drawn. The goods were delivered,. it is
admitted, generally, and without any condition or qualification.
Upon such a delivery there could be neither actual nor constructive possession remaining in the ship-owner; and, consequently, there could be no right of retainer to support his
lien.
The decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the libel, must
therefore be affirmed.

Decree afirmed.

HoGG vs. RUiFNER.
1. To constitute usury there must either be a loan upon usurious interest,
or the taking of more than legal interest, for the forbearance of a
debt or sum of money due. This is the common law definition of
the term, and the statute of Indiana does not enlarge it.
2. Where a sum of money is due on a contract for the sale of land, and
the vendor takes more than legal interest for the forbearance of the
debt, it is usury.
8. But where the owner of land proposes to sell it forone price in cash,
and for another price, double as large, on a long credit, and a purchaser prefers to pay the larger price for the sake of the longer
time, the contract cannot be called usurious.
Cross-appeal, from the decree of the District Court of the
United States for the district of Indiana.
Nathaniel B. Hogg brought his bill in the Circuit Court
against Benjamin Ruffner and several other defendants, who
were collaterally interested. The bill avers that Ruffner made

