SUPREME COURT

THE UNITED STATES, APPELIANTS V. JOSEPH DELESPINE'S HEIRS,
LAZARUS AJN OTHER3.

A translation, by the secretary of the board of land commissioners of FloriIda, whose
duty it,wks to translate Spanish documents given in evidence before the board of
commissioners, of .acertified copy of a Spanish grant of land in Florida, which

had been produced to the bard, was properly.. dmitted as evidence of the grant:
satisfactory proof having, been given to the Court, that the original grant could
not be found in the records of East Florida; and that'this was the best evidence,
from the nature of the case, which could 4e given of the existence of th6 original
paper, lost or destroyed.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
The heirs of Joseph Delespine, and others, purchosers from Joseph
Delespine, filed a petition to the supreme court of East Florida,
praying cornfirmation of a grant to Joseph DPelespine, made by Don
Jose Coppinger, on the 9th, day of April, 1817; he being then the
Spanish governpr of East Florida. The grant was for forty-three
thousand acres, under which surveys ,were made by George J. F.
Clarke, then surveyor of the province, according to the terms of
the grant.
The petitioners exhibited, in support of their claim, the original
translation, certified by'Francis, I. Facio, of the certified copy by
Thomas de Arguilar, the 'government secretary of the province,
which was, brought into court by the keeper of the public archives
of East Florida. Evidence was given, that the original grant by
governor Coppinger had not been found among the archives,, or any
where. It was also in evidence, that
a copy of,the memoriaI of
Joseph Delespine, and of the concession' thereupon, for the forty-,
three thousand acres of land, purporting to have been icertified by
Thomas de Arguilar, as secretary of the government, was exhibited
to the board of land claims of East Florida, which was, before the
board, proved to have been in the handwriting of the government
secretary, and signed by him. This dochment had been mislaid or
lost.
The superior court of East Florida gave a decree in favour of the
petitioners; and the United States prosecuted this appeal.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

655

[The, United States v. Delespine's Heirs, et al.]

Mr. BUTLER, the attorney general of' the United States, informed
the Court, that on an examination of the record, he found, nothing
in the case to. distinguish ;it from those which 'had been already
decided in. favour of claimants 'under Spanish grants;- unless the
Court should, consider the circumstance of the original grant by
governor Coppinger not having been found 'in the archh es of
]Florida as rendering the evidence' of the grant insufficient.
IThe,grant should have been found filed with similar papers in the
proper office, but. there; it was not. It is admitted that the papers
of the office are in disorder; and evidence was given in the superior court, of, Florida, which showod that negligence in tile preservation of the papers frequently prevailed there. But the certified copy
of, the grant was not produced, it also had been lost; and the only
evidenre exhibited to the court, was a certified translation of a copy
of the grant.
It is admitted that when a grant of land is made, the original is re"tained, and a copy only' is furfiished to the grantee;- 'but the original
is filed in the proper office. There no original can be found. The
case must stand before the court as if the certified' copy
of the, grant
had been produced, for its loss is accounted for; but the. question
which this Cout have to decide,is whether the grantees ought not
to prove. the original to be in existence. Cited Mitchell 'v. 'The
United States, 9.Peters, 731; Owens v. Hull, 9 Peters, 621.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court:
In this case, it is conceded by the attorney general that the only
ground upon which it can be taken out of the decisions of this Court,
confirming the decrees of the courts of Florida, upon grants and
concessions of land made by the, authorities of the king of Spain to
his subjects, before the 24th January, 1818; was, that the superior
court of East Florida, in adjudicating upon this claim, received as
evidence the copy of a copy of a concession or grant to Joseph Delespine. 'We think the copy, in this instance, was properly received
by the court. The first copy was made from 'the original, filed in
the proper' office, from which the original could not be removed for
any purpose. That copy, it is admitted, would have been evidence
in the cause. It is shown, by the affidavit of Mr. Drysdale, to have
been lost whilst the claim was under examination by the board'of
commissioners established by congress for ascertaining land claims
in Florida; and that the copy received as evidence, is a translation of

656

SUPREME COURT.
[the United States vo Delespine's Heirs bt al.]

the first, certified by the secretary of the board of land comnitssioners, whose 'duty it was to translate Spanish documents given in evidence before- the board of land commissioners; and is a part of the
papers in this claim, transferred, according to law, to the keeper of
the public archives of East Florida. And it appears, also, by proofs
in this cause, that the papers in the office from which the first copy
was taken, and the original of which is also sufficiently proved to
have been on file, have been, by accident or otherwise, mutilated,
since the first copy was taken; that the original could no 'longer be
found; and, 6onsequently, that the copy in this case, was the best
evidence, from the nature of the case, which could be given of the
existence of an original paper lost or destroyed.
The decree of the superior court of East Florida was confirmed.

This cause came on to be beard -on the transcript of the record
from the superior court foy the district of East Florida, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here decreed
and ordered by this Court, that the decree of the said superior court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed.

