JANUARY TERM, 1838.

EDWARD

SARCHET

AND

OTHERS,

APPELLANTS

V.

THE

UNITED,

STATES.
The United States instituted a suit, on a bond for duties, in the district court of the
southern district of New York; and after a trial and verdict for the United States,
judgment was given against the defendant; who thereupon prosecuted a writ of
error to the circuit court for the southern district of New York, where the judgment
of the' district court waq affirmed. The defendant then appealed to the Supreme
Court. Held, that cases at law can only be brought from the circuit court by writ
of error, and cannot be brought by appeal. In cases at law, removed from the
district to the circuit court, the judgment of the circuit court is final and conclusive. It is otherwise in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
The cases of the United States v. Hudson and Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 108; and the
several cases, 7 Cranch, 287, 2 Wheat. 248W,395, cited.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States from the circuit court for the southern circuit of New York.
Mr. Butler, the attorney general, moved to dismiss the appeal on
two grounds.
1. That this was originally a proceeding at law, on a bond for
duties, in the district court of New York for the southern district;
and was, after a judgment of that court for the United States, taken
by a writ of error to the circuit court for the southern circuit, by the
defendant: where the judgment of the district court was affirmed.
The judgment of the circuit court is final in such a case.
2. This is a proceeding at law; and the defendant has brought the
case from the circuit court by an appeal, and not by a writ of error.
Mr. Butler cited the United States v. Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 108;
7 Cranch, 287; 3 Wheat. 248, &c.
Mr. Sarchet opposed the motion, in person ; cited, 3 Dall. 171; 2
Wheat. 259.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case, an action was brought by the United States against
Edward Sarchet and others, in the district court for the southern
district of New York; upon a bond for duties charged by the col]ector upon certain iron imported into the United States. The duties

SUPREME COURT.
[Sarchet v. The United States.]

claimed were contested by the defendants; upon the ground that iron
of the description imported was not by law chargeable with that duty,
and that the bondwas therefore improperly taken. The judgment in
the district court was against the defendants.; and they removed it,
by writ of error,to the circuit court for the southern district of New
York, in the second circuit, where the judgment of the district court
was. affirmed; and the case is now brought heie by appeal from the
judgment of the circuit court.
The attorney general has moved to dismiss the case for want of
jurisdiction in this Court;, and we think tlhe appeal cannot be .sustained.
It has been repeatedly determined that, under the acts of congress
regulating the apT)ellate jurisdiction of this Court from the circuit
courts, cases mus, be brought here by writ of error,and cannot be
brought here by appeal. And as this was a suit at law on a-bond,
it could not, under any circumstances, legally come before us on
appeal; but must come up by writ of error, in order to give us
jurisdiction to try it.
There is also another objection, equally fatal to this proceeding.
In cases at law, removed from the district court to the circuit °court,
the judgment of the circuit court is final between the parties. It is
otherwise in cases in equity, and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; and although the reason for this distinction may not be entirely
obvious, yet it is our duty to conform to the provisions of the law:
and this Court have repeatedly decided that, in civil cases at law,
the judgment of tie circuit court is final, where the case is removed
by writ of error, frbm the district court to the circuit court. The
point was fully considered and decided in' the case of the United
States v. Goodwin, 7 Cranch, 108; and the opinion there given has
,been since reaffirmed in several cases. 7 Crinch, 287; 2 Wheat.
248, 395. The question must be regarded as too well settled to be
now open for argument: and as this Court would not have jurisdiction, in any form of proceeding, to review the judgm'ent given in
this case by the circuit court; it would be evidefitly improper to hear
an argument on the questions decided there, or to express any opinion
concerning them. The appeal is therefore dismissed.

