JANUARY TERM, 1833.

TnErUITTEtD STATEs, APILLAITS

V.

WILLiAM MILLs' HEIRS.

A grant of land ih East Florida was Inade by. the governor, before the cession of
Florida by Spain to the United States, on conditions which were not performd
by the grqntev'within the time limited in the graut; or any exertions made by him
to perform them. No uffilcient cause for the aon-performanCe of the conditions
having been shown, the decree oft tha supremie court of East Florida, which confirnied the grant,-vwas reversed.

APPEAL from .the superior court of East Florida.
In the superior court of Easte Florida, thewidow and children, heirs
of William Mills, deceased, presenteda petition, claiming title to a
tract of land, situated on the east side of the river St. Johns, at a
place called Buffalo Bluff, about two miles below the former pianta.
tion of Panton Leslie 'and Company. This land wps claimed under a
grant of Governor Coppinger, dated St..Augustine 10th April, 1817.
The petition of William Mills to Governor Coppinger; dated 17th
March, 1817, stated that he was-an inhabitant of Fernandina, ahd that
in 1805 he had obtained-permission from the government to 'eredt a
water.saw miil, in -the place called Mulberry Branch, near the head
of Matanzas river, the certificate of which was mislaid; ond after
erecting the buildings, they were burned down by the rebels in a sedition which took place in the year 1812: and wishing to buildanother saw mill east of the river St. Johns, at Buffalo Bluff, he asks
that a tract of two miles square b.e granted to him, with title and
property thereto,.in order that he may carry his purpose into effect.
Governor Coppinger, on the 10th of August, 1817, granted the permission asked for by the petition, to -erect a water saw mill on the
river St. Johns, on the east side thereof, at a place called Buffalo
Bluff; under the express, conditions, that until he carries said work
into effect, this grant of land will be null. "It being well understood, thatunhless' the said machinery be built and erected, within the.
term of six months, this favour will be null, and of no value; as it
can never be understood to have been -granted with -any other view
but, that of protecting the inhabitant settlers, and stimulating them to
industry, for the known advantages which result from it to the province, and consequently to the interests of the king."

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Mills' Heirs.l

The claimants afterwards fried a supplementary or amended petition, in which they state, that the grantee had been deterred from
making the improvements mentioned in his petition to Governor
Coppinger, by Indian hostilities, and by threat9 to persons and their
property, by hostile Indians, negroes and marauders; and they,further
state, that by the cession'of Florida to the United States, by the treaty
of 22d of February, 1819, they were further prevented making the
improvements, as it wag uncertain how their rights to the land would
be affected by the change of government.
The answers of the attorney of the United States to the petition
and' the amended petition, asserted the non-compliance of the petitioner with the condition of the grant;' and as to the amended petition,
alleged, as to the dangers of proceeding to erect the mill, that if any
such difficulties existed at all, they existed to as great an extent at'the
time when it is alleged that said grant was made, and when the ancestor of the claimant took upon himself the performance of the condition therein mentioned; as at any time since.
Evidence. was taken by both parties, and the claim of the petitioners was confirmed by the superior court of Florida, at July
term, 1837. The United States prosecuted this appeal.
-The case was argued by Mr. Butler, attorney general for the United
States. No counsel appeared for the appellees.
Mr. J'ustice WAYNE delivered' the opinion of the Court:
This is an appeal from a decree of the superior court of East Florida, confirming a. land claim.
It differs only from the case of the United States. v. Z. Kingsley, decided by the Court at this term; in this: that the conditions
upon which the appellee was to have a property in the land petitioned
for, was limited to performance within six months from the date of
the governor's decree. It was not. performed. Nor was any attempt
made to perform it by the appellee in his life-time, or by his represeAtatives after his death. INo sufficient cause for non-performance
is shown within the time limited, nor afterwards; to bring it within
those rules of justice and equity, which this Court has said, shall be
applied in its construction of the 8th article of the treaty of February,
1819, with Spain; on its consideration of grants made upon condition.
For the reasons stated in the case of'Kingsley, the Court is of opinion

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

217

[United States v. Mills' Heirs.]

that the decree of the court below in this case, should be reversed,
and it was ordered accordingly.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the superior court for the district of East Florida, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court,
that the petitioner has not fulfilled the condition of the, grant;-and 'hat,
therefore, the grant 6r concession is null and void; and that the petitioner has no right or title to the land. Whereupon, it is now here
decreed and ordered by this Court, that the decree of the said superior court, in this cause, be, and the same is hereby reversed and
annulled; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remaided
to the said superior court, with directions to enter a decree in conformity to the opinion of this Court.

VoL. XII.--2 E

