SUPREME COURT.

GEORGE BEASTON, GARNISHEE OF THE ELKTON BANK OF MARYLAND v. THE FARAERS' BANK OF DELAWARE.
Priority of the United States. ,From the language employed in the fifth section of
the act of congress of March 3, l797, giving a priority to debts due to the United
States, and the construction given to it by the Supreme Court; these rules are
clearly established: First, That no lien is created by the statute. Second, The
priority established can never attach while the debtor continues the owner, and in
the possession oIfthe property, although he may be unable to pay all his debts.
Thirdly, No evidence can he received of the insolvency of the debtor, until he has
been divested of his property in.one of the modes stated in the section. ,Fourthly,
Whenever the debtor is thus divested of his property, the person who becomes ipthereby made a trustee for the United States, and is bound
vested with the title, is.
to pay the debt first, out of the proceeds of the debtor's property.
All debtors to the United States, whatever their character, and by whatever mode
bound, may be fairly included within the language used in the fifth section of the
act of congress. And it is manifest that congress intended to give priority of
payment to.the United States over all other creditors, in the cases stated therein.
It therefott lies upon those who claim exemption from the operation of the statute,
to show that they are not withinlits provisions.
Corporations are to be deemed and considered persons within the provisions of the
fifth section or the act of congress of 1797; and the priority of the United States
exists as to debts due by them to the United States.
An attachment at the suit of the Farmers' Bank of Delaware was issued'against the
effects of the.Elkton Bank, on th6 24th of September, 1830, and under it were attached the funds of the Elkton Bank in the hands of one of its debtors. On the 8th
dy of July, 1831, an.attachment was issed at the suit of the United States, the Uni.ted States being creditors of the Elkton Bank, and it was laid on the same funds
which had been previously attached at the suit of the Farmers' Bank of Delaware.
The money thus' attached by the'Farmers' Bank of Delaware, in the hands of a
debtor to the Elkton Bank, by legal process, before the issuing of'the attachment
in behalf of the United States, was bound for the debt for which it was.filrst legally attache'd, by.a writ, which is in, the nature of an execution; and tho right of a
private creditor thus acquired, could not be 4lefeated by the process subsequently
issued at the suit of the United States. If the district court of the United States
has a right to appoint receivers of the property of an insolVent bank which is indebted to the United States, for the purpose of having the property of the bank
collected and paid over to satisfy the debt due tothe United'States by the bank;
this would not be a transfer and possession of the property of the bank, within the
meaning of the act of congress; and the right of the United States to a priority of
payment, would not have attached to the funds of the bank.
The legislature of Maryland passed an act authorizing the stockholders of the Elkton Bank to elect trustees, who were to take poss~ssion of the funds and property
of the bank, for the purposes of discharging the debts of the bank, and distributing the residue of the funds, which might be collected by them, among the stockholders. This, had the law been carried intq -effect, was not such an assignment

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

103

tBeaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]
of all the property of the bank as would entitle the United States to a pridrity of
payment out of the funds of the bank.
No one can be divested of his property, by any mode of conveyance, statutory or
otherwise, unless, at the same time and by the same conveyance, the grantee becomes invested with the title. The moment the transfer of property takes place,
the person taking it, whether by voluntary assignment, or by operation of law, becomes, under the statute, bound to the United States for the faithful performanee
of the trust.
The cases of The United States v. The State Bank of North Carolina, 6 Peters, 29;
The United States v. Amedy, 11 Wheat. 392; 6 Cond. Rep. 362; The United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358; 1 Cond. Rep. 421; The United States v. Hooe, 3
Cranch, 73; 2 Cond. Rep. 458; Price v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch, 431; Conrad v. The
Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 439; Conard v. Nicholl, 4 Peters, 308;
Brent v. The Bank of Washington, 10 Peters, 596; Hunter. v. The United States,
5 Peters, 173: citdd.

ERROR to the court of appeals of the eastern shore of Maryland.
This suit was commenced in the Cecil county court, of the state
of Maryland, in September, 1830, by an attachment issued at the instance of the Farmers' Bank of Delaware against the Elkton Bank
of Maryland. To this writ the'sheriff in October, 1830, returned that
he had goods and chattels, rights and credits .of the defendants, the
Elkton Ban. of Maryland, in the hands of George Beastoni tp the
amount of five hundred dollars, to the use of the p'laintiffs in the attachment.
in April, 1834, the counsel for the plaintiffs, and for Mr. George
Beaiton, agreed on the following statement of facts:
It is agreed, that in 1828, the Unied States instituted suit against
the Elkton Bank, in the circuit court of the United States; at the
December session, 18219, a verdict and judgment were rendered in said
suit, in favour of the United States, for twenty-one thousand two hundred dollars; on which judgment, a fi. fa. was issued to Aprilterm,
1830, and returned nulla bona: but it is admitted that, at that time,
had a large
the said president and directors of the Ellkton Bank
landed estate, which has since been sold. and applied to satisfy, in
part, the said judgment; which landed estate, together with all other
effects or property belonging to the bank, would not enable the bank
to pay its debts: and that the said property and effects are insufficient
to pay the said debt due to the United States; and it is admitted,
that the bank was then unable to pay its debts. An appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States wag prosecuted, but no appeal
bond given; and thQ judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court,

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

at the January term,'1832. At the April term, 1830,of the circuit
court, a bill in equity was filed against the said bank at the suit of
the United States'; and Nathaniel Williams and John Glenn were appointed, by an order of court, receivers, with authority to take possession of the property of the said bank, to dispose of the same, and
to collect all debts due to it.
The proceedings by the United States against the Elkton Bank,
and the acts of the'receivers, Mr. Williams and Mr. Glenn, were made
a part of the agreement as to the facts of the case.
At December session, 1829, application was made to the legislature of Maryland, by the several persons who were the acting presidents, and the acting directors of the said bank, for the act which
was passed at that session, ch. 170; which, with all other acts relating
to 'said bank, are to be considered as part of this statement.
The act of the legislature of Maryland, authorized the appointment of trustees by the stockholders of the Elkton Bank, on certain
notice of the meeting of the stockholders being given; who were to
take possession of the whole of the property of the Elkton Bank,
and to proceed to the adjustment of its concerns. A meeting of the
stockholders was convened on the 17th day of May, 1830, which was
tbe third Monday of said month, but without -the publication of the
notice mentioned and required in the act incorporating the bank and
its supplements; and at the said meeting, a majority of the stockholders appointed two trustees, in conformity to the 'provisiops bf
said act, who declined accepting: and no trustees have ever been
since appointed, nor has there since been an annual, or other meeting
of the stockholders, or an election of directors; nor have there been
any banking operations carried on by any persons professing to be
the corporation of the Elkton Bank, since March, 1829. At September term, 1828, the Elkton Bank obtained a judgment against
George Beaston, for the sum which is attached in this suit; which, at
the time of the issuing and service of this attachment, had not been
paid by Beaston. At April term, 1830, the Farmers' Bank of Dela-,
ware obtained, in Cecil county court, a judgment against the president
and directors of the Elkton Bank, fo five thousand dollars, with interest from 9th of December, 1825, till paid, and costs; and before
the appointment and bonding of the rec-ivers as .oresaid, and on the
24th of September, 1830, upon that judgment, issued this attachment;
and attached in the hands of said Beaston, the sum of five hundred
dollars: and after this attachment was issued and served, and after

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

105

[Beaston v. The Farmers',Bank of Delaware.]

the affirmation of the judgment of the circuit court by the Supreme
Court, an attachment was issued by the United States, and the other
proceedings had, as appeared by the records of the circuit and Supreme Courts of the United States, which were made part of the case.
Beaston has actually paid, and satisfied the United States, the amount
for which judgment of condemnation was rendered against, him in
the circuit court. It is admitted that, up to the time of the decision
in the Supreme Court, the said receivers never had collected or received, or by any process of lawv attempted to collect or receive the
said debt attached in this case. The question for the opinion of the
court is, whether the plaintiff can sustain the present attachment?
By the record of the proceedings in the circuit court of the
United
judgthe
that
upon
States for the district of Maryland, it appeared,
MaryiIank
of
the
Elkton
against
ment obtained in December,,1829,
landi the United States,-on the 2d ofJuly, 1831, issued an attachment
against the effects of the Elkton Bank; which attachment was laid
on the effects of the bank, in the hands of George Beaston, on the
19th of October,1831.
The answers to the interrogatories filed on behalf of the United
States byGeorge Beaston, stated "that prior to the time of laying the
attachment in this cause, he was indebted to the Elkton Bank of
Maryland, in the sum of five hundred dollars, or thereabout, with interest from some time in 1828; (the period not now exactly recollectcd;) that in October, in the year 1830, an attachment at the suit of the
Farmers' Bank of Delaware against this deponent, as garnishee of the
Elkton Bank of Maryland aforesaid, was served on him, returnable to
Cecil county court, where the said attachment, last mentioned, is still
depending: that, at the time of the service of the attachment in this
cause, at the suit of the United States, the said sum of five hundred
dollars, and interest, was in the hands of deponent, and still remain
so; who claims to retain the same, as he is held liable to the payment
of the attachment first servedi on him, at the suit of the Farmers'
Bank of Delaware aforesaid; and as he considers himself entitled to
a set-off, as is hereinafti-r stated. Deponent further says, that he does
not exactly recollect the time when said debt was contracted, as he
has had various negotiations with said bank; but that, at the time he
received money from said bank as a consideration for his debt, it was
received in the notes of the said Elkton Bank; which were then, as
he believes, in a state of depreciation of from ten to twenty per cent.
on their nominal value."
VOL. XII.-O

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v; The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.J

That since the service of the summons in this cause, he has not paid
to the Elkton Bank aforesaid, or to any other person,'for the use of
said corporation, any part of the mqney aforesaid; nor has he made
any transfer of goods, property, or effects, to secuxe the payment
thereof, or any part thereof; that he is the. bona fide holder and
owner of notes of the Elkton Bank aforesaid, of the value nominally.
of eight hundred and forty-two dollars and thirty-one cents; and he
claims to set-off against any demand made in this, or any other proceeding against him, for the debt aforesaid, so many of the said notes'
at their nominal value, as may be equal to the sum claimed from him
in this attachment,.as garnishee of said bank.
George Beaston also filed. a plea of nulla bona, in the following
words: "That the said United States of America, condemnation of
the said sum of money in the attachment aforesaid, and return thereof specified in the hands of him, the said George Beaston, as )f the
goods, chattels and credits of the said president and directors of the
Elkton Bank of Maryland, ought not to have; because he saith that
the said George Beaston, at the time of laying the said attachment in
the hands of him, the said George Beaston, he had not, nor at any
time since hath .had, nor now hath, any of the goods, chattels, or
credits of them, the said president and directors of the Elkton Bank
of Maryland, in his hands; and this he ig ready to verify. Wherefore, he prays judgmept whether the said United States of America,
condeihnation of the said money in the attachment aforesaid, and return thereof specified, as of the goods, chattels, and credits of the
said president and directors of the Elkton Bank of Maryland, in the
hands of him, the said George Beaston, to have, ought, and so forth."
The United States filed a replication to this plea, and issue being
joined, the parties went to trial on the pleadings; and a verdict was
found by the jury in favour of the United States, for six hundred and
eighty-five dollars and sixty-six cents.
On the case thus agreed on, and the matter set forth and referred
to in the same, the Cecil county court gave a judgment in favour of
George-Beaston; and the plaintiffs appealed to the high court of appeals of the state of Maryland. The judgment of the court of Cecil
county was reversed by the court of appeals of Maryland; and the
defendant prosecuted this writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
United States.
The opinion of the court of appeals of Maryland, stateg the rea-

JANUARY' TERM, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

wons which induced that court to reverse the judgment of the court
of Cecil county. It was as follows:
" Exemption is claimed by the defendant, from the operation of
the attachment in' this case. Having had judgment of condemnation
passed against him, for the amount he stood indebted to the Elkton
Bank of Maryland, at the suit of the United States, and having paid
the money under such judgment, he rests'his defence upon an alleged
priority given by the acts of congress to the government; and upon
certain proceedings of the government had in the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maryland, for the recovery of his
claims, against the Elkton Bank of Maryland. The priority of the
United States is supposed to be founded on the just construction of
the laws of congress, making provision for the collection of her debts.
We have been referred, in the argument, to the law of 1789, ch. 5,
see. 21: 1790,'ch. 35, see. 45: 1792, -h. 27, see. 18: 1797, ch. 74,
seP.. 5: and the collection law to be found in the 3d vol. of the Laws
of the United States 'ch. 138, see. 65. Interpretations of various decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, and of the circuit
courts, have been given to these acts of congress, which leave no
doubt as to their construction. It will be, therefore, only necessary
to refer to them. The twofirst acts above cited, had reference to
bonds given for duties; and the third act above referred to, made
provision in relation to the securities in such bonds. These acts gave
a preference to the. United States in all cases of insolvency, or where
any estate, in the hands of executors or administrators, shall be insufficient to pay all the debts of the deceased; and it was declared that
the case of insolvency referred to, should be deemed .to extend to all
eases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his
debts, should have made a voluntary assignment thereof for the benefit of his creditors, or in which the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor, shall have been attached by process
of law; or to ca~es in which an act of legal bankruptcy shall have
been committed: and, by the two subsequent laws, the same provision was made, securing the priority of the United States, and applying them to all other debts due to theUnited States. In the year
1805, the Supreme Court were first called upon to put a construetion.
upon these laws; 'and it was" adjudged, in 3 Cranch, 73, that the
United States would gain no priority, in case of a partial bona fide
transfer of his property by the debtor; but could only obtain it by
such a general divestment of property as would, in fact, be equiva-

, SUPREME COURT.,
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of'Deaware.]

lent to insolvency, in its technical sense. In 1810, ihe same court
decided that the term "insolvency," as used in the first acts, and
."bankruptcy," as used in the latter acts) are synonymous terms.
That priority must be confined to the cases of insolvency specified
in the act; and that insolvency must be unde rstood to mean a legal,
known insolvency, manifested by some notorious act of the debtor,
pursuant to law; not a vague allegation which, in adjusting conflicting claims of 'the United States, and individuals against debtors, it
would be difficult to ascertain; 8 Cranch,-431. The same construction has been maintained in 2 Wheat. 396, and 4 Peters, 386; and, in
a very recent case, Mr. Justice Thompson says, "the act looks to a
legal insolvency, where the property is taken up bythe law for distribution among the creditors of the debtor. There is no difficulty
in the construCtitni of the statute, until we arrive at the last phrase,
"legal bankruptcy." What is legal bankruptcy? In 1797, when
the act of congress was passed, the United States had no bankrupt
laws. The words, in their connection, seem to have reference to the
previos cases put in the section, and to point odit some legal insol,vency or some mode of proceeding, by which the property of the
debtor is taken out of his hands to be distributed by others; Paine's
C.'C. R. 629. Such being the construction of the acts of congress,
giving the government a preference; we proceed to inquire whether
the Elkton Bank was in such a situation as to impart to the United
States t-his preference.
"The above facts demonstrate the inability of the Elkton Bank to
pay her debts, as admitted in the statement, they could not, per se,
give to the United States the preference contended for. It must, in
the language of the authorities, be a known and legal insolvency;
the former of which is not admitted, and the latter could, not be predicated of such a condition.
"Does the act of 1829, ch. 170, with the proceedings consequent
thereon, give rise to the priority contended for? This act provided
for the election, at the next annual meeting of the stockholders,
held in pursuance of their charter, of two trustees, to settle all the
outstanding debts and credits of the bank; and further provided, that
they should be elected in the same manner as'the president and directors have been heretofore elected. By referring to the charter of the
bank, it Will be found that one of its fundamental laws required the
president and directors to give one month's notice, in the most public
places in the county, and in some public print in the city of Balti-

JANUARYTERM, '1838.

109

[Beaston *. The Farmhers' Bank of Delaware.]

,more,

of the time and place of ,holding the election of directors annually: and it was furthermore, by a supplement to the said charter,
required that the election, for directors should take place on the
fourth Monday of May. If it were conceded to the legislature, that
they possessed po ver to wind up the concerns of this particular institution by such an act; it must be admitted, that the leading provisions of the act, calculated to apprize all interested of the fundamental changes about to be operated in its government, that they
might have an opportunity of protecting their interests by their presence, should have been complied with in order to give legal efficacy
to the acts doqe under it. So far, however, from this, we are informed by the statements that no notice was given; and that two
persons were elected by a majority of the stockholders, on a different day from the day of the annual election of directors, as the
trustees, who never accepted. So that the law was in truth never
executed, but-the proceedings held under it were undoubtedly inoperative and void, and could therefore not in any manner have operated
as a general divestment of property, within the contemplation of
the acts of congress, as upon this ground to have given the United
States a preference; but, on the contrary, the charter still thereafter
continued to exist, and its affairs ivere, or ought to have been rightfully managed and controlled by its then directors, who would continue in office for its government, and the exercise of its corporate
functions, until such election should take place. Although no priority
may exist on the part of the United States, it has been argued that
the appointment of receivers, by the circuit court of the United
States, to take charge of the property and effects of the Elkton Bank
of Maryland, placed the debt due from the defendant so under the
control of that court, as a court of equity, that it could be reached
legally by no process of execution or attachment. It is true that
money and effects in the hands of the assignee of a bankrupt, or
the trustee of an insolvent debtor, cannot be attached; not only because such property stands assigned by operation of law: but because
the allowance of such attachments would utterly defeat the whole
policy of the bankrupt or insolvent laws; nor can money taken by a
sheriff in execution, or money paid into.court. Serg. on Attach. 99.
But we apprehend that the appointment and bonding of receivers,
does not work'such disability. The property, by the order, is not
taken under the protection of the court; and, until taken in charge
by the receivers, its 4ummary jurisdiction could not be interposed to

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Firmers' Bank of Delaware.]

punish such as might cover it, or portions of it, by execution or attachment. The period when it might and ought legally to be considered as under the mantle of legal protecti6n,'should be-the time
when a court of chancery would interpose by attachment, for disturbing or interfering with the possession of the receiver.
"Innocent third persons might be previously affected by extending
this doctrine further. It has beep argued, and we think with much
force, that there is and ought to be an analogy in this respect between
the law applicable to receivers and sequestrators; as regards the latter, the court of king's bench have decided, that, when a sequebtration is awarded to collect money to pay a demand in equity, if it is
not executed; that is, if the sequestrators do not take possession, and
a judgment creditor takes out execution, notwithstanding the sequestration awarded, there may be a levy under the execution. East's
Rep. 9 vol. 335.
"So here, the receivers never obtained p,'s'ession of the credits of
the Elkton Bank of Maryland, its books and papers, or its evidences
of debt: on the contrary, so far as we are enabled to collect the fact
in this respect from the record, they were held adversely; the circuit
court of the United States giving thir aid and assistance to the receivers, to enable them to obtain the possession; with what effect we
know. not; except that we are left to infer, from the fact of the attachment subsequently issued against the defendant by the United
States, that they never did obtain possession. We are not informed
by the record, that the receivers ever took any steps whatever to
assume control over the debt which the defendant owed the Elkton
Bank: on the contrary, they take out an attachment in the name of
the United States, and serve it on the defendant as garnishee, long
after the attachment issued, and served by the plaintiff in this case;
and indeed the statement admits that they never attempted to exercise a control over this debt. Lastly, it is urged that the judgment
of condemnation obtained against Beaston, by the United. States,
should operato as a bar against the recovery by the plaintiff in this
case. It is undoubtedly a hardship on the defendant to be compelled
twice to pay the same debt, but it must be recollected that the plaintiff had a prior attachment, which operated as a lien: and it would
be a still greater hardship that such plaintiff should lose his lien, thus
legally acquired, by the judgment of a court in a cause to which he
was no party, and of which we have no evidence that he had in
any manner any notice. If the defendant failed to take the proper

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

steps, in the predicament in which he was placed, to defend and
protect his interests, it is but fair' that he should suff r the consequences. Had notice been given of this attachment by the United
States, the plaintiff might .have vindicated his rights, and had an opportunity 6f asserting his anterior lien; and of obtaining the decision
of the appellate court, had it become necessary. Nor is it prescribed
why it would not' have been competent for the defendant, in this,
conflict of claims against him, to have brought the conflicting parties
into chancery, where the rights and priority of each might have been
adjudicated without prejudice to 'him. But, last of all, would the
defendant be entitled to avail himself of the judgment of the United
States recovered against him, since, from the examination of the
record of that suit, it appears that his defence was taken solely on
the plea of nulla bona; a defence which could certainly have been. of
no avail, when it appeared, by the answers filed in the interrogatories of the United States, that he was indebted to the Elkton Bank
of Maryland: although, in the answers, he adverts to the attachment
issued against him by the Farmers' Bank of Delaware, he has not
plead such prior attachment as pending against him, whereby he
could obtain the opinion of the court in relation to its priority. . In
every aspect, therefore, in which we can view the decision below,
we are brought to the conclusion that it cannot be sustained.
'Judgment reversed, and judgment on the case stated for anpellant."
The case was argued at the bar, by Mr. Martin and Mr. Butler,
attorney general, for the plaintiff in error: and by a printed argument for defendants in error by Mr. John C. Groome. Mr. Butler
also submitted a printed argument in reply.
For the plaintiff in error the following points were presented to
the Court.
1st. That, according to 4just construction of the acts of congress
giving priority to the United States, in cases where their debtors are
insolvent, the government was entitled to be paid the debt due to it
from the Bank of Elkton, out of the effects of that institution, in
preference to any other creditor; and the plaintiff in error having
paid to the United States the amount of money in. which he was indebted to the Bank of Elkton, he was, therefore, acquitted from the
operation of the attachment sued out against im by the Fartners'
Bank of Delaware.

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

2d. That judgment of condemnation having been obtained by the
United States against the plaintiff in error, on an attachment in the
circuit court for the district of Maryland, for the money in which he
stood 'indebted to the Bank of Elkton; and he having paid that
amount to the United States under the authority of said judgment, it
operates as a bar to the recovery sought against him by the defendant
in error.
3d. That the appointment of receivers, by the circuit court, to
take possession of the property and effects of the Bank of Elkton,
as disclosed by the record, placed the debt due from the plaintiff in
error to that bank, in the custody and under the control of the circuit court, as a court of equity; and that it could not be legally reached
by the process of attachment issued in this case by the Farmers'
Bank ,of Delaware.
Mr. Martin, for the plaintiff's, stated that this case has been
brought up to this Court, to settle principles by which, hereafter,
future cases may be regulated; and thus, although the amount in controversy is small, the importance of the principles 'involved, will
commend it to the consideration of the Court. After stating the case,
he proceeded to say, that the first point is the question of the right
of priority of the United States, under the act of congress, under the
circumstances which are presented by the record. According to the
received construction of the act of congress of 3d March, 1791, a
body politic or corporate is within the meaning of the, act.
2d. The Bank of.Elkton having become insolvent, the priority of
the United States attached; and the proceedings of the Farmers'
Bank of Delaware could not operate against the rights of the United
States, nor affect the debt due to the Elkton Bank in the hands of
George Beaston.
The priority of the United States is fully settled in the case of The
United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358. In that case it was decided,
that the right of the United States to priority of payment of debts
due to her, extends to all cases where any one-is indebted to the
government. The same principle will be, found in Field v. The
United States, 9 Peters, 182. Where there has been an open act of
insolvency, the priority attaches; whether suit is, or is not instituted
by the United States. 1 Paine's C. C. R. 628. This priority may be
enforced by an action of assumpsit; by a bill in equity; or by any
other legal proceedings.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

It has been said in this case, in the courts of Maryland, that corporations are not within the provisions qf the, act of congress; because the persons who compose the corporation are merged in it.
But this is denied, and it is m intaincd, that a corporation is a'person
'within the law; and that -acorporation is fully within the meaning
and purpose of the law. Corporations are persons; they are so treated in all the laws and proceedings relative to taxation. Coke's Institutes, 697.'718. In the exposition of,the Statute of Henry 5, Lord
Coke says: Every corperation is included in the terin "inhabitant;"
althlough the corporation is not named. In Cowper's Rep. 79, the
court of king's bench decided, that a corporation comes in under the
term "inhabitant."
So also, in the case of The Bank of the' United
States v. Deveaux, 6 Cranch, 51,; it was held, that a corporation composed of citizens of one state, may sue a citizen of another state, in
the courts of the United States. The same prinjiple will be found. in
the opinion of Mr. Justice Thompson, when in the supreme court of
New York; in the case of The People v. The Utica Ips. Company,, 15
John. Rep. 351.
A corporation being within the act of congress, if before theattachment of the Bank of Delaware, the Elkton Bahk had'become insolvent, the priority of the United States had attached: what was
the situation of the Elkton fBank; what are the ei'idences of its insolvency?
This is shown by the retun of nulla bona, to the attachment
against the bank; hy' the inability of the bank to discharge its debts.
In fact, there was no banking operations bythe bank after 1829; no
meetibg of tbe stockholders: and, all its operations as a -bank were
arrested, because of its eptire and absolute inability to pay its debts.
In 1829, the corporation was at Annapolis, asking for a-special act
of insolvency; and on this application of the bank, the legislature
passed an act which authorized the, appointment of trustees, who were
to take possession of the whole property and effects of the bank, and
wind up its whole concerns. Maryland Laws of 1829, chap..170,
Harris's Compilation. These acts combined; demonstrate, fully and
unquestior-bly, the insolvency of the bank.
It is contended, 1st. That if there was no legal transfer of the
effects of the bank to trustees, in consequence of the irregularity of
the proceedings of the stockholders, or from any other cause this
Court will pronounce tha-bank to have be~n insolvent; because of its
situation, and from its various acts, and the circumstances of the case.
VoL: XII.-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

2d. That if it is necessary there should be an assignment to constitute a legal insolvency, and thus to bring the case within the provisions of the act of congress, the corporation was completely denuded
of all its property; and the act of the legislature of Maryland, of
1829, was an assignment of all the property of the bank. Cited
Prince v. Bartlet, 8 Cranch, 431. The acceptance of the assignment
is not necessary to show the insolvency of the assignor. In the
court of appeals it was conceded, that if trustees of the bank had been
appointed, th6 insolvency of the bank would have been established.
The irregularity of their appointment can have no influence on the
question. It is the, condition of the bank, and its app!ication to -the
legislature, followed by the proceedings of the stockholders appoint-,
ing the trustees; although not accordipg to the requirements of the
law; which make out the insolvency.
The appointment of receivers by the circuit court'of the United
States for the Maryland district, was also a judicial assignment of all
the effects of the bank. If a statutory assignment, or an individual
assignment, gives the preference to the United States; why should
not ajudicial assignment have'the same operation ? As to the effects
ofthe appointment of receivers, citedi 3 Wendell's Rep. 1.
The party in this case,'paid the money in obedience to'the judgment of a court of'competent jurisdiction. This is a full protection
for the payment, and no other court can question the propriety of
the judgment of the circuit court of Maryland; or of the acts of the
defendant in obedience tofhat judgment. Cited, 5 Johns. Rep.101;
2 East, 266.- It was said, in the court of appeals, that the Bank of
Delaware might have appealed from the circuit court of the United
States to this Court. But there is error in this assertion. The sum
in controversy was too small for a writ of error, or for an appeal.
It is claimed that receivers.having been appointed by the circuit
court in 1830, and they having entered on their. duty, and assumed.
the trusts delegated to them; all the property and effects of the bank
went into their hands, and no part of the same was afterwards liable
to attachment. The attachment by the Farmers' Bank of Delaware,
was after the appointment of'receivers in the cir:cuit court. The receivers were appointed in June; the attachment was not laid until
September.
It has been said, that the receivers did not take possession of the
debt due by Beaston, the plaintiff in error; that they could have no,
manual possession of this debt. As to what an attachment is, hnd

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
.[Beaston v. The Farnqers' Bank of Delaware.]
what property can be attached, cited, 1 Penna. Rep. 117; 1 Dall.,
3; '3 Binney's Rep. 294; 2 Maddock's Chancery, 187, 294,
Mr. Butler, upon the question, whether "person" in the act of
congress giving a priority tb) the United States, said; that w:herever
"person" is used in a statute, with aquality attached to it which does
not apply to a corporation, the Court will construe the statute so as
to comprehend persons. 'if the spirit and purpose of the law will be
accomplished by their doing so. Wherever the words of a statute
can be extended to artificial persons, and where the gcts done or to be
done by corporations are within the spirit of the law, they will be
extended to comprehend them. In all these:cases, and wherever it
is, necessary, the Court will look at the composition of the corporation.
Persons, in law, are artificial as well as natural persons; and in the
act of congress there is,. nothing which is not equally applicable to
both. The olject of the statute Was to include all persons. Its purpose was to secure debts due to it, 'f'om whomsoever might become
indebted to the United States; and a corporation is certainly within
the general sense of the statute.
As to the insolvency of the Elkton Bank, it was plain and manifest at the time of the proceedings by the United States against Mr.
Beaston. The act of congress applies to 4 case where the insolvency
is manifest. What canI manifest the insolvency of the bank 'more
than what is shown in the record.. The bank' had ceased its operations, as a bank; the stockholders had eeased to appoint directors to'
manage its concerns. An ipplicatior, was made in 1829, to the legislature of Maryland, for the appointmeht of assignees, or trustees,
who were to take possession of' all its property; and this application
was p flthinanifeptatipp of the total insolvency of the institution.
Mr. Groome, for the defendants in error.
At April' Term, 1830, of Cedil county court, the Farmers' Bank
of Delawar&'obtained a judgment against the Elkton Bank of Maryland. On' the 24th day of September following it: had an Attachment issued on thisjudgment, in conformity with the laws of Maryland, 1715, ch. 40, see. 74 and attached in the hands of Btaston, the
plaintiff in error, the, sum of five hundred dollars, &c., due to the
said Elkton Bank on a judgment t September Term, 1828, of the
same court. Beaston resisted this attachment, and a judgment was

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers "Bank of Delaware.]

rendered in his favour against the Farmers' Bank at April term,
1834; on the statement of facts to be found on the 8th, 9th, and 10th
pages of the printed record. From this judgment an appeal was
prayed to the court of appeals of Maryland, and there it was reversed. Subsequently, by a writ of error, it has been brought up to
this Court; and the question ,for decision is, whether, at the time of
issuing and levying the said attachment; there was any existing lien
on behalf of the United States, or of any other creditor of the Elkton Bank, on the specific debt attached; or any other circumstance
or relation between the Elkton Bank and any of its creditors, either
then existing or subsequently arising, which could overreach the
attachmnent, and defeat its operation ?
It cannot be contended that the rec-d discloses any lien existing
at that time. The judgment rendered in favour of the. United Stat~s
against the Elkton Bank, could-not op6rate as a lien on any debt due
tO the Elkton Bank. Neither was any such lien created by the fieri
facias issued on that judgment to April term, 1830. It had already,
on the 8th day of April, 1830, been returned with an endorsement
of nulla bona, by the marshal; and was, under no circumstances, the
proper process of execution to reach the credits of the Elkton Bank,
and could of course have no effect upon the debt due from Beaston.
Nor could any priority, (as will appear hereaftdr to be claimed on behalf of the United States,) operate 6s a lien on this debt. This Court
has held, that no lien is created in favour of the United States by the
.law of priority. United States v. Fisher et al. 2 Cranch, 358; Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance 'Company, 1 Peters, 440; United
States v. Hooe et al. 3 Cranch, 73.
It is said, however, that although no actual lien may have existed
in favour of the United States, or any other creditor of the Elkton
Bank; yet the United States were, by reason of their judgment, and
other circumstances stated in tlie record in this cause, entitled to a
priority of payment out of the funds of' the Elkton Bank: and this
priority, existing at the time when the attachment was issued on the
judgment, of the Farmers' Bank, superseded and defeated that atfachment.. Supposing it to exist in this case, "what, then, is the
nature of the priority thus limited and established in favour of the
United 'States? Is it a right'which supersedes and overrules the
assignment of the debtor as to any property which afterwards the
United States, may elect to take in execution, so as to prevent. such
'property from passing, by virtue of such assignmen'to the assignees?

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

117

'[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

Or is it a'mere right of prior payment out of the general funds of the
debtor in the bands'of the assignees? We are of opinion (said this
ort) that it clearly falls within the latter description; and that the
debts due to the United States are to be satisfied by the assignees, who
are rendered personally liable, if they omit to discharge such debts."
Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters' Rep. 439.
Again, in the case of The United States v. Fisher et al., this Court
held that 'no lien is created by this law of priority; no bona fide
transfer of property in the ordinary course of business-is overruled.
It is only a priority' of payment, which, under' different modifications, is aeregulation in common use. See 1 Peters' Rep. 440. It
does not partake even of the character of a lien on the property of
public debtors. United States v. Hooe et al. 3 Cranch, 73. If,
then, debts -due to the United States constitute no lien on the property of the debtor, and have merely preference of paymen-t out of
the debtor's funds in the hands of assignees; how can the existence
of such debts operate to defeat any lien subsequently acquired by
any other bona fide creditor; or, in other words, how can a debt due
to the United States, and merely entitled to a priority of payment
out of the funds of the Elkton Bank in the hands of its assignees, be
held to defeat a lien on a specific credit, acquired in favour of the
Farmers' Bank by attachment? It is a solecism to say that such a
debt, or such priority is no lien; and yet give to it all the properties,
:attributes and effect of a lien. In this'manner did this Court reason when it said that "if' a debtor of the United States, who makes
a bona fide conveyance of part of his property for the security of a
creditor, is within the act which gives a preference to the governmeit, thenwould that preference be in the nature of a lien from
the instant he became indebted." 3 Cranch, 73. But it will be
recollected that the fund attached in this case was not chattels or
,land in the actual custody and under the immediate control of the
Elkton Bank; but a chose in action, a debt, due from a third person
to that institution, under a judgment which, at the time of the attach.ment, had never been paid, and Which required the use of coercive
measures to reduce it into possession. It would seem to be carrying'
the principle of priority very far to apply it to such a case. The
third person cannot be presumed or expected to know the condition'
of his creditor's affairs; whether he be indebted to the United States
or not; and whether, if indebted, the United States have any right
to priority of payment out of his estate; and if he did know such to

SUPREME COURT.
[Beastotn v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

be the condition of his creditor, he is in no wise responsible for the
proper application of his creditor's property. The United States
have -their remedy against the assignees,'and not against the property
oftheir debtor. Their priority never attaches on 'lands or goods, as
the lands or goods of the debtor; it attaches on the fund, and not on
the specific property. It does not operate to prevent the passing of
the property either to assignees in bankruptcy, or to assignees under
a conveyance, or to executors and administrators. It amounts only
to a right to previous payment out of the fund then in the hands of
others. Such was the argument of counsel, and such appears to be
the effect of the decision in, the case of Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company.
So far the argument has proceeded on the hypothesis, that, in this
case, a priority under the acts of congress in fayour of the United
States, did exist: but it is denied that the United States ever had such
priority of payment against the Elkton Bank. The priority claimed is
derived from certain acts of congress. These several acts are the act
qf 31.st July, 1789 ch. 5, see. 21: the act of 4th August, 1790, ch. 35,
sec. 45: the act of 179 , ch. 27, sec. 18: the act of 3d March, 1797,
ch. 74, see. 5: and the act of 2d March, 1799, ch. 128, sec. 65. All
ofthese acts, except that of 1797, confined the priority of the United
States to custom-house bonds, and bonds taken under the collection
act; and some of them placed the surety in such bonds, who paid the
debt, on the same footing in respect to priority, as the United Stats.
It was the act of 1797 that went further, and gave a preference to
the United States in all cases whatsoever, whoever might be the
debtor, or however he might be indebted; when the debtor became
insolvent, or when, after his death, his estate' in the hands of his executors or administrators should be insufficient for the payment of his
debts: and it provided, that the priority should be deemed to extend
as well to cases in which the debto, not having sufficient property
to pay all his debts, shall have made a voluntary assignment thereof
for the benefit of his creditors; or in which the estate and effects of
an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor shall have been attached
by process of law; as to cases in which an act of legal bankruptcy
shall have been committed. In giving a construction to these statutes, this Court has held that they only apply to two general classes
of cases, viz: a living insolvent, having an assignee; and a,dead insolvent represehted by execufors or administrators; Conard w Nicoll, 4 -Peters' Rep. 308i that the priority, as against living debtors,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

only existed where the debtor had become actually and notoriously
insolvent,. arid, being unable to pay his debts, has made a voluntary
assignment, of all his property; or, having absconded, or absented
himslf, his property has been attached by process of law. See
United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch. 73; 1 Peters, 439. The words
bankruptcy, and insolvency, mentioned jin the statutes, are used is
synonymous terms; and must be understood to apply to cases of insolvency specified by the legislature; and to mean a legal and known
insolvency, manifested by some notorious act of the debtor, pursuant
to law; Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Crancb, 43.1 or where, by operation of law, the property of the debtor is taken out of his hands to
be distributed by others; United States v. Clark, 1 Pairie's C. C. R.
629; and see Thellusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. Rep. 396: or where
the property is in the hands of assignees, not by voluntary assignment only, but by assignment made in virtue of any state bankrupt
law, or, possibly, of .any bankrupt law of the United States, which
might thereafter be passed. Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Peters' Rep; 308.
It is not a mere inability of the debtor to pay all his debts, but that
inability must be manifested in one of the three modes pointed out in
the explanatory clause of the section. 1 Peters' Rep. 439. From
the several statutes and decisions cited, it appears that the United
States, as creditors, have a preference in the following cases:
1. Where the debtor is dead, leaving an insufficiency of assets in
the hands of his executors or administrators to pay his debts.
2. When his effects have been attached by process of law, as an
absent, concealed, or absconding debtor.
3. Where there is bankruptcy, or legal insolvency of the debtor,
manifested by some act pursuant to law: and'
4. Where he has mad.ea voluntary assignment of all his property
for the benefit of his creditors.
Did the Elkton Bank, at the. time of issuing the attachment in
favour of the Farmers' Bank, come within either one of thesefour
classes?
1. It was certainly at that time an existing institution, in the full
possession of its chartered rights and powers; and could not be even
assimilated to the conditiohi of a deceased debtor. The failure of the
stockholders of the Elkton Bank to elect officers in 1830, and since;
even with their continued omission to carry on their usual banking,
operations; could be regarded, in the worst aspect, as only cause of
forfeiture, and is not, per se, an actual Iorfeiture. A corporation may

SUPREME COURT,
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

forfeit its charter, under certain circumstances, by non user or misuser of its franchises; but such forfeiture can only be enforced by
judicial proceedings instituted for that purpose, at the instance of the
government; and no cause of forfeiture can be taken advantage of,
collaterally or incidentally; nor indeed in any manner, until the default has been judicially ascertained and declared, by a suit instituted
on behalf of the state for that purpose. Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company v. Baltimore and Ohio Rail Road Company, 4 Gill and
Johns. R. 107; Trustees of Vernon Society-v. Hill,.6 Cow. Z3; King
v. A~mery, 2 T. R. 515.. Besides, it is the general principle of law,
that it is incident to all 'corporations, 'hat in case of a failure to elect
at the time appointed, the old officers shall remain in office. Stra. 625,
10 Mod. 146. One of the supplements to the charter of the Elkton
Bank contains a provision to the same effect.' Laws of Maryland,
181'5, ch. 148; see 6 Gill and Johns. R. 230. But this point is too
self-evident to require further discussion.
2. Therehas been no attachment of the effects of the Elkton
Bank, as-an absent, concealed, or absconding debtor. The attachment
of the Farmers' Bank, inthis case, is a process in the nature of an
execution: is, as such, authorized by the laws of Maryland, 1715, ch.
40, see. 7: and is not pre-dicatedof the absence or concealment of
the debtor, the Elkton Bank.
3. Here was no known and legal solvency; none admitted in the
statement of facts, and none arising by inference therefrom; bui a
mere inability to pay debts; which is not the insolvency contemplated by the acts of congress, and does not, per se, give to the Unitcd States the prefer.rue.claimed, 1 Peterg' R. 439. The insolvency
mentioned in the stabates, refers to insolvency under the state laws,
and perhaps to a bankrupt law of the United States, when one should
pass. 4 Peters' R.'307-8; Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch R. 431. And
a corporation is not within the state laws on that subject; State of
Maryland v. Bank of Maryland, 6 Gill, and John. 221: being incapable of imprisonment; or of availing itself of the benefit of their
porvisions.
4. Here was no voluntary assignment by the Elkton Bank, for the
benefit of its creditors. No such assignment is'expressly admitted,
aYid none such can bi- implied. The act of the legislature of Maryland, 182b, ch. 170, cannot be deemed to be such an assignment. By
that 'act, the stockholders of.the Elkton Bank were merely authorized, at theii next annual meeting, held in purguance of their char-

JANUARY TERM,, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.)

ter, to elect two -persons as trustees, who should have power to adjust
and settle all the outstanding debts.and credits of said bank; who
should be privileged to sue, and be liable to-be sued; and be'elected
in the same manner as the president and directors bad been, and in
their place and stead. A charter being a contract, within'the purview
of the constitution, which cannot be destroyed, modified, altered, or
impaired, without the assent of the corporators; this act, unless accepted and executed by the stockholders of the Elkton Bank, in the
manner and on the terms prescribed by it, is a mere dead letter. It
can, make no difference, that it was passed on the application of the
several persons, who were the acting president and the acting directors
of the bank:, for it is not conceded that they acted officially: and if
they did, they acted without authority, and in. the exercise of powers
that did not legitimately belong to their office.
Ad it-is contended, too,' that on principle, the acceptance must
be the act of each corporator; for if it be a contrac at all, it must
'be a contract with each. ' If not, and a majority of corporators can
control the objects and purposes of the charter- then, after ther creation of a charter for one purpose, and the contribution of the requi'site funds for that purpose, a majority 'May, with the aid of the legislature, divert the funds from the 'object for which they have been
subscribed' by many; and apply them to 'a use opposed to their
wishes, and destructive to their interests. At all events, it must be
accepted'and executed, either by a majority, or by the whole of the
corporators; and in either case, the acceptance must he made in
accordance with the act. The annual meeting of the stockholders
had-been fixed by law, 1815: ch. 148, to take place on the fourth
Monday of May, in every year; and the 'harter required the president. and directors to give one month's notice, in the most public
places in the county, and in some public print in the city of Balti.more, of the time and place of holding th-e election of directors annual.ly: Laws of Maryland, 1810, eh. 51, sec. 47, sub-sec. 3. Now,
the fourth Monday of May, 1830, (after the proper preliminary
notice had been given,) was the day when the next annual meeting
would be held, in pursuance of the charter; and if any inlference of
the acceptance or execution of the act of 1829 can be drawn from
the conduct of the stockholders, in the absence of any express resolution to that effect, it should be derived from their election of trustees, in conformity with that act on that day. On that day, however, no such election was attempted; but on a different day, viz:
VOL. XII.-Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bahk of Delaware.]

on the third Monday of May, without any previous notice whatever, and without any authority, two persons were elected by a
majority of the stockholders, as trustees; but these persons never accepted. The act of 1829 was, therefore, never regularly accepted,
and never executed, and all the proceedings under it being unauthorized-, were necessarily void; and could not operate as a general
divestment of the property of the Elkton Bank, within the contemplation of the acts of congress, so as to give the United States the
preference over other creditors.
The effects of the Elkton Bank never went into the hands of
any persons for distribution; the trustees elect refused the office;
and there was, therefore, no assignee to whom they were assigned,
or who could be made liable to the United States. The contingency whereon the transfer was to be made under the act, viz: the
substitution of trustees in the "'place and stead" of director-,, did
not happen. The transfer was therefore never consummated. An
act of bankruptcy, or what would be such under the bankrupt laws
of England, is not sufficient to give rise to the preference of the
United States, from the moment of its commission; for there is no
assignee, who is first to satisfy the claim of the United States out
of the estate of the debtor, under the penalty of satisfying it out
of his own estate, 4 Peters, 308. It is important, then, that there
should be an existing assignee, having the property in his hands
for distribution; indeed, it is essential that there should be. In
the case of Brent v. The Bank of Washington, the plaintiff's testator had executed an assignment to certain persons,, of all his estate,
for the payment of the claims of the government, and his other
creditors, as far fortl as the estate would answer. The assignees
refused to accept the assignment, or to act under it; and for this
reason, the attorney general admitted, and this Court decided, the
deed to be inoperative. 10 Peters' H. 597, 610, 611. The refusal of
the trustees to act, therefore, apart from the irregularity, of their appointment; would of itself defeat any claim of priority on the part
of the United States in this case. But it is evident, from a perusal
of the act of 1829, that it was never intended or understood by the
legislature, or the Elkton Bank, as a voluntary assignment of property for the benefit of creditors, in the meaning of the acts of congress. It was merely a prdceeding preparatory to the final adjustment
of the affairs of the Elkton b ank, on the expiration of its*charter,
in a few years thereafter. The trustees were to have the privilege

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

of suing, and to be liable to be sued, in the same manner as the president and directors. They were to be elected in the same manner
in which they had beern elected, and iii theit place and stead. It was
nothing more than the substitution of two men for twelve, in the administration of the bank-of trustees for directors. The act does
not contemplate the immediate adjustment of the concerns of the institution; nor does it, in terms, restrict the trustees from carrying
on the usual operations of the bank; but on the contrary, it expressly
directs that they shall be elected in the place and stead of the president and directors; and as if their duties were not intended to expire but with the charter itself, it requires them, at every annual
meeting thereafter, to exhibit to the stockholders a just and true
statement of all theii doings as such trustees. It made them responsible to the stockholders directly, as the president and directors were,
and not to the creditors; and is predicated of no insolvency, actual
or technical. And that the passage of this act, and the subsequent
irregular proceedings under it, wrought no real change in the situation of the effects of the Elkton Bank, is manifest, from the view
afterwards taken of the subject by the government itself; when it attached the same debt due from Beaston, in his hands as garnishee of
the president and directors of the Elkton Bank: thereby clearly
showing that it never regarded the property of the Elkton Bank, or
this debt at least, as having ever passed by any assignment, actual or
constructive, out of the possession of that institution, for the benefit
of creditors, within the meaning of the acts of congress.
That this construction of the act of 1829, and this conjecture of its
scope and object are correct, is further confirmed by the fact, that the
power and authority of the legislature were invoked. The consentof
that body was absolutely necessary, to vest the administration of the
affairs of the bank in two instead of, twelve persons, as the charter
expressly confided its managemernt to the latter number of persons;
whereas, it will not be denied, that, if the object had been merely to
make an assignment of property for the benefit of creditors, in the
meaning of the acts of congress, the corporation had this power in
its own hands, without the sanct.on or intervention of the legislature;
and could have effected its purposes at o1ace, by a deed assigning and
conveying all its property to assignees or trustees. The State of
Maryland v. Bank of Maryland, 6 Gill and Johns. 290.
There is nothing in the charter of the Elkton Bank to restrain it
from so doing. If this power be denied to a corporation, then a c'or-

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v.,The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

poration can never be brought within the operation of the statutes
giving priority. It is not within either one of the enumerated classes
of cases. It cannot be a deceased debtor, with an insufficiency of
assets in the hands of executors or administrators. Its effects cannot
be attached as those of an absent, concealed, or absconding debtor; for
such a state of things cannot be possibly predicated of a corporation.
It cannot be a technical insolvent, under the state laws; and if it
cannot transfer its property to trustees, for the payment of its debts,
without the intervention and permission of another; it cannot make a
voluntary assignment. Indeed, it may be greatly doubted, from the
phraseology of the act of 1797, whether it was ever intended to apply
to corporations. Before this branch of the argument is concluded, it
must be observed, that up to this point, this case is considered as
analogous to the case of Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch, 431. There,
the effects of an insolvent debtor, duly attached by an individual
creditor, in June, were considered not to be liable to the claim of the
United States, on a custom house bond, given prior to the attachment,
and put in suit in Augu~t following. And to the facts and principles
of law, in Prince v. Bartlett, the particular attention of this Coirt
is asked.
But it is contended, that the appointment of receivers by the circuit court wrought some change in the c6ndition, either of the. par,
ties in this suit, or of the debt due from Beaston; SG as to defeat the
attachnent of, the Farmers' Bank, subsequently issued. It cannot
be regarded as an assignment under'the statutes, for at least it was
not voluntary. The appointment of receivers is a discretionary
power, sometimes exercised by a court of chancery as a measure of
security against waste, mismanagement, &c. and is provisional only
for the more speedy getting in of a party's estate, and securing it for
the benefit of such person as appears entitled; and does not affect the
right. 2 Madd. Chan, Prac. 187-8. It transfers no title. It does
not even alter the possession of the estate in the person who shall be
found entitled at the time the receiver was appointed; so as to prevent
the statute of limitations running on during the i ight in dispute. 2
Madd. 188. The appointment of receivers, therefore, in this case,
did not affect the right of the parties to this or any other suit, or
change the condition of the debt; unless it had the effect to place it
under the immediate control of the circuit court, as a codrt of equity,
and thus protect it from all process of execution or attachment. It
is said, in support of this position, that money, held by a person as

JANUARY, TERM,

1838.

125

[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

assignee of a bankrupt, or trustee of an insolvent, cannot be attached
for a debt due by the bankrupt or insolvent, at the suit of any particular creditor. Sergeant- on Attachment, 83. But the-.reason is
obvious. An assignment, in law or in fact, divests the bankrupt or
insolvent of the property, and transfers it to the assignee in trust for
the creditors in general: so that the bankrupt has no interest to
attach. And besides, to permit an attachment in favour of a particular creditor to lie, would be subversive of the whole policy of
the bankrupt and insolvent laws; under which the assignment is intended to.operate for the benefit of all creditors. And so with regard
to property or money taken by a sheriff in execution, or money paid
into court, it is considered as already in the custody of the law. But
the appointment of receivers is, per se, no transfer or assignment of
the property into their hands; nor does it bring the property, until
taken into the actual possession of the receivers, under the protection
of the court, so that the court can punish for any interference with
it by attachment or otherwise. Indeed, this position is admitted and
assumed by the United States; and it may be added, by the judges of
the circuit court themselves, in the proceedings which were had. in'
that court to recover the judgment in favour of the United States
against the Elkton Bank.
The debt from Beaston was not regarded in those proceedings us
'actually.or constructively in the possession, or-under the control of
the receivers, or under the immediate protection of the court; else
why was an attachment, similar in all its features to the attachment of
the Farmers' Bank, issued in the sahne manner, for the same debt, and
against the same person ? .Why was not that process, or some other,
directed against the receivers,lif the appointment of them operated
as a transfer or assignment of this debt? Why, too, if. after the appointment of them, any intermeddling, by the Farmers' Bank, with
the property or credits of the Elkton Bank, was a contempt of the
circuit court; did the judges of that same court, sitting as a court of
law, authorize (without requiring leave to be asked) similar proceedings in favour of the United States? Besides, it is not understood
how Beaston can avail himself of any act of contempt, on the part of
the Farmers' Bank, towards the circuit court, as a defence to an
action at law against him; vhen no interference on the part of that
Until the case of Angell v.
court has been attempt6 d or sought.
Smith settled the question, it seems to have been a matter of doubt,
whether an ejectment might not be brotqght, without leave of court,

SUPREME COURT.
[Beastn v. The Farmers' Bank of"Delaware.]

for lands even in the actual possession of a receiver, under the
appointment of the court. 9 Vesey, jr., R. 3j5. There the court
determined the question in the negative, by regarding the case of
receivers as analogous to that of sequestratQrs; stating that it was
clearly a contempt of court to disturb sequestrators in possession.
Now, if the analogy between sequestrators andreceivers be so striking
as to compel the court to determine the law in one respect as to the
one, by ascertaining how it stood in relation to the other; taere can
be no reason for supposing that it would not apply the same principles of law to both, in every case where the analogy could be traced.
In the same case of Angell v. Smith, the chancellor said, that the
court of king's bench had decided that, where a sequestration is
awarded to collect money, to pay a demand in equity, if it is not
executed: that is, if the sequestrators do not take possession; and a
judgment creditor takes out execution, notwithstanding the sequestration awarded, there may be a levy under the execution: and hence
I think that it may with reason be inferred,. that if a receiver does
not take possession, and an execution or attachment issues at the suit
of a creditor, there may be a levy. Here it is admitted, that up to
the time of the decision of the Supreme Court, which was long
subsequent to the date of the attachment in favour of the Farmers'. Bank, the receivers never had collected or received, or by
any, process of law, attempted to collect or receive, the. debt due
from Beaston. This decision, in the case of Angell v. Smith, and
the reasoning of the court, is deemed conclusive on this point of
the case.
But in the last place, it is urged that the judgment of condemnation against Beaston, in favour of the United States, (which was
rendered a long time after the date and service of the ttachment in
favour of the Farmers' Bank,)And the subsequent payment thereof
by Beaston; should operate as a bar to the recovery of the Farmers'
Bank in this case. To the suit or proceedings on which this judgment of condemnation -was rendered, the Farmers' Bank was not a
party or privy. It is unnecessary to multiply authorities to show
that no one is bound by a judgment, unless he be a party to the suit,
or in privity with the party. 1 Wheat. 6; 7 Cranch, 271. If the
other points in this cause cannot avail Beaston, as matters of defence,
the rendition of the judgment of condemnation cannot; as it will then
be evident, that if he had resc:ted to this Court, as an appellate court,
to review the decision of the circuit court, or had afforded the Far-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

127

[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

mers' Bank, (by giving notice of the attachment of the United States,)
an opportunity of vindicating its rights by so doing, he would.have
escaped the consequences of that judgment as the facts involved in
that case are the same which exist in this. In the concluding language of the opinion of the court of appeals of Maryland, " it is
undoubtedly a hardship on the defendant (Beaston) to be compelled
twice to pay the same debt. But it must be recollected that the
plaintiff (the Farmers' Bank) h 4 d a prior attachment, which operates
as a. lien; and it would be a still greater hardship that'such plaintiff
should lose his lien, thus legally acquired, by the judgment of a
court, in a cause to which he was no party, and of which wu nave
no evidence that he had, in aiy manner, any, notice. If the, defendant failed to take the proper steps, in the predicament in which he
was placed, to defend and protect his interests; it is but fair that he
should, suffer the consequences.
Had notice been given of this
attachment by the United States, the plaintiff might have vindicated
his rights, and had an opportunity of asserting his anterior lien; and
of obtaining the decision of the appellate court, had it become necessary. Nor is it perceived why it would nothave been competent'for the defendant, in this conflict of claims against him, to have
brought the conflicting parties into chancery; where the rights and
priority of each might have been adjudicated without prejudice io
him. But last of all,'would the defendant be entitled to avail himself of the judgment of the United States, recovered against him;
since, from the examination of the record of that suit, it appears that
his. defence was taken solely on the plea of nulla bona; a d'fence
which could certainly have been of nO avail, when it appeared, by
the answers filed to the interrogatories of the United States that he
was indebted to the Elkton Bank of Maryland: and although in the
answers, he adverts to the attachment issued against him by the
Farmers' Bank of Delaware, he has not plead such attachment as
pending against him, whereby he could obtain the opinion of the
court in relation to its priority. In every aspect, therefore, in which
we can view the decision below, [Cecil county court,] we are brovight
to the conclusion that it cannot be sustained."
In conclusion, it is
added, that it appears clearly that this opinion of the court of appeals
of Maryland, must be sustained by this Court throughout.
Mr. Butler, attorney general, in. reply:
Most of the views presented by the learned counsel for the de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Fai'mers' Bank of Delaware.]

fendantin error, have been sufficiently met in the oral arguments at
the bar; to which, and especially to the argument of fhe associate
counsel, the Court are respectfully referred.
In addition to ihe reasoning and authorities then submitted, the
following remarks are offered':
1. It is conceded, that no lien on the property of the debtor is
created by the statutes, until the.-priority given by-them actually attaches. If, therefore, before the right of priority accrues, the debtor
makes a bona fide conveyance of his' estate to a third person, or
mortgages it to secure a debt; or if his property be seized under an
execution, or be attached in cases where such a remedy is given; the
United States, though, the facts necessary to entitle them to a preference should afterwards occur, 'will have no claim on the property so
sold,, mortgaged, levied on, or attached.
Even when the priority of the United States has actually attached,
there is, strictly-speaking, no lien on -the property in. the hands of
the executors or administrators, assignees, or trustees, as the case
may be; but only'a claiin on the ffund in their hands,.and various
remedies against them for its faithful application. "'hat is to say, the
executors, &c. may sell the property and transfer a valid title, and'
the purchaser will hold it free from any lien in favour of the United
States; who cannot specifically reclaim the property from the purchaser, but must look to the executor, &c. But the right of the
United States to be first paid, when the facts, have occurred which
give them a priorityis a right which will be protected; even before
the debtor's property has been converted into money, by his executors, &c. in the same way, and' to the same extent, as the right of any
.other cestui que trusf. Thus, if the eXecutors, &c. be insolvent, and
be about to waste the property ot' misapply its proceeds, recei~vers
may be appointed, at the instance of the- United States; and :they
will be entitled to such other preventive reme'dies, as may be necessary to render their priority effectual.
Aiter the priority has attached, the debtor's property is incapable
of being levied on or attached by any other creditor, in any such
way as to defeat that priority. If this be not so, the statutes, giving
the preference, would be useless; and that it is so, is necessarily implied, in every case on the subject decided by the courts.
The foregoing observations, it is believed, dispose of the iritroductory remarks of the defendant's argument.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

2. The opposing' argument denies,: that the United States ever
had any right to priority of payment against the Elkton Bank.
It is contended, on the part of the Uhited States, that before the
issuing of the attachment in favour of the Farmers' Banik, (Sept. 24th,
1830,) the United States had acquired, as against the Elkton Bank,
a right to priority of payment out of its effects; not by the execution.
of a voluntary assignment of all its property, but by its insolvency,
and its commission of an act of legal bankruptcy, within the meaning of the statutes in question. The whole argument under the
fourth proposition, that there was here no 'voluntary assignmen t by'
the Elkton Bank, for the benefit of its creditors, may therefore be
laid out of the case.
Our positions are, that the Elkton Bank was capable of becoming
insolvent, and committing acts of legal bankruptcy, within the true
intent and meaning of the acts of congress; and that it did so as early
as December, 1829, when it applied to the legislature of Maryland
for a special lIw to wind up its affairs: especially asthis application
had been preceded by a non user of the chief franchises of the corporation, from March, 1829, and the recovery of ajudg ient against
them, in favour of the United States. This is not the case of mere
inability to pay; it is a case of utter, acknowledged, and notorious
insolvency; and these acts are acts of legal bankruptcy. In this view,
it is of no moment whatever, that the trustees, under the speciallaw,
were not duly appointed, or did not accept; though, if the priority
had been claimed here, as in Brent v. The Bank of Washington, 10
Peters, 597, on the grou-nd of a voluntary assignment, those points
would have been material.
If the Elkton Bank did not become insolvent, and commit acts of
legal bankruptcy, in December, 1829; yet, when t6 the circumstances
which had then occurred, we add the appointment of receivers, in
April, 1830, by the circuitcourt, and'the proceedings of the stockh6lders, in May, 1830; surely we have an accumulation of notorious
and decisive facts, exhibiting in the fullest manner, and in pursuance
of law, the utter insolvency of the corporation.
Wherf the ifisolvency or -icts of bankruptcy required by the statutes, have actually occurred, the priority eo instanti attaches;. although some time may elapse before a trustee be formally appointed.
Every person indebted to the insolvent, or in possession of his 'property, becomes, as to such debt or property, the trustee of the United
States, from the moment he has notice of their priority. Should he
VOL. XII.-R

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The, Farmers' ,Bank of Delaware.]

actually pay over the debt, or deliver the property to another creditor 7
pursuant to the judgment of a state court, before hd has notice of
the claim of the United States, this would undoubtedly protect him.
But nothing of this sort occurred in the present case. Beaston, before the judgment recovered against him by the defendant in error,
had received, through the summons of the United States, under-the
act of 1818; which was served on him, on the 19th of October, 1831;
legal notice of the claim of the United States; and though he pleaded
the pendency of'the attachment in favour of the defendant in error,
this plea was justly regarded as unavailing. Now, it will appear by
the record, that, although Beaston was served with that attachment,
in September, 1830, he was not required ,to plead to it until April
term, .1834; when a case stated was agreed on by the parties, containing, among other things, all the proceedings in favour, of the
United States, together with the fact ihat the debt had been paid to
them, agreeably to the judgment of condemnation.
The circumstances here stated, entirely distinguish this case from
Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch, 431, so much relied on by the other
side. There, the property of the debtor was attached by his private
creditors, on the 4th of June, 1810., He was then bound to the
United States, in certain duty bonds, which, however, were not then
payable; nor did they become payable until August, in which month
they wefe put in. suit. Executions in favour of the United States,
were issued on the 18th of September following, when it appeared
that the debtor was insolvent; but no legal act of bankruptcy had been
committed even then. In this state of things, and especially as the
debt to the United States did not become due and payable until after
the service of the attachment; it was very properly decided that the
United States were not entitled to the priority claimed by them.
But the opinion of the Court, pages 433, 434, very clearly shows,
that had the debt been due to the United States, and had a legal act
of' bankruptcy been committed, (as is contended is the case here,)
before the service of the attachment, the priority would have attached, aind would not have been defeated by the service of the
attachment.
3. In answer to the remarks relative to the effect of the appointment of receivers, and on the judgment of condemnation, the learned
argument of the counsel who opened the cause, on his second and
third points, is referred to.

JANUARY TERM; 1838.

131

[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]
Mr. Justice M'KINLEy delivered the opinion of the Court.,
This is a writ of error to the judgment of the court of appeals, for
the eastern shore of Maryland, reversing the judgment of the Cecil
county court.,
The defendant in error sued out and prosecuted a writ ot attachment fieri facias against the plaintiff in error, in said county court,
upon a judgment, previously obtained, against the E lkton BanV of
Maryland; upon which the, sheriff returned that he had attached
goods and chattels, rights and credits, of the president and directors
of said Elkton Bank, in the hands of the plaintiff in error, the sum
of five hundred dollars.
Upon the trial of the cause, the following agreed case was submitted by the parties to the court for its judgment: "It is agreed in
this case, that in 1828, the United States instituted a suit against the
Elkton Bank, in the circuit court of the United States, at the December term, 1829; a verdict and judgment were rendered in said suit,
in favour of tha United States, for twenty-one thousand two hundred
dollars; on which judgment a fieri facias was issued at April term,
1830, and returned nulla hona: but it is admitted, that at the time,
the said presiderrt and directors of the Elkton Bank had a large
landed estate, which has been since sold, and applied to satisfy, in-part,
the said judgment; which landed estate, together with all other effects
or property belonging to the bank, would not enable the bankto pay
its debts, and that the same property and effects are not sufficient to
pay the said debt due to the United States; and it is 4dmitted, that the
bank was then unable to pay its debts. An appeal was prosecuted,
but no appeal bond given; and the judgment was affirmel in the Supreme Court, at the January term, 1832. At the April term, 1830,
of the circuit court, a bill in equity was filed against the said bank,
at the suit of the United States; and Nathaniel Williams and John
Glenn were appointed, by an order of court, receivers, with authority
to take possession of the proper~y of said bank, to dispose of the
same, and to collect all debts due to it, as appears by the record
,marked exhibit A; which receivers gave bond, on the 14th day of
June, 1830, and proceeded to execute their trust. The rc -ords
marked exhibit A and exhibit B, herewith filed, are to be considered
as part of this case stated. At December session, 1829, application
was made to the legislature of Maiyland, by the several persons who
were the acting president and directors of the said bank, for the act
which was passed at that session, ch. 170; which, with all other acts

132

SUPREME COURT.
[Beastoxi v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

relating to said bank, are to be considered as part of this statement.
A meeting of the stockholders, convened on the 17th day of May,
1830, which was the third Monday of said month, but without the
notice mentioned and required by the act incorporating the bank,
and its supplements; and at the said meeting, a majority of the stockholders appointed two, trustees, in conformity with the provisions of
said act, who declined acceptin'g; and no trustees have ever since
b een appointed, nor has there since been an annual, or other meeting
of the stockholders, or an election of directors; nor have there been
any banking operations carried on by any persons professing to be
the corporation of the Elkton Bank, since March, 1829.
"At September term, 1828, the Elkton Bank obtained a judgment
against George Beaston for the sum which is attached in this suit;
which, at the time of issuing and service of this attachment, had not
'been paid by Beaston. At April terni 1830, the Farmers' Bank of
Delaware obtained, in Cecil county court, a judgment against the
president and directors of the Elkton Bank for five thousand dollars,
with intereht from 9th December, 1825, till paid, and costs; and before the appointment and bonding of the receivers, as aforesaid, and
on the 24th September, 1830, upon that judgment issued this attachment, and attached,. in the hands of said Beaston, the sum of five
hundred dollars; and after this attachment was issued and served,
and after the affirmation'of the judgment of the. circuit court by the
Supreme Court, attachment was issued by the United States, and thf
other proceedings had, as appears from the record marked B: and
Beaston has actually paid and satisfied to the United States the
amount for which judgment of condemnation was rendered against
him in the circuit court. It is admitted, that up to the time of the
decision in the Supreme Court, the said receivers had never collected
or received, or by any process of ,law attempted to collect or'receive,
the said debt, attached in- this case. The question for the opinion of
the court is, whether the plaintiff can sustain the present attachment?" Whereupon the court rendered judgment in favour of the
defendant; and, upon an appeal taken by the plaintiff, the court of
appeals reversed the judgment of the county court..
In the argument here, the counsel for the plaintiff in error made
the following points: First, the 1PIkton Bank of Maryland, is a person, within the meaning of the act of congress of.the 3d of March,
1797, giving priority of payment to the United States: secondly, by a
proper construction of that act, the plaintiff in error having paid to the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

133

[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

United States the amount which he owed to the Elkton Bank, is not
liable to the defendant in error: thirdly, the appointment of receivers
by, the circuit court, with power to take possession of the property
of th6 bank, and to sell and dispose of the same, and to collect all
debts due to it, was such an assignment of its property as to give
the right of priority to the United States: fourthly, the election of
trustees, by the stockholders of the bank, under the act of the Maryland legislature, was also such an assignment of the property of the
bank as to give the right of priority to the United States: and for
these reasons, they contended, the judgment of the court of appeals
ought to be reversed.
The counsel. for the defenda- in error resisted all the grounds
assumed by the counselfor the pllaintiff in error; and insisted that,
by a fair construction of the fifth section of the act, and the former
adjudications of this Court,. the priority therein provided for, did not
attach to the fund belonging to the Elkton Bank, in the hands of the
plaintiff in error.
The section rbferred to is in these words: "That when any revenue
officer, or other person hereafter "becoming indebted to the United
States, by bond or otherwise, 'hall become insolvent, or where the
estate of any deceased person, in the hands of executors or administrators, shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased,
the debt due to the United States shall be first satisfied; and the priority, hereby established, shall be deemed to extend as well to cases
in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his dbbts,
shall make a'voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the effects of
an absconding, concealed or absent debtor, shall be attached by process of law, as to cases in which an act of legal bankruptcy shall be
committed.'
From the language employed in this section, and the construction
given to it, from time to time, by this Court, these rules are clearly
established: first, that no lien is created by' the statute: secondly,
the priority, established can never attach while the debtdr continues
the owner and in the possession-of the property, although he mav be
unable to pay all, his debts: thirdly, no evidence, can be received of
the insolvency of the debtor, until he has been divested of, his property in one of the modes stated in the section: and, fourthly, whenever he is thus divested of his property, the person who becomes invested with the title, is thereby made a'trustee for the United States,
and is bound-to pay their debt first out of the proceeds of the .debtor's

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

property. The United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 355*- The United
States v. Hooe et al. 3 Cranch, 73; Prince v. Bartlett, SCranch, 431;
Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters' Rep. 439;
Conard v. Nicholl, 4 Petees' Rep. 308; Brent v. The l ank of Washington, 10 Peters' Rep. 596.
If the Elkton Bank of Maryland is not a person, within the meaning of the act, no law of congress was drawn in question in the court
below; and consequently, the -question of priority did not arise.
That court having decided upon the legal effect of the several acts
4one by the circuit court of the United States; and, also, upon the
legal effect of the election of trustees by the stockholders of the bank,
under the act of Maryland: which several acts were relied upon, by
the plaintiff in error, as being an assignment of all the property of the
bank, or as constituting an act equivalent to such an assignment; the
question, whether the bank is a person, within the -meaning of the
act of congress, was necessarily decided. It lies at the foundation of
the whole proceeding; and if we now decide, that the bank is not a
person, within the meaning of the act, under the 25th section of the
judiciary act of 1789, it will be our duty to-dismiss the writ of error
for waut of jurisdiction. Inglis v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. 363; Miller v.
Nieholls, 4 Wheat. 311; Crowell v. Randell, and Shoemaker v. Randell, 10 Peters' Rep. 368: M'Kinney et al. v. Carroll, decided at the
present term of this Court. We must, therefore, inquire whether the
bank is aperson, within the meaning of the act of congress.
All debtor* to the United States, whatever their character, and 6y
wfiatever mode bound, may be fairly included within the language used
in the fifth section. of the act of congress. And it is manifest, that congress intended to give priority of payment to the United States over
all other Creditors, in the cases stated therein. It therefore lies upon
those who claim exemption from the operation of the statute, to show
that they are not within its provisions. No authority has been adduced to show, that a corporation may not, in the construction of
statutes, be regarded as a natural person: while, on the contrary,
authorities have been cited which shov, that corporations are to be
deemed and considered as persons, when the circumstances in which
they are placed, are identical with those of natural persons, expressly
included in such statutes. As this statute has reference to the public
good, it ought to be liberally construed. United States v. The State
Bank of North Carolina, 6 Peters' Rep. 29. As this question has
been frlly decided by this Court, other authorities need not be cited.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
.[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

In the case of the United States v. Amedy, 11 Wheat. 392, which
'was a prosecution for destroying a vessel at sea with intent to prejudice
the underwriters, The Boston Insurance Company; the section of the
statute under which he was prosecuted, subjected to the penalty of
death any person, being owner, or part owner, who should burn, destroy &c., any ship or vessel, with intent to prejudice any person or
persons, that had underwritten, or should underwrite any policy of
insurance, &c. The Court, in delivering the opinion, siays. "Another
question, not raised in the court below, has been raised here, and upon
which, as it is vital to the prosecution, we feel ourselves called upon
to express an opinion. It is, that a corporation is not a person within
the meaning of the act of congress. If -there had been ,any settled
course of decisions on this subject, in criminal cases, we should certainly, in a prosecution of this nature, yield to such a construction of
the act. But there is no such course of decision. The, mischief,
intended to be reached by the statute, is. the same whether -it respects private or corporate persons." After citing 2 Inst. 736, and
some other authorities, the opinion proceeds thus: " Finding, therefore, no authority at common law which overthrows the doctrine of
Lord Coke, we do not think that we are entitled to'engraft any such
constructive exception upon the text of the statute." This case, we
think, is decisive of the question. And the fact, that the Elkton
Bank cannot be brought within all, the predicaments stated in the
statute, proves nothing; if it can be brought within any one or more
of *them.
The record in this case abundantly proves, that a bank may become largely indebted to the United States, and not have property
sufficient to pay all its debts. If to these facts were superadded the
fact of a vbluntary assignment by the bank, of all its property, in
any mode authorized by law; the right of the United States to priority'w9uld be clearly established.
This brings us to the consideration of the second point raised by
the plaintiff in error. The agreed case shows that the attachment
fieri facias, upon the judgment of the defendant in error, against the
Elkton Bank, issued on the 24th day of September, 1830; and attached in the hands of the plaintiff in error the sum in controversy.
The attachment in favour of the United States did not issue until the
8th day of July, 1831. And -the plaintiff in error, in answering the
interrogatories propounded to.him in that proceeding, stated, .that in
October, in the year 1830, an attachment, at the suit of the Farmers'

SUPREME COURT.
[Beqston v; The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

Bank of Delaware, against him, as garnishee of the Elkton Bank of
Maryland, was served on him, retqrnable to Cecil county court,
where saidattachment was still depending.' The money thus attached
in the hands of the plairtiff'in error, by legal process, before
the
issuing of the attachment in behalf of the United States, was bound
for the debt for which it was legally attached, by a writ, which is
in the nature of an execution; and the right of a private creditor,
thus acquired, could not be defeated by the process subsequently
issued on the part of the United States. Prince v. Bartlett, 8
Cranch, 431.

We are next to inquire into the legal effect of the appointment of
receivers by the circuit court. Without deciding whether a circuit
court of the United States has authority, in a case like this, to appoint
receivers, with power to take possession of all the property of a
debtor of the United States; it is sufficient to say, in this case, that it.
does not appear" that the power conferred on the receivers was ever
executed: and if it had been, it would not have been a transfer and
possession of the property of the Elkton Bank, within the meaning
of the act of congress: and, therefore, the priority could not have attached to the -funds in their hands.
The only remaining question is, whether the election of trustees,
by the stockholders of the Elkton Bank, under the statute of Maryland was such an assignment of all the property of the baik, as
would entitle the United States to priority of payment out of its
funds. In the investigation of this branch of the subject, it is not necessary to inquire into the regularity of the election of the trustees.
Suppose it to have been perfectly regular, in all respects, did it so
operate as to divest the ElktQn Bank of its property? No one can
be divested of his property, by any mode of conveyance, statutory
or otherwise, unless at the same time, and by the same conveyance,
the grantee becomes invested with the title. As the trustees refused
to accept the trust, none was created; and the election thereby became inoperative and void, and the property remained in the bank.
Brent v. The Bank of Washington, 10 Peters' R. 611; Hunter v.
The United States, 5 Peters' R. 173.
"The moment the transfer of property takes place,
under the statute,
the person taking it, whi ther Dy voluntary' assigntmenc O
a-

y vpeh- l

tion of law, becomes bound to the United States for the faithful
performance of the trust. Conatd v. The Atlantic Insurance Com-.
pally, 1 Peters' R. 439. As thet itle t the property of the bank did
not pass t6 the trustees by virtue of fhe election, there was no, fun',.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

187

[Beaston v. The Farmnirs' Bank of Delaware.]

to which the priority of the United States could attach; there was no
one authorized or bound.to execute a trust under the statute: therefore, no legal bar was opposed to the right of recovery and satisfaction of the debt due by the Elkton Bank to the defendhnt in error.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court, there is no error
in the judgment of the court of appeals.
Mr. Justice STORY, dissenting.

1 dissent from so much of the opinion delivered by the Court in
this case, as decides that a corporation is a person within the sense of
the 5th section of the act of 1797, ch. 74. I have no doubt, whatsoever, that.in a legal and technical sense, a corporation is a person;
and that under that denomination, it may be included within the provisions of a statute, where the language and provisions and objects
of the statute equally apply to corporations and to private persons.
My dissent is-founded upon this ground, that neither'the language
nor the provisions of the 5th section of the act of 1797, ch. 74, are
applicable to the case of corporations: but that they apply exclusively
to priirate persons; and cannot, without violence to the words and the
objects of that act, be strained so as to reach corporations. I think
that the persons intended by the act, are such persons only as may
be brought within each of the predicaments stated in the act.
The language of the 5th section is, "That where any revenue officer, or other person hereafter becoming indebted to the United
States, by-bond or otherwise, shall become insolvent, or where the
estate of any. deceased person, in the hands of executors or administrators, shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased,
the debt due to the United States shall be first satisfied: and the priority hereby established, shall be deemed to extend as well to cases
in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his debts,
shall make :a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the effects of
an absconding, concealed or absent debtor, shall be attached by process. of law, as to cases in which an act of legal bankruptcy shall be
committed2'
Now, the statute, ibanifestly, in this provision, contemplates two
classes of cases; insolvency inter vivos; and insolvency upon the
death of a debtor. It is plain that the last class cannot have been intended to include corporations; for if it were to be supposed that
they conld be "deceased debtors," yet by no reasonable use of language, can it be said that they con have executqrfs or administrators,
I VOL. XII.-S

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank.of Delaware.].

or estate in the hands of executors or administrators. The other class
of'cases, is of insolvency inter vivos. Which are these? First, cases
in which a debtor not having sufficient property to pay all his debts,
shall make a voluntary assignment thereof; that is, of all his property. It certainly is practicable for a corporation to be in this predicament; if by its charter and constitution it is capable of making
such a general assignment. 3ut I must say, that independent of some
special and positive law; or provision in its charter to such an effect, I
do exceedingly doubt, if any corporation, at least without the express
assent of-all the corporators, can rightfully dispose of all its property
by such a general assignment, o as to render itself incapable in future of performing any of its corporate functions. That would be to
say, that a majority of a corporation had a right.to extinguish the
corporation, by its own will, and at its own pleasure. I doubt that
right; at least, unless under very special circumstances. Secondly,
cases of an absconding, concealed or absent debtor. Now, it is plain,
that in no just sense can a corporation be brought within the terms
of this predicament. Thirdly, cases of legal bankruptcy. Such cases
do not exist in relation to corporations. The geperal bankrupt laws
of England have never been held to extend to corporations; neither
have the general insolvent laws of the several states in this Union,
where they exist, ever been extended to corporations. Now, my
argument is this, and I wish to put it into the most precise and concise form; that the fifth section of the .act of 1797,ch. 74, was never
intended to apply to any debtors or persons who were not, and might
not be within every one of the classes of predicaments above stated.
Corporations cannot be within three out of the four predicaments
above stated; and therefore I hold, that the legislature never could
have intended to embrace them within the provisions of the secton.
I dissent from the opinion upon this point, upon another and independent ground; and that is, that the opinion is wholly extrajudicial, and unauthorized by law. That the question was not made
or decided in the court below; and that unless it was so made and
decided, it cannot be re-examined in this Court. This is a writ of
error, not to a circuit court of the United States, but to the highest
court of a state; and brought here for our revision, under the 25th
section of the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. That secfion expressly
declares, that upon such a writ of error "no other error shall be assigned, or regarded .as a groupd of reversal in any such case as aforesaid, than such as appears on the face of the record, and immediately

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

139

[Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware.]

respects -he beforementioned questions of the validity or construction of the said constitution, treaties, statutes, commissions or authorities in dispute." The precedifng part of the same section, authorizes the writ of error only when the decision of the state court
has been against the validity or construction of the constitutidn,
treaties, statutes, commissions or authorities stated in the section.
So that it is manifest, and so has been the uniform course of this
Court, that no question not mdde in the court below, on which its
judgment ultimately turned, can be made, or is re-examninable here.
I have already said, that it is apparent upon this record, that no such
point arose, or decision was made in the court of appeals of Maryland;
and, therefore, I cannot but consider the decision here pronounced
upon it, as coram non judice; and in no just sense, obligatory upon
us, or upon our successors.
I know that my brother, Mr. Justice BARBOUR, held the same
opinion as I do, on this question. His departure from the Court before
the opinion in this case was pronounced, does not entitle me to speak
further in his behalf.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN concurred with Mr. Justice STORY in the
opinion delivered by him ; and with the majority of the Court, in
affirming the judgment of the court of appeals.
Mr. JusticQ M'LEAN concurred with Mr. Justice STORY.

This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record
from the court of appeals for the Eastern Shore of Maryland, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration. whereof, it is now here adjudged, and ordered by this Court, that the judgment of the said
court of appeals in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed;
with costs.

