JANUARY TERM, -.s38.

THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND

657

"P)ROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS,

COMPLAINANTS V. THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, DEFENDANT.

The Supreme Court has jurisdiction of a bill filed by the state of Rhode Island
against the state of Massachusetts, to ascertain and establish the northern boundary between the states, that the rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction be restored
and confirme4 to the plaintiffs; and they be quieted in the enjoyment thereof, and
their title; and for other and further relief.
Jurisdiction is the power to hear and determine the snbject matter in controversy
between parties to a suit; to adjudicate or exercise any judicial power over them.
An objection to jurisdiction, on the ground of exemption from the process of the.
court in which the spit is brought, or the manner in which a defendant is brought
into it, is waived by appearance and pleading to issue; but when the objection
goes to the power of the court over the parties-, or the subject matter, the defendant need not, for he cannot give the plaintiff a better writ, or bill.
The Supreme Court is one of limited and special original jurisdiction. Its action
must be confined to the particular cads, controversies, and parties over which, the
constitution and laws have authorized it-to act; any proceeding without.the limits
prescribed is coram non judice, and its action a nullity. And whether the want or
excess of power is objected by a.party, or is apparent' tox the Court, it must surocease its action, or proceed extra-judicially.
The several states of the United States, in their highest sovereign capacity, in the
convention of the people thereof, on whom, by the revolution, the prerogative of
the crown and the tranpscendent power of parliamnt ddvolved, in a plenitude unimpaired by any act,,and controllable by no authority, adopted the: con'stitution; by
which they respectively made to the United States a graht of judicial power over
controversies 'between two, or more states. By the constitution, it vas ordained
that this judicial power, i cases where a.state was a party, should be exercised by
the Supreme Court, as one of original jirisdiction. The States waived their exemption from judicial power, as, sovereigns by original and inhereit right, by their own
exercise over themselves in such cases; but which they would not grant
grant of its
to any inferior tribunal. By this grant, this Court has acquired jurisdiction over
the parties in this cause, by their own consent and delegated authority as their
agent for executing the judicial power of the United States in the 6ases specified.
Massachusetts has appeared, submitted to the process.in her legislative capacity;
and plead in bar of the plaintiff's action certain matters on,which the judgment of
the Court is asked. All doubts as to jurisdiction over the parties are thus at rest,
as well by the grant of power by the people, as the submission of the legislature
to the process; and calling on the Court to exercise its jurisdiction on the case presented by the bill, plea, and answer.
Although the constitution does not in terms extend the judicial power to all controversies between two or more states; yet it in terms excludes noue, whatever may
be their nature or subject.
This Court, in construing the constitution as t the grants of powers tothe United

VOL. XI.-4 0

655

SUPREME ICOURT.

[The -State of Rhode"Island v. The State.of vassachusetts.]
Sttes, and the restrictions upon the states, has ever held, that an exception of
any particular cas presupposes that those Which are/not Oxceptid, are embraced
within the grant or prohibition: and have laid Itdown as, a general rle, that
where no -exception is made in t.erms, none will be made by fnere implication or
construction.
Ijathe. construction of the .constitUtidn we must look to the history of fhe.ti'mes, ana
exanine the state of things existing when it was framed and, adopted, to 'ascertain
the old law, the mischief, and the remedy.
The bounilary esthblished and fixed by coinpact between nations becomeirconelisive
ujon all'the subjects. and p.itizens thereof, and binds their rights; and is to be
treated, to all intent&and purposes, as the true 'real, boundary. The cofistraction
of such compact is a juicial question..
Thero'can be bit two 'tniunals, under'the constitution who cair Act on 'the boundarfies of stdtes, the legislkiVo or the judicial.poweT;.the foormer isliniited, in egpres
terms', to, asseu~t or dissent where a compact or agredeplent is refered, to thpm by
the states; and as the lttter canbe exerciAed'only'by hisOCdurt when a state is a
party- the ppwer is here,.or it cannot exist,
This Court exists by a direct grantfrom the people of thdih'judicia 06wir: itIs extd by'thesiselves, for'the Od1p0ies
theik agent, sel-q
eroised by their authority, air
ties to the
spoifled. The -people of the stafpats, they respectively'become
constitution , p v, to the juoicial ,pqWer df *thi Vnited Stateg, jurisdidtion -over
themselvep, ,controversies'- between stafs, betWeei ;citizens. of the same 'or different states, .claiming lands Vpiter 'their-.eongidtigfig,,grauts, within dispqted,
territory.
No court acts ilifferently in deriditig oi botindqory.betWoen states, than 'onlinep.
between separate tracts of land., Ithereis.niertaity where the line is, if there
is a'confusfon of boundarles by the:nature of-interlooeln'z grants, the obliteration
of marks, the internixing of ,pss si u4'undler different:propri6tors, thb efectsof
is
ca se appropriate ta equity.
aecident,.fiaud, or time, or other k~ihded &auseait
An isue at law is-direeted, a cormissiou: of boundary awarded; brl;if thecourtare
satisfied' without eitheri they decree Whati and where the bbtindary of a fWim, a manor, prov.ince , or a stiate, is pid shall 'be.
There is neither the authority Ioflaw .or .reas n'fo r the positibnAhat boundary betwdern nations or states is, in its naturei, anyl.nore political :question than .any
other subject on which they may contend. 2None'.can he settled without war or
treaty whichis by political power; but, "under the old and new centederacy,
they could apd can besettled by iacourt constittutd by. themelves-, as tneir
o n substituteO, authorized to do thpt for-states, whidh 'stateg dilone could do
before.
It has been' contended that this Court cannot proceed in this cause without some
process and rule of'decision prescribed appropriate to the case;, but no 4uestions oh
process can arise on these pleadings; none is now necessary, as the defendant
point in the cause,
has appeared and plead,. which plea in itself makes the first
without any additional proceeding; that is, whether the plea shall, be allowed, if
sufficient in law, to bar the complaint, or be overruled, as not beinga bar iA ,law.
though true in fact.
This Court cannot presume that any state which holds prerogative rights for -the
good of its citizens, and by the constitution has agteed that those of any' other'
state shall enjoy rights, privileges, and immunities in each as itsown,dol would
either do wrong, or deny right to a sister staIte or its-citizens, or refuse to sulaiit

JANUARY TERM. 1838.
tThe State of Rhode Island v: The State of Massachusetts.]
to those decrees of this Court, rendered pursuant to its own delegated authority;
when in a monarchy, its fundamental law declares that such decree exechfes
itself:
In thp case of O hnstead, this 'Court expressed its opinion, that if state legislatores
may annul the judgments .of the courts of the United States, and the rights thereby
acquired, the constitution becomes a solemn mockery, and the natiop is deprived
of the means bf enforcing its laws by its own tribunal. 'S6fatal a result mustbe
deprecated by all; and the people of every state -must feel a deepinterest in)resisting principles so destructive of the Union, and in averting consequences so fatalto themselves.

ON the 16th of March', 18j2,'the state of Rhode tslan.d, by their sOlicitor, filed a bill against the state of Massachusetts, for the settlemient
,of the boundary between the two states; and moved for a subpoena
to be issued,, according td the practice of the Court, in similar cases
"This motion Was held under adv'sement until'the following term;
and a. subpoena was awarded and issued on 'the.2d of March, 1833.
This subp brA was returned with service on the 30th July, 1833;
and on.the 1,sth January, 1834, the appearance of Mr. Webster was
entered foq, the defendants; and, on' his motion, the oause was con
tinued with leave to plea, answer, oi demur.
'On the 12th January, 1885, a plea and answer was filed. by Mr.
Websteri- and on the 22d of February, 1836, by agredment of counsel; it was'Qrdered' by the Court, that the complainant file a replicaton to the answer of the, defendant, within six months from the last
day of January term, 1836, or that the cause shall stand" dismissed.The'-onplainant filed a replication, orr the 18th, of August, 1836;
and at the same time? a" notice of intention to move the Court for
leave to wittidraw the replication, upon the ground that the rule
requiring the same was agreed to'and entered into by mistake."
The bill filed. by the complaillants, set forth the. original charter
granted on the third .day of November, 1621, by King James the
First,'to the countcil at.Plymouth, for planting, ruling, ordering and
governing New Englafid, in America, describing the limits and
boundaries of the territory s6, granted. .The grant oir conveyance to
the council at Plymouth, of the 19th~of March, 1628, to Sir Henry
Rosewell and others, of a .certain tract of land described in the samej
'as "all that part of New England, in America, aforesaid, which lies
and extends between a great river there, commonly cdlled.Monomack,
alias Merrimac, and a certain other river, there called Charles river,
being in the bottom of a certainbay, there commonly called Massachusetts, alias Mattachusetts, alia-s Massatusetts, bay; and, also, all and

660

SUPREME C9URT..
[The -tate of,Rhode Island v. The State of Massaehusetts.]

singular those lands and hereditaments; whatsoever, lying within'the
space of three English miles on the south, part of the said Charles
river,. or of any or every part thereof; and, also, all and singular the
lands and hereditaments, whatsoever, lying and -being within the
space of three English miles to the southward of the southernmost
part of the said bay, called Massachusetts, alias Mattachusetta, alias
Massatusetts bay; and,'also, all those.lands and hereditarnents, whatsoever, which lie and be within the space of three EngliSh miles to
the Iorthward of the said river, called Monomack, alias Merrimac,
or to the north wixrd of'a:ny and every part thereof, and all land s and
hereditaments, whatsoever, lying within the limits aforesaid, north
and south in latitude and breadth, and in !exigth and longitude of ind
within all the breadth aforesaid, throughout the Tyain lands there,
from the Atlantic and western sea and ocean on the'east part, to the
The letters patent df confirmation and
South sea on the west part."
grant of Charles the: First, of 4th of.March, 1629, to Sir Honry Rosewell and others, for the lands included in- the charter of James the
First; and the deed of the council at Plymouth, to them by the name
of "The. Governor and Company of Mattachusetts Bay in New
England,'" incorporated by the said letters patent.
The bill further stated that.on the 7th day of June,'1635, the
council established at Plymouth foi planting a colony and governing
New. England, in America, yielded up and surrendered the charter
of James the First, to Charles the First; which surrender was duly
and in form accepted. That after the granting of the letters'patent,
before set forth, and prior to the. granting, of the letters patent
afterwards set forth in the bill to the colony of Rhode Island and'
Providence Plantations, the tract of land comprised within the limits
of the state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, had been
colonized and settled vith a considerable population by emigra'tion,
principally from England and the colony: of the Massachusetts bay;
and that the persons who had so, colonized and settled the same,
were seised and possessed by purchase and consent of the Indian
natives, of certain lands, islands, rivers, harbours and roads, Within
said tract. That on the 8th of July, 16.63, King Charles the Second,
by letters patent, granted a charter of. inorporationta William
Brenton, John Coddington and othersi by the name of "The Governor an Company of the English Colony of Rhode Island, and Providence Plantations in New*England, in America;" and granted and
conferred to the corporation, by the letters patent, "all thatpart of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

661

[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

our doni nions in New Bngland,-in America, containing the Nahanticlk and Nanhygabsett, alias Narragansett, .bay, and countries and
parts. adjacent, bounded on the west or westerly to the, middle or
channel of a river there, commonly called and known by the name
of Pawcatuek, alias Paweawtuck, river; and so alongthe said river
as the greater -or middle stream thereof reacheth or lies up into the
nhorth country, northward onto the head thereof; -and fromthence,
by a straight line drawn due north, until it meets with the south line
of the Massachusetts colony; and on the north or northerly by the
aforesaid south or southerly line of the Ma3sachu'setts 'colony or plan-'
tation; and., extending towards the east or eastwardly three English
miles, to the east and north-east of the most eastern and, north-eatern
parts of the aforesaid Narragansett bay, as'-the said bay lieth'or extendeth itself from the ocean on the south or southwardly, unto the
mouth of the river ihich runneth towards the town of ProVidence;
and from thence along the eastwardly side .or
bank. of the said river,
(higher called by the name of Seacunck river) up.to the falls called
Patuckett falls, heing the most westwardly line of Plymouth coloay;
and, so from. the said falls, in a straight line due north until it meet
with the aforesaid line of the Massachusetts colony, and b'uAnded on
the south by the ocean. And, in particular, the lands belonging to
the town of Providence, Pawtuxet, Warwick, Nipquaimmacock, alias
Pawcatuck, and the rest upon the main land in the tract aforesaid,
tugether'with, Rhode Island, Block, Island, and all the rest. of the
islands and ba!.ks iathe Narragansett. bay, and ,bordering upon 'the
coast of the tract aforesaid, (Fisher Island only excepted,) togethqr
with all firm lands, soils,1 grounds, havens, ports; rivers, waters, fishings, mines royal, and all other mines, minerai, precious stones,
quarries, woods, wood grounds, rocks, slates, and all and singular
other commodities, jurisdictions, royalties, privileges,. franchises, preheminences, and hereditaments, whatsoever, within the said tract,
bounds, lands, and islands, aforesaid, or to them, dr any of them belongirig or in anywise appertaining."
The bill proceeds to state' the cancelling and vacating of the charter to '1 The Governor and Company of Massachusetts bay in New
England'," on a scire facias; and afterwards the regrant of the same
territory, with other territories known by the name of the colony
of Massachusetts Bay and colony of New Plymouth, the provinice
of Maine, &c., by King*William and Queen Mary, on the 7th ot

662

SUPREME COURT.
[The State 6f Rhode Island v. The State of Massabhusetts.

'October, 1591i' The description of the territory then granted, so far
as the same is important in this case, was the following:
"All that part of .ew England, in America, lying and 'extending
.'from -the great river commionly called Monomack, alias Merrinack,
on the north part- and from -three miles northward of the said'-iver
to the Atlantic or western sea orocean on the south'-part, and all the
lands and -hereditaments, whatsoever, lying within' the limits afore'said,' and-extending as far as the outermost points or, promontories of
land called, Cape Cod and Cape Malabar, north. and. south, arid in
latitude, breadth, and- inlength. and 'longitude of and within all the
breadth and compass aforesaid, throughout the main'land there,.from
the said Atlantic or western sea, and ocean on the east, part, towards
'the South sea, or westward, as far. as our colonies of Rhode: Island,
Connecticut, and' the Narragansett country.: And,'.algo, al that part
'and portioii of main land, beginning at the entrance of PiscataWay
harbour, and sa to pass up the same into the river of Newichwannook,
and through the same into the' furthest head thereof, and from thence
north-westward, till one hundred and twenty miles -be finished, and
from Piscataway',harbour month, aforesaid,.'iorth-eastward, along the
sea coast to Sagadehock;'and from the period of one hunddd and
twenty miles,'aforesaid, to cross over larid to the one hundred and
twenty miles before reckoned up into the- land 'from Piscataway
harb ur, 'thrdugh'Newichwannock 'river; and also the north half of
the Isles. of Shoals, t9gether with the Isles of Capawock and Nantuckett, near Cape' Cod aforesaid; 'and also the lands hnd" hereditaments lyihg. and being in the country or territory co mmonly calle4
Aceada, or Nova Scotia; and'all: those lands afidhereditaments lying
and extending between the said country or territory of' Nova Scotia
and the said river of Sagadehock, or any part thereof."
The bill' statea, that"the province of 'Massachusetts and the colony
,'.ofRhod6 IsIand.'and Providence Plartations, thus established, continued tunder the charters and letters patent until July 4, 1776, when.
With their sister colonies they became independent states. The-bill
the letters patent an Acharalleges the. dividing boundary line, under Prd'idence
Plantations and
ter to the coloni of Rhode Island and
Massachusetts, ta have 'been ' a line' drawn: east and.west three English miles south .of the river called Charles river, or of any or every.
part theredf.? That forsome years after the granting of the charter
..to Rhode Island, the lands included 'iii the colpny-adjoining 'Massachutsetts, remained wild and uncultivated, and were of little value;

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

689

FThe Statp of Rhode ;Island v. The State of Massachusetts,]
that previous: to 1709, the inhabitants of Rhode Island entered on
parts of .the land and made improvements; and that, the said northern
boundary 'line never having been settled, defined or established, dispute and controversies arose between the inhabitants of the province
of .the Massachusetts Bay and of the colony of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations, and between the governments of the saidI
province and colony, in relation to the boundary. of said colony.
The bill proceeds to state, that in consequence of various disputes
and controversies about the boundary betweer the two colonies, numerous efforts were made to adjtit and settle the same; all of which,
as the bill alleges, were not productive of a satisfactory result to -the
colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations; and' to the state
of Rhode Island, afterwards established.
These are 'particularly set forth in the bill; an4, the proceedings of
the legislattres of Rhode Island 'and Massachusetts .. egiven. at large
in the same, with the operations of the commissioners appointed and
acting under the authority thereof.- After stating the efforts made by
the two states,, both whilst colonies and after they became indepe.'dent states, for the determinati-R of the line, up to 1.791: alleged to
have been abortive 'and without suecess; the bill proceeds to state,
4"'ihat'on or about the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and nine, other commissioners were app6'inted by the-said state of
Rhode, Islahd and Providence Plantations and the said state of Massachusetts, for the purpose of ascertaining and settling the said northern linne of the. said state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations; thaf the ,aid lsL mentioned commissioners respectivelk, continued such commissioners until th year of, our Lord one thousand
seven hundred and eighteen; and that the said la.t mentioned commissioners had '.-veral meetings, but were never able to-agree upon
and settle, and never did agree upon and settle, the said northern line
of, the said state of Rhode Islafd and Providence Plantations."
The bill asserts the right of Rhode -Island to the territory in dispute; that Massachusetts is in p6ssession of the same, and ercisex
and asserts' sovereignty and jurisdiction over 'the same, under the
pretences that the same was included in the grants or charters from
the ,crown of England, under the mistaken belief that the line, three
miles south of Charles river, (a station having been fixed by Nathaniel 3WodwQrd and Solomon Saffrey, as the point three miles south of
Charles river,) actually runs where Massachusetts has assumed it to
run; and alleging that the line. as it is; claimed, and has always been

SUPREME COURT,
[The State: of Rhbde Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

claimed by Massachusetts, was settled and adjusted by the commissioners acting under the authority of the parties respectively.
The bill proceeds to. show the errors of proceedings of 'the commissioners acting for the two colonies; and states, "That no'mark,
stakeor monument at that time existed, by which the place in which
said Woodword and Saifrey, were so as. aforesaid alleged to have set
up a stake, could then be ascertained. That the persons who executed, witnessed and consented to the said pretended agreement, did
not, nor did any or either of -them, go to any place Where said stake
wasalleged to have been set up; nor did they, or any or either of
them, make any survey, or cause any survey to be made, or run any
line or lines, or cause any line or lines to be run, or take any other
means to ascertain at what place, if any, the said stake was set up by
said Woodword and Saffrey; nor whether the place in which the said
stake was alleged as aforesaid to have been set up by the said Woodword-and Saffrey, was in fact three English miles, and no more, south
of the river" called Charles river, or of any or every part thereof;
nor whether the spid line, alleged in said pretended agreement to
have been run by the said Woodword and Saffrey, was ever in fact
run by said Woodword and Saffrey; nor whether said pretended line
was the true and proper boundary line between the said province of
the Massachusetts Bay on the north, and the said colony of Rhode
Island' and Providence Plantations on the south, according to- the
true intentand meaning of the grants contained in the respective.
charters or letters patent .aforesaid.!"
The bill asserts, that the line designated and run under the agreements, has always been resisted by Rhode Island, while .a colony, and
since she became a sovereign state; and that no other boundary than
that asserted in. the bill between Rhode Islaiid and Massachusetts,
than that defined, granted and established in and by the- respective
Charters
and letters patent aforesaid herein before set forth, accordding to the
true and fair construction thereof, has ever
been consented to, Or admitted to be the true boundary line by the complainants;
either while she continued under the royal government, or since she
became an independent and sovereign state. The proceedings of
Massachusetts are alleged to ".interfere with and prevent the exercise of that jurisdiction and -sovereignty which, by the law of the
land and the constitution of theUnion, she is entitled to exercise
over the whole tract of land.'mentioned and described in the charter
or letters patent granted to the said colony'of Rhode Island and Pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of'Rh ode Island;v. The State of Massaohusetts.]

videne Plantations, and hereinbefore set forth, and ,over the citizens -and inihabitants thereof, according to her claim in this her bill
made."
The bill'asks, that inasmucn as the complainants havelno satisfactory relief on the common law side of the Court, "especially as the
controversy concerns questions of jurisdiction and sovereignty," that
the commonwealth of Massachusetts answer the matters set forth in
the bill; and that "the northern boundary line between 'the complainants and the -state of Massachusetts may,,by the order and decree of this honourable Court, be ascertained- and established; and
that the rights of jurisdiction and sovereignty of the complainants
to the whole tract, of 'land, with the appurtenances mentioned, described and granted in and by the said charter or letters patent to the
said colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, hereinbefore
set forth, and, running on the north, an east and west line drawn
three miles south of the waters of.'said Charles river, or of' any or
every part thereof, may be restored and confirmed to the complainants, tand the complainants. may be quieted in the full and free enjoymeit of her jurisdiction and 'sovereignty over the same; and the
title, jurisdiction --and sovereignty of the said state of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations over the same be confirmed and established, by the decree of the Court; and that the complainants may
have such other and further relief in the premises, as to 'the' Court
shall'seem meet and consistent with equity and good conscience.".
",The Plea and Answer of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, to
the bill Of complaint of the state of Rhode Island," alleges, that in
1 64 2
1for the purpose of ascertaining the true' southern boundary line
of Massachusetts, a station or monument was erected and fixed at a
point south of Charles river, taken and believed to be on the true
and real 'boundary line of the colony of Massachusetts; which monumeAt became and has e ver since been Well known and notorious, and
then was and ever'since has been called Woodword and Saffrey's station, on Wr.entham Plains: and after.the fixing of said station, and
after running of the line aforesaict, and after the granting of the charter of Rhocle Island, and while all the territory north of said station
and line was claimed, held, and possessed, and jurisdiction over the
same exercised and enjoyed by Massachusetts, as parcel 6f her own
territory, about the year 1709,, dispute and controversy having arisen
between the two governments respecting the said boundary line.
VOL. XII.--4 P

SUPREME COUR'i.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massaenusetts.]

persons were appointed, by the government of Rhode Island and
by the government of Massachusptts, to settle'the 'nisunderstanding
about the line between the colonies; and what the persorms appointed
should. agree upon, should be forever after'taken and deemed to be
the stated lines and bouinds, so as the agreement be drawn up in
writing, and indented, under their hvnds and seals, within six months
as aforesaid.
That afterwards, on the 19th January, 1710, the commissioners
appointed by the colonies met, and ertered into an -"agveement of
the partition line betwixt the colony of Massachusetts and the colony
of Rhde Island," by which it was declared: " That the stake set
up by Nathaniel Woodword and Solomon Saffrey, skilful approved
artists, in the year of our Lord one thousand six hundred and fortytwo, and since that often renewed, in the latitude of forty-one degrees and fift-y-five minutes, being three English miles distant southward froM the southernmost part of the river called Charles river,
agreeable to the letters patent for the Massachusetts province, be
accompted and allowed, on both sides, the commencement of the line
between the Massachusetts and the' colony of Rhode Island, and to
be continuied betwixt the said two governments in such manner as
that, after it has proceeded between the said two governments, it
may pass over Connecticut river, at or near Bissell's house; as is decyphered in the plan and tract of that line, by Nathaniel.Woodword
and Solomon Saffrey."'
By this agreenient, on' a presumption that there .had been error in
setting up the station, certain surveys had' been made within the ,line
of Massachiasetts, thus ascertained, it. stipulated that there should
"be and remain unto the said' town of Providence and inhabitants
of the government of Rhode Island and Providence Plantatiqns, a
certain tract of land of one mile in breadth, to the northward of the.
said llne of Woodword and Saffrey, as before described'and platted,
beginning from 'the great river of Pautucket, and so to proceed at
the north side of the said patent line, of equal breadth, until it come
to the place where Erovidence west line cuts'the said patent line,
supposed to contain five thousand acres, be the same more or lessi
the soil whereof shall be and remain to, the town of Providence, or
others, according to the -diSposition thereof to be made by the government of Rhode Island aforesaid. Nevertheless, to continue and
remain within the jurisdiction and government of her majesty's provi .ce of the Massachusetts Bay, any thing in this agreement to the
cointrary thereof, or seemingly so, notwithstanding."

JANUARY TERM. 188,
[The State of Rh6de Island v. The State of Magsachidietts.]

The agreement 'ontained other provisions for the preservation of
the line, and for 'the ascertaining the surveys made by the inhabitants of Providence within the same; so. that'they might proceed,.
with the settlement and improvement thereof.
This agreement was executed under the hands and seals of the
commissioners-an& was witnessed by persons on the part of the two
colonies.
The plea and answer alleges, that the, whole of the real' anA true
merits of the complainants' supposed cause of action were.fully heard,
tried, and determinedhy the judgment and agreement of the commissioners; that the same. was a full-settlement of all the mattefs in
controversy, rnd Was made in good -faith; and the station so fixed and
established, became matter of common notoriety, and the,line capable of being always known and ascertained.
The answer and plea further states, that, afterwards, on or about
June 18th, 1717,to complete the settling and running the line between the twd governments, the general assembly of Massachusetts
passed an order, appointing commissioners, to meet commissioners
to .be appointed by Rhode Islan4 to run the line, according to the
agreement of January 19th, 1710. Certain other proceedings on
the part of Massachusetts took place, preparatory to the proceedings
of'the commissioners; and on the 17th June, 1717, the general assembly of the colony of Rhode Itland and Providence Plantations
passed an act, appointing commissioners on the part-of Rhode Island,
for the final settlement of the boundary line with the commissioners
named'and appointed by Massachusetts. On or 'about the 22d of
October, 1718, the, commissioners met, and then made an agreement,
which was signod, sealed, executed, and delivered by them, by which
it was stipulated and declared : ."That the stake set up by Nathaniel
Woodword and Solomon Saffrey, in the year one thousand six hundred- and forty-two, upon Wrentham Plain, be the station or com,mencement to begin the line which shall divide between the two
governments aforesaid, from which said stake the dividing line shall
run, so as it may (at Connecticut river).be two miles and a half to
the southward of a due west line, allowing the variation of the compass to be nine degrees, which said line shall forever be: and remain
to be the dividing line and boundary between the said governments,
any former difference, controversy, claim, demand, or challenge whatsoever notwithstanding." And on the twenty-ninth day of the said
October last aforesaid, the general assembly of the said colony of

668.

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island V.The State-of Massachusetts],

Rhode Island and Providence Plantations accepted the agreement of
the said commissioners, and caused the same to be duly recorded;
and thereby ratified and confirmed the same.
The answer avers that all this was done in good faith, and with a
full'and equal :knowledge of all the circumstances by the respective
parties; and that the same has never been annulled, rescinded, or
abandoned; and the last agreement was in pursuance of the agreerient of 1709. Afterwards, on the 14th May, 1719, the commissioners on the part of Massachusetts and Rhode Island, signed a rePort, return, and statement of their proceedings, un~der the designation of "The Subscribers, b6ing of the committee appointed and empowered by the govrninents of the province of Massachusetts Bay
and the colony, of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations,. for
settling the east and weft line between the said governments;'" stating that theyhad met ,atthe stake of Nathaniel Woodword and Solonon'Saffrey, on Wrentliam Plain, and had run the line, placing heaps
of stones and marking trees to designate the same.
The defendant 'further alleges-" That the said report, return, or
statement was afterwards, that is to say, on gr about the sixteenth
. ,day of June, in the year of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and nineteen, approved by the general assembly of the said colony
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations;" and the defendant alleges, that from the date of the said agreements o the present time,
the said commonwealth of Massachusetts has possessed a'ld enjoyed
all the, territory, and exercised jurisdiction over the same, north of
the said line,'as prescribed in the -said agreements of-October, 1718,
without hindrance or molestation; and' the said defendant avers
,that both the, points 'of beginning agreed
upon by said parties to
said agreement, viz,: the stake or station set up by the said Woodword and .attfrey, and' the line run therefrom to Conneeficut river,
then-were, ever since have been, and still are well known 'and, notorions; that the whole boundary line fixed on by.said agreement is
precise, definite,.and certain; and that the said defendant has occ'upied 'and exercised jurisdiction, and enjoyed all. rights of sovereignty
• ccordi g tQ the same, from the date thereof to the present timie.
The defendant pleads the agreement of 19th. January, 17J0, and
the agreeme
it in pursuance and confirmation thereof, of 22d October,-1717; ir d unmolested possession under the same from their date;
in-bar of the whole'bill of the complainants; and prays judgment
aceordizigly.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

669

[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

The answer and pleafurther aver, tbqt the agreements stated were
made and entered into with full knowledge of all the circumstances
in both parties; that the same were a valid and effectual settlement
of the''iatters in controversy; -and ,were made and entered ir to .wthout fraud or misrepresentation: and the station settled. there has been
notorious, and the line run therefrom has always been known, and
its marks and memorials capable of being discerned and renewed.
Mr. Webster, of counsel for tne state of Massachusetts, moved to
dismiss the bill. filed by~the state of Rhode.Island, on the ground
that the Court had no jurisdiction of the cause.
The, motion was argued by Mr. Austin, the attorney general of
the state of Massachusetts, and by Mr. Webster, on the part of the
state of Massachusetts; and by Mr. Hazard and Mr.Southard, for
the state of Rhode Island.
Mr. Austin, in support of the motion:
This is an actiofn by bill on the equity side of the Court,. instituted
by the state of Rhode Island against the state of Massachusetts
The, bill asserts the claim of Rhode Island to jurisdiction and
sovereignty over a portion of territory, therein particularly described.
The territory, so described, comprises between eighty and one.hundred square miles, beiiag a part of six"townships, incorporated under
the laws of Massachusetts, with a population of about five thousand
persons, at present citizens of that state; and not less than five hundred thousand dollars of taxable property. But the bill makes 'no
claim to any right of soil. It does not seek to disturb the. title of
the present possessors of the land, whose ancestors probably derived
their' title from the grants of the early government, in Massachusetts. it admits that the sovereignty and jurisaiction which it seeks'
to acquire, now is, and always, heretofore, from 'the first settlement
of the country, have, in .point of fact, been enjoyed and possessed,
first by' the colony, afterwards by the province of Massachusetts,
and then 'by the state 0f Massachusetts, at the declaration of A merican independence, at the adoption of the constitutibn of the United
States, and uninteruptedly to the present time; but avers that the
territory over which jurisdiction and sovereignty are now demanded
for Rhode Island, was not included within the botindary of the ancient colony of Massachusetts, in 1642, but was contained in the

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Isahnd .v.The Stateof Massachudett.,]

description of the limits of' Rhode Island, as established by th
.charter. of Charle, the Second, made *to' her as a colony of Great
Britain,, in 16.63,;- and by force of, that charter, ought now rightfully
to. be enjoyed by her'- but. that Massachusetts wrongfully usurped
jurisdiction ano sovereignty over the territory thus laimed,. and
now possesses it,.and has always.possessed it without right,
The complainant therefore asks, of this Court,.that the northern
bbundary line between the complainant and the state of MAssachusetts, may,, by the order and decree of this honourable Court,. be
ascertained and established, and that the rights of jurisdictipn and
sovereignty of your complainant, may be restored and, confirmed to
the complainant; and your complainant may be quieted-.in the tull
and free enjoyment of her.jurisdiction and sovereignty over -the
same; "and the title, jurisdiction hnd soVereignty of said state of
Rhode Island be confirmed and established by the decree of this
honourable Court, and that your complainant maV'have such other
and further relief in the premises, as to this honourable Court shall
seem meet, and consistent with equity and good conscience."'
Among the allegations of the bill, it appears that.a commission
for the establishment of the partition line between the two colonies,
was appointed by the i'espectivelocal governments thereof;, and that
the commissioners on 19 January, 1710-tl, agreed upon and established. the line, as, it now is,and always before had been Known,
possessed ard established, But the complainant seeks for various
causes which are in the bill enumerated, to set aside this agreement
and adj.f
,ication'of commissioners, as null and void.
The respondent hat filed a special plea in bar, to the complainant's
demand, grounded on the arbitration, award and settlement made
by those commissioners; and a constant-and uninterrupted possession under it fo, more than. a century: and- has answered in full all
the allegations by which the complainant seeks to vacate this award.
And the. respondent well hoped it-would have been the pleasure of
Rhode Island to have discussed'the merits and effect of this ancient
adjudication; but when her learned counsel, under an order of this
-Court to answer the respondent's plea, filed a general replication)
they accompanieit the same with-notice of an intention to move to
withdraw the same; and have since intimated a desire to change
and amend the tenor of the bill, itself. To all this there would be
no. other objection but the inconvenience of delay, and the trouble

JANUARY TERM, 1836.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

of keeping open, a litigation so, extensive in its operation. To bring
the whole matter to a speedier issue, Massachusetts presents only a
single point of her defence.
A motion is now made to dismiss the bill, for want of jurisdiction.
In establishing the governmentof the United States, the 3d -article of the constitution, and second section, f rovides that the judicial
power shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising upnder this
constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or
which'shall be made under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public. ministers and consuls; to all' cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the Uihited
States shall be a party;, to controversies between two or more
states, &c.; inall cases affecting ambassador%,-other public*ministers
and consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party, the Supreme
Court shall have original jurisdiction.
Whether the subject of the) present suit is a controversy between
states, within the meaning of the constitution; and whether, if it be
so considered, a law of congress is necessary to the exercise of judicial power by this Court in the premises; and whether, if such law
be necessary, any sufficient action has been had by congress to authorize judicial proceedings, arc questions which, under this motion,
are to be examined and decided.
In support of the motion to dismiss the bill, it is contended, that
this Court has no jurisdiction over the present suit:
1. Because of the character of the respondent, independent bf the
nature of the suit.
2. Becau~e of-the nature of the suit, independent of the character
of the respondefit.
If the first of these propositions can be maintained, the result is,
that inthe present state of the law, this Court cannot entertain-jurisdiction over a state of this Union, for any cause. If that may be
doubtful, and the second proposition is established; it will result in
this, that the subject matter of this suit, being for sovereignty and
sovereign rights, is beyohd the'jurisdiction of a judicial court.
To the jurisdiction of a court of the United States in every case;
two circumstances aust concur. 1st, The party, or the subject of
the suit, must ,be one to whien the judicial power of the government
extends, as that power is defirned by the constitutioni; and, 2dly,
There. must be some rule of decision, established by the supreme

612

SUPREME COURT.
[The'State of Rhode Island v. The State of Masachusetta.]

power of the country, by the administration of which the right of
the parties to the xantter in controversy may be determined.
The governrment of the United States. does not Come by inheritance, or Succ~ssion into any judicial power. In this respect, it is
essentially different from all other governments known. in the history
of the world. Where a natioui has been established ,by colony; or
by :conquest, there was a foundation in the institutions of the parent
state, or the victors, on whith its municipal establishments should
be placed. ,Its own domestic arrangements, if it had -any, remained,
until changed by paramount authority. Such was the case with the
states of this Union, when they ceased-to be colonies, The government
of the United States is a new government, beginning with the
constitution'
Although the. confederation was its prototypev there
was no general government, and certairly no national. or "federal
judiciary, untii the constitution had formed one.
The'government of the United'States may, therefore, exercise all,
but no more than all the judicial power.. provided for it by the" constitution.
The third. article of that instrument- contains a declaration of the
existence and extent of this new power.
It ascertains the parties, "the causes, and. the courts for judicial ac!
tion. To a certain extent, it establishes the rule of decision; and,
perhaps, this- particular branch of the. inquiry into the jurisdiction
Of the Court in this case, will. depend, on ascertaining how far the
rule of decision is Carried by the constitution; because, if the party
and the controversy, and the rule for deciding the merits of the
controversy are, by'the constitution, given to this-Court; -there can
be no impediment to its action in this particular.
It is admitted, that by te express words of the constitution the
judicial power of the United States extends to. controversies between
two or more states. The party, therefore, may be within the operation of the judicial power; in case such a controversy as is contemplated by the constitution exists with 'one or more states.
Does the term controversies extend to all controversies?
It is to be observed, that. the word "all," which is prefixed to the
other classes of cases, is here omitted. The judicial power extends
to all cases under the laws of the United States; all cases' under the,
treaties made, &c.; all cases affecting ambassadors, &c.; all cases of
maritime and admiralty.jurisdiction: but its phraseology is changed,
and the universality limited by the omission of the word "all,"

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

673

[The-State of Rhode Island v:The State of 4asschuhetts.]

ihen it relates to-controversies tO' which the: United-States shall bt
a party, and to controversie4 between two-or more states.- The judicial power, then!, does, not reach..to all possible controversies to
which 6the United, States shall be a party, or between .two or, more
states.
What are the limitations.? The first are those which, are made
by the 6laracter of the tribunal;, and-'are includedin the terms judicial power; 'and. the words "law and .bquity," which precede theenumeration of the iubject matters of jUdiial -cognizance.
Although the government formeip by the constitution, was'a-new
government, and took nothing by -s'Uccessioti or custom; the men
who framed the constitution were educated to an intimate acquaintance with the judicial institutiorls oftEngland; whose Jaws were, to
a great degree, ,the fouridaton of our, own' and 'Whose.language,
when used by them in this relation, ratst be 'deemedto have "atechnical meaning.:,
A judicial.po'wer means-there6fore, a power to interpret, and not
to -make the.laws; .andthe terms ."law -and equity,,. lave reference
to that complicated code of,the miother.couptry; extensive,but niot
universal, and limited in its operation by Well settled decisions.
A limitation, on the broad te'ms of the g ~ant,
is necessarly.im-plied in other branches of this power. 'The judicial, power extends
to pontroversies. to which the United States shall be a party, and
between ' state and foreign states; but it-would be manifestly allsurd, to bring the 'political disputes of the day,,.nullification, abolition, slavery; and the controversies.-which are beginning to arise be.
tween states concerning them;'to the decision of ajury trial in a court
of law.
It is submltted,'also, that controversies between. state$ must be
limited to those which begin with the states in that capacity, and
does not extend to the antiquated controversies existing between the
colonies, to which the states may or may not' have succeeded, according to circumstances, which- a judicial court can have no means
to ascertain.
But the proper mode of considering,this article of the constitution,
in relation to the judicial power, is to take the constitution .af a
whole, land keep constantly in mind the grand designIand intention
of its'framerp; always regarding it as unique, original,.an& consist
ent with itself. -The grand object of its framers was to establish a
common government for sovereign states, and to have that sove.
VoxXII.-4 Q

S674

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island' v.,The State of Massachusetts.]

reignty unimpaired, wherever-it could s9 be left; without impairing
the government of the Union. The judicial power of the United
States 'is, a power, in this view of 'the case, all or any part of which
the government of the United States might exercise, through the
appropriate department -which was to be established.
It extends to such controversies between two or more states, as
ame properly within the decision .of law and equity, in the' precise
sense of those terms, arising between the states,'in virtue of their
relation as states;; and to be proceeded with And decided according to
the customary, forms of iudicial proceedings; and the established doetrires of known and acknowledged laws. Every state, by Virtueot
its soverignty, and every citizen of every state,, by virtue of 'his al:legiance to such state, standS absol~ied from the jurisdiction of the'
judicial power of the United States; until the government: of the
United States, putting into opergtion so, much of the jodicial.power
granted by the constitution as is necessary for the purpose has organized a court, established the Iules of decision, directbd the forms
of' its process, and designated the subjects for,.its cognizance; not
exceeding, in any of these respects; the power assigned to it bhy the
constitution itself.
If, therefore, there is no law regulating the intercourse between
the statds of the Union; there is no rule for settling a controversy
that may arise between two or more states, by reason of such mter'course. I it then should be admitted that a law covld be made
binding the intercourse of states, and that one state miglht sue another
state for a breach of such law; yet, until such a law exists, thisQ6turt
can entertain no jurisdictiorn, because the state having a, character
above or beyond the existing law is. not amenable to any superior;
and the Court having no law to expound, cannot.settle .a judicial
controversy, depending, as all such controversiem do, on the-question
whether the conduct complained of, has, iti the. case presented, (onformed to, or departed from the obligations which are imposed by
law.
The positions then, which, to carry out this doctrine, are next to be
established, are: that the jurisdiction of this Court in any paiticular
case, depends on some adequate legislative provision for the exercise
of its powers under the constitution: -and secondly, that in point 6f
fact, no law is now in force wNhich operates juuicially on a state of
thi.- Union.
A iegislative provision, it is contended, is necessary for two purposes.; first, to regulate the form of process from the citation to the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

675

[The: State of Rhode Islatd 'v. The State of Massachusett§.]

judgment and execution, without which last, judicial' action is a mere
mockery,; and secondly, to establish the law of the case, or the rule
of action by which the conduct of the ligitants is to be tried.
In regard to -the'last, which, as the most material, may be first considered, it supposed that no doubt can exist as to the necessity of
such law, as a pre-requisite to judicial action. Judges.are to-expound
the law, not to make it. The only pertinent question then is, does
any existing law which this Court can, recognise, act upon and regulate the intercourse between the States of this Union ?
It is supposed that when a nation is established, and becomes by
revolution or other.wise a member of the family of nations, -it is,.
ipso facto, under the operation of international law. But not only
does the doctrine of international law apply to the nation, and not
to the states of our confederacy; but the law itself is not the subject
of administration by judicial tribunals, when it operates on communities. Ambassadors are its counsellors; and its argument, the ultima
ratio regurn. If the principles of international law are made applicable to individuals in a judicial forum, it is because °the m'unicipal
law of the place has incorporated the international law as a part of
itself, and administers it by the force of domestic legislation. The
constitution may itself establish a rule of decision. It does so in
the case of treaties, which are declared 'to be the supreme law of the
land; and it provides 'that its own provisions shall be binding on
judges in all the states. Whatever difficulties might be found in a
judicial, administration of the constitution or a treaty, between individual'litigants claiming rghts under them, without the aid of a law
of congress; they may all be done away without touching this case;
because nothing is claimed by the constitution or any treaty of the
United States to show the right of the claimant in the present case,
or bind the respondent to any prescribed course of action.
The necessity of:a law.of congress to establish, by direct enactnment, or by implication, the code of the United States, has been admhitted by this Court. Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 329.1 And it is
supposed by the Court, in giving its opinion in that case, that congress was bound to vest in its courts all the judicial power of the
government.

Congress has judged differently, because it has not appropriated
all the judicial power of the government. But the -question here, is
not whether congress is wrong in the omission, but whether, in a
clear case of omission, this or any court of the United States can

676

SUPREME COURT.
[T.he State of Rhode Island v..The State of Massachuiietts.I

supply the defect.- In a very, early periodof the 'history of this
Court, it was supposed that-the states, like individuals, were amenable to its jurisdiction; and under that impression it was intimated in
argument, and seemingly sustained, by. the majority of'the, Court,
that the moment a Supreme Court is' formed, it is to exercise all the
judicial powers vested in it -by the constitution,'whether the legislature have prescribed, methods for- its doing so or- not.% Chisholme's
Exr's v. The State of Georgia, 2 Dall. 419; 1 Cond. Rep. 6.
The opinion of the Court was-not unanimqus; and Judge lredell'.s
dissenting opinion has become, by the A th article 'of amendment of
the constitution, the better authority. It is to be observed, that this
amendment does not change the text of*the constitution, That remains the same. The amendment declares that the ju ',itial power
shall not be deemed to extend to a case, which, by the ,construction
of the Court it bad in the above case been made to reach. It ,is further to be. remarked, that all the- subsequent proceedings of 'this
Court in regard to states defendants, have, as- far as they have -proceeded, been fastened to this c6se. 'But the case being overruled by
a higher tribunal than even this august-Cdurt, in a mode perfectly
legal,,it is submitted that no dictum, and no principle promulgated in
it, can have the authority of law.
The necessity of a code' of laws-'for the, government of judicial
action being, apparent, congress has attempted to' etablish one. This
is done, so far hs it'is done at all, by the judiciary actof 1789.
This statute adopts, iti the 34th'section, the lg.ws of the states asa
rule of action 'where they can apply, But as nio law of Massachusetts
or Rhode I§lan-d can embrace the respondent in. this particular matter, there is by that section no ruleprescribed for-the'present coritroversy:
It, has been contended that the' statute aforesaid, taken in cormeq
tion with the constitution itself, established a code mixed and 'miscellaneous, made up of the common law and equity practice of Great
Britain, modified by our 'particular institutions, which, sqves as the
basis of judicial action-, To a certain, extent, this is undoubtedly so
in many, if not all the old states'; but to what extent it is true in regard to the United States, has been a debatable question, and is not
yet de" nitely settled.
It is not necessary to settle it in thig case; because, if the common law and chancery law of 'England are in operation here, in
their utmost lttitude and force, they do not, reach 'the respondeat.

JANUARY TERM, 183.

677

[The State of Rhode Island v.The State, of Masaehugetts.]
The common law of England takes'no jurisdiction over 'theactions
of sovereign -states; Inor, is there any power irr chancery to hold
jurisdiction over a sovereign, without his consent..
Such is :the 'mcharacter of the states, respectiyely, of thls Union.
This proposition it is not intended to discuss. No inan, who has at
all' studied the constitution of the country, ian fail to have his mind
riiade up on this point, on the-one side or'the other. - It is main,tained by the respondent, that every American state, is a qualified
sotereignty, and 'as such exempted bycommon law, (meaning thereby, the whole judkcial code of the ,country,) froih judicial responsia
bility, 'It: is not contended" that a law may not be constitutionally
made t 9 reach a state. The question under discussion is, whether
the present law extends to ja state. The present la* is.what we
term by emninence, and for distinction, the commojp law; and. it is
beyond all controversy, that' the cominobh" law'operates on subjects
'only, and not overeigns; 'and upon property; and not :soveteign
rights.
If the' constitution authorizes the government of-the Unitpd States
to subject a state to judieial process and judgment, the governmhent
of the United States may pass' the laws necessary- f6r the" pqrpose.
But to declare' what may be done, is -not to declare ,what is done.
If congress, for any reason, has stopped short,' the judicial. department is at the same ppinV brought to a stand. If it has adopted the
common law, and nothing more, the Court, can- do no more than. the
common law. warrants. Jf the common law does not extend its
jurisdicti n over a sovereignty, heither can the Court.
'ThedOctrine contended fg:r is that alone which-prevents a suit
against the United States ' by every individual who has a demand in
dispute. The".cog ti tution is as unlimited in. regard t6 the United
States, as .the states. The. judicial power extends, to controversies
towhich the United States shall be a.party. And 'in the'earlier
decisions of this Court, it is' maintained that it is the same thing,
as regards jitrisdiction, whether the party designated be plaintiff or
defendant. 'The state of Massachusetts, instead of 'soliciting congress for an adjustment of its claim, might have instituted a suit in
this, Court, obtained if it would a judgment, and levied its execution on a ship of the line, or the arsenal, of the country,
The sovereignty of the United States, carried to .its legitimate
consequences, protects it from this extravagant absurdity. But

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachus4tts.]

Chief Justice Jay, when, in his opinion in the Georgia case he
rode over state sovereignties, admitted that the logical conclusion of
his argument involved a liability on the part of the United States to
a suit at law. He, avoids it, however, by the extraordinary suggestion that " in all cases against states or individual citizens, the
national courts are supported in all their legal and constitutional
proceedings and judgments by the arm of the executive power of
the United States; but in cases of actions against the United States,
there is no power which the courts can call to aid:" Georgia case, 2
Dall. 478. What is this but an Abandonnent of duty through fear.
It would have been better to adopt the maxim of the English lord
chief justie Fiat justitia, ruat ccelum. The better answer is that
by the law, as it stands, no action in a judicial cour t can be maintained against a sovereignty, whether state or national. That the constitution has, in both cases, authorized congress so to frame and pass
laws that the judicial power may operate on the one and the other;
but until that is dgne, any action of the judiciary would not be to
expound the law; of the case, but to make one.
But the United States are sometimes sued.
This is in cases of
contract, or other similar causes of action,,in which the United
States, dealing as a private citizen:with other citizens, consents to
come into a court of justice, and submit to the operation and construction of, the laws of the land. The laws of the land reach to
contracts. The United States makes a contract; and when it submits, by its own consent, to a suit, admits expressly, that in the.
decision the law of contracts shall apply to its case. The United
States makes a treaty; and, by the constitution, a treaty is the law
of the land. It claims for itself land under that treaty; takes possession, and cannot he ousted by a suit at law, in virtue of its sovereignty. But it waives its sovereignty, and submits its title under
the treaty to arbitrament by commissioners, or to a judicial decision
in a court of law.
Have the states consented to be sued? Unquestionably the provision of the constitution is their consent tW exactly what that
provision contains, but the inquiry is not of consent, but canstruction.
Massachusetts does not propose to take herself out of the constitution, or to withdraw from any of its obligations. She admits, that
under certain circumstances she has agreed to waive her sovereignty,
arnd submit her controversies to judicial decision; but maintains, that

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massicluisetts.)

before. sne can be called upon to do this, a court must be established,
a law made, or a code propounded, suitable, to the decision of her
case; and the forms of process, mode of proceeding, character, Of
judgment, and means of enforcing it,
be"first~established by legislative authority. But the United States never has submitted its
sovereign rights, or its aats in its sovereign capacity, to judicial cognizance, and never can; and the states, as is contended, by agreement to submit theircontroversies to judicial decrees, never intended
fo include in.these controversies questions of: sovereign right, .for
the regulation of which no law.is made; and no law ever can be
made by any other power than themselves, and each one for itself
alone.
This view of the case is greatly fortified. by considering, the law
which the complainantdesires this Court to administer. This in,
deed may be deemed to belong to the merits of the case' and It
does so. But it is also an Pppropriate subject of examination uinder
the motion now submitted. One of the grounds of this mdtion' is,
that there is no existing law of the country bindirg on these par.
tles applicable to the controversy between them, which'this Court
can 'administer. This would be exceedingly obvious, if the cotn:
plainant had presented hls'title under the bull of Pope Nicholas V,;
by.which he divided all the countries to be discovered from Africa
to India; or under Alexander VI., in which he divided thre-quartbrs
of the habitable globe: Omnes insulas et terras firmas inventus aut
inveniendus, detectis et detegendas, &q.
The claim set forth in the bill is; in the judgment
of the tkspon-.
dent's counsel, equally extra-judicial and 0intenable.
The state of Rhode Island states its claim to be thus: By the
charter given to certain persons by Charles tgirst, kinglof England, bearing date the 4th March, 16 8, the colony of Massachusetts
was established, with a territory bounded on the south by a line
drawn within the space of three English miles, on the south part of
"the said river called Charles river, or of any or of every part thereof.
That a charter was granted by Charles Second,- on or about 8th
July, 1663, establishing the colony of Rhode Island, by ,vhich its
northern boundary was defined in these words: -"on the north or
northerly, by the aforesaid south or southerly line of MassacLisetts.
Colony or Plantation." By these two charters, the boundaries ,of
the two colonies were adjacent and conterminous.
That after the vacating of the colony charter of Massachusetts in

680

SUPREME COURT.
[Th1e State Of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

1684, and the granting a province charter in 1691; which, so far qk
this matter is concerned, established the same. conterminous boundary
by'the same words; the government of Massachusetts, about 1719,
wrongfully possessed herself' of a tractof land more southerly than
a true line would be' drawn, which should, be run three miles south
of the river called Charles river, or- of any and every part thereof,.
"and extending the whole length of the north lineof the colony of
Rhode Island, being more than twenty miles in length and four miles
and fifty-six rods in breadth, in the east end thereof, and more than
five miles in breadth 4t the west end 'there6f, and has since continued wrongfully to exercise jurisdiction over the same."
From other parts of the complainant's statement, it is apparent that
the true place for -the dividing line was then admitted'by both parties to be that described in the chafter, and that it was drawn and
the territory occupied by the province of Ma'ssachusetts on a claim of
right; that the place of location was the place designated in the charter. -The possession of. Massachusetts, per fas aut hefas, from that
time, isadmitte .
The title of Rhode Island to the premises,- admitting she is right
in the construction of the charter, and the. point from which the
boun'dary line should be drawn, (in.which, at a proper time, it will
in great error,) "de.pends on the validity of-.grant
be proved she is'
by'charter of te British crown,. against an adverse possession of
more than one huhdred yearsi firstby a province, and next by a state
of the Union; through -all the vicissitudes 6f -war, revolution, and
independence.
If, therefore, such a-charter, admitting its existence, gives no title
against an adverse -possession-; and especially, if the declaration of
American independence, and the subsequent formation of a federal
goyernment,,to be judicially.noticed by this Cburt, have vacated the
law, or supposed law, on which the claimant rests its title, and this
so plainly, that the charter cannot be inquired of by the Court, but
that under the constitution it is bound. by events'subsequent to the
declaration of independence, in all that respects' states, because the
states were thereby created; then, even under this motion to dismiss
for want of jurisdiction, the bill must be dismissed.
Such is' conceived to be the case. The 'state of Massachusetts
makes 1no claim for herself; and admits none for Rhode Island, by
force or virtue of any grant, charter, or authority from the British
crown. Whatever might have been, in ancient times; the validity

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

681

[TheState of Rhode Island v. The State. of Massachusetts.]

of these instruments of .royal power, they ceased, at the declaration
of American independence, to have any judicial operation on the
great corporations or coloiiies, they had contributed to establish.
Massachusetts, when she became a state became so in the integrity
of her whole territory, as it was then possessed by her, whenever or
however acquired, by.grant, charter, purchase, treaty, or force, of
arms, claiming her actual possession as .the ultimate evidence of
right, and denying that there then existed, or yet exists, any human
tribunal that can -lawfully inquire how or by what means that possession was obtained; or that any authority exists to determine the
limits of an original state of the Union, in any other way than by
determining whdt it wasde facto, on the 4th July, 1776.
SO far as regards Great Britain and. other foreign nations, the
treaty of peace in 1783, settled the exterior boundary of the United
States; but in What proportions it-was owned by the thirteen sovereignties, then commencing a political, existence, was to be adjusted
by themselves. This adjustment was a matter of agreement then.to
be made, or to rest on the fact of possession; which, admitting no
higher title, and capable of no higher proof, assumed the right from
the exercise of the 'right: and. it would now be as wise to inquire
how the seven Saxon kingdoms of Great Britain were established,
or"to define the limits of the heptarchy,. as to attempt to decide
what constitutes a state of the American Union, beyond the fact that
so it was.when the nation was proclaimed independent,,or the confederacy was established 'under the constitutiop
There have been many decisions in this Court affirming the original validity of British grants of land, and of government. It is
not proposed to set up any principle militating with these decisions.
A careful examination of each of them; will show a distinction sup,
porting the doctrine now contended for.
Discovery or conquest are, no doubt, well recognised titles, from
which to deduce, ab origine, grants of land, and political government. But these titles carry with them, by their very terms, the
idea of possession. The discoverer or the conqueror, is the only person in possession; and by force of his possession so acquired, he
establishes a government, marks out a -territory, or conveys title to
the soil. The grant is a contract which the grantor cannot vacate;
but it was never doubted, although the case has never come into
judgment, that it might be surrendered or abandoned by the grantee.
But a corporation, and much more a colony so established by the
VOL. XI.--4 R

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts,]

right of conquest or discovery, is not a private, but a public, political
institution.

To maintain that it was inviolable by the crown, was the doctrine
of the patriots of the revolution; but to deny to them the power of
abrogating, dissolving, annihilating it, is to bastardize the revolution
itself. If the revolution did any thing, it was to Cancel and annul
these royal charters; and the. same right of cofiquest, by which the
king of England obtained power to make a political government
herd, gave to the states th e right to destroy it.
In the Dartmouth College case, Wheaton's Reports,
the only impprtant question was, whether the corporation then in question, was
a public or private corporation. It was admitted that, in the former
case, it was repealable by the state. That a colony was a public institutiorn, and partaking the character of a corporation, is unden able.
Indeed, Massachusetts was summoned into chancery as a public corporation, in the year 1684, and judgment rendered to vacate and -annul hek charter. But the revolution, the declaration of independence, the formation of the constitution of the. United State , are acts
of higher authority than'the decree of the lord chanceilor. They
dissolved the government of the colony, and lhe colony itself.
,The people thereafter claimed and possessed the country by a new
title. Sovereign rights were assumed by the states, in their character of public communities, claiming -fibe right of self-government
over the soil then 'in their actual possession; and the territory now
clairned by Rhode Island, whatever it was before, then was, in fact
anid by possession, an integral part of Massachusetts. It was the
state, as much as Boston or Salem. All other titles merged, and the
charter was-at an end.
Neither can the state of Rhode Island claim' any thing by virtue
ofa charter granted to the colony of Rhode Island, by the English
-crown. Rhode Island, by her own act of independence,
vacated that
charter, and remitted herself to her better title- of possession, by
which., she now holds the towns of Bristol, Warner, Barrington,
Somerset , ,Little Compton, Tiverton, and the fine lands of Mount
Hope and Poppy Squash; a territory almost half her actual extent,,
and unquestionably belonging to Massachusetts, as part of the original
colony of Plymouth,, Which was .united in one colony, Massachusetts,
in 1691. Baylie's Plymouth, part 4, p. 50; Morton's Memorial,
480. For the imrossibility of being governed by the cIarters, see

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State,of Massachusetts.]

Bancroft's list of U. S. 83, 84, 137, 138, 209, 210, 309, 313 364;
Mass. 'list. Soc. 1'st vol. 205, 412, 442, 396; 2d vol. 244.
Some questions may be proposed on this subject relating to the
rights of the conmplainant under his assumed title, and the supposed
obligations to the respondent, which must be answered before this
cause can proceed to hearing and judgment.
Can a sovereign state be sued for acts done'in virtue of, or by
claim of right in its sovereign capacity?
If Massachusetts had
marched across the border supposed by Rhode Island to be the true
line, and, in a belligerent attitude, taken possession of the disputed
territory; is such act within the cognizance of this Court, subjecting
the state to action of trespass, quare clausumr fregit?
If such suit is-maintainable, by what law is the action of the Court
tobe regulated in cases where the constitution lays dnwn no rule of
proceeding, where the subject is not within the scope of any treaty,
and is not defined by any statute law of congress?
If a state may be made amenable to a judicial court, is she to be
answerablefor the acts of a colony to which she has succeeded'?
If she is suable, has the state sued, the common rights of other
defendants, to plead accord and satisfaction, arbitrament and award,
title by prescription,.or the bar of any statute or common law limitations ?
If a state takes all the estate and appurtenances of its colony ancestor, to whom it claims to succeed, is it what such colony had in
possession when it ceased to exist; or may it lay claim to every thing
to which such colony had a paper title, although disseised by the
intrusion of some neighbouring state or colony?
If a state claims the rights of its colony ancestor, by what rule of
what law are such rights to be ascertained ?
If such rights are of real estate, will such estate pass to the colony
in the first instance by deed only, or by livery of seisin ?
If the suit is for sovereignty or sovereign, rights, isthere any title
to, such claim but possession ?
If, in the. case of the South American provinces, the United States
delayed to acknowledge their independence and nationality, so long
as there was a contest about it, and the possession was not secured;,
and if such be the principle of the law of nations, is not the same
doctrine to prevail whether this sovereignty is claimed for the whole
territory, or for a part of the whole ?
But the more significant question remains. Can the allegiance of

684

SUPREME COURT.

[The Statd of Rhode-Island v. The State.of Massachul~etts. ]
five thousand Americaii .citizens, natives of4 Mssachusefts, and owing
'her the duties of citizens, or of ont such, be changed by a decree of
this Court;- without their consent; without -notice to them to agree or
disagree, as if they were serfs on the soil of Russia: because one
hundred and twenty years ago, the prodigal monarch of England put
llis signature to a piece of parchment, to gratify the Jvarice or the
ambition ofihis courtiers?
The vant of jurisdiction is frther maintained by consideratiotis
applicable-to this matter, arising both before and subsequent to the
decision of the controversy.on its supposed merits.
The merits of any case depends on the conformity of a party's
conduct tc a previously prescribed rules of law; but, if there be no
such rule, there can be no test of Stich merit, and no decision upon
them. But, in additiort to this, a question arises on the form of
process. By. what rule of law can a state be' brought before this
Court, and y whht form of execution, known to the laws, can the
judgment of this Court be carried into effect?
It is undeniable that the power to direct the process, to declare
its nature. and effect, and the mode' in which, the judgment of the
Court shall be executed, must be prescribed by the legislative department.
This may be done, possibly, by implication or reasonable itiference.
It is certain, no such provision is -made by direct enactment., In
the case of New Jersey v. New York, 3 Peters, 461, 4 Peters, 284,
whieie this, matter has beeh considered;' it is admitted, that there is
no direct provision of law, but the power to summons is made to
rest on an analogy to individual suitors. That of execution is not at
all considered by the Court,
j ow,it is contended, that-the original analogy that was supposed
to exist between sovereign 'states, and pri'vate citizens, nevef did
exist. The 11th article of Amendments to the Constitution has so
declared. Before that amendment, and under the 'broad extent of
power erroneously assumed by this Court, a state was, indeed, but
in, the charater of a private corporation;' and it, might well be
thought, on that hypothesis, that the power to try a party -by a
known, rule of law, involved the necessity of having the right to
bring such party into Court for trial and judgment;. and that such
power, as it extended to reach other suitors, might also reach states,
between whom and other suitors, as the Court construed the constitution, there was no difference. In the opinion. of 'the dissenting

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of.Rhode Island v. The State of Massacbusetts.]

judge, there .was a difference; and wherf the 1 th amendment altered
the constitution, so,that, to a great extent, this difference is established,
the consequence seems legitimately to follow, according to the doctrines maintained by the dissentient.
It is now true that states were once deemed mere ordinary suitors, and that the general provisions of the process act, reached states
as other suitors, because there was not recognised to be any difference among them. The process 'act reached only ordinaky suitors.
States are not now ordinary suitors, and the process acts ste.aching
only, to ordinary suitors, do'not reach them.
The power of the courts. of the United States, to issue writs not
specially prdvided for, is limited. They are confined to such as are
conformable to the principles and usages of law. Judiciary act of
1789.
There are no principles of law, meaning the common law, or the
statutes of 'the states, or of congress, that embrace a sovereign state.
There is no usage in such cases. On the contrary, the usage Is directly adverse. It holds to the exemption of such parties.
,This difficulty occurred to the compliinants. in 1830, the senator
from Rhode Island, who signed the bill as solicitor, in 1832, introduced into the senate a bill, with minute provisions to remedy the
defect. *It did not pass. In 1928, the senators of New Jersey introduced a like, bill to prepare for the controversy of that state with
New York. It was not adopted. Every legislator who has been
called to consider this subject, has 'admitted the defect of legislation.
2. This Court has no jurisdiction, because of the nature of the
suit. It is in its character political,; in the highesi degree political;
brought by a sovereignj in that avowed character, for the restitution
of sovereignty. The judicial power of the government of the United
States, extends, by the constitution, only to cases of law and equity.
The terms have relation to, English jurisprudence. Suits of the present kind, are not of the class belonging to law or equity, as administered in England. ' Black. ,Com. 230, 231; 2" Vesey, jr., 56;
Nabob of the Carfiatic V. East India Company, 3 Vesey, 424; Barclay v. Russell, 1 Vesey, sr., 444. Penn vi Baltimore; where the
agreement, and not the political right, was ,the subject of litigation.
See Lord Hardwicke's opinion; New York v.Connecticut, 4 Dall.
4. By the judiciary act of 1789, the jurisdiction,of the Supreme
Court of the United States, where a state is a party, is confined to
cases "of a civil nature."

SUPREME COURT.
[the State of Rhode Island ii. The State of Massachusetts.]

This qualification was not in contradistinction to criminal cases,
for no state could be, prosecuted by another state, as a criminal. It
is intended to have -reference to cases not political, or involving
Yiscart v, Dauchy,
questions of sovereign power between states.
2 Dall. 325. See, also, Drafts of the Constitutioni printed for, the
members of the convention, and for their use only, and the successive amendments made, and in manuscript on said printed drafts;, in
the collection of the Massachusetts Historical Society.
The complainant has no equity on, his own declaration. It is a
stale demand, in the language of the books; and the fact appearing
on the face of the bill, need not be pleaded.. Beckford et al. v,
Wade, 17 Vesey, jr.; Story on Equity, see. 1520, and the Notes;
Middlecot v. O'Donnell, 1 Ball & Beatty, 166; Hoveden v. Lord
Ahinersley, 2 Scho. & Lefroy; Paul v, M'Namara, 14 Vesey, jr., 91;
Gifford v. Hart, 1 Scho. & Lefroy, 406. -The court will not permit
a party to lay by and wait until the subject of dispute has acquired
great value, and become connected withgreat interests and diversified relations.
Again: if the parties are to be treated in this Court as individuals,
or private corporations, or even as states with only the rights of pri.
vate litigants, then the bill must be dismissed, because, if it seeks
an adjustment of boundaries, without claim to the soil; such a cause
is no subject of equity jurisdiction. Atkins v. Haton, 2 Anstruther,
386; Fenham v. Herbet, 2 Atkyns, 484; Welby v. Duke of Rutland, 2 Atkyns, 391; Willer v. Smeaton, 1 Bro. Ch. Rep. 572;
Bishop of Ely v. Kenrick, Bunbury, 322.
There is no such case in this country, nor in England, for jurisdiction only between towns or countries.
(f the boundary is asdertained, and the defendant has encroached
upon the complainant, the right between individuals must be ascertained in an action at common law, and not by bill in chancery; and'
the right must, in all cases, be settled at law, before chancery can
adjust-the boundaries. See the cases above cited.
The only title, in equity, to which the complainant can appeal, is
that by which an equity is administered, not applied to agreements
generally, but intended to preserve family honour, and family peace.
Let this be applied to the sister states, in the great American family
of the nation. It will leave undisturbed and unchanged, what has so
remained for more than a century. Storkley v, Storkley, 1 Ves.
&B. 30.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

Mr. Hazard, for the state of Rhode Island:
The merits of this motion, sir, might have been more satisfactorily
examined and discussed by the complainant's counsel, if we could
have had the motion, and the specific grounds of it, put into writing,
as we were desirous, and- requested that they should be; but without effect.
It does appear to me, that a motion which goes to cut off one. of
the most important branches of the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court, exercised by it from its first establishment, and to deprive a
.party in court of the benefit of that jurisdiction, aid of her only
remedy for aggravated injuries, (as, she has a right to insist in resisting a motio which would deprive her of a heating,) that such a
motion, and the specific grounds of it, ought to be' presented in
writing, with precision and fulness, arid with adequate notice of
them to the opposite party, to enable him to meet them, and to
know what he has to meet. But we are now to answer this motion,
verbally made, and to seek for the grounds of it, as-they are scattered through a long and desultory argument; in the course of which,
those grounds have taken so many different shapes, that it, is not
easy to recognise them for the same, or to reconcile them one with
another. This being the case, it "is not surprising that the counsel
refused to put the specific grounds of their motion into Writing. I
have, however, endeavoured to make myself acquainted with the
real question to be decided; and, with permission, will now present
such views as I have been able to take of it.
Has this Court jurisdiction over the subject matter of, and over
the parties to the bill in equity now pending before it? and has,
the Court now' power to proceed to the hearing and trial of the
cause, and to make a final decree therein? If neither branch of this
question can be answered in the negative, there can be no good
grounds for the 'present motion; however those grounds mny. be
shifted, or multiplied, or repeated. Allow me to consider the first
branch of the question. It is evidently purely a constitutional
question, arising fnder 'the constitution, and only to be tried and
settled by it. Turning, then, tO the constitution, we find it there
declared, that the judicial power shall extend "to. controversies be,
tween two or more states;" and that in those cases "in which a state
shall be a party, the Supreme.Court shall have original jurisdiction."
These are the words of the constitution; and this is a controversy
between two states; and the state of Massachusetts is a party to it:

688

SUPREME ,COURT.
[the Shtte of Rhodeisland v. The State of Massachusetts.]

and the state of RhodeIsland is a party to it; and this controversy
is now pending before the Supre'me'Court. But it is contended by
the counsel, that although the words of the constitution do embrace
this controversy, yet it is not within the- meaning' and intention of
that instrument; and that it wai the intention of its framers to exclude such controversies from the jurisdiction of the Cotirt, 'This
is dealing with the constitution as Peter, Martin and Jack dealt with
their father's will. But as it is the only pretension that could be
set up against the constitutional jurisdiction -of this Court, it is important "for us to inquire, strictly, what was the meaning and intent
of the framers of the constitution, in 'this respect? : And heje, fortunately, nothing.is left to conjecture or traditiom The explicit,
unequivocal intention of the framers of the constitution upon this
subject; is matter of authentic public record. I beg leave-to trace
this constitutional provision for preserving harmony among the
4tates, from its origin. Before tWe revolution, all controversies between the colonies or provinces,' concerning boundaries, were cartied up to the' king,'in council, and were by him settled. -There
was one such controversy between 'these same parties, Massachusetts
and Rhode. Island; and anothedr between Massachusetts and New
Hampshire; both of which, were so settled. When' the states asserfed' their independence, that tribunal, of course, was annulled. But
the'newtstates felt the necessity of immediately establislhing, in its
place, a competent tribunal of their own, with 'full jurisdiction over
those dangerous controversies. And this. they did in the articles' of
confederation; 'the 'ninth article of which, provides that u congress
shall be the last resort, on appeal, in ll disputes and differences now
subsisting, or which may hereafter arise, between two or more states,
concerning boiindary, jurisdiction, or ;any other cause whatever."
Congress to appoint judges to constitute a court for hearing and determining those causes. "And the judgment and sentence of the
court to be appointed in the manner before described, shall be final
and conclusive; and if any of the parties shall refuse to submit to
the authority of such court, o to appear,-or 'defend their' claim or
cause, the court shall, nevertheless, proceed to pronounce sentence
or judgment, which shall, in like manner, be final and decisive; the
judgment or sentence, and other proceedings being, in either case,
transmitted to congress, and lodged among the acts of congress, for
the security of the parties concerned." And congress did, accordingly, establish and organize the court, called the "court ofappeals."

JANUARY TERM, .1838.

689

(The State of Rhode' Island v. The Sttfe of Massachusetti.]
And -that court took cognizance of, and decided a number of jurisdictional'cont oversies between states; and among others, one in
which Massachusetts herself was a party, and acknowledged the
jurisdiction of the court,- and submitted to its decision. It must be
recollected, that the territorial descriptions and loundaries, contained
in-the colonial grants and-charters were necessarily loose and defective; and that in the progress of the settlements,, in. adjoining colonies, controversies must u navo'dably arise as to their respective
limits. And the greater the certainty of such conflicts, the greater
was the necessity of providing an impartial tribunal for the peaceable adjustment of them. The language of the ninth article, just..
read,' is descriptive of the state of things at the time: "disputes.
and differences, now subsisting, or that may hereafter arise between
two or more states, concerning boundary, jurisdiction," &c.
The court of appeals retained and exercised its jurisdiction over
these'controversies, until the adoption of the present constitution;
when its place was supplied, and the exigency provided for by the
establishment of a national judiciary, with -full jurisdiction over the
same controversies; And, by the twelfth section of the " act for
regulating processes," &c., passed in 179, it was enacted,, that all
the records and proceedings of the court of appeals, heretofore appointed, previous to the adoption of the preseht constitution, shall
be deposited in 'the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the
United Statesiwho is hereby authorized and directed to give copies
of all such records and proceedings, to any person requiring and paying for the same, in like manner as copies'of the records and other
prqceedings of the said court are, by law, directed to be given; which
copies shall have like.faith and credit as all other proceedings of said
court."
The counsel of Massachusetts have 'expressed the idea that the
United States came into existence with the present constitution;.
,and that Massachusetts, asone of them, is. bound by nothing before
that date. This is' a strange conception, indeed. Not, only .the
states severally, but the United States, came into existence with the
declaration of independence; and the' first of the articles of confederation ordains, that "the *style of 'this confederacy shall be
The United States of America.'"
It was "to form a more, perfect
union," and to strengthen the. confederation, that the convention
was called which formed this constitution. And here ar the coneluding words of the resolution oft the old'congress of 1787, recomVOL. XII.-4 S

690

SUPREME COURT.

[The State of Rhode Islana v. The State of Massachusetts.]
mending the call of the convention: "For the sole and express
purpose'of revising the articles of confederation," &c. The convention. met; and in revising the important ninth article, changed
the words ".disputes and differences," to the word "controversies,"
taking the words , between two or more states," as they.found them
in the" article. - The tribunal was, of course, changed; for now an
independent judiciM department was established, which had no existence under the confederation. Not deeming it proper, in a permanent constituton, to designate particular, existing, and (it might
be hoped,) temporary disputes between states, they used the comprehensive word " c o n t r o v e r s i e s l as fully including them all. We do
not know that there were any other controversies at the time, between states, than those about boundary; and if there were, they
must have been comparatively unimportant; none other were so
lik~ly to exist, or to be carried to extremities; and, therefore, the
article, after the words, boundary and jurisdiction, mnerely adds the
general expression, 6"r any other cause whatever;" apparenitly by
way of precaution. The delegates from'the several states knew that
a number of those state controversies then still existed, and that
more migh arise; and they'were fully sensible how all-important
it was to provide against their breaking out. The great object of
the convention was (as expressed in the preamble to the constitution,) " to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure
domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote
the general welfare,'and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves
And how was union to. exist?-how doand our posterity."
mestic tranquillity, amidst contention among the members? How
was justice to be established, if the strong were permitted to give
law to th weak? and how were the rights of individual states to
be preservad, if left unprotected from the encroachments of stronger
neighbours? And what would become of the harmony and integrity of the Union, if all its members were not protected in the
enjoyment of theit equal rights?
But, in addition to all this, it is a remarkable fact, that this very
question of jurisdiction, which Massachusetts now brings up, after
the lapse of more than half a century, was directly acted upon and
decided by the conventionitself; as appears from the records of its
proceedings. During its deliberations, the question was distinctly
brought up, whether controversies between states, concerning jurisdiction -and boundaries, should not be excluded from the jurisdiction
of the courts. And the convention decided that they should not be

JANUARY TERMT,

1838.

[The State of Rhode 1I9and v,The State of MasoAchusetts.]

excluded. And the provision in :the constitution, as it then was and
still is, was retained; and this constitution was unanimously agreed
to by all the. delegates. And, afterwards, the same question was
discussed in the state conventions, and this proyision was still retained and approved of; and the constitution ratified by every state.
And several years afterwards, when the eleventh amendment to the
constitution was adopted, and suits "against one of the United States
by citizens of another state, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign
state," were excluded from the jurisdiction of the courts, the remainder of the provision,, giving jurisdiction over controversies between
two or more states, was preserved untouched; and the states thereby
manifested their continued approbation of that provision; and, accordingly, this question of jurisdiction has long been settled in this
Court, by its uniform practice and decisions, in numerous cases, from
its earliest establishment.
And now, what is it that Massachusetts has to say to all this?
I beg the Court to consider whetherevery single objection, and the
whole argument on her part, have not been objections and arguments
against the constitution itself, rather .than against -the constitutional
jurisdiction of the. Court? In opposition to the, constitution, they
come armed with political axioms, and abstract theories of government; and with the aid of Montesquieu, and other learned writers,
reason upon the science of government, and the distribution of appropriate powers among the three great departments.
Allow me, sir, to present a summary of the principal objections
and ;positions upon which the counsel of Massachusetts appear most
to rely. They lay it down: that a controversy between tates, concerning jurisdiction and boundaries, is political, not judicial, in its
character; that judicial courts 'can take cognizance only of controversies strictly judicial, not political, in their nature; that the present
controversy concerns jurisdiction and sovereignty, and is therefore
out of the judicial jurisdiction of this Court; and cannot be acted
upon by it, without the assumption of political power. And, in
support of -their doctrine, the counsel have read a number of English cases, and the opinions of learned English chancellors. And
what does it all amount to? Does it amount to any more than
the plain,,self-evident proposition, that courts created by sovereign
power, and' subordinate to it, cannot exercise jarisdiotion over sovereign power, nor interfere with its prerogatives? Let us see if this
is not the whole substance of the doctrine. In illustration of their

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode. Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

doctrine, the counsel have referred to the controversies between the
colonies,, concerning their boundaries, and over which the English
courts exercised no jurisdiction. And why did they not? It Awasbecause there was a higher tribunal, which the colonies appealed to.
The jurisdiction, in those cases, was in the -king himself. He made
the colonial grants, and gave the charters; reserving in them all
allegiance and- fealty to himself. He appointed the colonial governors; not excepting the governor of Massachusetts. Rhode Island
almost alone elected her own governors., He, the king, therefore
claimed and exercised jurisdiction over the colonies, as their feudal
lord. But, had he so pleased, he might have transferred his royal
jurisdiction over those controversies, to any of his courts. And had
he done so, those controversies, whatever their character, and by
whatever name .called, political or civil, would have become the
proper subjects of judicial, investigation and decision. Another
case, much relied upon by the counsel of Massachusetts, was that of
The Nabob of the Carnatic against the East India Company; of
which case, the court of chancery declined taking jurisdiction, because
one of the parties was a sovereign prince, and the other, (although.
subjects of the crown,) acting by virtue of its charter as an inde.
pendent state. It seems that, in this instance, the charter of the
company had placed it above the law. But suppose that its Charter
had subjected it to the jurisdiction of the court of equity, in any
controversies it might have with any of, the surrounding princes,
would the character of the parties, (the foreign prince assenting to
the jurisdiction,) or the nature of the controversy, have formed"any
obstacle to the exercise of that jurisdiction? And would not the
exercise of it have been strictly judicial in its character? The same
plain principles of exposition embrace and dispose of every case
and instance which the counsel have brought, or can -bring in support of their doctrine. All these cases are governed by the peculiar
institutions of England, and the structure of her government, in its
-various branches. No such question as this, of jurisdiction in controversies between two states of this Union, ever could arise in the
'English courts. If this jurisdiction is' vested in the. court, by the
constitution,.how preposterous is it to talk of the'nature of the controversy, or the character of the parties! Suppose the controversy
is political in. its nature: wl~at then?-Is there any, reason in nature
why it should not be subjected'to judicial investigation and-decision,
as much as any other, controversy? Suppose the parties to it are

JANUARY TERM, 1839.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

two states: what then? -Is there any reason in nature why they
should not be governed'by the laws and principles of justice, as
much as any other parties? All controversies, whatever their character and whoever the parties, if they are. ever settled, and the parties Will not settle them amicably, must be settled either by force
or by the jadgment of some tribunal. When the controversy is
between sovereigns, the sword is the last resort, the "ultima ratio
regum;" and the contest is waged at the expeise of the blood and
lives of their.subjects. But if the controversy is submitted to some
independent tribunal; that tribunal, call it by whatever name we
may, must act judicially. It is not in my power to perceive how
the sovereignty of 'Massachusetts is concerned, as'fshe alleges, in the
settlement :of this .question. Even absolute sovereigns have submitted their controversies about territorial limits, to independent
tribunals; and no one ever imagined that the sovereignty of either
was affected by their doing so.
But Massachusetts is not now possessed of unlimited sovereignty.
'All the states, when they ceased to be 'colonies, became sovereign
and i ndependent. But they wore all sensible, that they coulcl not
remain so if they remained disunited. They knew that it was by
union alone they could preserve 'their liberties. They did' unite;
and, to.secure'their:great object, they established this limited government of the Union, investing it with .a portion of their state
powers, and at the same time restricting themselves in the exercise
of certain other powers. Thus, both the federal government and
the state government are but limited governments; both equally
bound by the constitution: and all acts of eitl~er, violating the contitution, are void. And it is the constitutional province and duty
of the Court to declare such acts void, whenever the. question of their
constitutionality comes before it.
oFcr-in. the formation of this federal republican system, an independent judicial department was deemed to be a'necessary branch of
the government, to prevent encroachments, and preserve a just equilibrium; and therefore, the constitution declares, that "the' judicial
power shall extend to all cases in law or equity arising under this
constitution." And every decision of the Court upon the constitutionality of an act, either of congress or of a state legislature, concerns,
to use the language of Massachusetts, their respective jurisdictions.
How absurd, then, is it, to contend that the judicial power does not
extend to political questions, or to questions in which the jurisdic-

SUPREME COURT.
[The State, of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

tion of a state is concerned. The only question here is, whether
the'states, by the constitution which they formed and adopted,
did
confer this jurisdiction upon the Supreme-Court. And is it not amply
shown that they did confer it, and that iney explicitly declared
it to
be their intention to confer it?
And is it for Massachusetts to gainsay this? Massachusetts possessed a larger share of sovereignty under the confederation
than
she does under the present constitution. Yet she then agreed
and
assisted in constituting the coUrt of appeals, with full judicial powers
over this very controversy; which was one of the then subsisting
controversies concerning state, boundaiies and jurisdiction, specified
in the 9th article. In the convention, also, which formed the
present
con-stitution,'Masachusetts agreed to invest this Court with the
same
jurisdiction. And again,-in her stMate convention, which ratified
the
constitution, she approved of and adopted this provision. And,
during all this period of tim6, Massachusetts had subsisting controversies with her neighbour states, concerning her territorial boundaries
and jurisdiction; particularly this controversy- with Rhode Island,
and 'another with the state of Connecticut, of precisely the
same
character; which last was not terminated until the year 1801.
Massachusetts, therefore, by her own consent and acts, gave jurisdiction
to this Court over the present controversy, as far as her c6nsent
and
acts could give it.
Taking it, then, for granted, that it is fully shown that "
this
Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of, and over the
parties to the bill in equity now pending before it," I will proceed
to the consideration- of the 2d question: " Has the Court now power
to proceed to the hearing and trial of this cause, and to make
a final
decree thereon ?"
Mr. Justice BARBOUR asked Mr Hazard, if he could point out
any
process by which the Court could carry a final decree in the
cause
into effect, should it make one. For instance, if an application
should
be, made, by Rhode Island for process to quiet her in her possession,
what process could the Court issue for that purpose ?
Mr. Hazard said, that he had by no means overlooked that important question, but had given to i the fullest and most attentive
consideration in his power. But he had thought that it would be proper
.t6reserve that question for the last to be considered; as in point
of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

695

[The State ok Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

order it appeared to be. At 1)tesent, he was desirous of showing
that the Court had full power, and ought to proceed to the hearing,
and to make a final decree in the cause,
And what is there to prevent this proceeding? The Court have
jurisdiction over the subject matter and over tlie parties; and the
parties are here before the Court. The defendant state obeyed the
subpona issued from the Court, and came in more than three years
ago; and ,took upon, berself the defence of the suit, and put in her
plea and answer thereto. At another term, she applied to the Court
for an ordF.r upon the complainant to reply;.and, at the lastterm, she
made a written agreement, with the complainant respecting amendments of the bill and pleadings; and she is now here in Court? VWhat
is there to hinder the cause from proceeding ?
Why, it is contended, in the first place, that consent of one party
cannot give jurjsdiction to the Court; and authorities have been read
to this effect. No one doubts, that when it appears by the record
or otherwise, that the Court has nc jurisdiction of the subject matter
of the complaint; the consent of a party cannot confer, jurisdiction.
But When the Court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of the suit,
the party defendant can -consent to appear, and his appearance is
donclusive upon him; even although if he had not appeared, he might
not have been reached by the process of the Court. "The appearance of the defendants to a foreign-attachment in a circuit court
of the United States, in a circuit where they do not reside, is a
waiver of all objetions to the non-service of process on them."
Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Cranch, 4241. "An appearance by the defendant cures aliantecedent irregularity of process?' Knox v. Summers,
3 Cranch, 496.
But Massachusetts has raised, a number of other obstacles to the
Court's proceeding to a hearing of this cause.
The following, I believe, contains the substance of them all:
They are, 1. That the sole province of the Court is to expound
and administer the law; and that here is no law fqr the Court to
.expound or administer. ,That congress has passed no act defining
the controversy; no act prescribing the rule by which to try it; no.
rule of decision. 2. That by the 1 th section of the judiciary act of
1789, congress has limited the jurisdiction of this Court, where a
state is a party, to controversies of a civil nature; which this con'troversy is not, being political in its character; and that, 'therefore,
congress meant to exclude controversies'of this character from the

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

jurisdiction. 3. Congress has passed no act providing the process
necessary to enable the Court to exercise its jurisdiction in the case.
4. That the Court possesses no power to carry a final decree in this
cause into effect should it make one; congress, as is alleged, having
so.
made no law to enable it to do
The last of these objections, I will: consider, presently, by itself.
And. as to the rest of them, if this doctrineis to prevail, what becomes of the jurisdiction expressly vested in the Supreme Court by
the constitution itself; and what becomes of the Court itself, if it
is to be placed upon' the same footing as the inferior courts, which,
congress has power to establish, and of cpurse, to regulate? By the
8th s-,tion, 1st article of the constitution, congress has power "to
constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court" But the Supreme Court was ordained by the constitution itself, and necessarily
possesses all the judicial powers incident to such a court. Otherwise the constitution might be defeated, and the Supreme Court
rendered a nullity by the act of another and but co-ordinate branch
of the government. But congress" has no power to deprive this
Court of its constitutional jurisdiction, nor to restrain it ,in
,the exercise of that jurisdictioh. And this Court would declare unconstitutional aud void any act of congress having such an object.
The ease of Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, has been referred to, and
much stress put upon some general remarks of Mr: Justice Story,
who delivered the opinion of the Court in that case.' Those remarkswere concluded in the : following words, which were not read, but
ought to go with them: " We do not, however, place any implicit
reliance upon the distinction which has beenstated and endeavoured
to be illustrated." But what shows conclusively that the counsel are
wholly mistaken in their understanding of th%meaning of those remarks, is the facf, that in the case of New Jersey v. New York,
which was before this Court fifteen years after that of Martin v.
Hunter, the Court, of which that hon. judge was one, not only took
jurisdiction of the case, although the state of New York had refused
to appear, but decreed and ordered, that the subpoena in this case
having been returned executed sixty days before the return day
thereof, and the defendant 'not appearing, the complainant be kt liberty to proceed ex parte..
But it is wasting time', I,fear, to dwell upon such objections, when
it has been so clearly sho'wn that these cases were expressly and intentionally included in the jurisdiction of this Court by the constitu-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The, State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

tion. I was quite at a loss to understand what was meant by "a
rule of decision; a rule to try the case by." until the counsel enlightened me by inquiring how, without an act of congress, the Court
was to ascertain which state was right, and which' wrong; alleging
that, there being no such act, the Court could not proceed by the
rule of the common law, or that of the civil law, or of any state
law.
This is a novel idea. Such- an idea was quite beyond the conception of the men ,who framed the articles of confederation. It did not
enter into their heads that any thing more was necessary, to be done,
to meet the exigency, than to establish a competent court, with sufficient powers to'call the parties before them; and to try and determine these controversies in the same manner as they wohild any
other controversies between any other parties. And it seems that
the court of appeals, thus constituted, had the same idea of its pro.
vince and duties, and found no difficulty in performing them -governing themselves by the principles and rules of justice, equity, and good
conscience, and not dreaming that any different rule was furnished
by the common law, or the civil law, or by any state law.
The 34th section of the judiciary act has been turned to again and
again, as showing that congress had furnished a rule of decision, as
it is called, in cases at common law; but no such rule for cases like
the present. This is making a strange use of that short section of
four lines, the whole purpose of which is to give efficacy to the local
state laws, in trials at common law, in the courts of the United States,
"in cases where they apply," says the section. That is, that cases
arising under a local law shall be governed by that law. Thus, the
state laws regulating the descent of real estates, or the rate of interest, for instance, ought, in all courts; to govern the cases arising
under those laws. And this is tfe whole meaning of the section.
The counsel have contended, that if any suit at all could have been
instituted J9y Rhode Island, it ought to have been a suit at common
law and not in equity. But no state law could apply to such a suit
any more than to the present; and there are very Many suits at. common law'which are not governed by any state law.
An expression (the word :civil) used in the 13th section of the
same act is also suspected by the counsel, of containing an important
secret meaning, wh~ich the counsel think they have discovered. They
insist that by the use of this word "civil," congress intended to take
this controversy, and all of the' same kind, out of the jurisdiction of
VoL. XII-4 T

SUPREME COURT.

,698

[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

this Court.

Surely, the counsel of Massachusetts must feel them-

selves under the necessity of going a great way for inferences, and
set a great value upon very slight one , to draw them from such
sources as these. The words relied upon, are "that the Supreme
Court shall have exclusive' jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil
nature, where a state is a party," &c,
The plain object of congress was to withhold from the inferior
courtsjurisdirtion, in controversies between two or more states. And
to do this, they gave to the Supreme Cdurt exclusive jurisdiction in
those cases, instead of original jurisdiction merely, which it had by
the constitution. The word- civil is properly used, because all controversies which do or can exist between two or more states, must be
of a civil nature, and none other; unless they engage in war, which
they have bound themselvesby the constitution not to do. The
word civil does not mean amicable or peaceable; actions of trespass
and of ejectment are civil actions. Civil is technically and generally used in contradistinction to criminal.- There is not the slightest
ground for supposing that the word civil was intended to be used in
contradistinction to political. Congress would never have taken, so
blind a way, so unintelligible and futile, to effect such an object as the
counsel of Massachusetts wish to effect. Nor can any such distinction be made. If this is a political controversy, so is it a civil controversy. And if such a distinction coild be forced upon the words,
it would bring the section to this construction: that the Court is left,
to its original jurisdiction derived from the constitution, in this and
other like 'controversies between states; but does not take exclusive
jurisdiction of them. by virtue of this section of the judiciary act.
But, there is another word in the front part of this' section,
which, in its plain, common sense meaning, I think, is much more
significant than the word wbidh the counsel have endeavoured to
render so cabalistic. And that is the word all-all controversies.
'This same word, used in another place, has been thought all-important, and great respect has been shown to it by the counsel of Massachusetts. By the copstitution, "the judicial power shall extend to
all cases in law and 'equity; arising under this constitution," "to all
cases affecting ambassadors," &c. "tp all cases of admiralty and maritimQ jitrisdiction, to controversies to which the United States shall
be a.party, to controversies between two or more states," &c. &c.
And because the repetitionof the word all is not kept up throughout
the whole section, it is inferred tbat the constitution intended to con-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

699

[The State of Rhode Island v. The State, of Massachusetts.]

fer a less extensive jurisdiction in some of the cases enumerated
than in others.
Now, congress, in framing the judiciary act, did not deal in
such far-fetched inferences. Congress saw no such meaning in that
section of the constitution; and therefore it declares in this same
l1th section of the act, "that the Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature, where a state
is a party." Congress did not intend to alter the constitution. It
merely expressed what it understood to be the meaning of the section referred to. Now, although I have no quarrel with the word
civil, I should not be willing to give the word all, in exchange for it.
But, sir, why is it that so 'much effort is used to induce this Court to
bdlieve- that congress is unfriendly to its jurisdictibn over, these
cases? This is not very lawyerlike, nor, very respectful to the Court.
This Court will look for its constitutional powers to the constitution
itself; 'and will 'not allow any other department to construe that instrument for them. In many cases, this Court have accurately defined, not only its own constitutional powers and duties, but those of
the other departments, legislative and executive; as by' the constitution it.
is authorized and bound to do on proper occasions. And, let
me'ask, if congress possesses such power over the jurisdiction of this
Court, why was it necessary for the states themselVes to make the
I Ith amendment to the constitution, for the purpose of taking away
the jurisdiction in suits "against one of the states by citizens of
another state, or 'by citizens or subjects 6f a freign state?" But,
,it is not true that congress is unfriendly to this jurisdiction. There
is no single instance in which congress has manifested 'such
disposition. On the contrary, in thi's same section of the judiciary
act, we find it conferring exclusive jurisdiction, where, by the constitution, the Court 'had only'original jurisdiction. And without any
appearance of disapprobation; congress has seen this Court, from its
earliest establishment, exercising its constitutional powers in these
cases, and in others in which a state was a party; adopting its rules of
practice and proceeding, and its general, .permanent orders Applicable to then; and prescribing its processes, and the service and return
of them as occasion required.
The third objection is, that congress has provided no forms of
powers to enable the Court to exercise its jurisdiction. This objection, I should think, was reduced to a very small size. The writ of
subpoena was issued, served and returned agreeably to the general or-

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

der of the Court. And the defendant state obeyed that process and
appeared, took upon herself the defence of the suit; and I understood her counsel to say, that he should not urge any objection to
this proceeding of the Court. And, if Massachusetts had refused to
appear, the Court would have had it fully in its power to have proceeded in the cause, as it did in that of the state of New Jersey
against.New York, .But Massachusetts has appeared, and is now in
Court. WhAt further process then is now wanting to enable the
Court to proceed to the hearing of the cause. I know of none. Yet
the counsel of Massachusetts still incist that the Court cannot go on
a step without an act of cohtgress. Let, me then inquire: 1. What
has been done by congress upon this subject? 2.. What has been
done by the Court?
.1. A judiciary act was passed in 1789, a, the first session of congress; and, a process act at the same session, which, with many additions, was rendered permanent by a second process act passed in
1792. The 13th section of the judiciary act, which gih es exclusive
jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in these cases, has already been
read. The 14th section, enacts "that all the l efarementioned courts
of the United States shall have power to issue writs of scire facias,
habeas corpus, and all other writs not especially provided for by
statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeably to the principles and usages of law."
The 17th section enacts, "that all the beforementioned courts of the
United'States shall have power to make and establish all necessary
rules for the ordinary conducting business in said courts, provided
-uch-rules are not repugnant to the laws of the United States." The
process act, 1st section, enacts that "all writs and processes issuing
from a Supreme Court or a circuit court shall bear test," &c.and
shall be signed by the clerk, and sealed with the seal of fhe court."
The 2d,section enacts, "that the forms of writs, executions and other
process, their style and the forms and mode of proceeding in suits
in'those of common law, shall be," &e. "and in those of equity, and
in those, of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, according to the
principles,' rules and usages which belong to courts of equity, and to
courts of admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from courts of
common law; except so far as may have been provided for by the act
to establish the judicial courts of the United States; subject, however, to such alterations and additions as the. said courts respectively
shall, in their discretion, deem expedient; or to such regulations as

JANUARY TERM, 4838.

701

[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

the Supreme Court of' the United States shall think proper, from
time to time, by rule, to prescribe to any circuit or district court concerning the same."
The 18th, 24th and 25th sections of the judiciary act, first' referred to, recognises the power of the Court to issue
executions upon its judgments and decrees.
Thus much has been done by'congress' and ft is apparent that
that department has always considered that every thing had been
done, on its part, necessary to enable the courts to perform all their
judicial duties; and fully to exercise all their judicial functions and
powers. Congress saw that the courts were proceeding in the exercise of those powers without difficulty or impediment, and that no
further legislative action was called for or needed. And so have thr'
courts thought. In the case of Weyman v. Southard3 10 VWheat. 1,
the Court considered itself possessed of full power over the whole
proceedings in suits in equity, from their commencement to their
final termination by satisfaction of the decrees or judgments.
It has been suggested by the defendant's counsel, that congress
has omitted to provide for the exercise of this branch of the jurisdiction of the Court; because it did not intend that it should be exercised. This is impeaching the fidelity of congress to the constitutibn. But, fortunately, the imputation is wholly. unfounded. It is
alleged, also, that congress, by the judiciary act of 1789,.has provided rules of proceeding in,all, or nearly all the ordinary cases
which can arise at common law, or in admiralty; but none in such
cases as this. This is as palpable an error as could well be committed. In the case last mentioned, Weyman v. Southard,-which
was a case at common law, objections were made to the process, and
to the service and execution of it; and it was contended that the
proceedings were not authorized by any act of congress. But the
Cout, after remarking that the chancety power of the couri over all
the proceedings in suits in equity, from their commencement to
their final termination, were unquestionable, proceeded in these
words:.--" It would be difficult to assigh a reason for the solicitude
of congress to regulate all the proceedings of the Court, sitting as a
court of equity, or of admiralty, which would not equally require
that its proceedings should be regulated when sitting as a court of
common law." Thus we find, that while the equity powers of the
Court in these cases is considered as having been placed beyona a'
doubt by the acts of congress, its parallel powers, in cases at common law, have required to be sustained by inferences and reasoning,

.702

SUPREME COURT.
The State of Massachusettsj
[The State of Rhode Island 'v.

And it was decided in the last. case referred to, and in that of the
United States Bank v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 54, that these powers
are not legislative in their character. They must, then, be simply
judicial in their character; and, if necessary, must be incident to the
judicial powers and functio1.
Let me now inquire what has been done by. the Court in pursuance of its constitutional and legal, powers. In .1791,, the Court
adopted the following general'order: viz., "That this Court consider
the practice of the court of king's bench, and of chancery, in England, as affording outlines for'the practice of this Court; and that
they will, from time to time, make such alterations .therein as circumstances may render necessary." 1 Cond. Rep. 8. In 1796, the
following permanent general orders, or rules, were established, viz:
"1, Ordered, that when process at common law, or in etuity, shall
issue against a state, the same shall be served upon the governor, or
chief executive. magistrate, and the attorney general of such state.
2. Ordered, that process of subpoena issuing out of this Court in any
suit in equity, shall be served on the defendant sixty, days before the
return day of the said process: And, farther, that if the defendant,
on such service of the subpona, shall not appeay at the return day
contained therein, the complainant shall be at liberty to proceed ex
parte." 3 Dall. 320; 1 Peters' Con d. Rep. 141. These several general orders, or rules, are still in full force, and have been practised
upon by the Court from the time of their adoption. Can there be a
doubt'that they are strictly in conformity to the constitution, and the
acts of congress referred to? In the case of The State of New Jersey v. The State'of New York, 5 Peters, in 1831, the Court remark,
that " At a very early period o'f our judicial history, suits were instituted in this Court against states, and the questions concerning its
jurisdiction and mode of proceeding, were necessarily considered.'
,The Court then proceed to review 'a number of the preceding cases
which had been before it, in which a state was a party. "So early
as August, 1792, (says the Chief Justice, who delivered the opinion
of the Court,) an injunction was awarded, at 'theprayer of the state
of Georgia; The State of Georgia v. Brailsford,. 2 Dall. 402; to stay
a sum of money recovered by Brailsford, a British subject, which
was claimed by Geprgia, under her acts of confiscation." This was
an exercise of the original'jurisdiction of the Court, and no doubt of
its propriety was ever aonside ad.
In February, 1793, the case of Oswald v. The State of New York

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

703

[The State of Rhode Island _v.The State of Massachusetts.]

came on; 2 Dall. 402.

This was a suit at common law. The state
not appearing, on the return of the process, proclatiation was made;
and the following order entered by the Court: " Unless the state
appear by the first day of the, next term, or show cause to the contrary, judgment will be entered by default against the said state."
At the same term, a like order was made in the case of Chisholm's
Executors v. The State of Georgia; and at the next term, 1794, judgment was rendered in favour of the plaintiffs, -and a writ of inquiry
awarded. Grayson v. The State of Virginia, 1796, 3, Dall. 320; 1,
PeLers' Condensed Rep. 141. This was a bill in equity; and it was
in this case that the Court adopted the two last general orders beforementioned. 'In, Huger v. The State of South Carolina, the service
of the'subpqnna having been proved, the Court determined that the
complainant was at liberty to proceed, ex parte. He accordingly
moved for, and obtained commissions to take the examination of
witnesses in several of the states. 3 Dall.' 371; 1 Peters' Cond.
Rep. 156, The Court also noticed the cases of Fowler et al. v. Lindsay et al.; and Fowler v. Miller, 3 Dall. 411; 1 Peters' Cond. Rep.
189; and the case of The State of New York v. The State of Connecticut; 4 Dal. 1; 1 Peters' Cond. Rep. 203. "It has then," proceeds Chief Justice Marshall, " been settled by our predecessors, on
great deliberation, that this Court may exercise its origkial jurisdiction in suits 'against a state, under the authority conferred by the constitution and existng acts of congress. The rule respecting process,
the persons on whom it is to, be served, and the time of service are
fixed. The course of the Court, on the failure of the state to appear,
after' due service, has been also prescribed."
And,'accordingly, the
Court did proceed,- and made the order, the first part of which has
already been read; and ,which'order thus concludes : "And it is further' ordered, that, unless the defendant, being served with a copy of
this decree sixty days before the next ensuing August term of this
'Court, shall appear off the second day of the next January'term
thereof, and answer the bill of tlie complainant, this Court will proceed to 'hear the cause on the part of the complainant, and to decree
on the matter of the 'said bill." But, before the cause came to a' final
decree, the state of New York compromised the controversy with
the state of New Jersey, to the satisfaction of the latter state. The
case now before the Court is the same, in character, and in all the
principles involved in it, as that of New Jersey and New York.

SUPREME COURT
[The State of Rhode Islan4 v. The State of Massachusetts.1

Why should not the Court proceed in this case, as they decided to
proceed in that; and in conformity to its subsisting rules and orders?
With permission of the Court, I will now proceed to consider the
last objectior which has been raised by.Massachusetts to the jurisdiction of this Court; and upon which she appears mainly to rely)
for producing an effect upon the minds of the Court. That objection is, that should the Court make a final decree in the cause, it will
have no power to carry it into effect.
When the lear and explicit provisions of the constitution are considered, and the several laws subsequently passed by congress, for
the purpose of aiding in the fulfiment of those provisions, I cannot
conceive how any doubt can exist of the power of this Court to
carry into effect any decree, which by those, provisions, it may be
authorized and bound to make. And, if the constitution stood alone,
I should still entertain the same opinion. It is a universal axiom, that
the grant Of a principal power, ipso facto, includes in it all the minor,
subsidiary powers, necessary for the exercise of the main power, as
incidenj to it. What a construction would it be to' put upon the
constitution, to say that the people, by that instrument, had ordained and established a tribunal, to take cognizance of, and determinQ
certain enumerated controversies, over which, for that purpose, they,
had given to it full and express jurisdiction; but that the tribunal so
establisbed%could. not pdrform its duty, for want of power to cause
its decisions to be carried into effect? What would the people have
a right to say to a tribunal which should render to them suich an account of its services; or, rather, such din excuse for the neglect of
its duty?
But is it not important here to inquire, whether, in considering the present question of jurisdiction of this Court to hear, try,
and make a final decree in this cause, it can be at all necessary or%
useful to inquire what further powers the Court may, or may not,
exercise upon any future, distinct application, which may or may not
be. hereafter made to the Court; and upon which new and distinct
application, should any such be made, the Court will then decide as
it shall deem right.- If, by the constitution and existing laws, the
Court have jurisdiction over this cause, to hear, try, and decide it; is
it not bound. to exercise that jurisdiction, when appealed to: and
ought the Court to decline exercising this unquestioned jurisdiction,
from an apprehension that possibly it may, hereafter, be asked to *do
something more, which, possibly, it may not have it in its power to

JANUARY TERM, i888.

705

"'The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachus.etts.]

do? In the case of New Jersey and New York, the Court said,
that, "inismuch as no final decree has been pronounced, or judgmr nt iendered in any'suit heretofore instituted in this Court against
,a state; the question of proceeding to a final decree, will be considered as not conclusively- settled, until the cause shall come on to be
heard in chief." Thus the. Court determined to hear the cause in
chief, without anticipating what its final'decree might be; much
less, what, if any thing, might remain to be done, aftei the decree.
And the Court did then decree, ." that the complainant be at liberty
to proceed, ex parte;" and further decreed, that, "unless the defendant state appeared, the Court would proceed to hear the cause on the
part of the complainant, and to decree on the matter of the said bill."
There are m-any cases in which- decrees in chancery cannot be fully,
if atall, executed; but that has never been considered a reason why
the Court should not pronounce the decree.s wjhich it has the power
to pronounce.

But,.I shall not dwell longer upon these questions; because there
is.another position which, if sound, I think entirely- obviates the
objection of the want of power in thd Court beyond the power of
making a final decree in the cause.
That position is, that the pronouncing of a final decree in the
cause ivill cor'lete the exercise of all the jurisdiction vhich the
cause cn require; and will be a final,,conclusive and permanent termination of the controversy. This position, upon much reflection,
'I believe tp be sound; or I certainly should not -venture to advance
it before this honourable Court; as'I do, entirely upon my own responsibility, as to its soundness or unsoundness.
A final decree in this cause will have no resemblance, to a judgment of Court for a sum of money.to be collected on. execution; nor
to a judgment in ejeetment to be followed by an execution for possession. No process would necessarily follow a final decree in this
cause. We ask no damages of Massachusetts; no delivery of possession; no process to compel h-r to do or undo any thing. All we
ask is a decree, ascertaining and settling the boundary line between
the two states.
Mr. Justice Thompson asked Mr. Hazard if the bill did not contain a further prayer; a prayer that Rhode Island might be restored
to her rights of jurisdiction and sovereignty over thie territory in
question; and quieted in her enjoyment of them? And, that part of
VOL. XII.-4 U

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

the bill being read, it appeared that it did contain such a prayer, in
addition to the prayer that the boundary line between the two states
-might be ascertained and established.
Mr. Hazard said that the latter part of the prayer of the bill had
escaped him;, but it did not vitiate the bill, The Court would have
it in4ts power to grant so much of the prayer as they might think
right. All Rhode Island asked for was a decree ascertaining and establishing the true boundary line, between her and Massachusetts.
When that is settled by a decree, the rights of jurisdiction and sovereignty will necessarily follow: the decree will execute itself; and
this controversy can no longer exist. When the boundary line is
settled, it will be the same as all other established boundary lines;
and'the relative situation of Rhode Island and Massachusetts will be
the same as that of all other adjoining states.
And"why should not Rhode Island be placed upon the same footing,
in this respect, with her sister states? Why should her jurisdictional
boundary line be left in dispute, and she exposed to encroachmepfs;,
when all other controversies of this kind have been lastingly settled?
Am I not sustained, in the position I have here taken, by the
opinions and acts of the learned men who framed the articles of confederation? They enacted that the decrees of the court of appeals,
in thecases over which jurisdiction'was given to it, should be final
and.conclusive. And it was their opinion that nothing more than a
final decree would be necessary; and, therefore, they provided for no
further pr6ceedings. And, What, ought to be conclusive is the fact,
that, although a number of decrees in such cases were made by the
court of appeals; no difficulty was ever experienced, and no further
process was ever found to be necessary.
It is true, that after the line is settled, Massachusetts'may do other
wrongs to Rhode Island for which other remedies may be necessary;
and so she may to; apy other state: but this controversy about the
line will he at an end. Siould Massachusetts hereafter encroach
upon Rhode Island, that will be a new aggression; the same as if she,
sh6uld encroach upon any other state, near or distant; the same as
if she should encroach upon the state of New York, or Connecticut,
or New Hanmwshire. or, again, upon Rhode Island, on her eastern
boundary: with all of which states Massachusetts has ha controversies about her boundari6s, and has always been found the aggressor. But when those boundaries:were ascertained by the con-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

petent tribunals, all difficulties were at an end. When Rhode Island,
upon the decision. of the king in council, received under her jurisdiction, her county of Bristol, and her towns of Tiverton and Little
Compton, over which Massachusetts had long exercised jurisdiction,
-she met 'with no obstructions from that state. Neither did New
Hampshire, whose controversy with Massachusetts, was decided by
the same-tribunal. Still the Court are told by Massachusetts that
they cannot carry their decree into effect.' Allow me to ask, sir, in
what possible way Massachusetts can have it in her power to defeat
or evade the effect of that, decree? The decree'itself, the moment it
is pronounced, will establish a new state of things between Massachusetts aad Rhode Island. And what Are the means that Massachusetts can resort to, to prevent that decree from taking fuIl'effect
by its own force and operation? I should be glad to hear the attorneygeneral of Massachusetts inform the Court what it is that that
important state is going to do tO set the decree of this Court at defiance, and render it a nullity? Massachusetts is not going to erect a
line of batterieg along this strip of land; nor to, station a military
force there to take hostile possession of it. If she should, it would,
be invasion; an ample remedy for which is provided in the 4th article 4th section of the constitution. And Rhode Island would be
under no necessity, to apply to this Court for an injunction in such a
case. And this again shows the meaning and propriety of the expression " civil controversies," used by congress; and, no doubt,
meant by the constitution. I ask again, then, what can Massachusetts do to prevent a decree of this Coort taking full effect by its
own force and operation? She can do nothing. She can only say
that she will refain-jurisdiction over this district, the decree notwithstanding. But let us examine what she can make. this amount to.
Massachdsetts, as a state, is not the proprietor of this strip of land.
If she own any land there she will, of course, still own and retain it;
and her right and title will be held as sacred as those of any other
owners of the soil. There is no shire t6wn within this district; and
of course, probably, no public buildings belonging to the state. If
there are, they will still be her property, though not appropriated to
the same uses. There will be nothing, therefore, which Massachusetts can retain the possession of, which she will be required to relinquish. Jurisdiction over the district it will be out of her power
to exercise, for she will not have it; that (in her) will be extinguished
by the decree, ipso facto. What jurisdiction, after the decree, can

708

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

she exercise? She cannot number the inhabitants of this district as
part of her population, or of her militia; for they will not be so any
more than the inhabitants of the county of 'Providence. And, no
more can she tax'them, or thei r lands, or other roperty ; for they
will not be subject to her.laws. Her tax-gatherers caAcollect no
taxes; her ministerial officers execute no process within that district,
for it will be out of the jurisdiction of their state. And, should they
attempt to do so, they will carry no Massachusetts authority with
them over the boukidarf line established by the.,decree of this Court.
They will be trespassers; and subject themselves to the penalties
provided for the punishment of trespassers. With as much right
might Massachusetts send her officers into any other part of the state
as this; but the civil authorities of Rhode Island would have no difficulty in dealing with such offenders. They would be violators of
the laws of the land; not only nf the laws of. Rhode Island, but of
the con9stitutfion of the United States, and of the acts of congress,
uider the authority of which the decree of this Court wo'uld have
been made. They could not escape conviction and punishment.
And any countenance Massachusetts might give to them would but
aggravate the offence and the punishment. No aid from this Cveirt
would be needed. The existing laws would furnish a perfect remedy
for the wrongs attempted to be done.
Those Massachusetts' officers, sheriff, tax-gatherers, or whatever
they might be, would have no authority to demand aid from the
people of the adjoining county in Massachusetts. Nor is it probable that any of those people, (not being bound to obey such demand,)
would have any concern in violating the rights of another state, established by a decree of the Supreme Court of the Union. But
should, those officers, on any occasion, carry with them a sufficient
body of men from Massachusetts, to enable them, for the time, to
seize upon the property or persons of any of the inhabitants of the
state of Rhode Island; (of which this district would then be a part;)
and to escipe into Massachusetts before they could be arrested, they
would all alike be criminals, and punishable as such. And, by tl'e
fourth article, second section of the constitution of the United States,
and that of congress passed in conformity thereto, the executive authority of the state of Massachusetts, on demand made by the executive authority of the state of Rhode Island, would be bound and
compelled to deliver 'up those criminals to be removed for trial to
the state having jurisdiction of the crime. And here again, Rhode

JANUARY TERM,-1838.

709

[The State of Rhode Island v.The State of Massachusetts.]'

Island would have a perfect remedy without the interpositi9n of this
Court. Nor would Massachusetts have it in her power, etfectually, to
obstruct the magistrates and civil officers of Rhode Island in the
execution of their official functions. 'Those magistrates and officers,
in the performance of their lawful duties, within the jurisdiction, and
under the authority of their own state, would have nothing to apprehend from any quarter. Should any of them be lawlessly seized,
and. carried within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, still they would
have nothing to apprehend. The decree of this Court, the laws of
the state in which they acted, and the constitution and laws of the
United States, would sustain and save them harmless. These authorities, the respectable judicial tribunals of Massachusetts, would not
set at defiance; and if they should, their judgments and proceedings would speedily be revised and corrected here.
Thus, we find that it wo'uld be wholly out of the power of Massachusetts, to prevent a final decree of this Court from taking full
effect, by its own force and operation.
I could not help feeling great surprise, when I heard the attorney
general of Massachusetts so solemnly and portentously warning this
Court of consequences, and expressing his anxious hopes, that if it
should decide against Massachusetts, it will, for the honour of the
Court, and for the honour of the country, be sure to find some way
to execute its decree. What! Does Massachusetts threaten? Is
Massachusetts ready to become a nullifying state? and to set up
her own will, in,dkfiance of the decrees of this Court, and of the
constitution itself? This Court will not make a decree against Mas,
sachusetts, unless it shall be satisfied that the constitution authorizes
it, and that equity, requires it. And for Massachusetts to expect to
prevent the'Court from making such a decree as it may d eem constitutional and equitable, by telling the Court how formidable she is,
and how contumacious and lawless she means to be in her defiance
of its decrees; this, it appears to me, is almost as deficient in policy, as it is in modesty. But let Massachusetts take her own
course, and whatever that may be, it wilr excite no apprehension in
Rhode Island; although she may-grieve that so noble a state should
conduct in such a manner as to tarnish her high and well merited
renown. If, sir, the principles and positions I have endeavoured to
establish are sound, and have been established, I must think that
they reach and dispose of all the material objections which the counsel of Massachusetts has raised 4gainst the jurisdiction of this Court.

,SUPREME: COURT.
(The State of Rhode Island v the State of Massuahusetts.]

There were a great numbej' of other objections, or suggestions and
statements made by the counsel, some of which I will now just advert to; although Ldo Pot consider them as having any bearing upon
the question befor'e the Court. It'is 'alleged that the five thousand inhabitants of the district in question,, (J know not how many there
are,) have a right to be parties to this suit, and are not. If this was
so, it would be no objectioii to the jurisdiction of the Court. The
Court would take'care -that they were made parties before it proceeded further.. But all- the proper parties are here in Court. This
controversy is about state jurisdiction, no, titles to soil and freehold.
I suspect; however, that if those inhabitants were consulted, they
would not consent to. be made defendants; but would rather join
with the complainant state, 'Theyare taxed hard in Massachusetts,
and would have no state taxes to pay in'
Rhode Island. And,, at one
time, a very large number of the resppctarble inhabitants of that district, petition4 the legislature of the' state of Rhode Island to be
received into that jurisdiction, to which they claimed rightfully to
belong.
It is objected, also , 1. Thatther bill contains matter in bar to
itself. 2. That the bill, admits '.that Rhode Island was never Jn
possession, and that the suit is barred by pr6scription. 3,That the
contioversy has been settled. These might be proper matters for
discussion and proof (they are not proved yet, and cannot be, for not
one of them is trbe,) upon the trial of the cause; but, evidently, have
nothing'to do with'the question of jurisdiction. Because it appeared
that the Massachusetts charter of -1628, upon a scire facias from, the
court of -king's bench, was revoked and annulled in 1685; and that
she did not get a new charter until 1691; her counsel has stated that
Rhode Island, while a colony, abandoned and surrendered up her
charter. This js a mistake. Connecticut and.Rhode Island never
did surrender their charters; although they' were demanded, and
great efforts Imade to obtaip possession of them. The Connecticut
charter was hidden in the hollow of the venerable old'oak tree at
Hartford; and that of Rhode Island was also preserved secure from
its enemies, and is now in her secretary's office at Providence. , The
counsel (in sport, I suppose,) has indulged his, fancy in, describing
Rhode Island as she would have been had the claims upon her territory, set up by Plymouth on the east, and Connecticut on the west,
been successful. Very true; and Rhode 'Island would have been
stripped indeed; especially with. Massachusetts helping herself to
five miles more of her territory on the piorth, which I suppose the

JANUARY jTER'M, 1888.

711

[The State of Rhode Island v..The State'of.9assachuett'.]'

attorney general of Massachusetts thinks was quite venial, while
"Rthode Island's territory was looked upon as free plunder. But
those claims upon. the territory of Rhode Island, on the east and
west, were found and- decided to be unjust. And it was Massactusetts herself, not Plymouth, which',had !got pgssession bf tne county'
and towns within the limits ,of: Rhdd 'Island, 8. bgtbrementioned,
and from which, after a faint strtggle, khe was compelled to' retreat
There is no probability, tl~at a small btate will make-,unreasonable
caims, much less encroachments uponrlarge ones.
The counsel of Massachusetts baye asked the Court to consider
the character of' the, original colonial charters, ad nave read, passages fromB3ancroft's History, to show hownk.loose and defective 'thooe
charters -were, and how diffllt, i . Would now be to decide controThat a case-wtl be a difficult'-one to
versoie growiag-outof ,hem..
,settle, is ndt ii ery good teason: to- offer/for a, eourt's not taking-eog
nizance of. it. 'But in the present case, no difficulty whateve- 'can
arise .from: such a source, -The- charters both of. RhodeIsland and
Massachusetts. are clear 'and intelligible in tlit, partidulhr. Rhode
Island by her charter, is bounde .P north by the'seuth Ji'ne'of ,a~s4
chusettsi -an4'that line, by the Massach'usettg'charter, was t&: be three
itiles, south of'the most' southerly part of Charles river; the sole
q4estioni therefore, to be: settletIj is, a question of construetion of that
part of the Massachusetts charter. One set of the Massachusett
comniissioners appointed to,.settle this line with Rhode Island, re
ported correctly to their legislature the eonstruction whicheach stt
relied upon. The Rhode Island corntruction'was, that the most
southern part of Charles , iver p operw-Charleszriver itself, that is,
what. was known by -the name Qf "Charles riptr,". was 'the point
from which to measure off the three tn les.,'O1 the Otherhand, Massachusetts insisted 'that the most soutnerly source or spring head of
any run 'of Waterrunning northerly and finding its waxV into.'C harles
river, was, to he-' taken as the most southeriy part. of ,Charies rpiver,
And accordingly they found a brook, called Mill Brook..whih
run from the south ,into Charles river. This they traced :up_ to,,a
pond, called :'Whiting's Pond'," out of which the brook run; then
going to the. south end of thepohd, they found atlother brook, 'called
Jack's Pasture Brook, which they traced up south to its spring head,
harles river. Surely
and this they called the most southerly part o
-,there can be no -difficulty in deciding by'the 'charters, which of these
constructions is the correct one. These are the merits of the case$

SUPREME COURT.
n [The

State of Rhode Island v, The State of Massachusetts.]

and I am.sensible that they have no bearing upon the question of ju.
risdiction before the Court. But the counsel of Massachusetts have
repeatedly introduced the merits; and I presume it is not inl-roper
for me to follow him so far as to state them correctly.
Precisely the' same question Was decided more than an hundred
years ago, in the controversy between Massachusetts and New Hampshire. The northern boundary of Massachusetts is defined and limited in her charter, in the same terms as her southern boundary. She
was to have three miles north of the most northerly part of'the Merrimack river. Upon this The set up the same claim upon New Hampshire, as she now does upon Rhode Island; and by her construction, she would have taken the whole of New Hampshire, and the
greater part of the province (now state) of Maine. But her pretensions were decided to be wholly unfounded and unjustifiable; and
she was compelled to draw herself within her charter limits. And
why has she not respected that decision, and contented herself with
the same limits on the south as on tho 'north?
Massachusetts, also, had precisely the same controversy with the
state of Connecticut, about the westerly part of this same line; that
state and Rhode Island, by their charters (granted about the same
time, 1662 3) being both bounded northerly upon the same straight
line, to be drawn due east and west throughout. But Connecticut
would not submit to the encroachments of Massachusetts. And, although she had entered into a written agreement with her, establishing the line as it then was; and that agreement had been formally
ratified and confirmed by the legislatures of both states, (which was
never the case withus;) yet Connecticut proved, that misrepresentations anld impositions had been practised upon her commissioners
and government, in the running of that line; and she brought Massachusetts to a sense of justice, and obtained from her a large part,
ard not the whole of the territory which the latter had wrongfully
taken within her limits. And now, whenever you look upon any
map including the three states, or th at part of them, you see the Connecticut northern line is miles in advance of that of Rhode Island,
which ought to be a continuation of it; and the government of Massachusetts has not caused, and cannot cause any survey or map of
that fine state to be taken or published; without recording anew and
emblazoning her unjust encroachments upon Rhode Island.
A singul4 appeal was made to'your honours, in the gentle tones of
persuasion by the counsel of Massachusetts. They remind the Court

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

that courts of equity do not countenance'family quarrels, in which the
honour and feelings of families may be exposed to injury. Very well.
And here is the important state of Massachusetts, surrounded by six
other states, all of which show her great respect and deference, and
manifest a desire to continue in strict harmony with her. But Massachusetts is not satisfied with this. She encroaches, and encroaches
upon her neighbours until their patience is exhausted; and after long
forbearance they are compelled, one after another, to complain of her
aggressions and seek redress. And thus called upon, here comes Massachusetts quite undisturbed, and to smooth matters over, talks about'
family disputes, and family honour, and the relations between neighbouring sister states, which make it improper to listen to their trifling complaints against each other; and so she advises that the com-plainants be reprimanded and sent home. But this did not answer
before the old tribunal of the king in council, nor before the American court of appeals. Rhode Island, the last of the injured states,
whose grievances alone remain unredressed, entertains a high respect for her-elder sister, Massachusetts. But I take it upon myself,
to assure this honourable Court, should it think itself bound in
justice to make a decree in her favour, she will not be offended nor
complain of it; although the decree must be against that respected
elder sister.
Allow me to conclude my remarks more seriously, and with
matter more important. The counsel of' Massachusetts have talked
much of the proper division of powers between the three great departments of government; the legislative, executive, and judicial.
And they insist that the judicial is not the proper department to
have cognizance of these controversies.. Pray, have you heard
them point out which of the other departments is the proper and
appropriate one; or what other tribunal there is to exercise this jurisdiction? The idea of investing the executive with jurisdiction
over controversies of any kind, whether political or civil, between
states or individuals, has never entered into the head of any man.
And is it not evident, that jurisdiction over such controversies cannot consistently be exercised by the legislative 'department of any
well-balanced government? And, when the structure of the federal
and, state governments, relatively to each other, the partition, limitation, and adjustment of their respective powers, is considered, the
incompatibility of such a legislative jurisdiction is stillimore glaring.
And, therefore, the constitution of the United States has not perVOL. XIL.-4 X

SUPREMI, COURT
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State o Massahuasetto.]

mtted'.the exercise Of any, such ,jurisdiction to' either the egilativo_
or executive department; ..but. has'expressly conf4re& it .ion-the
judiciary, which is free from alr the objeci6ns that lay.against..the
other two. W4hat then does 'Massachusefts ,mean? Does she man,
that in her controversies' 'with' any of her sister states, she ,. not.
amenAble to justice, before any tribunal?-And that thereis, n.emedy for an. injured sister state, for any wrongs she may suffer' at'
her hands? That there shall be no wrong without-a remedyis o
first principle, an axiom, ir all. fre6d governments, Is this the country in which thatk great fundamental. principle of riht and justice is
to be first 'abandoned ?
Mr. Justice BL.DWIN delivered the opiniri'of.the C~urt:
At the January term 6f this Court, 1832%the: plaintiff filed a bill. in
equi y, presenting a case arising under the various charterg fro n.the
crown of"England'to the Tlymouth Company, in 1621; to:Masmachusettsin 1629; to.Rhode Island in 1'63'; "the'new charter.to Massachusetts in 1691: together with, s~indryJntermediate Droeeeditigs of
the counciL of Plymouth: the "estui.,of which, was to vest, in -lhe
colgny 'o. Massachusetts bnd:the king;atl the rights of prbprietyand
government previouslygran'teO ,to that' compan,y as a political corO
ration. The bill' also set out the repeal of the original. charter of
Massafhustts on a seire facias in the court of, chaucery in England,
the grant by the crown arid acceptance by .the colopy of a:.ne*
charter, subsequent't6 the: 'harter to Rhode Island.
All these acts 'are. specially aia at large set-6ut in the-bill, but need
not in this stage of '4e cause be referred to by thd.'Coprt. in detail.
TheV present'the claim of the plaintiff to the terriforv iweontrover~y
betWeen the two state s;in virtue,of thes.e charters, acording. to the
boundaries therein .described.
Independently of 'the claim undet'the chAiter of1663, the plairtiff asserts a previous ri'ght i'n virtue of grants from the,ndiaris; ad
.settlements,,made under a title thuS acquired: and ,algo asserts, that
under both titles, the inhabitants of Rhode Island 'made settlefierts'
on the lands immediately south of thebofindary between thb two
colonies asnow asserted; whidhsettlementa were so mode and contipued from the. time of the purchase from the Indians, befor; .un
der the'charter, and. afterwards, thotgh the line was not defined" and
dispiuted.:
1The.bill then ,proceeds.'t.bstate",the exastence of, contr0Vesies between the two, colonies, at a very early period; to settld wtiieh'corn-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
(The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]
missioniers were appointed by each colony in 1709, and at Various
Qther periods down to 1809; and sets forth the proceedings of the
commissioners of the colonies before the revolution, and the states
.aftdrwards, down to 1818.
For 'the present purposes of this case, it is necessary to refer only
to one subject matter of these proceedings during this whole period,
which ispresented in the bill in the' same aspect throughout; that
subject is the agreement of 1709, and 1718; and the'acts done pursuant thereto,.which are recited at large inthe bill, It then. states
the agreement of the commissioners of the two colonies, that a line
should be run and.marked as their boundary, which was done; a survey made and returned, together with all the proceedings to the legislatures of the respective colonies, accepted by' Massadhusetts, but as
the bill avers, not accepted and ratified by Rhode Island,. This i's
the line now claimed by .Mssachusetts; and whether the chartefc
line or that, is the true line of right and boundary between the two
states, is the only point in controversy in this case.
The bill avers'that this lilne was agreed'on inconsequence of a -representation by the Massachusetts' commissioners to those of Rhode
Island, that in 1642, Woodword and Saifreyhad. ascertained thp point,
three milek south of Charles river; which, by the charters of. both
colonies, was to form their common boundary by a 'lirfe to mun east
and west therefrom. That Woodword and Saffrey had set upa stake
at that point on Wrentham Plains, as the true southern boundary of
Massaqhusetts. That the Rhode Island commissioners, confid'ing in
such representation, believing that such point had been truly ascertained, and that such stake was no more than three miles from Charles
river, south;, entered into and made the agreement of 1710-1 1, which
was executed by the commissioners on both sides.
In the agreement is this clause: That the, stake set up by Woodword and Saffrey, approved artists,, in 1642; and since that often re,
newed, in lat. 410 55' N., being three English miles'south of Chales
river, in its southernmost part, agreeably to the letters patent to Massachtisetts, be accounted and allowed as the commencement of the
line between the colonies, and continued between them as decyphered in the plan of Woodword and Saifrey, on record in the Massachusetts government.
Itis then averred in the bill, that no mark' stake, or monument then
existed (1710-i 1') by whith .the place at which Woodword and Saffrey were alleged to have set up the stake could be ascertained; that

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v,.
The State of Massachusetts.]

none of the parties to the agreement vent to such place; that no survey was made, no line run, or any means taken to ascertain where it
was; whether it was three miles or more from Charles river;
whether Woodword and Saffrey ever run the line, or whether it was
the true boundary line between the colonies, according to their respective charters. that Massachusetts took wrongful possession of
the territory in question, in which Rhode Island never acquiesced,
and to which she never agreed; but continued to assert her claim
from the time of the agreement, to the filing of the bill, to all the
territory embraced in her charter, and sovereignty and jurisdiction
within and over it, as claimed in the bill. The bill denies that any
line Was ever run by Woodword and Saffrey, in 1642; avers that
the agreements'of 1710-11, which adopted it, were unfair, inequitable, executed under a misrepresentation and ,mistake as to material
facts; that the line is not run according to the charters of. the colonies 'that it is more than seven miles south of the southernmost
part of Charles river; that the agreement was made without the assent of the king; that Massachusetts has continued to hold wrongful
possession of the disputed territory, and prevents the exercise of the
rightful jurisdiction and sovereignty of Rhode Island therein. The
prayer of the bill is to ascertairl and establish the northern boundary
between the states, that the rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction be
restored and confirmed to the plaintiffs, aid they be quieted in the enjoyment thereof, and their title; and for other and further relief.
Onl the service of this bill on the governor and attorney general of
Massachusetts,
agreeably to a rule of this Court, the legislature passed
a resolution, authorizing
the appearance of the state to the suit,
and
the employment of,counsel by the governor, to defend the rights of
the state. In obedience to this resolution the governol) after reciting
it, appointed counsel under the seal of the state, to appear ;and make
defence; either by objecting to the jurisdiction of this Court, or by
plea, answer or otherwise, at his discretion, as he should judge most
proper.
Under this authority, an appearance was entered; and at January
term, a plea in bar, of the plaintiff's bill was filed, in which it was
averred: That in 1642, a station or monument was erected and fixed
at a point believed to be on the true southern boundary line of
Massachusetts, and a line continued therefrom to ,the Connecticilt
river, westwardly; which, station or monument was well known,
notorious, and has ever since been called Woodword and Saffrey'd

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
(The State of Rhode island v.The State of Massachusetts.]

station, on Wrentham Plains. It then sets up the agreement of 1709,
and subsequent proceedings at large; avers that the whole merits of
plaintiff's case, 'as set forth in the bill, were fully heard, tried, and
determined, in the hearing and by the judgment of the Rhode Island
commissioners; that the agreement was fair, legal, and binding between the parties; that it was a valid and effectual settlement of
the matter in controversy; without cover, fraud, or misrepresentation, with a full and equal knowledge of all circumstances by both
parties. That such agreement is still in full force, no way waived,
abandoned, or relinquished; and that the defendant has held, possessed, occupied, and enjoyed the land, piopriety, and jurisdiction, according to the well known and easily discovered station of Woodword and Saffirey, and the line run by them therefrom, from the date
of the agreement to the present time, wihout hindrance or molestation.
The plea then sets forth the subsequent agreement of the two
colonies, in 1717 and 1718, touching their boundaries, and a running
and marking thereof by their respective commissioners, appointed
for the purpose of finally settling the controversy; who, in 1718
agreed that the stake of Woodword and Saffrey, should be the point
from which the dividing line should be run, and be forever the
boundary between the two governments; notwithstanding any former controversy or claim. That this agreement was recorded, ratified, and confirmed by.the general assembly of Rhode Island; that
no false representation was made to their commissioners; that the
agreement was concluded fairly, in good faith, with full and' equal
knowledge by the respective parties, has never been annulled, rescinded or abandoned, and was in' pursuance and completion of the
agreement of 1709. The report of the commissioners is then set
out, stating that in 1719 they run and marked a line west, 20 south
from the stake of Woodword and Saffrey, at which they met, as the
boundary; which report was dpproved by Rhode Island in the same
year. The plea then makes the same averment as to these proceedings of 1717, 1718, and'1719, as it did in relation to those of 1709,
1710, and 1711; pleads both agreements and unmolested possession
by the defendant, from their respective dates to the present time, as
a bar to the whole bill, and against any other or further relief therein;
prays the judgment of the Court whether the defendant shall make
any further answer to the bill, and to be dismissed
Then the defendant, not waiving, but relying on his plea, by way

SUPREME COURT.
ruhe State ofJ hode Islandm,. The State of Massachusetts.]

of answer auMd in support of. the, plea asa. bar to the, bill, avers that
both .agreementsawere a valid and effectual settlement of the'whoje
mnatter of controversy in the case, as is insisted on in the plea.
To this plea. a replieatioa was put in but afterwards withdrawn,
and notice givef that the,cause would be put down foil hearing on
the'plea: ;he cause was continued at the last term; the plaintiff gave
notice that he should at this term move to amend the -bill; and the
case is now before us for consideration, on a mation by the defendant to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction in the cause.
Howeve late this objection? has'been made, or may -be rmade in
any cause, in an infeHok or appellate 'cQurt of the United'Statesi, it
,rmustbe considered and decided, before any court can move one further step. in the cause; as any movement is 'hecessarily the exercise
of' jurisdetibn. Jurisdiction isfhe .Pow r to bear and determine the
wsubjeeti matter in 4ontroversy between parties to-a suit, to adjudicate
or. exrcise any judicial power'.over .he'; the question is, whether
on the case- befdc a dourr, their apction is judicial' or extra-judicial;
with. ot withotat the authority 6f law, to 'render a judgment or deeree.upon the rights of the litigtit-parties. If. the law- confers the
ppwel ,to
fveder
a judgment or decree, then the court has. jtirisdictiop; what shall be. adjudged or. decree4 between .the parties, and
with whih is the right, of the case,.is judicial action, by hearing and
determining, t. 6 Peters, .709; 4 Russall,415; 3 Peters,, 303-7.'
A motioft to dismiss a cause; pending in the courtsf the Tlnite'
States,' is not. analogous to a plea, to thie jurisdiction of a court of
common -law,or equity' in England; there the. superior courts hgve
a general 'jurisdioticn over-all persons -within the realm, and. all
causes of action between them, .It,
depends on -the subject matter,
'whether the-jurisdiction shall be exercised by a court of law' or
equity';. but that' court,, to which it appropriately, belongs, can act
judicially upon 'the party and the subject of 'the suit; unless it shall
be made apparent to the court that the judicial determfination of the
case has been'withdrawn from the' court of general jurisdiction, to
an inferior and limited one. It is a necessary presumption that the
courtdof general jurisdiction can ac upon the given cse, when nothing appears to the contrary; hence-has' arisen the rule that the
party claiming an, exeMption from its process, must set out the measons by a special plea !in abatement; and/ show that some interior
court of law or equity has the exclusive cognizance of the case;.
etherwisethe superior court must proceed,' in virtue of its general

XAIXTARY TERM, -is.

719

[The State, of ItIiodq bland v. The 'State of Massachusttd.]

Jurisdiction. This rule.prevailsboth at law and in eqity.

V,es. sen.
204; 2 Ves. sen. 307;.Mit. 183. A motion to dismiss, therefore, eannot be entertained, as it does not and cannot disclose a, case of excepion and if'a.,plea in abatement is put in,. it-must ant only nke out
the exceptioti, but point to the particular court to which the case
belongs., Aplaintiff ia law or equity, is not to be drivep from court
to court by such pleas; if a defendant seeks to quash a writ, or dismiss a.6i!I fbr sueh cause, he must give the pOainiiff a better one
and shall, never put in a second plea to the juri~dictipn of that court,
to: which, he"bas driven the plaintiff by his plea. 1 Ves. Sen. 903.
Therm are other classesof. cases where.te objeotion ' to:the jukisdi&
tion is of a djfferent nature, as on a bill in'. chancery; that'the lsubjeet
matter is cognizable only by the king, in council-, and. no3t by any
judicial power, I Ves. sen. 4 4i; or that the parties, defetidant,,cao,.
not be brought before, any munkipal court.t on account ',6f their
sovereign, characters and the nature ofthe controversy; as 1 Ves
- iti
37
1k 387; 2 Yes. jr. 56, 60;_ or in the very coinmo cases which
present the. question, whether the cause properly: belongs to a court
of law or-equity
To sueh.cases, a pleajn abatement would notbe
applicable, because, tIe plaintiff could no.sue, in an inferior coUrt,;,
the objection goeo to a.denial,6f any jurisdictiop of a mudicipal court
in oie class of cases; and.Ato the jdrisdiction of, any court of equity
or of law intho othe.r: on which 10t, the court decides according'to
their legaldiscretion. An objection to jurisdivtion, on the ground,
of exemption from the process of the court !&. which the suitS.
brought, or ihe: manner in ,which a defendant is brought intoit, is
waWrhd by appearance and, pleading. to- issue 10 Peters, 473; TVland v. Sprague, .12 FPeteso, 0.0;. but when.the objection goes to
the power of the court. over the parties,. or ,the' subject matter, the
defendant: need not for he cannot give the plaintiff a better. Writ or
bill. Where no inferior. court can- have jari-diction.of a-case in law
or ¢qnity, the ground of the oibjection is not takoen by plea in abate-ment, as an exception of. the given case, from the otherwise genesal
jurisdiction of the court, appearance does; not Cure the defect of iu
dicial power, and it may be relied on by plea, answer,-demurrer, or
a.the trial or hearing,,uness, it goes to the manner of bringing the
defendant into courti which, iswaived by submission to the process.
As adenial of jurisdiction over the subje.ct matter of a suit ber
tween parties.within the realm, over. which and whom the court has
ppwer.to act, cannot be sucqessful in an English court-of general ju,-

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

risdiction; a motion like the present could not be sustained consistently with the principles of its constitution. But as this Court is
one of limited and special original jurisdiction, its action must be
confined to the particular cases, controversies, and parties over which
the constitution and laws have authorized it to act; any proceeding
without the limits prescribed, is coram non judice, and its action a
nullity. 10 Peters, 474; S. P. 4 Russ. 415. And whether the want
or excess of power is objected by a party, or is apparent to the
Court, it must surcease its action, or proceed extra-judicially.
Before we can proceed in this cause we must, therefore, inquire
whether we can hear and determine the matters in controversy between the parties, who are two. states of this Union, sovereign within
their respective boundaries, save that portion of power which they
have granted to the federal government, and foreign to each other
for all but federal purposes. So they have been considered hy this
Court, through a long series of years and cases, to the present- terra;
.during which, in the case of The Bank of the United States v.
Daniels, this Court has declared this to be a fundamental prindiple of
the onstitution; and so we shall consider it in deciding on. the present motion. 2 Peters, 590, 91.
Those states, in their highest sovereign capacity, in the convention
of the people thereof; on whom, by the revolution, the prerogative
of the crown, and the transcendant power of parliament devolved,
in a plenitude unimpaired by any act, ahd controllable by no autho-.
rity, 6 Wheat. 651; 8 Wheat. 584, 88; adopted the constitution, by
which they respectively made to the United States a grant of judicial power over ontroversies between two or more states. By the
,dnstitution, it was ordained that this judicial power, in cases where
a state was' a party, should be exercised by this Court as one of original jurisdiction. The states waived their exemption from judicial
power, 6 Wheat. 378, 80, as sovereigns by original and inherent
right, by their own grant of its exercise, over themselves in such
cases, but which they would not grant to any inferior tribunal. By
this grant, this Court has ac4uired jurisdiction over the parties' in
this cause, by their own consent and delegated authority; as their
agent for executing the judicial power of the United States in the
cases specified. Massachusetts has appeared, submitted to the process in her legislative capacity, and plead in bar of the plaintiff's
action, certain matters on Which the judgment of the Court is asked;
all doubts as to juisdiction over the parties are thus at rest., as well

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

by the grant of power by the people, as the submission of the. legislature to the process; and calling on the Court to exercise its jurisdiction on the case presented by.the bill, plea, and answer.
Our next inquiry will be, whether we have jurisdiction of the
subject matters of the suit, to hear and determine them.
That it is a controversy between two states, cannot be denied; and
though the constitution does not, in terms, extend the judicial power
to all controversies between two or more states, yet it in terms excludes none, whatever may be their nature or subject. It is, therefore, a question of construction, whether the controversy in the present case is within the grant ofjudicial power. The solution of this
question must necessarily depend on the words of the constitution;
the meaning and intention of the convention which framed and proposed it for adoption and ratification -to the conventions of the people
of and in the several states; together with a reference to such sources
of judicial information as are resorted to by'all courts in construing
statutes, and to which this Court has always resorted in construing
the constitution. It was necessarily left to the legislative power to
organize the Supreme Court, to define its powers consistently with
the constitution, as to its original jurisdiction; and to distribute the
residue of the judicial power between this and the inferior courts,
which it was bound to ordain and establish, defining their respective
ppwers,"whether original or appellate, by which and how it should
be exercised. In obedience to the injunction of the constitution,
congress exercised their power, so far as they thought it necessary
and proper, under the seventeenth clause of the eighth section, first
article, for:carrying into execution the powers vested by the constitution in the judicial, as well as all other departments and officers of
the government of the United States. 3 Wheat. 389. No department could organize itself; the constitution provided for the organization of the legislative pqwer, and the mode of its exercise, but it
delineated only the great outlines of the judicial power; 1 Wheat.
326; 4 Wheat. 407: leaving the details to congress, in whom was
vested, by express delegation, the power to pass all laws necessary
and proper for carrying into execution all powers except their own.
The distribution a.-d appropriate exercise of the judicial power, must
therefore be made by laws passed by congress, and cannot be assumed-by any other department; else, the power being concurrent
in the legislative and judicial departments, a conflict between them
would be probable, if not unavoidable, under a constitution of go-

. VOL.XII.-4 Y

SUPRBME COURT.
[The StMe of Rhode Islan v. The State of Massaohfsetts.l

vernment which inadoe it the duty' of the judicial power to decide all
cases in law or -equity arising uinder it, or laws passed, and treaties
made by its authority.
By theJudiciaryact of 1789,,thejtgdicial system of the United-States
was organized, the powers of the different courts defined, brought
into action,,and.the manner, of their exercise Tegulatad& T1'he Iath
section Provided, "That the Supreme Cout shall have exet~ive. Wrisdiction of all controversies of alcivil nature,, where .;ItAte is a partv. exaept between a state and its citizena; and exceptalso between
a state and citizens of other- states or.aliens; in which latter ease, it

shall have original,'but' not.exciusive jurisdiction."

1 Story's Laws,

The .powpr of congreis t make this pro iWon for carrying ito
eecution the judieial power irw such cases, has ,nerer been, ann we:
think. cannot %bequestioned; and talKen 4n connection -with the eontitutio'n, presents the great question.in this cause, which is.
one of
construction appro'riate"to judicial power, and exelusively of ju
dieial cogniatic ,tili the lgislative" power acts again -ipon it. Vide
3 Peters, 203. In deciding whether the- present ease is embr*A
or excluded by the constitution and judieiary act, and whether it-is
a case of lawful original cognizance bv this Court, it .is
theexercise
of jurisdiction; tborit must: be in the, legal discretion of',the (06Eurt,
to retain or dismiss the bilk of the plaintiffs. Act as we, may feel
it our duty to do, there is no appeal from our jidgmetit saveto the
amending power of the constitution; which can aonul not only itp
judgments, but the Court itself. So that the trtue question is necessarily, whether 'we will so- exercise. our jurisdiction -as to .:give a
judgment on the merits of the case as presented by.the parties, who
are' capable of'.suing and being-sied in ithis Court, in law, or -equity,
According to' the nature of the case, and controversy between the respective states.
This Court,. in construing the constitution as' to. the grants. of
powers tothe United States, and the restrictions upon thel;states, has
ever held, thatan exeeption of any particular case, presupposes that
those which are not excepted are embraced within the grant'or pro'hibition: and have laid it down as a general rule, that where no'ex'ception' is made in terms, none will bb tnade by mere implication or
,construction. 6) Wh. a78; 8 Wh. 489, 490; 12 Wh. 438; 9 W.b/
206, 207, 216.
Then-the only question is, whether this case, combs within the rule

JANUARY TERM 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island.v. The State of Massachusetts.]

or presents an exception, according to the principles of co.nstruetion adopted and acted on by this Court, in cases involying the exposition of the constitution and la s of the United States, which are
construed as other instruments grantihg ppwer or prop.rty. 12
Wh. 437; 6 Peters, 738, 740. That some degree of'implication
must be given to words, -is a proposition of universal adoption: implication is but another term for meaning and intention, apparent, in
the writing, on judicial inspection,; "the evident consequence," .1
BL. Com. 250 ; "or some necessary consequence resulting from the
law," 2 Ves. sen. 351; or the words Of an instrumen6t; in the construction of which, the words, the subject, the context, the inten.tion of the person using them, are all to be taken into view. 4 Wh.
415,; 6 Peters, 739, 741. Such is the sense in which, the common
expression is used in the books, "express words or'necessary impli.
cation,l such as arise on the words, taken'in 'connection, with other
sources of construction; but not by corijecture,,supposition, or imaere
l1 rules
reasoning on the meaning or intention of the. writing.
would be subverted if mere extraneous matter should Have the, effect
of interpreting'a supreme law, differently from its obvious or necessarily to be implied sense:, Vide 9 Wh. '188, &c,.; 'soy apparent as.,o
overrule the words used; 6 Wh. 380. 14Controversies betveen two
or more -states," "all controversies'of ea civil hature, where a state'i
a party;"' are broad c6mprehensiv6 terms; by no obvious meaning
or nect-.ary implication, excluding: those which relate to the title,
boundary, jurisdiction, or sovereignty of a state. 6 Wh. 378.
The judiciary ac t makes certain exceptions, which' apply only to
cases of private persons, and cannot embrace a case of state against
state; established rules forbid the extension of the exception ta such
cases,.if they are of' a civil nature. -.What then are, "controversies
of a civil nature," between state and state, or more than two states?
We must presume that congress did ilot mean to exclude from our
jurisdiction those controversies, the decision of Which the states had,
confided to the judicial power, and 'are bound to give to. the consti'-.
tution and laws such a meaning as will make them harmonize, unless there is an apparent or fairly to be implied conflict' between
their respective provisions, In the construction of the constitution,
e must look to the history of the times, and examine the state of
things existing when it was framed and adopted, 12 Wh. 354; 6
Wh. -416; 4 Peters, 431-2; to ascertain the old law, the mischief
and the remedy. It is a part of the public history of the United

SUPREME COURT.
[The State.of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

States, of. which we cannot be judicially ignorant, that at the adoption of the constitution, there were existing controversies between
eleven states respecting their boundaries, which arose under their
respective' charters, arid had continued from the first settlement of
the colonies. New Hampshire and New York contended for the
territory which is now Vermont, until the people of the latter assumed by their own power'the position of a state, and settled the
controversy, by taking to themselves the disputed territory, as the
rightful sovereign., thereof. Massachusetts and Rhode Island are
now before us;, Connecticut claimed part of New York and Pennsylvania. She submitted to the 'decree of the council of Trenton, acting
pursuant to the authority of the confederation, which decided that
Connecticut had. not the jurisdiction; but she claimed the right of
sail till 1800. New Jersey had a controversy with, New York,
which was before this Court in 1.832; and one yet subsists between
New .fersey and Delaware. Maryland and Virginia were contendiIg about boundaries in 1835, when a suit was pendipg in this
Court; and the dispute is yet an 'open one. Virginia and North
Carolina contended for boundary till 1802; and the remaining states,
South Carolina and Georgia, settled their boundary in the April preceding the meeting of the general convention, 'which framed and
proposed the constitution. 1 Laws U. S.466. With the full knowledge that there were at its adoption, not only existing controversies
between two states singly, but between one state. and two others, we
find the words of the constitution applicable to this state of things,
" controversies between two' or more states."
It is not known that
there were any such controversies then existing, other than those
which relate to boundary; and it would be a most forced construction
to hold that these were excluded from judicial cognizance, and that
it was to be confined to controversies to arise prospectively on other
subjects. This becomes. the more apparent, when we consider the
context and those parts of the constitution which bear directly on
the boundaries of states; by which it is evident, that there remained
no power in the contending states to settle a controverted boundary
between themselves, as states competent to act by their own authority o4 the subject matter, or in any department of the government,
if it was not in this.
By the first clauoe of the tenth section of the first article of the
constitution, there was a positive prohibition against any state entering into "any treaty, alliancey or confederation:" no power under the

JANUARY TERM, 183s.

725

[The State of Rhode Island v., The State of Masgachusetts ]
gbvernment could make such ,an act valid, or dispense with the constitutional prohibition. In the. next clause is a prohibitlon against
any state entering "into any agreement or compact with another
state, or with a foreign power, without the c~nsent of congress; or
engaging, in war, unless' actually invaded, or in imminent danger, admitting of no'delay."
By this surrender'of the power. which before
the adoption of the constitution was vested in every 9tate, of settling
these contested boundaries, as in the, plenitude of their sovereignty
they might; they 'could settle them neither by war, or in peace, by
treaty, .compact or agreement, without the permission, of the new
loxislative power which the' states brought into -existence byrtheir
respective and several grants in conventions of the people. if congCess consented, then the states were -in this respect restored to their
original inherent sovereignty; such consent being the sole limitation
,imposed by the.constitution, when given, left the states as they were
before, as held b'y this Court ii Poole v. Fleeger; 11 Peters,'209;
whereby theircompacts became of binding force, and finally settled
'the boundary between them; operating with the same effect as a
treaty between sovereign powemr.
That is, that the boundary 'so,
established, and fixed'by compact between nations, become conclusive
upon all the subjects and-citizens thereof, ahd bind'their rights; and are
to be, treated to' all intents and purposes, as the true real boundaries.
1'1 Pbters, '209; S,,P. I Ves. sen. 448, 9; 12 Wheat. 534. The construction of such compact is,.a judicial question) and was so considered
by this Court in thd-Lessee of Sims v; Irvine, 3 Dall. 425-54; and in
Marlatt v. Silk & M'Donald, II Peters, 2, 18; Barton v. Williams, 3
Wheat. 529-33, &c.
In looking to the practical construction of this clause of the consfitutibn, relating to agreements and compacts by the states, in' submitting those which relate to luoundaries to congress for its conset,
its giving its consent, and the action of this Court upon them; it is
most manifest, that by universal consent and action, the wordp "agreement" and "compact," are construed to include those which relate
to boundary; yet that word boundary is not used. No one has
ever imagined that compacts of boundary were excluded, because
not expressly named; on the contrary, they are held by the states,
congress, and this Court, to be included by necessary-implication;
the evident consequence resulting from their known object, subject
matter, the context, and historical reference to the state of the times
and country. No such exception has been thought of, as it would

SUPREME COURTI.
[The State of Rhode Island v;The State of Massachusetts.]

render' the clause a perfect nullity for all practical purposes; esnecially the one, evidently intended by the constitution, in giving to
congress the power' of dissenting to such compacts. Not to prevent
the states from settling their own boundaries, so far as merely affected their relations to each other, but to guard against the derangement of their, federal relations With the other states of the Union,
and the federal government; which might be injuriously affected, if
the contracting states might act upon their boundaries at their pleasure.
Every reason which has led to this construction, applies with equal
force to the clause granting to the judicial power jurisdiction over
controversies between states, as to that clause which relates to com-pacts and agreements: we cannot make an exception of controversies
relating to boundaries, without applying the same rule to compacts
for settling them; nor refuse to include them within one general
tetmm, When they have uniformly been included in another. C6irteoversies about boundary, are more serious in-their consequences
upon the' contending states, and their relations to the Union and
governments, than compacts and agreements. If the constitution-has
given to no department the power to settle -them, they must remain
interminable; and as the large and powerful states can take possession
to the extent of'their claim, and the small and weak ones "must acquiesce and submit to physical power; the possession of the large
state must consequently be peaceable and uninterrupted;,prescrip-.
tion will be asserted, and whatever may be the right and, justice of
the controversy, there can be no remedy, though just-rights may be
violated. Bound hand anrd foot. by the .prohibitions of the constituition, a complaining state can neither treat, agree, or fight with its'
adversary, without 'the consent of congress: a, resort to the judicial
power is the only means left for legally adjusting, or persuading a
state which has. possession- of disputed territory, t5 enter into an
agreement or compact, relatins to a controverted boundary. Few, if
any, will be made, -hen it is left to the pleasure of the state in pogsession; but when it is known .that some'tribunal can decide on the
right, it is most probable that controversies will be settled, by compact.
There can be but two tribunals under the constitution who can act
oa, the boundaries of states, the legislative or the judicial power; the
former is limited in express terms to assent or dissent, where a compact or agreement is referred to them by the states; and as the.latter

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

,727

[The Statp of Rlhde.Island V. The State-of Masaohus~tts.,

qan, be exercised only by thisCourt, when -a :state is, a party, the
power is here, or it cannot exist. For these reasons we cannot be
persuaded that it coald have been intend toprovide o.ly for thesettlement of boundaries, when states couldagree;' and to altogbther
withhold the power to decide controversies on which the states could
not agree, and presented the most imperious call for speedy settle-,
ment.
There is another clause in the constitution which bears onthis
question. The judicial power extends to "controversies between citizens of different states;" "between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants of different states." We cannot but know:
judicially, that the latter classes of cases must necessarily arise on
boundary; and that :few if any ever arise from any other source. If
there is a compact between the states, it settles the Jine of 9riginal
rights it is the law of the case binding on the states and itsCii ens,
as fully as if t had beep never contested; if there is no compact,
then the conitroversy must be settled, by adjudging where the line of
boundary.ought to be, by the laws and rules appropriate to the case.
6 Wheat. 393; 2 Peters, -300. It is -hot recollected- that,,any, such
cases have ever arisen, "bVetween citizens of the same state," as the
judiciary acts have made no provision Jbr this exercise of this undoubted constitutional jurisdiction; and it is not'-fiecessary for tne
decision'of. this cause, to inquire whether a law is necessary for this
purpose. But for the other class' of cases "c)ntrov-,sies between
citizens of different states," the'eleventh sectiolp of.the :'udibiary act
makes provision; and the circuit courts in their original aid

this

Court in. its appelate jurisdiction, have decided on the boundaries of
the states, under whom'the parties respectively claim.;, Whether there
has been a'compactor. not. Thh jurisdiction of the circuit court in
sdeh cases'was distinctly an4 expressly asserted by this Court as
ea'rly)as ,1799,Ain Fowler-v. Miller, 3 Dall. 411-12; S. P. 5 Peters,
290. In Handly's' -Lessee v. Aithony, the circuit court of Kbntuekv decided oi the, boundary between that state ard Indiana, in an
ejectment between these parties; and their judgment Was affirmed hb
th6s Court.' 5 Wheat. 375; 3 Wheat.12- 8 S. P. Harcourt v. GaiF
1ird, 12 Whent. .523. When the boundaries of states can be thus de
eidod collaterally in suits between individuals, we oanfiot,.'by anyjust
rule of interpretation, declare that this Court cannot adjqdicate on
the question of boundary, when it is presented ,directly. in a controversy between two or more states, and is the only point in the cause.
'

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode' Island v.'The State..of Massachusetts]

There is yet another source of reference, from which to ,ascertain the
the coostitution.
true construction ofi
By'the ninth article of confederation adopted by the legislatures-of
the several states, it is provided, "That the United States- in congress assembled, shall also be the last resort on appeal, in all disputes
and differences now subsisting, orwhich may hereafter arise between
two or more states, concerning boundary, jurisdiction, or 'any other
cause whatever.". It directed the appointment of a tribunal, whose
judgment should be fihal and conclusive. It also gave to congress
power to appoint a judicipi tribunal to decide on a petition of either
of the parties, claiming land under'grants of two or more states, Whq
bad :adjusted their boundaries, but had previptoly made the granfs
on which thec0ntroversy arose. One of thbe most crying evils of the
confederation was, that it created no judicial power without the
action of congress; and confined the power pf that body to the appointment of eourts for the trial of piracies and felonies committed
on the high seas; for determining finally on appeal, in all cases of
captures; and for the adjustment of the controversies before referred
to. Yet defective as was the confederation in other respects, there
was) full power to finally settle controverted boundaries in the two
cases, by ah appeal by a state, or petition of one of its citizens. This
power was given from the universal conviction of its niecessity, in
order to preserve harmony among the confederated states, even during the pressure of the revolution, If in this state of things, it was.
deemed indispensable to create a special jhdicial ,power, for the sole
and express purpose of finally settling all disputes concerning boundary, arise how they might; when this power was plenary, its judgment conclusive on 'the right;, while the other powers delegated to.
congress, were mere shadowy forms, one cofclusion at. least is inevitable. That the constitution which emanated directly from the
people, in conventions ini the several states, could not have been intended to give to 4he judicial power a less extended jurisdiction, or
less effioient means -f fipal action, -than the articles of confederation adopted by the -merelegislative power of the states,, had given
to a special tribunal appointed by 6ongresm, whose members, were
the, mere creatures and representatives of state legislatures, appointed
by them,,without any action by the people of the state. This Court
exists by a direct grant from the people, of their judicial power; it is
exercised by their authority, as their agent selected by themselves,
for the purposes specified; the people of the states as they respec-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
(The State of

hode Island v. The State .of Massathusetts.]

tively became parties to the constitution, gave to the judicial power
of, the United States, jurisdiction over themselves, controversies between states, between citizens of the same or different states, claiming lands under their conflicting grants, Within disputed territory.
No, fact was more .prominent in our history, none could hav been
more stronglr impressed on the members of the general and state
conveitions, Ulan- that contests for the vacant lands of the crown, long
threatened the'dissolution of the confederation, Which existed practically and by common consent, from 1774 to 1781; when,after five
years of disus~en, it was ratified by th -legislatures of all th a states.
This Court has attested the fact, 6 -Cranch, 142; 5 Wheat. .376.
Similar danger was imminent, from controversies about boundaries
between the states, til1 provision wAs made for theirdeeision,, with a
,proviso, "That no state should be deprived of territory for'the benefit
of the United States." 1 Laws U. S. 17. These, two provisions
taken in connection, put an end to any fears of convulsion, by the
contests of states about boundary and jurisdiction, when any state
could, by appeal, bring the powers of congress and a judicial tribunal
intoactivity;. and the United States could not take any vacant land
-within the boundary of a state. Hence resulted the principles laid
down, by this Court in Harcourt and Gaillard, 12 Wheat. 526, thrt
the boundaries.of the United States were the external boundaries of
the several states; and that the United States did not acquire any
'territory by the treaty of peace, in 1783.
Yet though this express provision was made to settle controverted
boundaries by judicial power, congress had no supervision over compacts and agreements between states as to boundary, save on grants
made before the compact; the states did, and could so settle them
without the consent of congress, to whom, as no express power on
or over the subject of such compacts was delegated, their dissent
could not invalidate them. 'Such was the law of the confederacy
during a common war, when external danger could not suppress the
danger of dissolution from internal dissentions; when owing to the
imbecility of congress, the powers of the states b~ing reserved for
legislative and judicial purposes, and the utter want of power iii the
United States to act, directly on the people of the states, 0n the rights
of the states (except those in controversy between them) or the subj~ect matters, on which they had delegated but mere shadowy jurisdiction, a radical change of government became necessary. The
constitution, which superseded the articles of confederation, erected
VOL. XII.-4 Z

730

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The Stata of Massachusetts.]

a new government, organized it into distinct departments, assigning
to'each' its appropriate powers, and to congress the power to pass
laws for carrying into execution the powers granted to each; so that
the laws of the Union could be enforced by it, own authority, upon
all persons and subject matters, over which jurisdiction was granted
to any department, or, officer of the government of the United States.
It was, to operate 'ina time of peace with foreign powers, when
foreign pressure Was not in itself some bond of 'union between the
states, 'and danger from domestic sources might be imminent; to extend the legislative, executive and judicial power, alike over persons
and states, on the enumerated subjects by their own grants. The
states submitted to its exercise, waived their sovereignty,- and agreed
to come -to this Court to settle their controversies with each other,
exepthng none in terms. So they 'had agreed by the confederation;
not only liot.excepting, but in express terms including, all disputes
and differences whatever.,
In the front of the constitution is a declaration by t&e sovereign
power from 'which it emanated; that. It was ordained, " in order to
form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillityV&,c, Whether it was best calculated to effect these objects
,by making the judicial power utterly incompetent to exercise .a
jurisdiction' expressly delegated to- the old congrp)s and its constituted court, over states and their boundaries, in the plenitude of
'absoiutQ power,, yet granted only by the legislative power of the
several states; orkwhether the powers granted to, this Court by the
people of all the states, ought by !mere construction and implication,
to be held inefficient for the objects of its creation, and not capable
of" establishipg justice'- between two or,mre,states; are the direct'
questions before, us for consideration. Without going further into
any general eonsideration on the subject, 'there is one which cannot be overlookedj and. is imperious in its results.
Under the confederation, the states were fr~e to settle their controversies of any kind whatever by compact or agreement; under the
eonstitution they. can enter 'into none without the consent of congress, in the e ercise 6f its political power; thus making an amicable
adustment a political matter for th. concurring determination of the
states and congress, and ,its construction a matter of judicial cognizance by any. court -towhich the appropriate resort may be,had,
by the judiciary act.
This has unitormly been done in the courts of the states, and

JANUARY .TERM, 1838.

731

[The. State of Rhode Igland v. The Ptata Of Messachusettu.)
Union; no one has ever deemed suchan exercise of power to be
extra-Judicial, or a case which
lalled for it to be coram non judice.
When, 'therefore, the court judicially inspects the articles of confederation, the preanmble to the constitution, together with the surrender, by'the -states* of all power to settle their contested 'boundaries, with the express grant of original jurisdiction to this Cou'rt; we
feel not only. authorized, but bound to declare that it is capable of
applying its judicial power, to this extent at lest" 1, To act'as the
tribunal substituted by the constitdtion in place of that which existed
at the time of its adoption, on 1the sme controversies, and to a like
effect. 2. As the substitute of the contending states, by 'their own
grant,imade in their"'most sovereign capacity, conferring that preexisting power, in relation to their own boundaries, Which they had
not surrendered to the legislative department; thus separating the
exercise of political fromjudicial power, and defining each.
There is bUt one power in this Union paramount'to that by which,
i our opinidn, this jurisdiction has been granted and must be brought
into action'if it can. That power has been exerted in the 11th
amendment: but while it took from this Court all jurisdiction, past,
present, and future,:3 Dall. 382, of all -controversies between states
and individuals; it left its exiercise over those between states as free
as it had been before
This, tob, with the full view of the decisions
of this Court, and.the act of 1789, giving, it exclusive jurisdiction of
:all controversies o' a civil nature, where a 'state is a party; and there
can be no 'subject on which the judicial power can act with a more
direct and certain tendency, to effectuate the great objects of its institution, than the one before us. 'If we canrot "establish justice"
between these litigant states, as the tribunal to which they'have both
submitted th6 adjudication of their respective controversies, it will
be a source of deep regret to all who are desirous that each department of the government' of the Union 'should have the capacity of
acting within its appropriate orbit, as 'the instrument appointed by
the constitution, so to execute its agency' as to make this bond of
union between the states more perfect, and 'thereby enforce the domestic tranquillity of each and all.,
Being thus fully convinced that we have an undoubted jurisdiction of this cause, as fqr as we have proceeded in examining'whether,
by a true and just construction of the constitution and laws, it is
included or excluded, in the grant of judicial power, for any purpose;

SUPREME COURT.
[Tire State of Rhode Island v. Tho State of Massachusetts.]

we now Proceed to' inquire hiow that jurisdiction shall be exerted;
whether to retain or dismiss the complainant's bill.
This depends on our-jurisdiction over any of the matters on whizh
the plaintiff asks our interposition. If there is auy one subject on
which we can act, the bill must be retained: so ,that the true inquiry
is, not,as to the extent, but the' existence of any jurisdiction. I Ves.
sen. 203, 205; 9 Ves. serr, 356.
The bill prays, 1. For the ascertaining and establishing the boundary line between the states, by the order of this Court.
2. That the right of jurisdiction and sovereignty of the plaintiff
to the disputed, territory may be restored to her, and she be quieted
in the enjoyment thereof, and her' titld thereto; and for further relief. If we can decree any relief 'specially called for, or any other
relief, consistently, with' the specific prayer, we' must proceed'in the
cause. 10 Pet. 228; 8 Pet. 536.
The first prayer is,to ascertain and establish a boundary. -'Having
expressed, our opinion that the subject of boundary i within our
jurisdiction, we must exercise it to some extent, and 'on some matter
connected with; or dependent, upon it; and as the bill is on the,
equity side of the Court, it must be 'done according to the principles
and usages of a court of equity.
In the bill 'are set forth various. cnarters from the crown, from
1621, to 16910, and sundry proceedings by the grantees and the
crown, in relation thereto ; also agreements' between the parties as
,colonies and states, for adjusting their boundaries, and the proceedings of.their respective legislatures and commissioners, in relation
thereto, from' 1709, to 1818. The plaintiff relies, on the charters of
the tw-colonies as the rule by which to settle the boundary; on the
continued assertion, of her rights, as well by the charter, as her previous purchase from the Indians: denying' altogether the 'validity of
theagreements and subsequent proceedings; averring that they were
made under misrepresenttion and mistak6, as to material facts. On
the other hand, the defendant pleads the agreements as a bar; that
they are binding, anal have been ratified by the plaintiff:' so that the
plaintiff rests his case on a question of original boundary, unaffected
by any agreement; the defendant rests on the agreements, without
regard to the original charter boundaries. One -asking us to annul,
the. other to enforce 'the agreements; one averring continual claim,
the other setting up Ihe qviet, u'nmolested possession for. more than
a century, in strict c'onformity to, anl by the line in the agreements.

J3NUARY TERM, 1838.
[The State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massaohusetts.]

Our first inquiry-then must be, as to our power to settle, the boundary' in other words, to decide what portion of the territory in dispute belongs to lhe one state or the other,, according to' th&'line
which is their common boundary. There is nqt in fact, or by any
law can be, any territory which does not belong to one or the
other state;'so that the only queStion is, to which thd territory belongs. This must depend on the right by which each state claims
the territory in question. Both claim under grants of'contiguous territory, by the-king, in whom was the absolute propriety and full doininion in and over it; 9 Peters, 745, to 748; 8 Wheat. 595; the
line drawn, or pointed out inhis grant, is therefore that which is
designated iii the two charters as the common boundary of both. 5
Wheat. 375..
The locality of that line is matter of fact, and, when ascertained.
separates the territory of one from the' other; for neither state can
have any right beyond its territorial boundary. It follows, that when
a place is within the boundbary, it is a part of the territory of a state;
title, jurisdiction, and sovereignty, are inseparable incidents, and remain so till the state makes some cession. The plain language of
this Court in The United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 386, et seq.,
saves the necessity bf any reasoning on this subject. The .question
is put by the .Court-" What then is the extent of jurisdiction which
a state possesses?" "We answer, without hesitation, the jurisdiction
of a state is coextensive with its territory, coextensive, with its legislative power. The place described, is unquestionably within the
original territory of Massachusetts. It is, then, within the jurisdiction :of Massachusetts, unless that jurisdiction has been ceded to
(" by") the united States, Ib. 387." "A cession of territory is essentially a Cession of jurisdiction, lb. 388. Still the general jurisdiction over the place, subject to this grant of power, (to the United
States,) adheres to the territory as a portion of sovereignty not yet.
lIb. 389.
given away.
I This principle is embodied in the sixteenth clause of the eighth
section, fi rst article of the constitution, relative to this districti -forts,
arsenals, 'dock. yards, magazines; and uniformly applied to all acquisitions of territory by the United States, in virtue of cessions by
particular states, or foreign nations. 5 Wheat. 324; 5 Wheat. 375;
3 Wheat. 388, 89; 2 Peters, 300, &c Title, jurisdiction, sovereignty, are therefore dependent questions, necessarily settled when
boundary is ascertained, which being the line of territory, is, the

suPREME COURT
[7he Stafe of Rthode Island v. The StAtefMivdhuMetf],
Hne of, power over it: so that great as questions of jurisdiction -nai
sovereignty maybe, they depend in, this case on two simple fabts,
1. Where is the southernmost point of Chaf'les river., 2. Where is.
the point, three English miles in &south line, drawn from it,. When
these points are uscertained, which by he terms are those called for
in both charters, then an east and west line from the second point,, is
hecessarily the boundary between the two states, if the chartere
govern it.
If this Court can, in a case of. original jurisdiction,' where both parties appear, and the plaintiff refts his case on these f'acts, proceed to
ascertain them; there must be an end of this cause when they are:ascertained.,if the issue between them is pori riginal right by the
charter boundaries. We think it does not require reason or precedent, to show that we may ascertaini facts with or without a jury, at
our discretion, as the circuit courts, and all others do, in the-ordinary
course of equity,: our power to examine the evidence in the cause,
and thereby ascertain a fact, cannot depend' on it' effects, however
important in their consequences. Whether the -sovereignty of the
United States, of a state, or the property of an irldividual, depends
on the locality of a tree, a stone, or water-cqurse; whether the riht
depends oni a charter, treaty, cession, compact, or a common deed ;
the right is to territory great or small in extent, and power over it,
either of kovernment or private property; the title of a state is sovereigrty, full and absolute- dominion; 2 Peters, 300, 301 ; the title of
,4h individual such as the'state makes it by its grant and law
No court acts differently in deciding on boundary between- states,
than on lines betveen separate tracts of land: if there is uncertainty
where the line is, if there is a confusion of bounaaries by the nature
of interlocking grantsi the obliteration of marks, the intermixing of,
#ossession under different proprietors; the effects of accident, fraud,
-or time, or other kindred causes, it is a case appropriate to equity.
An issue at law, is directed, a commission of boundary'awarded; or,
if the court'are satisfied without either, they decree- what and where
the boundary of a farm, a manor, province, or'a state, is and shall be.
When. no other matter affects a boundary, a decree settles ,it as
having,been byoriginal right at the place decreed; in the same manner as has bien stated where it is settled by treaty or compact; all
dependent rights are settled when boundary is; -1 Yes. sen.,.448 to 450.
If, therefore, there was an issue in this case, on the locality of the
point three miles south of the southernmost point of Charles river, we

JANUiARY TERM, 1838.

735

[The State -ofRhode Island vi The State of Mssachupetu.].

should be 'competent to decide it; and decree where 'the botndgry
between the states was in 1629,-and 1663, at the dates. of their'respective charters.
On these principles, it becomes unnecessary to'decideon the re
maining prayers of the bill;, if we grant 'the first, and settle boundary, the others, follow- and if. the plaintiff obtains relief as to that,
he wants no other. ''The'established forms of seIh' decrees exte-d'to.
every thing in manner or way necessary to' the final establishment
of the boundary, as the true line of right and power between the
parties.
This, however, is not a case where there is an issue on original
bbundary; the defendant does 60t rest on that'fact, but puts .in a plea
setting up an agreement or compact of boundary between the parties
*hikle colonies, and the actual establishment of a line agreed on, run,
marked, and ratified by both colonies, long possession, and a right'
by prescription' to all. the territory north of such line. This presents a case on an agreement on one side, alleged to be conclusive
upon every matter 'complained of in the bill; on the 'other, to beinvalid for the reasons alleged. If this matter of the plea is sufficient
in law,/.and true in fact, it ends the' cause; if not so in both respects,
then the parties are thrown back on their original rights, according
to their respective claims to the territory in question; by charters,
or purchase friom the Indians. If, then, we can act at all on the
case, we must, on this state of the,pleadings, decide on the legal sufnciency of the plea, if true, as on a demurrer to it; next, on"the 'truth
of its averments; and then decide whether it bars .the complaint of
the plaintiff, and all relief: if it does not, then we must ascertain the
thct on which the whole controversy turns. In the first aspect of
the case, it presents a question of. the most common ,and.undoubted
jurisdiction of a court of' equity;' an agreement Which' the defendant
sets up as conclusive to bar'all relief, and the-plaintiff, asks to be
declared void, on grounds of the most, clear and appropriate cognizance in equity. and not cognizable-in a c06urt of law., A false re,
presentation made by otte party, confided in by the other, as- to a
fact On which the whole cause depends; the execution of the agreement, and all pioceedings under it, founded on a mistaken. belief 6f
the truth of the fact represented. We must, therefore, do'something
in the cause, unless the defendants have, in their objections, made
out this to be an exception to the usual course of equity, in its action
on questions of boundary.

'736

SUPREME COURT.
[Thi State of Rhode Island v. The State-of Massachusetts.]

It is said that this is a political, not civil controversy between the
parties; and so not within the constitution, or thirteenth section of
the judiciary act.
As it is viewed by the Court, it is on the bill alone, had it been
demurred to, a controversy as to the locality of a point three n-iles
south of the sontbernmost point of Charles river; which is the only
question which can, arise under the charter. Taking the case oft the
bill and llea, the question is, Whether the. stake set up on Wrentham Plain, by Woodword and Saffrey, in 1642, is the true point
from which. to run an east and west line, as the compact boundary
between the states. In the first aspect of the case,_it depends on"a
fact; in the second, dn the law of equity, whether the agreement is
void or valid: neither of which present a political
controversy, but
one, of an ordinary judicial nature, of frequent occurrence in suits
'between individuals. This controversy, then, cannot be a politieal
one, unless it becomes so by the effect of the settlement of the boundary; by a decree on the fact, or the agreement; or because the contest is between states as to political rights and power, uncofinected
with the original, or compact boundary.
We will not impute to the ,men who conducted the colonies .at
hbme, and in congress, in the three declarations of their rights previous to the consummation of the revolution, from 1774, to 1776,
and its final act, by a declaration of the rights of the states, then announced to the world; an ignorance of the effects of territorial boundary between them, in both capacities. Every declaration of the
old congress wou:d be falsified, if the line of territory is held not to
have been, from the first, the line of property and power. The
cdngress, which, in 1777,'framed and recommended the articles of
confederation for adoptiob, by the legislative power of the several
states; were acting in a spirit of fatuity, if they thought that a final
and conclusive judgment on state boundaries, was not equally decisive as to the exercise of political power by a state; making it rightful within, but void, beyond the adjudged line.
The members of the general and state conventions, were alike
fatuitous, if they did, not comprehend, and know the effect of the
states submitting contr'oversies between themselves, to judicial power; so were the members of the first congress of the constitution, if
they could see, and not know, read, and not understand its plain provisions, when many of them assisted in its frame.
The founders of our government could not but know, what has

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

737

[The State of.Rhode Island v. The State of Massa'chusetfi.]

ever been, 'and is familiar to every statesman and jurist, that all c ntroversies between nations, are, in this sense, political, and not judicial, as none but the sovereign' can settle them. In the declaration
of independence, the states: assumed their equal station among the
powers of the earth, and assdrted that they could of right do, what
other independent states could d6; " declare war, make peace, contract, allianees;' of cossequence, to settle their controversies witha
foreign power, or' among themselves, whitii no state, and no'power
could do' for them, They did contract an alliance with France, in
1'78; and with each other, in 1781: the object'of both was tn defenid and secure their asserted rights as .tates; but they surrendered
to congress, and its appointed Court, the right and power of settling
their mutual 'controversies; thus? making them judicial questios,
whether they arose on "boundary, jurisdiction, or any .other cause
whatever." There is neither the authority', of law or, reason for the
position, that boundary between nations or states, is,' in its nature, any
more a political question, than any other subject on which they may
,contend. None can be settled Without War or treaty, which is by political power; but under the old )nd new confederacytihey could and
can be settled by a court constituted by themselves, as their own,
,substitutes, authorized to do that for states, which' states Aone could
do before. W are thus' pointed to the true. boundary line between
political and judlcial power, and questions, A sovereign deicides
by his own will, which is the supreme law within his own boundary;
6 Peters, 714; 9 Peters, 748; a court, or judge, decides according to.
the law prescribed by the sovereign power, and thatlaw is the rule
for judgment. The submission 'by the sovereigns, or states, to a
court of law 0r 'equity, of -a cntitoveroy between them, without prescribing any rule of decision, gives: power to decide according to the
appropriate law. of 'the case; 11 Ves. 294; which ,depends on the
subject matter, the source pnd nature of the claims of the parties, and
the law which governs them. From the time of such submissio6,
the question ceases to be apolitical one, to be decided by the sic volo,
sic jubeo, of political power; it, comes to the court to be decided
by its judgment, legal'discietion, and solemn consideration of the
rules of law appropriate to its nature as a judicial question, dependin'g on the exercise of judicial power; as it is bound to act by, known
and'settled principles of national or municipal jurisprudence, as the
case requires.
It has never been contended that 'prize Courts of admiralty jurisVOL. XII.-5 A

738

SUPREME .CQURT.
[The State ot'Rhodeasland'v. The State of Massachusett.j

dietion, or questions bbfore them, are not strictly judicial; they deeideon questions of war and peace, the law of nano^S, treaties, aId
the muniaipal.laws of the capturing nation, by .which alone they are
'¢onstituted; a fortiori ,if .such courts, were 'constituted by a solemn
treaty between the state unler whose authority'the capture was mide,
and 'the, state whose, itizens or subjects suffer by the capture. All'
hafions spibmit to the. jurisdiction of' such cojurts over their subjects,
and hold.their final decrees/ conclrsive on rights'ofproperty. 6 Cr.
284-&.

These considerations lead to the definition, of political and judicial
power and qtiestiorls; {he former is that.which a sovereign or state
exerts. by his or its own ahthorityi as teprisal and confiscation; 3 yes.
429. the latter, is, that which is'granutedto a court or judicial tribu.nal
So of,controvefsieshbetween ,states;, they are in their nature. political,
whenthe.sovereign or state reseryes :to:itself the right of deciding on
itj mfakes, it the "subject of .a treaty, to. be settled as between states
irdependent,'" or "the foindation of, represenmtaions from state to
stqte."
This is political equity', to b adjuged by-the parties themselves,*as contradi'stiinguished from juaicial equity, 'admioitere byt
court of justice, decreeing 'the equumoet bonum of the case, let who or
what be 'the parties before them. 'These 4re the definitions Of laW as
made in the great Maryl nd case of Barclay y. 'Russell, 3 Ves. 436,i
as they have: long been settled:. rd established.. their correctness
'vil be(tested bya. reference to the question.of original 'boundary,
as it ev.er has been, andyet is by the constibtio.I of England;. which
was ours betore the revolhti4n, while eolonies; 8 Wheat., 588;. as it
was hee from 177.1 lo 1484, thence to 1788, and since by the contitution as 'expoundedby this Cour.
If the.question concerning the bouiidaries, of contigu'ou pieces of
land, manors; lordships, or counties 1%latine, arises within the, 'relm,
it wa cognizable in the highocorirt, of chancery, 'in an 'approiirte
case; a mere question of title'to any defined part, was cognizabl eonly
by ejectment': or real action in a court 9f ltaw, which were ,in either
case judicial questions. I Ves.'sei..4467., If between counts'Pala
tine, boundary involved not only- the: right of soil, but the highest
fan.hise known to the law of England, jura regdia%, to ,the same extent as the kig in right of the crown: and'royal jurisdictiin, Palatine jurisdiction was a qualified ev'ereignty, till abridged by the 24
H., 8. ch. 24, Seld.'.Tit. Hon, 380o,382, 638, 838; 1 Black. Commentaries, 108-17; 7 Co. 19; Cro. EL240; 4 D. C.. D; 450, &c;, The

ANUJARY TERM, 1838.
[The
h

.739

ta& oCRfode .s1a1nd-v. Tfie Btati 4Machusettij

count appointed

cthp.judges
ourts'of law :And equity; 'the king's

Writs-did not vun into his couaty; w'rits.wer'e: in his'n'me, and in
dictmenit against'his peadq, Co. Iist. 204-18. Yet his jqfriqdictioni

his royalties,, and jura regalia, &c., existed or disappeared, according as a chancellorshould decre as to boundary.' 'Pennv. Baltimore;
1 -Ves. sen. 448-9, &c, The king: had no jurisdictior over' boundary 'Within the realm, without he hid: it iaall 'his dominions, as the
absolute owner of the territory, from whom all title And power must,
flow; I BI. Com 241; Co. Litt, 1;' Hob. 322;. 7"..D.
76; Cowp.
205-11; 7 Co. i7, b,,as,the supreme legislator; save a limited ow~r
in parliament., He could make and ufmake boundaries in any partof his '4ominions, except in proprietary, provinces. He exercised
this power by treaty, as in 1763, by limiting the tolonies to the Mississippi, whose charters extended to the South sea: by proclamation,
which was a supreme law, as in Florida and Georgi a, 12 Wheat. 524;,
1 Laws'U. S. 443-51 by order in council, as between Massachusetts
and New Hampshire, cited 'inthe argument.:, But irf all cases it wa's
by his political power, which was competent t6 disineinber 'royal,
thougl it was not exercised on the'chartered or proprietary provinces. M'Intosh v. Johnson, 8 Wheat. 580. Ih council, the king
had no original judicial power, 1 Ves. sen. 447.. He decided on appeals from 'the colonial. courts, settled boundaries, in virtue of his
prerogative; where there was no agreement; but if there is a disputed
agreement, the king cannot decree on it, and therefore, the iouncil
remit it to be determined in another place, on the foot of the contract,
1 Ves. sen. 447. In virtue of his prerogative, where' there was no
agreement, .1Ves.. sen. 205, the king acts. not as a judge, but as the
sovereign acting by the advice of his counsel, the members 'whereof
do not and 'canhot sit as judgeS. B3y the statute 20 E. 3, ch. 1, it is
declared, that "the king hath delegated his whole 'judicial power fo
the judges, all matters of judicaturie according to the laws," 1 Ruff.
246; 4 Co. Inst. 70, 74: he had, therefore, none to extercise: and
judges, though members of council, did not .sit in judicature, but
merely as his advisers.
The courts had no jurisdiction over the colonies, persons or property therein, except in two cases; colonies and provinces being.corporations Under' letters patent, 3 Ves. 435, were amenable to the
king in thp king's bench, by quo warranto,'which is a prerogative
writ; and, a scire facias, in chancery, to repeal the letters patent, which
is a part of the 'statutory jurisdiction of that court in such cases, by

740

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode I'sland V. The, State of Massachusetts.]

the court in chancery, also in virtue of the royal prerogative, by
which the charter was made. But. chancery could not'.act on boundaries in the royal or chartered colonies:, it could act on lords proprietors 'of provinces, when they were- in the realm, where they Avere,
subjects; though in their provinces they, were sovereign, dependent
only on-the crown'and the general supremacy of parliament. Acts
of parliament did not bind them, unless extended to them expressly,
or by, necessary consequence, 2 Ves, sen. 351. They had- all the
powers of.'counts palatine, the absolute propriety of soil, and the powers of legislation; the onl3 restraint upon them wasby the powers
reserved to.the king by his letters patent, and allegiance to the crown
in matters of prerogative not granted. Th4e power of parliamer
-was,o1 the American principle of the revolution, confined to the
regulation of "external commerce;" though by the English tprinciple,
,it extended to all cases whatever, Yet sovereign as they were as to
all.things,'except those, relating to the powers of the king and parliament, chancery could and did-action agreements between them as to
their boundaries, in the case of Penn v. Baltimore;' though it could not
have done so had they stood at arms' length; in which case the king
in council -could alone have decided the original boundary on an appeal, 1.Ves. senw. 446. Chancery I also could' and .id decide on the
title to the Isle of Man, which was a feudal kingdom:' on a bill for
discovery of 'title, ielief as to rectories and tithes, which was a mete
'franchiseea plea to jurisdiction was overruled.- Derby v. Athol, 1
Ves. Sen, 202;. S, P. Bishop of Sodor & Man v. E. Derby, 2 Ves,
se.i. 337, 356.
In each of these cases, objections to -the jurisdiction were made
similar to those mhde in this, 'but were overruled; and neither the
authority or principles of either have been questioned- on 'the contrary, they have been recognised and adopted by all courts which
follow the course of the law ,of England; yet each involved the
same question as the present. In the first, the decree as to'boundary settled by coisequence the collateral and dependentqtestions
of title, jurisdiction, and sovereignty, of and over the disputed territory; in the two last, on a suit for rectories and tithes, the' title to a
feudal kingdom was but a dependent matter, and was settled by
deciding 'that the bishop had a right to the tithes be claimed. The
same principle was settled in the case of the Nabob of the Carnatic
v. The East India Company, though it is commonly referred to in
favour of a contrary position.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

741

The'State of Rhode Isla ind v. The Stateof MNssdachusetts.]

On the .original .pleadings, the, case was on a bill for an account
founded on two agreements.between the parties, in 1785, and .1787;
The defendants plead their rights and privileges under their charter,
with power to make peace and war within its limits; that the plaintiff was a sovereign prince; that the agreements Stated. in the bill
were inade with him in their respective capacities, one as an absolute,
the other as a qualified sovergign; and that the matters therein contained related to peace and war, and the security arid defence of their
respective territorial possessions.
The plea was considered( and. overruled by the chancellor; :thus
exercising jurisdiction to that extent. 1 Yes. ,371, 387, An answer
was then put in, containing the same matter as the plea, adding that
the agreements between the parties were treaties of a federal charactrb both being sovereigns;' and that the agreement of 1787 was
a final treaty; and, theixefore, the subject matters thereof were. cognizable by the law of nations not by a municipal court. The bill
was dismissed on .this ground: "It is a case of mutual treaty between
persons 'acting, in that instance, as states independent of each other;
and the circumstace. that the East India Company are mere subjects
with relation', to this country, has nothing to do with that.
That
state,
independeit
as
a
neighbouring
with
them
treaty was entef'ed into
and is -the samle as f it was a treaty between -two sovereigns;, and
consequently, is not a subject of municipal private jurisdiction. ' "
It thus is manifest, ihat if, the answer had beeR to the merits, there
must have been a'decree: the dismission resultel from the new
matter added, as is evident frpm the opinion of the chancellor orLthelea; and of lord commissioner Eyre oni the answer, and his closing
remarks, in which he declares; "that the case was considered wholly
independent of the judgment on. the plea, and was decided on the
answer, which introduced matters showing that it was not mercantile
in its nature. but poltical; and therefore the decision stood wholly
clear of the judgment on the plea." 2 Ves. jr. 56, 60.
That a foreign sovereign may sue in an English court of law or
equity, was settled in cases brought by the king of Spain, Hob. 113.,
That a foreign government may sue in chancery, by .such agents-as
it authorizes to represent them, on whom a cross bill can be served,
with such process as will compel them to do justice to the defendant,
was decided in the Columbian Government v. Rothschild, 1 Sim.
104. These cases were recognised in The King of Spain v. Machado,
by the house of lords; who held that a king had the same right to

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Islandv. The State of Masaohuetta.]

sue as, any other person, but that when he did sue in chancery it
was aWany other suitor, who sought or submitted to its jurisdiction;
that it could decide on tho construction and validity of 'the treaties
between France and the allied sovereigns of Europe in 1814;, and on
the validity 'of a private and separate. treaty between France and
Spain.
The case involved both questions; both were fully considered by
the -lords, in affirming 'the 'decree of the chancellor, overruling the
demurrer., 4 Russell) 560; which assigned for cause that the plaintiff
had niot made out a case for any'relief in acour--of equity, for the
reasons assigned in the argument: that a f6reign sovereign could
not sue in yirtue'of. his prerogative rights; that an English ,court
would hot enforce these rights, accruing out of a treaty with France,
which was inco'nsistent with the existing relations between each of
those -countries, (France and, Spain,) and the king of England. '2
Bligh.. P.,C. new Series, 31, 44, 46, 50, 60.
,The court of.king's bench also will consider the effect of the declaration of:independence And treatyof peace, in an action on a bond.
F&olliottv.Ogden, J D & E, 730.
From. this view of the law of England the results are clear, that
thJ' settlement of. boutidaries- by the king in council, is by his prerogdtive; whichL is political power, acting on a political, questioi
between dependent corporations or proprietaries, in his dominions
without the realm.. When it is done in 'datcery, it is by its judicial jower, in " judicature according to the law," and necessarily a
judicial question, whethe it relates to the boundary of provinces,
according to an agreement between the owners, as Penn v. Baltimore; the title to a'feudal kingdom, in a suit appropriate to equity,
where.the feudal king appears and pleads, as in the' case of the Isle
of ]Man; or on an agreement-between a foreign sovereign and the East
India Company, in their mere corporate capacity. But when the
the agreement
company assumed the character of a sovereign, assert
to be'a 'federal treaty," between them and fhe plaintiff, as neigh.bouring Sovereigns, each independent, and the subject matter to be
peace and war, political in- its nature, on which no municipal court
can act by the law of nations, chancery has no jurisdiction but to
dismiss the bill. -Not because it is founded, on a treaty" but' because
the defendant, refused to submit it to judicial power: for, had the
Company not made the objection, by their answer,'the court must
have proceeded as in The King of Spaih v- Machado, and decreed on

JANUARY TERM,, 1838.

743

[The State of Rhode Island'v. The State of Massachusetle].

the validity, as well as the construction of'the treaties. The court,
in one case, could not forte a sovereign'defendant to subanit the
meritso0fthe case to their cognizance; but in the ofier, when he was
plaintiff, and a subject was a defendant, who appeared and ple d, the
whole subject matter of the pleadings was decided ,by judicial power,
as a judicial question; and such has been, and is-the settled .course of

equity in, England.
In'the.colonies, there was no juditial tribunal which could 'settle
boundaries between, them; for the court of une could not adjudicate
on the rights of another, unless as a plaintiff. The only power to do
it remained in the king, where -there was no agreementS and in
chancery, where there was one, and the paries appeared;' so that the
question was partly political And'partly judicial, and so -remained till
the declaration of independence.

Then the states, being indepen-

dent, reserved to themsblves the power of settling their own boundaries, which was necessarily apurely political matter, and so continued
till 1781., Then the states delegated the whQlepower over contro
verted boundaries to congress, to appoint and its court to decide, as
judges, and ve a fina sentence and., judgment upon it, as. a judicial
questioh, settled by a specially appointed judicial power, as the
substitute of thb king in council, and the court of chancery in a

-proper case; before the .one as a political, and the other as a judicial
question.
Then came -the constitution, which divided the power between
the political and jddicial departments, after incapacitating the states
from settling their controversies' upon any subject, by treaty, compact, or. agreement; and completely reversed the long establishect
course of the laws of England. Compacts. and agreements were
referred to the politieal,. controversies to the judicial power. This
presents this part of the case in a very simple and plain aspect. All
the states have transferred the decision of their controversies to
this Court; each had a right to demand of it the exercise of the
power which they had made judicial .by-the confederation of 1781
and 1788; that we should do that which' neither states or congress
could do, settle the controversies between them. We should forget
our high duty, to declare to litigant states that we had jurisdiction
over judicial, but not the power to hcr and determine political con,
troversies: that boundary was of a political nature, and, not a civil
one; and dismiss the plaintiff's bill from our records, without even
giving it judicial consideration.. We should equally forget the dic-

744

JSUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v, The State of Massachusetts.]

tate reason, tfe known rule drawn by fact and law; that'from the
pature of a cont, Dversy hetween kings orstates, it cannot be judicial;
that where they reserve 'to themselves' tht final decision, it: is of
necessity by their inherent .political power' not that which has, been
delegated to the judges, as, matters -of judicature, according to the
law. These rules and principles have, been. adopted, by this Court
from a very'ear'ly period.
In 179, it Was laid*down, that though a state could not sue at law
for an ibcorporeal right, as.that of soVereignty. and jurisdiItion; there
was no reason why a remedy could not be had in equity., Thatone
state may file a bill against another,'to be. quieted as to the 'boyuidariesof' disputed territory, and this Court might.appoint comphis,
siners to ascertain anid report them; since it is monstrous to talk of
esisting rights,.without-,cdirespondeit'romedies. 3,Dall. 410. In
New Jersep v. Wilson, the. only, qtiestion in the case. was, whether
Wilson 'held, ertain.lands eempt from taxation.. 7,Cr. 104.. In
Cohens v.-,Virgiiia, the Court held,, that the judicial power of6th6
United States ..must be %capable of deciding any jaidicial question
groving outof,;he cdrstitution arid laws. That An one class of cases,
"the character' of the parties is every thing, the' nature of the case
nothing;" in the' other, 1"the nature of the case is-every thing,'the
ch ar cter of the parties nothing.'7 . That the clause. relating t,cases
in law or equityjarising under the constitution, laws, and treaties,
nakes no enception in terms, or regards "the. condition of the party.' '
If there be any exception, it is'to be.implied against the express
words of the article. In the second class,'"the jurisdiction'depends
entirely on the charaater of the parties,'" comprehending "controversies between two or more states.?' "If thlese be the parties, it is
entire.ly unimportant what may be the 'subject of:controversy. Be
it what it may, these parties, have a constitutional right to comeP into
the, ourts'of, the Union." 6 Wh. 378, 384,1392-3.
In the following cases it will appear, that the course of the' C6urt
'on the subject of boundary, has been in 'accordance with l the foregoing rules; let the question arise as it may, in a case in equity, or a
ease in-law, of a civil or criminal nature; and whether:it affects the
rights'of Individuals, of states, or the United States, and depends on
eharters,'laws, treaties, compacts, or cessions which relate to boundary.
In Robinson v, Campbell, the suit involved the construction of the
compact 6f boundary "between Virginia and North Carolina, made in
1.802 and turned on the question, whether the land in: controversy

JANUARY TERM,. 1838.

745

[The: State of Rhode Island v. The State,:of
Massachusetis.]

was always: within thei original limits of *Tennessee, which the Court
decided. 3 Wh. 213 218, 224. 'The'United States v. Bevan, was
an indictment for murder; the questibns-ceti'fied for the opinion, of
his Court Were: 1st, whether the place at wb ich' the 6ffence was
comitted, was withinthe jurisdiction of 'Massachusetts;. arid 2d,
whetherit was committed within the jurisdiction of the circuit court
of that district. It was 'considered and decided, as a question of
'boundary, 3 Wh. 339, 386, as before stated . In Burton v,Williams,
the case involved a collision of interest 'between North Carolina,
Tennessee, and the 'United Sthtes, unader 'the cessions by the former
to the two latter, in Which this Court reviewed all the acts of congress and of 'the two states 0A the subject, and the motives of the parties, to ascertain Whether the easus fawderis' had' ever arisen. The
ease'a~so involved t],e construction of the compactbetween Tennessee ahd: the UThited States, niade i4 1806. The Court 'use fthis lahggage' in relation 'to, it: ,' The members of the American family
possess 'ample 'means of defence under the constitution, which we,
hope ages to come will'verify. But happily for our domestic harmony, the power of aggressive operation against each other'is taken,
away." It is difficult, to i'agine What other means of defence existed in such .a case, u'nleIs those .which the Court adopted) by construirg 'the acts recited, as thh 'cntracts, of independent states, by'
those rules ,which regulate contracts relating to territory and boundary. 3 Wh.'529,. 533,538. 'In De La Croix v,Chamberlain, it was
held, that "a question of disputed boundary'btween two sovereign;
in4ependeqt nations, is -indeed 'more propely a subject for' diplomatic'discussion and of treaty, than of judicial investigdtion. If the
"UnitedStates fnd Spain had settled this dispute by treaty, before
the United States extinguished -.
the cfaim 'f Spain to the Floridas,
the boundary fi'xed by Such treaty would have concluded all patties." 12 Wh. 600. Accordingly,.in Harcourt v. Gailliard, which
arpse on a BritiSh grant made in 1777, the Court decided th6 ease
b reference to the treaty of '1763, the acts of the king before the
•revolution, 'the effect of the declarationof, .independence. and treaty
of 'peace -in, 178'3, in: order to asceitaih the original 'boun'dary between Florida and Georgia; on which the whole case turned. 12
Wh-. 524. 'In 'Henderson v. Poindexter, the same point arose, and the
same course was taken; the treaty of boundary.'with Spain'in 175
was also considered by,the Court;.as well, as the cession 'by Georgia
to the United States in 1802, and the various acts of congress on the
VOL. XII.-5 B

746

SUPREME COURT.
[Thei State of Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.)

subject. 12 Wh. 530, 534, &c. Jn Patterson v. Jehckes, the title
depended on the boundary between Georgia and the Cherokees; and
the only question was, as to the territorihl1 limits of the' state, according to the treaties with them and that state, which the Court defined,
and decided accordingly. 2 Peters, 225-7, &c. So they had previously done in various cases, arising on the boundary between
North Carolina and the Cherokees.. I Wh. 155; 2 Wh. 25; 9 Wh.
673; liWh.380. In Foster & Elam v. Neilson, two questions
arose,- 1. On the boundaryof the treaty of 1803, ceding Louisiana
to the United States, as it was before the cession of the Floriias by
Spain, by the treaty of 1819: 2d. The construction of the eighth
article of that treaty. :Both claimed the territory lying north of a
line drawn east from the lberville, and extending from the Mississippi to the Perdido. Thetitle .to the. land claimed by the parties
depended on the right'of Spain to grant lands within the disputed
territory, at the date of the Spanish grant to the'plaintiff, in 1804.
He,claimed under it, ag being then within the territory of, Spainand confirmed absolutely by the treaty of cession: the defendant
rested on his possession. On the first question, the Court held, that
so long-as the United States. contested the boundary, it was to, be
settled by the two governments, and. not by'the Court; but if the
boundary had'been 'settled between France while she held Louisiana,
and Spain while she, held Florida, or the .United. States aad Spain
had 'agreed, on the boundary after 1803; then the Court could decide
it as a.matter bearing directly on.the. title :of the plaintiff. On the.
eeond question,- they ,held, that as the' government had -upto that
timeconstrued the eighth article of the. treaty of 1819, to be a mere
stipulation for the future confirmation of previous gra'ts by'Spain,
to be made by some legislative act, and not a present confirmation,
absolute and final by the mere force of the treaty itself, as :a supreme
law of the- land, the Court was bound:not to give a different ,construction., On that construction, the question Was, by whom 'the confirmation should be made: -the Court'held the words of the treaty to
be the language of -contract,.to be executed by an act of the legislatur.e, of course by political power; to be exercised by the congress at
its discretion; on which the. Court could not act. But the Court'
distiadtly recognised the distinction, between an executory treaty, as
a mere contract between nations, t6 be carried into execution by the
sovereign power of the respective'parties, and an executed treaty,
effecting of itself the object to be accomplished, and defined .the line

JA-NUARY TEA'M, 1838.
[The, State Of -Rhode Island v. The State of Massachusetts.]

between them thus: .",Our; cpnstitution declares a treaty, to be the
law of'the land. It is conseluentjy tobe regarded in courts of'justice, as eqivalent to an act of the legislature, whenever it operates
of itself without the aid of any legislitive prQvision. But when the
terms of the stipulation import acontract; when either of the parties stipulate to perform a,particular act; the treaty addresses itself
to the political, not to the judicial department; and the legislature
must expcute the contract, before it cati become a rule for the Court."
Adopting the construction given by'congress, and the b9 undary being
disputed, in 1804, when the grant was made, the Court considered
-both. to be politicai questions; and held them not to be cognizable
by judicial power. 2 Peters, 253, 299, 306, 30% 314, 315. All the
principles laid down in this case, were.fully considered and affirmed
in the United States v.Arredondo; which arose under an act of congress, itibmitting to this, Court the final decision of controversies
between the United States and all pdrsons claiming lands in Florida,
under grants, &c. .by Spain, and prescribing the rules for its decision, among which was the " stipulations of'any treaty," &c. Thus
acting under the authority delegated by congress, the Court held
that the construction of the eighth article of the treaty of 1819, by
its submission to judicial. power, became a judicial question; and' on
the fullest consideration, held, that it operited as a, perfect, present,
and, absolute. confirmation of all the, grants which come within its
provision. That no act of the political department remained. to be
done; that it was an executed treaty, the law -of the land, and a rule,
for the. Court." 6 Peters, 710,,735, 741, 742, 743. In the United
States v, Percheman, the .Court, on considering, the necessary effect
of this construction, repudiated that which had been given in Foster
In the numerous cases which
'& Elam.v. Neilson; 7 Peters, 89.
have arisen since, the treaty has been taken to be an ekecuted one,
a rule of title and property, and all questions arising under it to be
judicial; and congress has confirmed the action of the Court whenever, ecessary. In New Jersey v. New York, the Court were unanimous in considering the disputed boundary between these states, to
be within their original jurisdiction, and realfirming the jurisdiction
of the circuit courts, in cases between parties claiming lands under
grants from different states: the- only difference of opinion was on
one point, suggested by one of the judges, whether, as New York
had not, appeared, the Court could award compulsory process, or
proceed-ex parte; a point which does not arise inthis cause, and need

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Rhode Island v: The State of Ma.sachusetts.j'

not to be considered in its present stage; as Massachusetts has appeared and plead to the merits-of the bill.
If jldicial authority, is competent to. settle what is the line'between judicial and political power%and questions, it appears from this
view of the law, as administered in England and- flte courts of the
United States to have been, done without any one decision to the
contrary, from, the time, of Edward the Third. The statute referred to, operated liki our constitution to make all questions judicial,
which were submitted to judicial 'power, by the, parliament of England, the people or legislature of these states, or congress; and'when
this has been done by the constitution, in reference to disputed
boundaries, it Will be a dead letter if we did not exercise it now, as
this Court-has done in the. cases referred to.
The course of the argument made it necessary for the Court to
pursue that which has been taken. Having disposed. of the 'leading
objection to jurisdiction, we will examine the others.
It has -been 4rguedby the-defendant's counsel, that by the declaration of independence, Massachusetts became a sovereign state over
all, the territory in her possession, which she claimed by charter or
agreement; :inthe enjoyment of which she cannot be disturbed:
To this objection there aretwo obvidus answers: .Ipt. By the
third article of confederation, the states entered into a mutual league
for the defence of their sovereignty, their mutual and general welfare; being thus allies in the war of the revolution, a settled principle of the law of nations, as laid down by this Court, prevented one
12 Wh,
from making anyacquisition at the expense .of the other. -525-.
TIhis alliance continued, in war and peace, till 1788; when,'
2d: Massachusetts surrendered:the right to judge- of her own boundary, and submitted the power of deciding a controversy concerning
it to this Court. 6 Wh. 378, 380, 393.
It is said, that the people inhabitin'g the disputed territory, ought
to be made parties, as their rights are affected. It' might with the'
same reason be objected, that a treaty or compact settling boundary,
required the assent of fhe people to make it valid, and, that a decree
under ,the ninth article of,'confederation was,:void:; as the authority'
to mike it was derived from the legislative power-only. "The same
objection was 'overruled' in Penn v. Baltimore; and in Poole v,
Fleeger, this Court' decldred, that an agreement between states-,' consented to by 'congress, boupd the citizens of each' state. -There.are
two principles of the' law of nations, which would 'protect .them in

JANUARY TERM,

1838.

749

[The. Stat -of Rhod. Island v.,Tho State of Mass46huot ,1
their property :'. 1st. That grants by a government, defaicto, .f partp
of a disputed territory in, itSpossession, arv
valid against the sate
Which had the 'right. 12 Wh.-600,-.
2d. That' when a eritory
is acquired by treaty, cession, or even ,conquest, the rights '0 the.ihabitants to property,, are re~pected,. and sae d. 8 Wh. 5894 12
,Wh. 535; 6 Peters, .712; 7 Peters, 867;'8 Peters, 445; 9 Petort
133; 10 Peters, 330 718, &c.
It has, been contended, that Ihis Court. cannot proceed. ,i this,
cause, without sowe process 'and rule of. decision prescribed appropriate to the, case; but. no questioh on process 'dan arise on these
pleadings; lnbne is.now necessary, as the defendant has appeared, and
'plead, which plea in itself.makes the first point in the cause* Without
any additional proceeding;' that is, whether the plea, shall be allowed
if suffient in law to bar the complaint, or. be overruled, as not 'being a bar, in law, though true'n "fact. In, this state of the case ,itIis'
that of the Nabob v. The East India Company, where the plea was
overruled on that ground,, whereby' the defendant was- Iput,, to an.
answer, assigning additioial gronds,..to Austaina motion to digmiss;'
or 'if the plea is, allowed, the dbfendant must next prove the truth 'of
thb..matters set up. When 'that .is' done, the Court must decide ac,
cording. 'to the law of equity, 1 Ves. seir. 446, 203, whether the
agreement plead shallsettle, or leave the boundary-open toa settlement by, our judgment; according to the law of nations, the:charters
from the crOwn under which both. parties claim, as ,in 5 ,Wkeat.
375; by, the law of prescription, as claimed by the defendant, On the
same -principes which have been rules for the actiont of this Court in
th6case 1 Ves. sen. 453; 9 Peters, 760.
It 'i further, dbjected, that though the Gourt may render, they
cannot: exeute, a ,decree without an act of congress i4h aid.
In testing this:objection. by.:the -cominon law, there can be no dif.:
ficulty -in decreeing, as in Penn v. Baltixnore; mutatis mutanilis.
That the 'agreement. is valid, and, binding between the:parties; appointing commissioners .to ascertain and mark the line therein desig-"
nated; order their proceedings :to be returned, to the Court;' 3 Dall
412, note;1 decree that the parties should quietly hold, according to
the articles; that the citizens on:each side' oft,'the line., should be
hound. thereby, o far aid no farther than the states, could bind them
by a compact, with the assent of congress, (11 Peters 209;) 1 Yes.
sen, 455;' 3 Ves. sen., supplement by Belt. .195, 197. Or if any dif-.
ficujty should occur, do as declared in 1 Ves. Ser.; if the parties want

750

~

SUPREME COURT.

[Thi6 State of Rhodd Island:V. The State 6f Masachusetts.J

aoy thing more to be done, they must resort t atothdr jurisdictioi,
whichis appropriate to the cause of corhplaint, as the king's bench, or
the king in council. Vide United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch .115, 135,
case of Olmstead; make the decree without prejudice to the (United
States,) or any persons- whomth& parties 'could not bind. And in
case any person should obstruct the executibn of the agreement, the'
party to be at liberty, fron time to time, to aptl]y to the Court. .1
Ves. jr. 454; 3 Ves. sen. 195, 196.. Or. as the-only question is one
of jurisdiction, which the Court will not divide, they will retain the
bill, and direct the parties to a forum proper to decide collateral
questions. 1.Ves. sen. 204, 205 2.Ves. sen. 356, 357; 1 Vs.seq. 454;
Cranch, 115,.136., On the.other hand, should the agreement not
C
be held binding,. th Court will decree the boundary to be ascertained
agreeably to the charters, according to the altered circumstances of
the case; by which the boundary being estahlished' the rights of the
partie,will be adjudicated, and the party in whom it is adjudged
may enforce it by the process appropriate to the case, civilly -or eriminally" according to 'the laws of the state, in which the act which
violates the right is committed. In ordinary cases. of boundary,
the functions of 'acourt of equity consist in settling it by a final decree, defining and coifirning it when run. Exceptions, as they arise,
must be acted on according to the circumstances.
In Engand, -right will be administered to a subject against the
king, as a matter of grace; but notupon compulsion, not by. Writ,
but petition to the chancellor, 1 BI. 'Com.
243; ,fr no writ or pto.
Ces can issue against the king, for the plain reason given in 4'Co, 55,
a.,; 7 Com. Dig., by Day, 83; Prerog. D. 78; 8 Bl. Com. 255; "that,
the king canrnOt command himself." No execution goes out on a judgment or decree against him, on a; monstrans de droit'or petiltion,of
right, or traverse of an inquisition which had been taken in 'his favour,;
for this reason, that as the law gives him a prerogative for the benefit
of his subjects, 1 Bl Coin. 255, he is presumed never to do a wrong,
or refuse a right to a subject; he is presumed to have done the thing
decreed, by decreeing in hia courts that it shall be done; such decree
is executed by the lpw as soon as it is rendered; and.though process
is made out to make the record complete, it is never taken from the
office. Co. Ent. 196; 9 Co. 98, a.; 7 D. C. D. 8.3, The party in
whose favour a decree is made, for removing the lands of the king
from the possession of a subject, or declaring a seizure unlawful and
awarding a writ, de libertate, is, eo instanti, deemed to be in actual

JANUARY TERM. 1838.

751

[The State of Rhode Island v. The Stateof Massachusetts.]

possession thereof; so that a, feoffment, ,with livery of seisin, made
before it is actually taken, is as valid as if made afterwards. Cro. El.
5N.3; S. P. 463.
The same 'piinciple was adopted by the eminent jurists of the revolution, in the ninth article of' the 'confederatiorn, declaring that the
sentence of the Court in the cases provided for, should be final and
conclusive,,and with the other proceedings in the case, be transmitted to congress, ard lodged among their 'acts, forthe security of the
parties concerned, nothih'g further being deemed necessary. The,
adoption of this, principle, was indeed a necessary 'effect. of the revolution, which devolved on each, itate the prerogative of the king as
he had held it in the colonies; 4tWheat. 651; 8 Wheat. 584, 588;
and now holds it within the realm of England; subject to he. presumptions attached to it bythe common.Jaw, which gave, and by
which it must be exercised. This Court. cannot presume, that any
state which holds prerogative rights for the' good of its: ditizens and
by the constitution has agreed that tnose of any other state shai
enjoy rights, privileges, and immunities' in each, as. its own do,
would either do wrong, or deny right to a sister state or.its citizens,lor refuse to submit to those xlecrees of this Court, rendered
pursuant to its own delegated authority; when in a monarchy its
fundamental law declares that such decree. ;executes itself. When,
too, the' nighest courts of a kingdom have most'solemknly deqlared
that when the king is.a trustee, a court of chancery Will enforce the
execution of a trust by a royal trustee; 1 Ves. sen.. 458; and that
when a foreign king is a plaintiff, in a court of euuity, it can ddcompleteustice; impose any terms it thinks proper; has him in its power,
and completely under its control and jurisdiction -,2 Bligh. P. C. 57;
we ought not to doubt as to~the course of a state, of this Union; asa
contrary one would endanger its peace, if not its existenee. In the
case of Olmstead, this Court expressed its opinion that if state legislatures may annul the judgments of the courts of' the United States,
and the rights thereby atccquired, the constitution: becomes a solemn
mockery, and the nation 'is deprived of the means' of enforcing its
lawsi by its own tribunal. So fatal a result must be deprecated Yy
all; anid the people of every state must feel a deep interest in resisting ,principles so destructive of the Union, and in averting consequences so fatal to themselves. 5 Peters 115, 13.5.
The motion of the defendant is, therefore, 'overruled.-,

705

SIPREME COURT.
[Th 8tatb 4"fRhode Island v.. Thi ,Stat6 of

ssausett.i

t
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, 'dissenting
I dissent from the opinion of the Cotrt, upon:the motion to dismiss the bill. It has, I find, been the unifdrm practice in this Court,
for the justioes who. differed from- the Court "n constitutional questions, to expresstheilr dissent. In conformity to this usage, I proceed
to 'state' briefly the principle on which I .differ, but do notin this
stage of the. proceedings, think it necessary to enter -fully into the
reaso4ing upon, which my opinion is founded,. The final, hearing of
'the casi. wihen all, the fact's are before'the.Court; would be a more fit
ofsion for examiiing. various points stated in the opinion of tlke
Uburt; ihnwhichIdo:.Ot concur.
tdo 'not doubt,the' pobwer ofthis-Court to 'hear and determine,a
controversy' between states,, or between individuals, in relation to
the boundaries of the states, where the suit is brought to try a right
of' property in-the soil, or any other right Which is properly the subject- of juaicial cognizance and decision, and which. depends upon the
trud boundary line
But'the powers given to the courts of the Ijnited States"by: the
constitution are jdicial powers;, and extend, to those subjects, only,
Which 1r judicial. in their character; and' not -to those which,: are
,politicelo And whether the suit is between states oi" betwedti individuals, the, matter sued formust be one which isproperly the subject of:judicial. cognizance and control,.in order to givejurisdiction
to the Court to try anddecide'the rights-of the parties to the stift.
'The object of the bill filed by Rhode Island, as statedin the peayer,
isas follows: That the northern boundary; line between your com,
plainants aiid thestate of 'Mssaehusetts may;' by the order and decree of this, lionourable Court, be ascertained and established, and
that the rights of jurisdiction and sovereignty of your complainants
to -the whole tract of land, with the appurtenanoes mentioned,. described, and granted, in and by.the said charter or letters patent to
the said colony of Rhode Island and Provid'ence Plantations, hereitbefore set forth' and running on the north, an, east and west line
drawn three miles south of the waters of said Charles river; or of any
or every, parttherof, may be restored and confirmed to your com,plainants, and your complainants may be quieted in the full and free
enjoyment of her jurisdiction' and. sovereignty over the same; and
the title, jurisdiction, and sovereignty of the said state of Rhode Island!
and'Providence Plantations over the same, be -confirmed and esta-.
blished by the decree of thit honourable. Court; and that your com-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[The Stte of Rhod6 Island v. The Stateof MaSSathusetts.]

plainants 'may have such other and' further relief in the premises as
to this honourable' Court -shall 'seem meet, and consistent with equity
and good conseiend.
It appears fr6m this statemefit of the object of the bill, that Rhode
'Island claims no right, of property in the soil of the territory, in controversy. The title to the land is not in dispute between herand
Massachusetts. The subject matter which Rhode IslAnd seeks to
recover from Massachisetts, in'this suit,' is, "sovereignty and jurisdiction," up. to the boundary'line described in, her bill. And she
'desireS to establish this line as the true boundary between the states,
for the-purpose of showing that she is entitled to recover from IMass'achusetts the sovereignty and jurisdidtion which Massachusetts now
'holds over the 'territory in, question.' Sovereignty and jurisdiction
ate not matters of property; for the allegiance in the disputed territory cannot be. a matter of property. Rhode Island, therefore, sues
for political rights. They are 'he, only matters in controversy, and
the only things to be recovered; and'if she succeeds in this suit, she
will recover politibal rights over the territory in question, which are
now withheld from her by Massachusetts.
Contests for rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction between states
over any particular territory, are not,'in my, ju4gment,'t he subjects
of judicial cognizance and control,, to be recovered and enforced in
an ordinary sui,; and are, thereford, not w 1thin the grant of judicial
power contaiiied in' the constitution.
Irl the case of Ncw 'York v. Connecticut, 4 Dallas, 4, in the note
Chief 'ustice Ellsworthsays, " To have the benefit of the agreement
bet~ween the :states, the defendants below, who are the settlers of New
York, must ap lyto a court of equity, as well as the state herself;
but in no 'cAse'can a specific'performahce be decreed, unless there is
a substantial right of Soil, not a mere right of poIitical jurisdiction; to
be protected and enforced,"
In the case of The Cherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia, 5
Peters, 20, Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinioft of the
Court, said: ",That part of the bill which respects the land occupied
by the Indians, and prays the 'aid of the Court to protect their possession, may be more doubtful; The mere question of right might,
perhaps, be decided by this Court, in a, proper case, with' proper parties. But the Court is asked to do more than decide on the title.
The bill requires us to control the legislation of Georgia, and to restrain the exertion of its physical f6rce. The propriety of such an
VOL. XII.-5 C

754

SUPREME COURT.
[Th6 State of Rhode -Island v.-The State of Massachusetts.]

interposition by the Court may be well questioned, It savours too
much of the exercise of political power to be Within the proper
province of the judicial department. But the opinion on'the point
respecting parties makes it unnecessary to decide this question."
In the case before the. Court, we are called on to protect' and enforce the "mere political jurisdiction" Of, Rhode Island; and the
bill of the complaifnant, in effect, asks us'to "' control the iegislature
of Massachusetts, and to restrain the exercise of its physical force"
within the dispiltedterritqry. According to the opinions above referred to, these questions do not belong to the judicial: department.
This construction of the constitution is, in miyjudgmentthe true
one; and I therefore think the proceedings in. this case ought to be
dismissed for want, of jurisdiction.
Mr. Justif e BAR3ouR said; that he concurred in the result. of the
opinion in this case. That' this Court had jurisdiction. to settle the
disputed bounda'ry:between the two states, litigant 'before it. But he
wished to be understood, as not adopting all the reasoningby which
the Court had arrived -at its conclusion.
Mr. Justice STORY did not sit in this case.

On considerition of the motion made by Mr.. Webster :on. a-prior
day of the present term of-this Court, to wit, on Monday the, l15th
day of January, A. D. 1838, to dismiss the.complainant's bill filed
in this case for want of jurisdiction, and 'of the arguments of couisel
thereupon had, as well in support- of, as against the' said. motion: It.
is now here ordered and adjudged, by this Cort, that the said motion be, and the same is hereby overruled.

