JANUARY TERM,-1838.

ANDREW

D. -IEPrURN, PLAINTIFF

IN ERR6R V. JACOB

345

DuBoIs, LES-

SEt 'oF'OLIVER S. WOLCOTT.
The deed of a feme covert, conveying her interest in lands which she owns in fee,
does not pass her interest, by the force of its execution and delivery, as in the
common case of a deed by a person under no legal incapacity. In such cases, an
acknowledgmefit gives no.additional effect between the parties to the deed. It
operates only as to third ,persons, under the provisiong of recording and kindred
laws, The law presumes a femb covert to act under the coercion of her husband;
unless before a court of record, a judge, or some commissioner in Englahd, by aseparate acknowledgment, out bf the presence of her husband, or, in these states,
before some court, or judicial officer authorized to take and cbrtify such acknowledgment, the contrary appears.
Where the evidence in a cause condhces to prove a fact In issue before a jury, if it
is competent in law, a jury may infer any fact from such evidence, which the law
authorizes a cour$ to infer on a d murrer to evidence. After a verdict in-favour
of either party on the evidence, he has a right to demand of a court of error that
they look to the evidence only for one purpose, with the single' eye to .ascertain
.whether it was competent in law to authorize the jury to find the facts which
made out the right of the party, on apart or the whole of his 'case. if, in its judgment, the appellate court shall hold that the -evidence was competent, then they
must found their; judgment on all such facts as were legally inferrible therefrom;
inthe same manner, and with the same legal results as if they had been definitely
set out in a special verdict. So, on the other hand, the finding of a jury on the
whole evidence in a cause, must be taken as negativing all the facts in which the
party against whom their verdict is given, has attempted to infer from, or establish
from the evidence.
The decision of the Court in the case of Dubois' Lessee v. Hepburn, 10 Peters, 1,
affirmed.

ERROR from the district court of the United States, for the western
-

district of Pennsylvania.

This was an action of ejectment instituted by the defendant in error, for a tract of ]and, situated in Lycoming county, Pennsylvania
suirveyed under a warrant to Joseph Fearon, and patented to him on
the 19th September, 1796. The case was before ,the Court on a
writ of error, 'prosecuted by the plaintiff in the ejectment, at January
term, 1836, and is reported in 10 Peters, 1.
Joseph Fearon died seised and possessed bf this tract of land, at
Philadelphia, in April, 1810 His heirs and legal representatives
were the children of his two brothers, Abel Fearon, and William
Fearon; both Abel an] William having died in the lifetime of Joseph
VOL. XII.--2 X

346

'SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

Fearon. The children of Abel Fearon were, Robert Fearon, of the
city of Philadelphia, since deceased . Joseph Fearon, of Northurvberland county, Pennsylvania; Sarah Fearon, since intermarried with
Christopher Scarrow, residing at the time of the death of Joseph
Fearon, in England; Elizabeth Fox, afterwards intermarried with
Joseph Fox, then residing in England, and afterwards in Philadelphia. The children of William Fearon were, John Fearon, formerly
residing in Centre county, Pennsylvania, since deceased; .William
Fearon, also residing in Centre county; James Fearon, residing in
Philadelphia; .Sarah Fearon, intermarried with Robert Quay, residing in Lycoming county, Pennsylvania; and Nancy Fearan, intermarried with Samuel Brown, residing in Centre coutnty, Pennsylvania. By deed of partition, dated the 12th and 26th days of March,
1825, William Fearon's heirs made, on their part, partition of the
real estate of Joseph Fearon, between the two branches of the family
of Joseph Fearon; and by that deed, the tract of land for which this
ejectment was brought. No. 5615, was allotted, inter alia, to the heirs
of Abel Fearon. The deed of partition from the heirs of Abel Fearon, to the heirs: of William Fearon, was executed on the 2th
-March, 1825, by Joseph Fearon, in person, and by Elizabeth Fearo, and Christopher Scarrow, and Sarah, his wife, by power of attorney to John Curwen, and John Wilson. The power of attorney
was dated on the 1 th day of February, 1811. The privy examinationof Mrs. Scarrow to the power of attorney, was not taken. On
the I Sth November, 1827, a partition was made by the heirs of Abel
Fearon, by which partition of the part of the estate 6f Joseph Fearon, conveyed to them by the heirs of William Fearon was made.
The deed of partition was executed by Joseph Fearon, Jacob Fox,
and Elizabeth Fox, in person, and by Christopher Scarrow and
Sarah Scarrow, by their attorney, Nathaniel Nunnelly. The power
of attorney to Nathaniel Nunnelly, was dated on the 25th June, 1828,
without the privy examination of Mrs. Searrow. This power of attorney was ratified and confirmed, with the privy examination of Sarah
Scarrow, on the 8th September, 1832, by Christopher and Sarah
Scarrow. The premlses for which the ejectment was instituted,
were, by .these conveyances and confirmations, vested in Joseph
'Fox and wife; who, by deed of 16th April, 1830, conveyed the
same to'Benjamin E. Valentine; from whom they'afterwards came,
by, regular conveyances, to the lessor of the plaintiff in the ejectment.

JANUARI, TERM, 1838.

34-7

[Hepburn v. Dubois.]
The plaintiff- in error, the defendant in .the 'district court, claimed
the tract of land for which, the ejectment was brought, under a sale,
.of the same for county and road taxes for the year 1825, made
under the laws of Pennsylvania, amounting; together, to one dollar
and ninety-five cents.. The county tax was assessed prior to-the 1st
of February, 1825.; the road tax was assessed .on the 29th April,
1825.. On the 12th June, 1826,the-tract No. 5615, was sold to the
defendant for the sum of five dollars and fiftytwo cents, the amount
of the taxes and the -costs; and on the 15th- July, 1826, the. same was
conveyed by deed to the defendant by Mr. Browi,,treasurer of the
county.
The plaintiff below, to-oveithrow the tax title of the defendant,
gave in evidence an, offer to redeem the p1'operty sold for taxes;
which oiler was made by Robert Quay, jr., acting for and under the
directions of his father, Robert Quay, Esq., within. two years after
the sale -for taxes, The treasurer of the county refused to receive
the.amount of the taxes from Robert Quay, jun., so representing his
father, Robert Quy, Esq., alleging that Robert Quay was not- the
owner of the land, and that by the law of Pennsylvania, no one but
the owner or his authorized agefit, could receive land, sold for taxes.
The cause was tried in October, 1836, and a verdict- was given for
the plaintif,,under the charge of the court.. The defendant excepted
to the charge of. the court, and prosecuted this writ of error.
On the trial of the cause in the district court, the counsel for the
plaintiff in the ejectment irequested the court to charge the jury:
1st 'That the law authorizing the redemption of land sold fc'r
taxes, (viz, the law of Pennsylvania, passed the 3d of April, 1804,
and its several supplements,) ought to receive .1 liberal and benign
construction,. in favour of those whose estate will be otherwise
divested.
2d. "That under the gaid law any person has a rigirt-to redeem
-unseated lands sold for taxes, by a payment of the tax, costs, and per
centage, within the time -named in the said acts.
3d. That any person having, or believing himself to have, an interest in the lands so sold, has a right'to redeem the same within
the time named in the said acts.
4th. That any person having the charge of such lands from the
owner during his life, after his decease,-intestate, and withot a countermand of such charge, has a right to redeem such ldnds so sold,

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

5th. That any person being a tenant in common of the land so
sold, has a right to redeem.
6th. That the deed of partition, dated the 26th March, 1825, in
evidence in this cause, did not take effect as a divestiture of the
estate of Robert Quay and wife, in the -land claimed in this ejectment, tract No. 5615; until the same was consummated by its ratifidation by Christopher Scarrow'and wife, by their deed, on the 8th
September, 1832: the said Robert Quay, in right of his wife, was a
tenant in common of the said tract, No. 5615, and had a right, in
May, 1828, to redeem the same from the sale for taxes.
7th. ,That the refusal of the treasurer to receive the redemptionmoney for lands so sold for taxes, is equivalent to, and dispenses
with a tender of the same.
The court instructed the jury as requested in the plaintiff's first
proposition. The instruction asked in the second proposition was
refused. On the..third proposition;the court said: Any person haying at interest in land so sold, has a right to redeem the same within
the, period named in the act; but a mere opinion, without right or
having an interest. confdrs no power to redeem.
The -court refused the instruction asked in the fourth proposition;
and in answer to the fifth proposition, said: A tenancy in common, or any other interest in the land, legal or equitable, confers a
right to redeem. The court gave the instruction asked in the sixth
and seventh propositions.
The counsel for the defendant requested the court to instruct the
jury as f6llows:
1st. That by the legal construction of the several letters of attorney, and the raifications and confirmations thereof, and of the various
deeds given in evidence in the trial of this cause, Robert Quay, at
the period of the sale of this tract of land to A. D. Hepburn, and at
the time the alleged offer to redeem was made; had, neither in law
nor ihequity, a right to the possession, enjoyment, or ownership, or
a right of entry to the land in controversy; and could not make a
legal offer to redeem, vhich would avoid the title of the defendant,
unless he was the authorized agent of the owner.
2d. That the partitions of 1825, being executed by the duly authorized attorneys, in fact, of Christopher Scarrow and wife, and Elizabeth Fearon and Joseph Fearon, representatives of Abel Fearon, in
conjunction with the heirs df William Fearon, and possession having

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Hpburn v. Dubois.]

been taken in accordance with the deeds; are binding on all the
parties, and valid.
3d. That, at all events, said partition was, binding on Mrs. Scarrow during her coverture; and could only be avoided, if at all, by
her or her heirs oln the death of her husband, no other person having the right to object thereto- and she having ratified and confirmed
it during coverture, the plaintiffs, or Robert Quay, cannot impeach
the Validity of the said partition, as of the date of 12th March,
1825.
4th. That it is not necessary for a feme covert to acknowledge an
agreement, or power to make partition, under the act of .he 24th
February, 1770, of lands which descend to her in Pennsylyania,
where the partition is equal.af laW: being compelled to make partition, she can do so amicably.
5th. That Quay, and Fox and wife, and their alienees, are estopped from questioning the validity and consummation of the partitions in 1825, by their execution and delivery of the various deeds
and letters of attorney given in evidence on the trial of this cause.
6th. That the denial of the agency and ownership of Quay, by
Fox, and his right to redeem, if the jury believes Harris's testimony,
is conclusive; and precludes him, or his alienees, from subsequently
claiming any right by or through the acts of Quay, or his son.
7th. ,That on the legal construction of the act'of 1815, no person
has a right to redeem land sold for taxes but the owner, his heirs or
assigns, or legally authorized agent or representative. If the jury
believe that Quay was not the owner, or the agent of the owner, the
alleged offer to redeen made by him, or his son, are of no validity;
and the plaintiff cannot recover.
8th. That if Quay did not make the alleged offer to redeem as
owner, or agent of the owner of the land, but in fraud of the owner's
right, and for the object of benefiting himself by taking the timber
off and obtaining a right to the laiid; it would not divest the title of
the defendant.
9th. That the offer toredeem must be a legal tepder, unconditional and unrestricted; and if the jury believe the testimony of
Robert Quay, jr., no such legal tender was made nor was it such' an
offer and refusal, as would bring this case within the saving clause of
the 4th section of the act of the 13th March, 1815.
10th. That from the testimony disclosed the taxes for which the
land was sold were assessed, and that the deed from the treasurer to

350.

SUPREME COURT
[Hopblirn v. Dubois.]

the defendant, on the face of t vestsin him a complete title to the
land in cohtroversy..
lath. That if the jury believe the testimony of Robert Quay, jr.
and of Joseph F. Quay, neither. of them were, the dgents of Jacob
Fo "under whom, the plaintiff-claims; -when Robert, Quay, jr. called
on Harris to attempt to redeem the tract of land in dispute.' Therefore, the plaintiffs- cannot recover.
The 'court refused to give the first instruction. As to th seond
,proposition, the court said: So far. as it is necessary to the issue on
trial, the legal effect of the partition of 25th March, 1825,. is noticed
in answer to, the sixth instructiOn of the plaintiff's counsel.- The
deed of partition of. the. 12th 'of March, 1825,, and, the possession
wlich itis-alleged was taken ii4 accordance with the deeds, cannot
vary that iiistruction.
As Ih the third instructiop, the court- said: •The Supreme Court
havs in effect decided this point, Mrs. Scarrow's interest remained
undivided until the deed of confirmation, in 1832. The partition
of March, 1825, was not binding on her until then:' and although
Robert Quay and wife cannot impeach its validity, -hey held untir
'then 'an'undividcd'interest in the land in question.
The court refus ed, to give'the fourth instruction, on the authority
of the decision in 10 Peters, 22.
As to the fifth instruction asked, the court said: Quay and wife,
and Fox and *ife and their'alienees, were estopped from questioning the validity of the partitions of 1825, after they'were legally
accepted by-all' the parties to them; and the various deeds and letters
of attorney derive'their validity from that.acceptance.
The sixth- instruction was refused. As to the seventh and eighth
instructions, the court -said: A redemption' of land sold for taxes,
under the act of 181U5, can only be made by the owner, his heirs or
assigns, or legally authorized agent. or representative; or by a person
acting for the owner, with his subsequent ratification. If Quay was
not the owner or .part o~vner, or the agent of the owner, the alleged
offer to redeem made by him or his son, not so ratified, 'has no
validity;. and the -plaintiff, 'in such case, could not recover. But
Quay's interest in the land was not divested at the time he caused
an offer to be made to 'redeem; and' that.offer cannot, therefore, be
legally regarded as in fraud of any-person's rights.
Ninth: The pffer to redeem must he of the nature, here stated;
•but from the testimony of Robert Quay, and other Witnesses to.the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]
same point, the tender made was sufficient, under the saving clause
of the act of March, 1815.
The tenth instruction was given, as was also the eleventh; except
the concluding words, "therefore, the plaintiff cannot recover."
The case was argued, at large, on all the points presented by the bill
of exceptions, orally, by Mr. S. Hepburn, and a.printed argument by
Mr. Potter for the plaintiff in error; 'nd by Mr. Tilghman and Mr.
Anthony, onaa printed argument, for the defendant. The opinion of
the Court having been confined principally'to one point, it has not
been considered necessary to report the whole of the arguments of the
counsel for the plaintiff or the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error presented the following points
to the Court:
1. That Robert Quay, at the time of the' alleged offer tolredeem
under the legal construction of the two deeds of partition, between
the heirs of Abel and William Fearon, and the ratifications and confirmations thereof, and of the various deeds and articles of agreement given in evidence, eduld not make a legal offer to redeem.
2. Thattthe partition Was binding on Mrs. Scarrow during coverture, and could only be avoided by her or her heirs on the death of
her husband, who is yet in full life.
3. That it is not necessary for a feme covert, to acknowledge an
agreement or power to make partition, under the act of the 24th
February, 1770, of lands which descended to her in Pennsylvania;
when the partition is equal.
4. That. Quay and wife, and FoX and wife, are estopped froni
questioning the validity of the partitions of 1825, by their execution
of the several deeds, &c.,-given in evidence.
5. That the denial of the agency an4 ownership of Quay, and of
his right to redeem, by Fox, is conclusive on him and his alienees;
and *precludes them from claiming, subsequent to such denial, any
right of redemption by or through the acts of Quay and his son.
6. That the court below erred in their answers to the 1st, 2d, 3d,
4th, 5th, 6th, 8tb and 9th points submitted.
After stating that the facts embodied in the record of the present
case presented new and distinct considerations for the Court, from
those embodied in the record of the former trial of this suit between
the same paities; Mr. Hepburn proceeded to state the title of the
defendant in error; and showed that title, traced from Joseph Fearon

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.)

the elder, who was the oiiginal warra-tee of the copmmonwealth of
Pennsylvania, down through the different 'divisions and partitions of
the real estate of Joselh Fearon, deceased, amongst his heirs at law,
to the defendant in error. He then proceeded to state the title of the
plaintiff in error, (the defendant below,) which was derived from the
treasurer of Lycoming county, by deed, dated 15th July, 1826, under
a-sale of the tract of land in question for. taxes, due and unpaid, previous to such sale; under the. provisions of the different acts of assembly in relation to the sales of unseated lands in Pennsylvania. He
referred
the different /to
.acts of
yssembl)
applicable, and -contended
that in terms the right of redemption attempted to be set up by Robert Quay, in May, 1828, was unauthorized by the provisions 'of
those acts, and could. not divest the title of the purchiser acquired by
him under the zale. And after reviewing the facts, in relation to the
situation, and rights of the several parties in'interest, under the different deeds of conveyances, partitions and confirmations thereof by the
different parties ih interest, together with the facts in relation to the
alleged offer to redeem the land sold by-Robert Quay; Mr. Hepburn
assumed the following general propositions, for the consideration of
the'Court:
1st. Whether, under the facts disclosed by
the record in this case,
upona proper construction of the different acts of assembly of the
state of. Pennsylvania in relation to the sale of unseatdd lands -for
taxes, 'Robert Quay had such an interest in the tract of land in dispute, NO. 5615, at the time of the sale of it for the taxes by the treasurer of Lycoming county, on'the 12th of June, 1826, or at the time
the allege[1 offer to'redeem was made by his 'son under his directions,
in May, 1828, as brought him within the saving'provisions of the,
fourth section of the act of 1815, and' adthorized a tender of the redemption money by him. In other words, was Quay the owner, or
agent of the owner, of the tract of land in dispute, on the 12th of
June, 1826, or in May, 1828?
2d. Was the tender such as.is contemplated by the act of 181 5, viz.
a "legal tender;" and has it been followed up by the defendant in
error (plaintiff below) so as to enable him to claim the benefit of it
in this suit?
3d. Can the defendant in error, under the facts disclosed by the
recprd, take advantage of the tender of the redemption money, by
Quay or his son, (if the Court should be of opinion there was a legal
one,),contrary to the express dissent of -Jacob Fox, the owner.at the

.JANUARY TERM, 1838,.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

time, and when. he had given the treasurer notice that Quay had no
right to the land in controversy; and when he hai afterwards approved the act of the treasurer in his refusal of the tende made by
Quay?
4th. The construction of the acts of assembly of the State of Pennsylvania-in relation to the sale of unseated lands for taxes by the supreme court of Pennsylvania.
Under .the first proposition Robert Quay had no pretensions qf
ownership to the tract,.No. 5615: in point of; fact he expressly says
so in-his own deposition; tells others he has no interest as owner;
these facts are fully proved by the record. He never pretended that
he was the agent of the owner; and Fox has been equally explicit in
his denial of Quay's agency, in relation to this alleged tender. These
facts are also apparent upon the record.
. Were the jarties to the different deeds embodied in the record
mistaken as to their rights? And had Robert Quay, in contemplation
of law, such an interest as owner or part. owner of the tract of land in
dispute, ag authorized his tendering the redemptionrm oney?
If the partitions of 12th and 26th of March, 1825, were perfect, and
vested the estate of the grantors in the grantees of those deeds,. the
question is answered. And we say they did, without the separate
examination of Mrs. Scarrow4 in accordance with, the 2d section of
the act' f 24th February, 1770.
This section changed the common law mode of conveyance, and
was intended to supply the place of fihesand 'recoveries. Bu it does
not embrace the, case of partition of lands which descended under the
intestate laws of Pennsylvania. 'Tis true that land's descend to the
heirs at law in Pennsylvania, as tenants in common, but with scarcely
an incident connected with that kind. of an estate at common law:
they are tenants in common, in pursuance of the'statute regulating
descents in Pennsylvania, and are placed more upon the footing
with coparceners in England, or at common law, than any other description of tenants of real ,estate.
Tenants in common, at common law, were not compelled to make
partition of their estates; they always derived their title by purchase. Hence, livery of seisin was necessary to, vest their estate;
and.the same notoriety was required to divest it, and vest in their
grantee.
Not so withcoparceners at common law, nor with the estates of
those derived under our intestate laws. They both take by descent:
VOL.' XII.-2., I

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

the law casts the estate upon them all equally, and they' are alike in
the possession. It never. was pretended that levying a fine, or suf7ering a common recovery, was necessary to vest the estate absolutely in a grantee coparcener, of lands'allotted to them in partition
of their estates; because the partition only.adjusts the different rights
of the parties to the possession; neither take by purchase. 'Tis less
than a grant, and neither amounts to, nor requires an actual conveyance. Alnatt on Partition, 124, 125; and authorities there
cited.
An infant is compelled to make partition. 1b. 11. A prochein
ami may do it for him. Ib.12.
Parties are compelled to make partition, as well under the statute
of dcscents as at comm~n"law, and may do it amicably. Alnatt on
Partition, 9; Co. Litt. 171, a. Hargrave, note; Long v. Long, 1
Watt's Rep. 265, 268, 269; 2 Penn. Rep. 124; Barrington et al. v.
Clark, S Burrows) R. 1801.
A parol partition, followed by a corresponding separate possession, is good in Pennsylvania. Ebert v. Wood, 1 Binney's Rep.
216. A parol partition was goo at common law between' coparceners. . Littleton, sec. 252; 3 CO.Lit. 169, b.
A guardian in Pennsylvania, though not vested with a scintilla of
either legal or equitable estate in the lands ofhis ward, may make a
eonsentable line, and mark the boundaries of his land with an adult,
which will be binding. 10 Sergeant & Rawle, 114. And a partition
is nothing more than a mere designation of boundary; it passes no
interest in the estate to the grantee, other than that originally held.
The parties in this case had done nothing more than they would
have been compelled to do, upon the application of either party to
the' proper court. He referred to practice in orphan's court of Pennsylvania, as well, as that of common pleas; where partitions of estates
are made on application of husbands alone, the wives not parties.
But the supreme court of Pennsylvania have given. a constructiorn
to the' act of 24 Feb. 1770; and sayin so many words, that the acknowledgments of feme coverts are not necessary in cases of partition. 3 Rawle's Rep. 420. This decision, if recognised by this
Court, puts an end to any difficulty that may be-urged for the want
of a proper acknowledgment. The statute is a local one: and this
decision-has at least become a rule of property in the state in which
it was made, and as such recognised by this Court. The case is analogous to the one before the Court.

JANUARY TERM, '138,
[Hepburn: v. Dubois.]

If this -decision is disregarded by this Court, the partition was at
1 events binding upon Mrs. Scarrow, during her coverture; and
could only be avoided by her after the death of her husband, or hd
heirs after her .death. The deed was not void, but void ble at most,
only as to her or her heirs. Cowper's Rep. 201, 1 Watt's, Rep.
S57. The conveyance is not void, but the grantees fail toproduce
the proper kind of evidence of the execution of it: and so long as the
claim' of Mrs. Scarrow is not aserted, the whole estate passed-to the
grantees in those deeds, subject only to her right of re-entry. Allnaft on Partition, 22; Co. Lit. 170, b.; Preston on Abstracts of Title,
yol. i. page 334, 335; 2 Kent's Com. .133; Clancey on Rights, 1.61,
162; and did pass to them as of their dates. Conceding this right
to Mrs. Scarrow, or her heirs after her death, can the parties to. those
deeds whose execution of them was perfect, deny the validity of
theii acts, and take advantage of her privilege? Certainly not.
Though the deed may~be voidable as to her, (which we deny,) it is
valid and binding upon all the others; and they-cannot pronounce
it invalid. 6 Cranch, Rep. 88; 1 Kent's Com. 414.; 2 Sergeant &
Rawle, 383, 3871 90; 10 Sergeant & Rawle, 117; 1 Watts' Rep.
266. If the other parties interested in this partition cannot take advantage' of'the alleged defect, and the privilege is a personil one to
Mrs. Scarrow, can she now take advantage of it? A recital of the
facts on the record is a solution of this inquiry. She has done -all in
her power to confirm the estates of all the parties in interest. Confirming a, .j of.the legislature of Pennsylvania, remedying defectively
acknowledged instruments, are not uncommon.
10 Sergeant &.
Rawle, 101; Act of 3d April, 1826; Statutes of Pennsylvania, 187,
188.
The construction given to those itatutes uniformly has been, not
that the conveyance was void, but that the evidence was defective as
to its execution. And suppose the fact of the examination actually
to have- taken place, but fiot embodied in the certificate of the officer;
the deed would not divest the right of the feme covert, because'the
party could not prove by any other testimony than the acknowledgment'itself, the fact of its having actually occurred. When the legislature, therefore, dispense with that form of proof, the title is
perfect as of the date of the. original execution of the instrument.
16 Sergeant & Rawle, 35; 1 Watts' Rep, 330; 10 Peters' Rep. 1.
The ratification must operate as a divestiture of the interest of
Mrs. Scarrow, by relation to the date of .the deed of 12th Marchi

356

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Duboio.]

1825; or the plaintiffs below, defendants in error, cannot'sustain this
suit. 6 Binney, 454 Their title is derived through these deeds,
and the suit instituted two years before the ratification of Mrs.
ScArrow; and if by relation, it 'enables them to sustain this suit,
brought in 1830, certainly it is good for every other purpose.
iThe argument on the remaining propositions, is omitted, for the
rdasons already stated.
Mr. Tilghman and Mr. Anthony for the'defendant, upon the questions presented as to the operation of the deeds of partition, argued:
It is alleged by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that it is not
necessary in Pennsylvania for a feme covert to acknowledge a power.
of attorney to make partition, under the act of 24th of February,
1770, of lands which descended to her, when the partition is equal;
and on this point they have cited Rhoads' Appeal, 3 Rawle, 420, decided March 30,1832.
To thid there are several satisfactory answers. The first is, that
the, question does not arise in the present case.
A' careful examination of the power of attorney, dated I1th February, 1811, from Christopher Scarrow and Sarah his wife, and Elizabeth 1earon, to Joseph Clurwen, John Curwen, and John Wilson,
under which the alleged partition was made; will show it contained
no authority to them to make either a partition or an exchange.
It recites that they and their brother, and -the children of William
Fearon, deceased, are the next of kin of Joseph Fearon, their deceased uncle, and as such, "they, the said Christopher Scarrow and
Sarah his wife in her right, and Elizabeth Fearon, have together,
with the said Joseph Fearon, their said brother, and the children of
the said William Fearon, deceased, become seised or possessed of, or
otherwise well entitled to divers messuages, lands, tenements, plantations, property and possessions in the province or state of Pennsylvania aforesaid, and elsewhere in North America aforesaid, late the
estate'of the said Joseph Fearon, deceased, and all other the estate
and effects whatsoever, which he the said Joseph Fearon died possessed of, in certain parts, shares and proportions; and they, the said
Christopher Scarrow and Sarah his wife, and Elizabeth Fearon, being
minded and desirous to procure the actual seisure and possession of
their said respective parts, shaies and proportions of the said messuages,
lands, tenements, plantations, properties and possessions, and to sell
and dspose therelf, and convert the same into money, and to settle the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

357,

[Hepburn v. Dubois.)
accounts and affairs -of the said-Joseph Fearon, deceased:" they
then proceed to constitute the said Joseph Curwen;'John Curwen and
'John Wilson, jointly and severally, "as their attorneys and attorney,
and to and for' each and every of thdir use and benefit, to enter into,
along with, or without their said broLher, the said Joseph Fcaron, and
the children of the said William Fearon, deceased, and take possession of each and every of their respective part,,'shares and -interest
of and in all and singular the said messuages, lands, tenements, pJan.tations, properties and possessions in any paft of North America
aforesaid, or any island contiguous thereto, wheiein or whereto the
said Christopher Scarrow-and Sarah his wife, in her right, and Elizabeth Fearon,.or any of them have or hath any estate, right, title or
interest, as two of the next of kin of the said Joseph F earbn, deceased, or otherwise howsoever. And also for them the said Christopher Scarrow, and Sarah his'wife, and Elizabeth Fearon, and in'their -each and every of their names, or in the names of them the
said Joseph Curwen, John Curwen and ,bhn Wilson, or any of them,
as their or any of their attorneyk or attorney, to put up and expose
to sale, (along with or without the chnsent of the said Joseph Fearon, their said brother, and the children of the said William Fearon,
deceased,) eithei' in public auction or by private contract, as they,the
said Joseph Curmven, John Curwen, and John Wilson, or any of them
shall think proper, all their, and each and every of their respective
shares, parts and interests, of, and in all and singular the said mes'suages, lands, tenements, plantations, properties and possessions, with
the stock, cattle, implements, tools, utensils, furniture, effects and
othr things thereto belonging; and to sell and contract, aid agree to
sell, theii, and each and every of their estate,- right, title, share and
interest of, and in "the said the several premises, either entire or in
parcels, to such person or persons, and his or their heirs, executors,
administrators and assigns, as shall contract or agree to become purchaser or purchasers thereof, or any part or parts thereof, for such
price or prices as they the said Joseph Curwen, John Curwen and
John Wilspn', or any of them shall, together with or without the said
-Joseph Fearon, and thesaid children of the said William Fearon,
think proper' to accept for the same. And in pursuance of the contracts to be made for the sale of their said parts, shares, estates and
'interests respectively, of and in the said several premises, for them,
the said Christopher. Scarrow and Sarah his wife, and'Elizabeth
Fearon, and each and-every of them, and in their each and every of

SUPREME COURT.
-[Hepburn v..Dubois.]

their names or name, or in their,or any of their own proper, names or
name, as their attorneys or attorney, and as their and each and every
of their act and deed, to sign, seal, deliver and execute all and every
such deeds, conveyances, instruments and writings, as shall or may
be lequisite.or necessary for conveying and assuring their respective
parts, shares and interests of, and in the said several premises; and
everyor any part or parts thereof to 'the person or persons, and his
or their heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, who shall contract or agree for the purchase thereof,-or of any part thereof; and to
oreceive the money to be paid.by the purchaser or purchasers of the
said several premises, or any. part or parts thereof. And on. receipt
thereof, for them the said Christopher Scarrow and Sarah his wife,
and Elizabeth Fearon, and each and every of them, as their each and
every of their attorneys or attorney as nforesaid, to sign, -seal or deliver any receipts, releases or other acquittances or discharges, for the
said purchase money; and. also for them, the said Christopher Scarrow and Sarah his wife, and Elizabeth Fearon, and in their each and
every of their names or name, or in the names o name of them, the
said Jo~eph Curwefh, John Curwen and John.Wilson, or any of them
in their each and every of their attorneys or attorney as aforesaid,,to
contract for, make, do, sign, seal, deliver and execute all and every
deed, instrument, writing, contract, receipt, agreement, matter and
thing.whatsoever, which shall or may be requisite or necessary for
completing the sales and conveyances abovementioned, and for accomplishing the several purposes aforesaid, or'any of them."
In all this, there is not @trace .of any authority to-make either a
partition or an exchange, The parts, shares and proportions were
such as they became entitled to, together with their brother, and the
children: of William Fearon. It was these parts, shares, and proportions that the attorneys in fact were to take possession of, and to s8ll.
They were undivided parts, shares and proportions, such as existed
in Sarah Scarrow and Elizabeth Fearon, as tenants in common withthe other heirs of Joseph Fearon, at the dat6 of tle power. Surey1,
it will not be contended, that the attorneys in fact were to take possession of a portion allotted in severalty to Sarah Scarrow, and to
hold this several possession, along with'h~r brother and the heirs of
William Fearon. So with respect to the sale.
The" intention was, as the words are, to confer a power to take
possession of, and to sell only the undivided right.. In 'this view, all.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Hepburn v. Duboisw.]

is intelligible and consistent; and in no other way can the intervention of .the brother, and the-heirs of William Fearon be-reconciled.
The word partition, or exchange, is not to be found in the instrument; yet nothing could be more natural than to use the word, if the
thing was intended. This argument derives additional strength from
the fact,, that when, on the 25th June, 1828, Christopher Scarrow
and wife executed a power of attorney to Jacob FOx, and Nathaniel
Nunnelly, to make partition of the estate of Joseph Fearon, the appropriate words. "partition and divide," are repeatedly used.
There might be excellent reasons why the two Curwens and John
Wilson should be trusted to sell an undivided right in this estate,
and yet nt be trusted to make a division of it. The property was
scattered over a wide range in Pennsylvania, near to and among the
Alleghany mountains. A part of it was in Virginia. The attorneys in fact resided, two of them in Philadelphia, and the other
within twelve miles of that city. Several of the tenants in common
lived in the vicinity of the 'lands in-Lycoming and Centre counties,
Pennsyl'ania. Under these.circumstances, the information possessed
by the parties could, scarcely be, equal; and it certainly was prudent,
at that time, not to confer a power to make partition.
The sale authorized by this power was for money; and it was
only on the execution of a contract and receipt of the money under
it,'that the attorneys were to execute any release, or other_conveyance. The release executed by them was without any other consideration than a quantity of land, estimated equal in value to that
conveyed. It was not a.,partition either in law or in fact; but a proceeding unwarranted by-the power, attempting to divide the whole
real estate into but two parts, when there were nine heirs; without
allotting any particular purpart, either to .Mrs. Sedrrow or any other*
heir.
A power to sell does not authorize a partition. 1 Mad, 214; 2d
Sugden on Powers, 506; 16th vol. Law Library, 273.
Another objection to the instrument called a partition,ldated 12th
March, 182.5, is, that it purports to be executed by the attorneys in
fact of Elizabeth Fearon. Whereas Elizabeth Fearon was married
to Jacob Fox, in the year 1812; and in 1825 was a feme covert, and
had so been for thirteen years before ie alleged partition.
Her husband, Jacob Fox, was, in 1825, tenant, by the curtesy, at
least, initiate; yet he is no party to the instrument.

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

As marriage is equivalent to the civil death of the-wife; we submit
that neither Elizabeth Fearon, then Fox, nor her husband, was bound
by the release.
For these reasons, we contend that the power of attorney of the
11th February, 1811 never authorized any partition; and that if it
did so, still it was not well executed, If either of these points is
With us, the question cannot, in this case, be material; which, after
the decision already pronouneed, our antagonists again endeavour to
bring into doubt, by asserting that thd real property of a married
woman may., under the laws of Pennsylvania, pass uider a power of
attorney executed by her in England, and having neither a private
examination, or ackhowledgment of any kind, before a judicial
officer. For this doct 'ne, they found themselves upon the cases of
Rhoads's Appeal, 3 Ray Ie,4.20; and Tate and Wife v. Stooltzfoos,
16 Serg. & Rawle, 35; tie application and binding effect of which
we will proceed to discuss.
As the case, in 16 Serig. & Rawle, 35, can be very shortly disposed
of, it-will be first noticed., It decides that "the omission to state. in
the certificate the acknowledgment of a release by husband and wife,
that the wife was separately examined, is cured by the act of 3d
of- April, 1826. The land was in Lancaster county, Pennsylvania,
and an acknowledgmenf of the release was made by the husband and
wife, on the 28th May, 1798, before an associate judge of the court
of common pleas of that county. This act of 3d April, 1826, will be
found in Purdon's Digest, 5th edition, page 260, 261.. It was a r6trospective, and retroactive law. Such legislation is always shortsighted and weak- in policy, and sometimes wicked in design, as
well aseffect. Judge. Duncan, in delivering the opinion of the court,
admits, " that the retrospective powers of thig act were to be construed strictly; and that every law of this nature is to be construed
with strictness, and not extended by equity. beyond the words of the
statute," &c.
Now, both the preamble and' the enacting -clause of this statute,
apply only to cases Where: 1st. There has been an. acknowledgment -by the husband and wife. In the present instance, there was
no acknowledgment whatever. 2d.' The acknowledgment must be
"bef6re some judge, justice of the peace, or other officer authorized
by law withinthis state, o'r an officer in one of the United States, to
take such acknowledgment." In 'the present instance, the power of
attorney was executed without the United ,S-ates, and never acknow-

JANUARY TERM, 1w38.

361

[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

ledged. The~gore, both the retrospective law, and the decision, fail
to affect us.
Next, as to Rhoads's Appeal, 3 "Rawie, 420. That case arose
under an amicable partition, in pals, among the parties. The devisees
agreed that certain persons named by them, should divide their land
for them; they accordingly went on it,.and did appraise partand
divide the land, and allotted to each .dvisee ,his purpart. The several devisees took actual possession of their shares, and occupied, improved, and, in some instances, sold their parts. In delivering the
opinion of the court, judge Rogers says: "When we couple the
words, of the deed, with the acts of the parties, in taking possession
of their respective proporti6ns in the agreement, improving and selling parts of the same, the intention cannot be mistaken:" and again,
"in partition in the orphans' court, the wife-is not made a party;
the order is made on a petition by the husband, and in right of his
wife." 3 Rawle, 436.
By referring to the adjudicated cases in Pennsylvania, it will be
seen that even a parol gift of lands by a father to his son, is good,
when-possession aceompanie and follows, and when improvements
are made by the son on the land, in consequence of th6 gift. It is
the delivery of possession, and expenditure of 'money or labour in
consequence of the gift, that takes it out of the st tute of frauds.
Stewart v. Stewart, 3 Watts, 253; Eckert v. Eckert, 3 Penn. Rep.
332. These cases revieW the doctrine in Ebert v. Wood, 1 Binn.
216; and clearly show that the subsequent separate possession and
improvements make the gift valid, and take it out of the act for preventing frauds and-perjuries. 21st March, 1775, Purdon's!Di est,
408.
Another mode in which married women may make partition, is
under the act of 19th April, 1794, directing the descent of real estate, see. 22; and in case the property cannot be divided, it may be
sold under the act of 2d April, 1804, and thus the wife be divested
of her real estate by proceedings in the orphans' court. This, however, is a matter under the supervision and control of the court; who
will, as far as possible, protect the rights and interests of married
women, andprevent any undue advantage being taken of their dependent situation. In Watson v. Mercer, 6 Serg. & Rawle, 50,
chief justice Gibson deprecates, in strong language, the inefficiency
of our laws for the protection of the property of femes covert, and
says: "in no:country are their interests and estates so entirely at
VOL. XYi!

--

Z

SUPREME COmT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

the mercy of their husbands, as in Pennsylvania; and that, it is"the
policy of the law to narrow the field of this controlling influence.
The husband has power to obtain her personal estate, not only without condition,-but, in some instances, by means of the intestate acts,
even 'to turn her real into personal estate, against her consent."
This- evil was, however, remedied on 'the 29th March, 1832, when
the legislature of Pennsylvania, aware of the injustice and oppression
frequently practised on married women, remodelled the orphans'
court'law, and secured their interests in real estate against the rapacity of unprincipled husbands; unless they freely and voluntarily relinquished them before a judge of a court of record, in the absence
of the husband. See Purdon's Digest, 788, Partition, sec. 48.
In 1 Miles, 322, Vidal v. Girard, decided September 10th, 1836,
Judge Jones refused to order a W iit of sale, without a writ de par'titione facienda after a judgmeit "quod partitio fiat;" although the
wives and their husbands should file an agreement to that effect. In
that case he explains the various kinds of partition, and states that
where an action of' partition is resorted to, instead of a deed o partitionyor other cqnveyance, they must pursue tlie act relating to that
action. If the wife convey by deed under the act of 24th February,
1770, it must be acknowledged in a peculiar form. Her deed is void
at common law; and in England, she cap only conveyher estate by
fine. 'She cannot'appear by attorney, but must appear in person, or
by an attorney appointed by her husband; and in conclusion, the
judge refuses to Waive any proceedings which protect the wife in the
enjoyment of her real estate.
The ease of Peter Rhoads's Estite, S Rawle, 420, may have been
well decided as to the partition then before the court. But it does
not apply to, our case of a division exclusively by deed, where a part
of the real estate belonged to a married woman who never acknowledged the power tinder which it was made,,and never was separately
examined. The cotnsel in that case, when arguing in favour of the
partition, find themselves compelled to admit, that if the partition had
been unequal, perhaps. it might be voidable by the married woman,
though not void. This is enough for our purpose; for if the partition in May, 1828, was voidable by Mrs. Scarrow, when Robert
Quay made the offer to redeem; he had an interest in this very tract,
•615, which, if she refused to sanction the, irregular partition, was
common property. 'Now, the fact, that the division made among the
various heirs of Joseph Fearon was an equal partition, is most adroitly

JANUARY TERM, 183..

363

[lepburn v. 1uhois.J
assumed by t~h p intifin error. Not one word'of evidence exists
to prove it. When did it becorpe eqtal, and in what way? Not until
the 8th September, 832, when Mrs. Scarrow, in legal form, ratified
What had been done.
But in May, 1828, When Quay redeemed the land, there was no
such equality in point of fact, or in point of law, In fact it never
,existed; in:law it did not'exist until 8th September, 18S2. Until
-that date, she and her husband never knew that any partition or attempt at a partition had ever been-made. There does not exist any
evidence to show tl4ey had such knowledge. There is direct and
clear proof to the contrary, so late as the 25th June, 1828, which Was
about a month after Quay redeenmed the premises in dispute. For,
in the po w'er of attorney of that, date,, from Christopher Scarrow
and Sarah his wife'to Fox and Nunnelly, they authorize iheir said
attorneys "to make partition and division of the whole of the said
messuages, lands, tenements, plantations,, properties, possessions and'
premises, late of the said Joseph Fearon, deceased, unto, between and
among the said Joseph Fearon, (her brother) the children bf the said,
William Fearon, deceased, Jacob Fox and Elizabeth his wife, and the
said Christopher Scarrow and Sarah his wife." That is, to divide all
the property among all the heirs. This important fact is roticed in
.the opinion of the Court, 10 Peters, 21, 22.
Without pursuing the argument further, it is sufficient to remark,
that the case reported in 3 Rawle, 420, is essentially different from
the present; inasmuch as the former was a partition in pais, and the
latter a partition by deed.
Although the counsel for. the plaintiff in error, allege that the power
of attorney from C. Scarrow- and wife, and. Elizabeth Fearon, to John
Curwen and John Wilson, gave them authority to make and execute
deeds'of partition; yet, as before stated, on 'examination it will be
found that there was not a syllable said about partition therein, nor
was there any separate examination of the wife of C. Scarrow. In
pursuance of this supposed authority, Curwen and Wilson, as well as
the heirs of William Fearon, proceed to 6xecute deeds of release, in
March, 1825; and recite that "in consideration of a quantity of land
to be conveyed by a like release, they have remised, reldased-, and
for ever'quit claimed"the lands therein mentioned; thus demonstrating that a deed of release was the kind of conveyance, or assurance, by which the partition was intended to be carried into effect.
The act of 24th February, 1770, section 2, declares that no grant,

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubqis.] -

bargain and sale, lease, release, feoffment, deed, conveyance, or assurance in the law whatsoever, shall be good and'valid to pass the wife's
estate, unless she is examined separate and apart from her husband.
If, then, it be absolutely necessary to have the separate examination
of the wife in all deeds, releases, conveyances, and assurances whatsoever, in order to divest her interest, can it for a moment be urged
that a power of attorney, wherein a married woman authorizes a
person to release, convey, and assure her lands, requires no such examination: or in other words, that she cannot herself convey hei land,
except by an acknowledgment in a peculiar form, specially provided
to guard and protect her rights; but if she joins her husband in a
power of attorney to a third person, no such acknowledgment is necessary; and that the third person oan "remise, release, and for ever
quit claim," all her estate, and it will be binding on her to all intents
and purposes? Itis only necessary to state such a proposition, to expose its'fallacy. Can it even be pretended that the indentures given
in evidence are not such kinds of conveyance as are mentioned in the
act of 24th February, 1770? A deed is a writing sealed and delivered
by the parties. Releases are a discharge or conveyance.of a man's
right in lands or tenements to another,' who hath some former estate
or possessi6n; the- words generally used therein are "remised, re,leased, and fox, ever quit claimed" (precisely the words used in the
Fearon deeds). When one of two copareeners releaseth all her right
to the other, this passeth the fee simple of the whole. 2 Blk. Com. 32.
And even if the gentlemen opposed to us call it a pamtition, it is
that kind of partition by deed, iientioned in 2 Black. Com. 323;
which says, that. it is necessary "that they all mutually convey and
assure to each -other" the several estates which they are to take and
enjoy separately; and not a partition in pais, by going on the land
and amicably dividing it, and each party taking possession of his
proportion, living on it, cultivating and improving it. In the case of
Rhoads's appeal, the feme covert did not complain of any unfairness
or inequality in the partition. It was equal and just, and was attempted to be set aside.by others, in hostility to her interest, and when
she acquiesced therein; but in the presentcase, he object of the redemption on behalf of the heirs of Joseph Fearon, deceased, was to
preserve and protect the rights of each and every heir; and to prevent a part of the estate from going into the hands of a stranger for
a mere nominal consideration; and thus compelling all the heirs,
among' whom was Mrs. Scarrow, a feme covert, to owelty of partition,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

365

[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

as the incumbrance was on the land when the division was consummated. Burd v. Semple, 9 S. & R. 109-114; Co. Littleton, 174, c.;
7 Ba¢. Abr. 231.
This doctrine is examined in Feathei v. Stochecker, 3 Penn. Rep.
505, in which it is said. that " every exchange implies a warranty.
If a stranger enter into the purpart, allotted to a c6parcener, by an
older title, she may enter with the other and compel her to make a
new partition." Idem. 508.
And in Gratz v. Gratz, 4 Rawle, 435, the court say, " there must
be a complete reciprocity of obligation, benefit and effect, arising from
the agreement; otherwise it will not be binding on either. In partition, to pass the respective shares, it must be done by executing mutual
releases, so as to conclude the parties from asserting their former
rights." Idem. 437.
It, however, is said, that nobody but Mrs. Scarrow could take advantage of this d&fect in the acknowledgment 'of the deed of release
and that as she was 'a married woman having no power to act, nor
any privilege on account of her coverture, after two years the title
of the purchaser became absolute. Let us ask, of whaL use to her
Wbuld be the avoidance of the partition long after the title of the
purchaser at treasurer's sale was consummated? She might demand
a new division, because her portion of the estate had been taken
away by a sale for taxes, which Were a lien thereon before the
division; but she and all the other heirs would thus equally lose their
proportion so sold, and each heir would therefore be equally interested in its redemption.
In 10 Peters, 22, Mr. Justice Baldwin, in delivering the opinion of
the'Court in this case, (the facts of which have not been altered,)
says: "It is perfectly clear, that till the consummation of the' partition in 1832, Quay and wife held an undivided interest in the land
in question, as owners thereof in common with the other heirs of
Joseph Fearon." But the counsel for the plaintiff in error say, the
Court were wrong, and' their judgment is erroneous. Let us then
inquire when Mrs. Scarrdw first executed the power of attorney to
Nathaniel Nunnelly, not when she acknowledged it. It appears by
the power of attorney from C. Scarrow and wife to Nunnelly, that
it was only signed and sealed by them on the 25th June, 1828, as
their act and deed. S6 that the redemption was made by'Quay
more than'a month before they ever signed, or in atly manner executed the power of attorney; and if the private and separate acknow-

SUPREME. COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois..]

ledgment of Mrs. 'Scarrow were not indispensable, it most certainly
required, that she should know of and' assent to the agreement to
divide the estate, before it could be, legally divide6d; and that no pet
of hers in signing the power of attorney, to Nunnelly. after Quay
had. redeemed the land, could have a retrospective effect, and make
this act of no validity. Ifthen the power of Scarrow and wife and
Elizabeth Fearon to Curwen and Wilson, was of no avail, or was
superseded or annulled by the subsequent marriage of Elizabeth
Fearon. to Jacob Fox, in 1812, thirteen years before they,,acted
under it, there can be no further question as to Quay's right to
redeem.
But it is said, that Fox disclaimed the interference of Quay and
approved of the conduct of the treasurer in his refusal-of the tender
made by his son for him. To this proposition we would reply, that
if Quay'had an interest in the land, it is of 'no consequence whatever whether Fox assented or dissented to the redemption. -Ie was
,nly tenant by the curtesy of his wife's real estate, and his interest
in unimproved land was trifling. And as remarked by' us il the
former argument of" this cause, 10 Peters, 14, 15, if none but the
husband could redeem for his wife, the acts of assembly for the protection of the real estate of married women) would prove a mere
mockery, so far as relates to unseated lands.
But the dissent of Fox, of which the counsel for plaintiff speak,
'was after 'the two years had expired; and the evidence clearly
shows that neither Fox nor his wife had any knowledge of Quay's
offer to redeem, within two years after the sale. The treasurer
(Harris) says that in the fall of 1828, the last of September or the
first of October, two years and four months after the sale, he saw
Jacob Fox in Lycoming county, and he told him that Quay had sent
down an order to redeem the tract of land that Mr. Hepburn had
bought, and that he had refused to take the redemption. Fox told
him he had done perfectly right, that Quay was not the owner of
the land, had no right to r~deem-wanted to steal timber-Mr. Hepburn had treated him like a gentleman. By referring to the testimony of Jacob Fox, it will be seen by the Court, that he derived
his information, about Quay's wish to steal the timber, from A. D.
Hepburn, and that this caused him to use the language about Quay,
which he did to Mr. Harris; but when he found that instead of losing
a little timber by the redemption of Quay, Hepburn's gentlemanly
treatment was calcflated to deprive himi and his wife of both timber

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Hcpburn v. Dubois.]

and land, he at once "adopted and ratified Quay's act as saving the
land for'him."
If, then, the dissent of Fox, under any circumstances, would avail
Mr. Hepburn, it clearly appears that as soon as he understood the
situation of the tract, and that Hepburn's attempt to prejudice him
against Quay was merely, that he might hold the land himself, he
immediately ratifies and confirms the acts of Quay as far as was then
in his power; and if the testimony of Fox is to be relied on, it
proves too much for the plaintiff in error, as it proves that Hepburn
agreed to relinquish the land.
The counsel for plaintiff in error, urge that Quay and' wife, as
well as Fox and wife, are estopped from questioning the validity of
the partition of 1825, bh their executing the several deeds given in
evidence.
To this point we say, whether they were estopped, from .questioning the validity of the partition, is not the matter incontrroversy, but
whether they were estopped from saving a, portion of the land from
loss and forfeiture, on account of the non-payment of the taxes due
before partition was made.
The county tak was assessed prior, to the 1st of February, 1825.
The road tax was assessed on the 29th April, 1825. R. Quay acknowledged the deed of release on the 26th March, 1825, which was
nearly two months after the county tax of ninety-five cents was due,
for which the land was sold on the 12th June, 1826. This tax was
an incumbrance on the land, and any of the heirs had a perfect right
to pay it before the sale, and to redeem the land after the sale, to
prevent a forfeiture; so that if Quay had divested all his interest by
his deed of 26th March, 1825, yet it did not divest him of-the right
to redeem the land firom a sale which was caused by his neglect as
well as that of his co-tenants, to pay the taxes due before the release, on the very land of' which he was joint owner.
There are three kinds of partition in Pennsylvania: 1st. A partition in pais, by going on the land and setting off to each party his
respective portion, and twking possession, occupying and holding it
in severalty, as was done in Rhoads's Appeal, 3 Rawle. 2d. A partition by virtue of proceedings in court, as by writ of pdrtition, in
the common pleas, or by inquest in the orphans' court: and, 3dly,
a partition by deed, wherein the parties grant, assure and convey
to each other their several respective purparts of the estate to be
held in severalty. It cannot be pretended that the case before us is

968

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.J

embraced within either of the two first named modes of partition.
The heirs of the two branches had no intercourse. So little did
they know of each other, that although Elizabeth Fearon mariied
Jacob Fox in 1812, none of the heirs of Mrs. Fearon appear to have
known it in March, 1,825, when the deeds of release were executed.
William Fearon, one of the heirs, swears, that no division had
ever been made of the estate of Joseph Fearon previous to those
writings in .1825: he says, "I mean the deeds of March, 1825.
Both branches were never got together.on the ground and made a
division. There never was a parol division of these lands between
the two branches; there never was a division by word of mouth
that I know of; never any other division than the one set forth in.
the deeds of March, 1825. The tract, No. 5615, I never saw "
And Joseph F. Quay, sayA that Jacob Fox and wife never had
actual possession of No. 5615. His wife never saw it. C. Searrow and, wife never had Actual possession of any of the Feiaron
lands. They were never in America.
A partition in pais is, therefore, out of the question; and there is
no pretence of any proceedings in partition in either the common
pleas or orphans' court. It irresistibly follows that it is a partition
by deed; -and the Supreme Court in this cause say, 10 Peters, 20:
"There must be such acceptance of a deed, or partition, as would
amount to an estoppel, before the estate aan be held in severalty;"
and page 20, "that there was a fatal objection to th'e power of attorney, as there was no separhte, examination of Mis. Scarrow, or
any acknowledgment by her:" and let us again remark, that the
power of Scarrow'. and wife to Curwen and Wilson, is inthe same
predicament, and therefore, in the lAnguage of the Court, (page 22,)
"gave no authority to affect Mrs. Scarrow's real estate till the deed
of confirmation, of 8th September, 1832;" and until that period,
"the partition was in fieri, and the estate remained undivided."
Mr. Potter, for the plaintiff in error, presented the following
printed argument, on the points decided by the court:
The first point, to which I respectfully call the attention of the
Court, is, what was the situation of the title, to the land in controversy, on the - of May, 1828, when the alleged offer to redeem, by
Robert Quay, was made;and what interest, if any, had he at that
period in the lands, which entitled him to the possession, or gave
him a right of entry of the whole or any part thereof?

.JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

In 1810, on the death of Joseph Fearon, the patentee, the estate,
of which this tract constituted a part, descended, by the laws of
Pennsylvania,.to his heirs and legal representatives,' who were the
children of his two brothers, Abel and William, both dead, in the
lifetime of the said .Joseph. The. children of Abel, who' survived
at the death of Joseph, who took a moiety of the estate by descent,
Were Joseph, Sarah, intermarried with C. Scarrow, and Elizabeth,
who afterwards married Jacob Fox. The children of William were
John, since deceased, William and James' Sarah intermarried with
Robert Quay, and Nancy intermarried with Samuel Brown, who
took the other moiety. On the 11th of February, 1811, Scarrow
and wife, and Elizabeth Fearon, executed, in England, letters of
attorney to John Wilson and others. In 1812, Elizabeth Feai'on
married Jacob Fox, in England: and' from that period up to 1825,
Scarrow and wife and Fox and wife, wrote letters to their attorney
in fact, Wilson, requesting a divison of the estate between the two
branches of the Fearon family; and in 1825, it. is proved, that
Joseph M. Fox, esq., "was authorized to divide the land," by the
heirs of Abel Fearon; on the l12th of March, 1825, a deed of release
and partition was executed by Joseph Fearon and Scarrow and:wife,
and Elizabeth Fearon, now Fox, by their attorneys in fact, Wilson
and Curwen, to Robert Quay and others, the children of William
Fearon, deceased; this deed, and all the patents and title papers for
the whole estate, was taken by Joseph M. Fox, esq., and carried to,
the house of William Fearon, with the deed of the 25th March,
1825, from R. Quay, et al. to C. Scarrow, et al., which was- then
executed by the representatives of William, and the respective deeds
were mutually delivered, the title papers divided, and each family
received the titles for the respective tracts of lands allotted them.
After these deeds were delivered, the heirs of each branch took
possession of the lands, cultivated them, and paid the taxes assessed
on the wild lands allotted them. The respective heirs sold, released
anid conveyed land 'in pursuance of the deeds of partition; as will
appear by reference to the deeds upoii record.
Jacob Fox and wife having emigrated to Pennsylvania, on the
13th November, 1827, they, in conjunction with Joseph Fearon and
Scarrow and wife, by their attorney, Nathaniel Nunnelly, made a
'deed of partition, tripartite, of the lands fully allotted them by the
deed oi th6 25th March, 1825. This deed fully recognised and recited the deed and confirmed the partition then made. Thus stood
VOL. XII.-3 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Htepburn v. Dubois.]

the rights of the parties'in May, 1828. In March, 1827 the 'trea-'
surer of Lycoming county, Mr. Harris, informed Mr. James Fearon,
the brother of Mrs. Fox, of the sale of the tract in question, and, of
the necessity of its redempiion; and in February, 1828, about the
first w~ek, the treasurer was again in Philadelphia, and met Mr.
Fox, and Nunnelly, the attorney of Scarrow and wife, and informed
them fully of the situation of this tract, and advised them to redeem,
and communicated to Fox, the claimant and owner of this tract, that
Robert Quay, esq. pretended to have anr interest in all those lands.
The reply was, "that Quay had nothing to do with, them that Were
marked as his." Thus the facts are ip to 1828. Did Quay claim to
have an estate or interest in the land 4t the time of the tender or
did he claim to be an agent of the owner? The testimony is full, clear
and unquestionable, that he did not affect, or pretend to have 'a scintilla of ;nterest in this tract, subsequent to the delivery of the deeds
of partition of 1825. He swears it expressly himself; his son, J. F.
Quay, and Mr. M'Donald, conclusively prove it; nor is there or can
there be any allegation of agency. Thus we have the concurrent
declaration of Fox, under whom the plaintiffs below claim, title, and
of Quay; that Quay had no right to this land. Has the law cast
upon him, by its operation, a, right to the occupancy of the land, and
a right of entry into this tract, of which he was ignorant ? Two
positions present themselves. 1. Were tht deeds of 1825, making'
partition valid, and binding on Robert Quay and wife at this date?
2. Or did the ratification thereof, by. relation of law, create a divesture of the estate of Mrs. Scarrow, at the date of the deed of the 12th
March, 1825?
The deed executed by the representatives of William Fearon,'
among whom were Quay and wife, was perfect in all its parts; its
execution was in strict compliance with the acts of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, relative to the acknowledgment. and probate of deeds;
it contained the acknowledgment of the receipt of a full and legal
consideration for its execution and delivery: and on the day it
bears date, was delivered to the acknowledged and recognised agent
of.the parties, to whom the conveyance was made. A-party cannot
pronounce his own deed invalid, whatever cause be assigned for its
invalidity. 1 Kent's Com. 41.4;. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 88.
Under the facts disclosed on the rec9rd, could Quay and wife, even
if they were desirous to do so, impugn the deed of March, 1825?
Not a solitary individual, interested in the estate in 1825, or since,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

8,

[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

ever wished ,to destroy or invalidate the deeds of partition. For a
speciafl' object, and for a limited purpose, strangerS who purchased
with full notice of the 'title of the defendant below, now assail and
endeavour to overthrow the title of the defendant; but to preserve
the partition of 1825, valid as to themselves, and avoid it by destroying a link in the chainof their own title, to divest the estate of the
plaintiff in error.
Cotuld Quay and wife have recovered any part or portion of this
tract of land in ejectment since 1825 ? The deed then executed and
delivered by theni would have been a perfect estoppel to the suit.
On its production, no court would have suffered a recovery to have
been had in their favour. A person who is entitled, either in law or
equity, to the possession or enjoyment of land, or has an estate in it,
can enforce that-right at law; otherwise he W-ould have a right withot, a remedy. If Quay and wife had no right which could be
enforced by action, on what principle can he redeem? The provision
is, "If the owner, or owners of land, sold as aforesaid, shall make or
cause to be, made, within two years after such sale, arr offer or legal
tender, &c."
SeQ 4th sect. of the act of 1815. Throughout, the
'whole act speaks of the "owner or owners."
The act of 1804,
in the 2d sect.! makes it the duty of the treasurer to take from the
purchaser or purchasers, bonds ."for any surplus money that 'iay
remain after satisfying and paying the taxes and costs."- For whose
use? For that of "the owner or owners of the land at the time of
sale, or their heirs or assigns, or their legal representatives." If this
tract had been sold for several hundred dollars beyond the taxes due,
and costs; 'and a bond had been taken from the purchaser; who
wouldhave been entitled to the money? Quay? Unquestionably
not. Could he have released the bond, and discharged the purchaser
from his liability to the owner? It is conceived he could not: that
a receipt by him, for payment of the money, would have been no
bar to a recovery by Fox and wife, or their assigns, on the production of the evidence on this ,record. If these positions be correct,
then, a fortiori, he had no legal or equitable estate that would authorize her to redeem.
Now, as to Mrs. Scarrow; how was and is she situated in relation
to -this questioniI It is not her, or any person claiming under her,
that impeaches, the validity of the deed of partition of the 12th
March,.1825. HIavetrangers a right to do it? or can others, contrary to her wishes, and against her consent, render null and void,

SUPREME COURT,
, [Hepburn v. Dubois.]

and hold in fieri, a partition confirmed and consummated by her?
The letters of attorney, of 1811, were not acknowledged by Mrs.
Scarrow, in pursuance of the directions of the act of 24th February,
1770, to sell and convey lands in Pennsylvania, belonging to a feme
covert; it was necessary to have the separate examination, etc. of the
wife, and that set out in the certificate by the proper officer. This
certificate constituted no part'of -the instrument, and is but the evidence of its execution. The instrument was, perfect without it; but
before a court of law could receive it in evidence, the probate must
be perfect It is immaterial when the probate was made, whether at.
the date and delivery of the deed, or years subsequent thereto.
When made, the deed took effect as of its' date.
The cases cited fully sustain these positions.
The case of Rhoads's Appeal, 3 Rawle, 420, decides the very point,
that an acknowledgment by a wife is not necessary to authorize partition to be made of lands which descend under the intestate laws
in Pennsylvania. I would respectfully refer your honours to this
case, as the very point was made and elaborately discussed. It has
become a rule of property, upon which many valuable estates depend, and will not be lightly disturbed. It is a construction given
to a local statute, by the highest judicial authority of the state. In
addition to this persuasive reason for adherence to the principle decided in this case, I would respectfully submit, that it is not void of
support on common law prineiples. By statute, those who hold land
by descent in Pennsylvania are called "tenants in common;"' but by
the incidents of the tenure, they approximate to an estate of coparcenary at common law. In Long v. Long, 1 Watts' Rep. 269, the
supreme court of Pennsylvania clothed these estates with the incidents of eopareenary. At common law, estates of tenants in common
are acquired by purchase; and livery of seisin, etc. accompanies
them. Coparcenaries acquire title by descent, and have a unity of
interest, title, and possession. It is not necessary to levy a fine, or
suffer a common recovery, to vest the estate of a coparcener, in partition-; and the same rule is applicable to estates acquired by descent
in Pennsylvania. Partition between cop:rceners does not constitute
a conveyance, nor does it pass the land by a fresh investiture of the
seisin. It only adjusts the rights of.the parceners to the possession.
See AlInat on Partition, M. page 124, 125; Ibid. page 21, marginal. The husband and wife are compelled, in Pennsylvania, by
statute, to make partition in the orphans' court; and that which they'

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

373

[Hepburn v. Dubois.]
are compelled to do at law, they may do by agreement. Litt. 171.
Hargraye, in a note, says, the above doctrine he takes to be clear
law. If the partition is unequal, it is good during the life of the
husband. Even infants, if the allotment is equal, are bound by
partition; so a prochien ami may make partition on behalf of an
infant, because the separation and division of the estate is believed.
to be for the advantage of the infant. See Long v. Long, 1 Watts'
Rep. 275 to 260; Barrington v. Clark, 3 Burrows, 1801; 2 Pa. Rep.
124.
It was, at all events, binding on Mrs. Scarrow during coverlture;
and as her husband io in full life, no person can avoid, it. But as
Mrs. Searrow has ratified and confirmed the partition in the lifetime
of her, husband, all others are estopped, forever, from denying its
validity. The deed was not void; it was only voidable. Cowper's
Rep. 291. The estate passed to the grantors by the deed of 1825,
during the lifetime of Scarrow. See Mercer & Watson, 1 Watts'
Rep. 307. The alienation was good against Scartow; and he, as
baron, had power to transfer the estate of feme, subject to the right
of the entrey of feme or her heirs, on the death of the husband. 1st
Preston on. Ab. of Titles, 334, 335; 2 Kent's Com. 1,3t; 3 Serg.
& Rawle, 383, 387, maintains the analogous position, as fo the
right of an infant; and decides that an invalid deed can only be
made void by the infant. See also 10 Serg. & Rawle, 117. But it
is argued, that the, letters of attorney toi Wilson and Curwen conferred no authority on them to make partition. If it did not, how
can the plaintiff below maintain his suit for the whole tract of land
for which a judgment has been rendered in his fovour? He claims
through and by the partition made under that power. There never
was any other division of this estate between the two families of
Abel and William Fearon, unless what was done by and under the
letters of attorney aforesaid; and their ratification and confirmation'
created a partition; the estate is yet in common., and the plaintiff
below c9uld, under, any aspect, only recover the moiety to which
Mrs. Fox was entitled. by descent. If this position of the defendant
in error is true, the judgment must be reversed. The reading of
the letters of attorney clearly evidence the intention of the constituents, and show the object they desired to accomplish. They
authorize their attorneys "to obtain the actual seisin and posession of their respective shares;"
The estate was undivided, between-.

SUPREME COURT.
[Elepburn v. Du6bois.]

First, the children of William,'eakon and, Abel Fearon.
And second, when the 'general division, w9s made between the
two families, the moiety allotted the Abel branch was to be divided
'between them.
Now, how were the attorneys to obtain the actual seisin and
possession of their* respective shares-, without an equal partition?
After they had got ".the actual seisin and possession of their re,spective shares," they had power to sell and convey "their re:speetive shares," and convert them into money. Agaip:theyzhad
power to enter into the possession, "along, with, or without
the
other heirs." They were to take, possession of each and every of
their respective, parts or shares; and had, power expressly given "to
do all things -necessary for accomplishing the ' several purposes
aforesaid." They were sound principles, that every general power
necessarily implies the grant of every matter necessary to its complete executioni and that the true rule of construction is, to effectuate
the intention of the parties, if such intentioh be' consistent with
law. See 4 Dall: 347; 6 Binn.' 149; Sugden on Powers, 459.
; The dposition of Fox, pr6,ves that the parties contemplated a division; for he says, "we wrote letters to Mr. Wilson to divide the
land " and it was necessary to make a partition, to enable, the
att6rneys to accomplish the purposes designated in the power.
Mr. Justice BALDwIx delivered the opinion of the Court!,
This casO w as before this Court, on a writ of error taken by the
plaintiff below, to the district court for the western district of
Pennsylvania, at the January teim, 1836;- and all the questions arising 'n. the record, or made by counsel, were there fully considered.
The Court, ,howevei, took further time, for consideration, and at the
term of 1836, delivered theii unanimous opinion, reversing the judgment of the district court on the merits of the case, as Well on the
questions of law as of fact; as will appear in the 10th vol. of Peters'
Rep. pages 17, 33. Pursuant to the judgment and mandate there
rendered, the case was again tried, and .now cones before us on a
Writ of error by the defendant below, after a verdict ind judgment
below against him; in the argument, of which every point oftlaw and
question of.fact which came up and was decided before, has been'noticed by counsel now.
As relates to the questions of law arising on the great mass of
deeds 'in the foimer and present record, they are not varied by any

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
I[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

thing which is now brought up for the first time: the want of any
operative act by Mrs. Scarrow, which could confirm the alleged partition of 1825, before the duly acknowledged deed of confirmation
by her and her husband in 1832, is not supplied. The counsel of the
plaintiff in error have indeed contended, that her deed of 1832, operates retrospectively to validate all the, previous acts of her attorneys
in fact, from 1811 to 1828. But the law is well settled to the contrary. The deed of a, feme covert, conveying her interest in land
which she owns in fee, does not pass her interest by the force of its
execution and delivery; as in the common case of a deed by a person
under no legal incapacity. In such cases, an acknowledgment gives
no additional effect between the parties to the'deed; it, operates only
as to third persons, under the provisions of recording and kindred
laws. The law presumes a feme covert to act under the coercion of
her husband, unless before a court of record, a judge, or some commissioner in England, by a separate acknowledgment out of the presence of her husband; and in these states, before some court or juidicial officer, authorized to take and certify such' acknowledgment.
We are bound, therefore, in accordance to what we deem in the former case to be the legal rtsult of all the deeds and facts on the record,
to declare, that Mr. Quay had in him such legal right to the preinises;
on which we 'ihen held, and now deliberately hold, to be a scintilla of
legal right; which is all that, by the laws of the state, is necessary to
entitle the holder of such right to redeem lands sold for taxes.
In urging upon. this Court a review of the parol evidence in the
record, we think the counsel of the plaintiff in error have asked us
to transcend the limits prescribed to our action on questions of fact,
by an uniform course of decision from'the first organization of this
Court, which has'been repeatedly defined during the present term,
in our opinions, unanimous on the law; though sometimes differing in
its application to particular cases. If our past course of adjudication
has not sufficed to satisfy the bar, as to what we have c.onsidered our
most solemn duty; and if it is yet an open question as to What is the
line. which the law has drawn between those questions of fact cognizable only by the jury below, and questions of law arising on the
joint action o the court and jury, in that court whose record we judicially inspect on error; it will be useless to attempt to close it, by
any opinion to be deliverod in this case.
This Court is committed in language which it neither can nor desires to recall; because that power which we are bound to obey, has

SUPREME COURT.
[Hepburn v. Dubois.]

spoken to us, and all the courts in the United States, in terms most
imperative.
"The trial by jury is justly, dear to the American people. It has
always been an object of deep interest and solicitude; and every'encroachment upon it has been watched with great jealousy." "One
of the strongest objections originally takn against the constitution of, the United States, was the want of an express provision securing the right of trial by jury in civil cases. As soon as the-constitution was adopted, this right was secured- by the seventh amendment
of the constitution prcposed by congress; and which received an assent of the people so general, as to establish its importance as a fundamental guaranty of the rights and liberties of the people. This
amendment declarei that 'in suits at common law, wbere the value
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury
shall be preserved; and no fact trial by a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in ,any court of the United States, than according to the
rules of the common law.'" .3 Peters, 446.
If .this Court can .comprehend what these rules are, or promulgate
them in intelligible language they are these:That'Where the evidence in a cause bonduces to prove. a tact in issue before a jury, it is competent in law to establish such fact; a
jury may infer any fact from such evidence, which the law authorizes a court to infer on a demurrer to the evidence: after a verdict in
favour of either party, on the evidence, he has a right to demand of
a court of error that they look to the evidence only, for only one purpose, and with the single eye to ascertain
whether it was competent
in law to authorize.the jury to find the facts which- make out the right
of the party, on a part, or the whole of his case. If, in its judgment,
the appellate court shall hold that the evidence was competent, then
they must found their judgment on all such facts as were legally infer'rible therefrom; in the same manner, and with the same legal results,
as if they had been found and definitely set out in a special verdict.
So, on the other bud, the finding of the jury on the whole evidence
in a cause, must be taken as negativing all facts, which the party
againsut whom their verdict is given, has attempted to infer from, for
establish by the evidence,
On the evidence in the-former record, we held that-it was competent in law, to make out, and for the jury to find the fact of an
offer to refund the taxes, &c., so as to give a right of redemption:
on the evidence and finding of the jury in the present record, we

JANUARY TERM,

1838.

377

[Hepburn v. Dubois.]
are bound to consider the fact of such offer as estoblished, and to
hold the facts .o found, to bring the defendant in error within the
provisions of the laws of Pennsylvania, on' which the case turns.
The judgment of the court below is therefore affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the western district
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here adjudged and ordered by this Court, that the
judgment of the said district court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs.

VOL. X7II.-3 B

