JANUARY TERM, 1-838.

ADAMS, CUNNINGHAM AND COMPANY V. 'CALVIN JONES.

Where a case is certified fromn a circuit court of the United States, the judges of the
circuit court having differed in opinion upon questions of law which arose on the
trial of the cause, the Supreme Court cannot be called 'upon to express an opinion
on the whole, facts of the case; instead of upon particular points of law, growing
out of the same.
Upon a letter of guaranty addressed to a particular person, or to persons generally,
for a future credit to be givel to a party in whose favour the guaranty is drawn;
to charge the guarantor; notice is necessarily to be given to him, that the person
giving the credit has accepted or acted upon the guaranty, and has given credit
on the faith of it. This is not an open question in this Court, after the decisions
which have been made in Russell v. Clarke, 7 Craneh, 69; 2 Cond. Rep. 417;
Edmondston v. Drake, 5 Peters, 624; Douglass v. Reynolds, 7 Peters, 113; and
Lee v. Dick, 10 Peters, 482.

THIS case came before tile Court on a certificate of division of opinion of the judges of the circuit court for the district of West Tennessee.
The defendant, Calvin Jones, was attached by a writ of capias ad
reapontlendum, issued on the 22d May, 1835, to answer Adams,

Cunmaingham and Company; they blaiming from him the sum of fifteen hundred and twenty five dollars, for goods furnished to Miss
Betsey Miller, under the following letter of guaranty.
A. WILLIAMS:
SI,-On this sheet you have the list of articles wanted for Miss
Betsey Miller's millinery establishment, which. you were so very
good as to offer to purchase for her. I will be security for the payMr. WILLIAM

ment, either to you, or the merchants in New York, of whom ybti
may purchase, and you may leave this in their hands, or otherwise,
as may be proper. I hope, to your favour and view, will be added
all possible favour by thesmerchants, to the young lady, in quality
and prices of goods, as I have no doubt she merits as much, by her
late knowledge of her business, industry, and pure conduct and principles, as any whatever.
CALVIr.T JONES.
Mr. Williams, the person named in the guaranty, purchased the
a~ttcles, according to the list furnished, from the plaintiffs, who were

SUPREME COURT.
[Adams v. Jones.]

merchants of New York, on the 28th, of October, 1832. The goods
were ftirnished on the faith of the guaranty, which was left with the
plaintiffs.
During the pro;ress of the cause, and whilst the same was before
the jury, it occu,.red as a question, "whether the plaintiffs were
bound to give notice to the defendant, that they had accepted or
acted upon the guaranty, and given credit on the faith of it." Upon
which question, the opinions of the judges were opposed: whereupon, on mofion of the plaintiffs, by their: attorney, that the point bn
which the disagreement hath happened, may be stated, under the
direction of the judges, and certified under the seal of the court, to
the Supreme Court, to be finally.decided: it was ordered, that a
statement of the pleadings, and a statement of facts, which was inade
under the direction of the judges, be certified, according to the request of the plaintiffs, and the law in that case made and provided.
The case was submitted to the Court, on printed arguments, by
Mr. Fogg for the plaintiffs; and Mr. Yerger for the defendant.Mr. Fogg for the plaintiff.
The counsel for the plaintiffs admits Lhat the 'decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States have established, "that a party
giving a letter of guaranty, has a right to know whether it is accepted, and whether the person to whom it is addressed, means to
give credit on the footing of it or not;" and 'hence notice that it is
accepted and relied upon, must be given in a reasonable time, to
charge him who makes the guaranty.
This is undoubtedly the rule when the contract of the guarantor is
prospective, and intends to attach to future transactions. Until the
other party' assents to and accepts the guaranty, it is a mere proposition of one party, to which, if the other assents, he must give notice
of the fa(A to the guarantor; so that he may rdgulate his course of
conduct and his exercise of vigilance in regard to the party in whose
favour it is given..
The contract sued upon in this case does not fall within the foregoing principles. It was not a prospective promise to Adams,
Cunningham & Co., intended to operate upon future transactiohs,
and to protect credits extended to Miss Miller, after the period it
came to their lhands. William A. Williams, to whom the letter was
addressed, was appointed the agent of Miss Miller to purchase the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

209

[Adams v. Jonesj

goods specifid in the letter; and he was also, the agent of Calvin
Jones, the defendant, to deliver the letter of guaranty to any merchants of New York, from whom Williams might think proper to
purchase the 'goods. The defertdant says: "I will be security for
the payment, either to you or the: merchants in New York, of whom
you may purchase; and you may leave this in their hands, or otherwise, as may be proper." The defendant had himself annexed to
the letter the list of articles required; he knew the whole extent
of his obligation. From the, terms of the letter, Williams had no
right to deliver, or the merchants to receive it, except to cover the.
actual purchases Williams might make. The delivery ofthe letter
and purchase of the goods, were intended to be one transaction;
and the sale and delivery of the guaranty, were dependent acts of the
same date. The parties so acted. The clerk of the plain-tiffs proves,
"that.-the letter was exhibited to them, to ascertain and decide,
whether they would make the sale upon its credit, and being satisfied with the goodness and responsibility of Calvin Jones, they did
sell and deliver to Elizabeth A. Miller, through her agent Williams,
the goods ordered by the letter; and the said Williams did, pursuant
thereto, at the time of such sale, leave the -said guaranty or security
with the said Adams, Cunningham & Co." What Calvin Jones did
by his agent, was equivalent to his own act; through Mr. Williams,
Jones did know at the moment the letter was delivered, and became
operative in the hands of. the plaintiffs, the nature and full extent of
his liability. The letter of authority was then exhausted; and no
further credit to Miss Miller was authorized or intended by the
parties. This contract, therefore, does not fall within any of the
rules laid down by the Supreme Court.; and no further notice to
Jones was necessary tban that which was within the knowledge of
his agent, Williams.
The case, of Duval et Al. v. Trask, 12 Mass. Rep. 154, is in point.
The court there say, they do not consider the promise in thelight
of a conditional undertaking; so as to require a demand of, or diligence in the pursuit of the original contractor. It was of itself an
original undertaking, collateral to the promise of the vendee as
security; but not liable to any contingencies, except that of gross
negligence in securing the, debt, by means of which the loss might
be thrown upon the vendors. See also the case of Lawrason v.
Mason, 3 Cranch, 492, and that of D'Wolf v, Rabauds et al., 490,
500, 1 Peters' Rep. and also 7 Cranch, 69.
VOL. XI.-2 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Adams v. Jones.]

Mr. Yerger for the defendant.
The defendant Jones was sued, as a guarantor of the debt of Miss
Miller, and the only question raised by the record is, whether he
was entitled to reasonable notice from the plaintiffs that his guaranty
was accepted and acted on by them. That he was so entitled is
settled by a variety of adjudicated cases, particularly by the eases of
Douglass and others v. Reynolds, Byrne & Co., 7 Peters' Rep. 113;
Edmonson ,. Drake, 5 Peters' Rep. 629; Lea v. Dick, 10 Peters'
Rep. 12_; Pickering's Rep. 133; 1 Bailey's South Carolina Rep.
620.
This case cannot be distinguished in principle, from the foregoing
cases. One of the judges, however, in the court below, believed
from the terms, of the guaranty, that Mr. Williams (the person
authorized in the guaranty- to Iturchase the goods) was the agent of
the guarantor, and that in such case, no notice was necessary. This
view of the case would make Jones the principal debtor, instead of
Miss Miller; Williams would in such event, purchase the goods for
Jones, and not on Miss Miller's account; which is contrary to the
manifest intention of the parties.
The guaranty on its face, shows that Jones's liability was only
collateral. It shows also, that Williams Was to be the agent of Miss
Miller, in purchasing the goods. The guaranty is directed to Williams; and says, " on this sheet you have the list of articles, &c.,
which you were so good as to offer to purchase for her. I will be
security for the. payment, either to you or the merchant of whom
you will purchase; and you may leave this in their hands, or otherwise, as you may think proper," &c. Does not the language conclusively prove, that Williams was Miss Miller's agent -in buying
the goods. He was to buy them for her, not for Jones. This gua,
ranty was not of an existing debt, but was a guaranty for goods to
be advanced to Miss M., afterwards; whether it would be acted on
or not, or whether the goods would be furnished by. any one, and
by whom, Jones could not tell without notice.
In Edmondson v. Drake, 5 Peters, the guaranty was addressed, not
to the party who was to be benefited by it, but like this one, to third
persons. Through the agency of the persons to whom it was addressed, the goods' were purchased by the party; but the credit was
given to the guaranty, by the merchants who furnished them. So
in this case, the letter of guaranty was addressed to Williamls, he
purchased' the goods, and they were furnished on the faith of the

,JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Adams v. Jones.]
guaranty. The two cases are precisely alike in this respect; and yet
Chief Justice Marshall, page 637, says, in the first case, "it would be
an extraordinary departure from that exactness and precision which
peculiarly distinguish mercantile transactions, which is an important
principle in the law and usage of merchants, if a merchant should
act on a letter of this character, and hold the writer responsible,
without giving him riotice that he had acted on it."
If Williams was the agent of Jones in this case, were not Castillo
and Black the agents of Edm6ndson, in the case in 5 Peters; and if
the latter case, does it
notice on that account was not necessary irr
not incvitably follow, that Chief Justice Marshall was wrong, when
he expressed his surprise that any person should doubt that it was
not required in the other.
In Douglass v. Reynolds, 7 Peters' Reports, the Court decided
that " a party giving a letter of credit, has a right to know whether
it be accepted, and whether credit is given on it or not:" indeed,
until such notice, there is no contract. The Court in that case say,
such notice is most material, not only as to his responsibility, but as
to future rights and proceedihgs. It may regulate his course of
conduct, and his exercise of vigilance in regard to thelparty ini whose
favour it is given."
That'case also decides, that a demand of payment of the principal
should be first made, before the guarantor is resorted to. The guaranty in that case was stronger than this; the guarantors bound
themselves jointly and severally to be responsiblp for all advanceN
&C.
The principle of the case in 7 Peters, is applitable to continuing
guarantors, or-to guarantors of a single transaction; as was decided jn
Lee v. Dick, 10 Peters' Reports, 432. The Court in this last case,
says: "there are many cases where the guaranty is of a specific,
existing demand, by a promissory note, or other evidence of a debt,
and such guaranty is gii.en upon the note itself, or with a reference
to it, and recognition of it, when no notice would be necessary.
The guarantor, in such cases, knows precisely what he guaranties,
and the extent of his responsibility. But when the guaranty is prospective, and to attach upon future transactions, and the guarantor
uninformed whether his guaranty has been accepted and acted upon,
or not, the- 'fitness and justice of the rule, requiring notice, is supported by considerations that are unanswerable."
It is believed the above authorities are decisive of this case.

SUPREME COURT.
[Adams v. Jones.]

Mr. Justice STony delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes before us upon a certificate of division of opinion
of th6 judges of the circuit court of West Tennessee. The plaintiffs, Adams and others, brought an action against the defendant,
Jones, for the amount of certain gocds supplied by them, upon the
credit of the following letter of guaranty:"Raleigh, September 25th, 1832.
"MR. WILLIAM. A. WILLIAMS:

"SI,-On this sheet you have the list of articles wanted for Miss
Betsey Miller's millinery establishment, which you were so very
good as to offer to purchase for her. I will be security for the payment, eithet'to you, or to the merchants in New York, of whom you
mynay purchase, and you may leave this in their hands, or otherwise,
a may be proper. I hope, to. your favour and view, will be added
alr possible favour by the merchants, to the young lady, in quality
and prices of goods, as I have no doubt she merits as much, by her
late knowledge of her business, industry, and pure conduct and
principles, as any whatever.
"CALVIN JONES."
"After the compliment that is paid me abovd I should hardly be
willing to place my name so near it, was I not told it was necessary
and proper the merchants should know my handwriting generally,
'and particularly my signature.
"ELIZABETH A. MILLER."
The list of the articles was appended tn the letter.
Upon the trial of the cause upon the general issue before the jury,
it occurred as a question, whether the plaintiffs were bound to give
notice to the defendant, that they had accepted or'acted upon the guaranty., and given credit on the faith of it." Upon which question the
opinions of the judges were opposed; and thereupon, according tothe
act of congress, on motion of the, plaintiffs, by their, attorney, the
point has been certified to this Court. A statement of the pleadings,
and also, a statement of facts made under the direction of the judges,
have been certified as a part of the' record. Some diversity of opinion
has existed among the judges, as to the true nature and extent of the
question certified; whether it meant to ask the opinion of this Court,
whether, under all the circumstances disclosed in the evidence, any
personal notice to the defendant, or any other notice than what was

JANUARY TERM, 1638.
[Adams v. Jones.]

made known to 'Williams, was necessary to fix he liability of the defendant; or.whether it meart only to-put the general question of the
necessity of notice in cases of guaranty. If the former interpretation
were adopted, it would call upon this Court to express an opinion
upon the whole facts-of the ease, instead of particular points of law
growing out of the same; a practice which is not -deemed by'"e
majority of the Court to be.., correct, under the act of congress on
this subject., Act of 1802,.,ch. 31, see. 6. The latter is the interpretation which we are disposed to adopt; and, the question, which,
under this view, is presented, is, -whether upon a letter of guaranty
addressed to a particular person, or to persons generally, fdr a future
credit to be given to the party in whose favour the guaranty is
drawn, notice is necessary to be given to the guarantor, that the person giving the credit has accepted or acted 'upon the guaranty, and
given' the. credit on the faith of it. We are all of dpinion that it is
necessary; and that this is not now an open question in this Court,
fter the decisions which have been made in:Russell v. Clarke, 7
Crane/l, 69; Edniondsoni v. ,Drake, 5 Peters' Rep. 624; Douglass v.
Reynolds, 7 Peters' Rep. 113: Lee v. Dick, 10 Peters, 482; and
again recognised :at the present term, in the case of Reynolds v.
Douglass. It is n itself
eeasonable rule, enabling the guarah1tor to
know the :nature and extent of his liability; to exercise du vigilance
in guarding himself against losses which might otherwise be unknown to Iiim; and to avail himself of the appropriate means in law
and-equity, to compel the other parties to discharge him from future
responsibility. The reason applies with still greater force to cases
of ai general letter of guaranty; .for it might otherwise be impracticable for the guarantor to know to whoin, and under what circumstances the 'guaranty attached; and to what period it might be protracte.
Transactions between the other parties, to a great extent,
might from time to'time exist, in which credits might be given, and
payments might be made, -the existence and due appropriation of
which might materially affect his own rights and sdcurity. If,
therefore, .the question were entirely new, we should not be disposed to hold a different doctrine; and we'think the English decisions are in entire conformity to our own.
It is highly probable, that the real questions intended to be raised
before this Court, upon the certificate of division, were, whether
upon the whole evidence, Williams was not to be treated as the
agent of the defe.idant, as well as of Miss Miller, in the procurement'

SUPREME COURT.
[Adams v. Jones.]

of this credit from the plaintiffs; and if so, whether the knowledge
of Williams of the credit by'the plaintiffs to Miss Miller, upon the
faith of the guaranty, was not full notice also to the defendant, and
thus dispensed with any further and other notice to the defendant.
These were matters of fact, very proper for the consideration of the
jury at the trial.; and, if satisfactorily established, would have dispensed with any farther notice: but are by no means matters of law
upon Which we are called, on, the present occasion, to give any
opinion.
A certificate will'be sent to the circuit court, in conformity to this
opinion.

Mr. Justice BALDwIN dissented.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of West
Tennessee; and on the point and question on which the judges of the
said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which was certified
to .thi§ Court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of congress in such
ease made and provided; and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the, opinion of this Court, "That the plaintiffs
were bound to give notice to the defendant that they had accepted
or acted upon the guaranty, and given credit on 'the faith of it."
Whereupor It is now here adjudged and ordered by this Court, that
it be so certified to the said circuit court.

