JANUARY TERM, 1838.

N. ROGERS &

SONS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JAMES BATCHELOR AND

OTHERS, ADMINISTRATORS OF ABEL

H.

BUCKHOLTS, DECEASED.

An action of debt was instituted in the district court of the United States, on an
obligation under the hands and aeals of two persons. The action was against one
of the parties to the instrument. The laws of MiSsissippi allow an action on such
an instrument to be maintained against one of the parties only.
The funds of a partnership: cannot be rightfully applied by one of the partners to
the discharge of hisown separate pre-existing debts, without the express or im,
plied assent of the other parties; and it makes no difference, in such a case, that
the separate crelit6r had no knowledge at the time of the fact of the fund being
partnership property.
Whatever acts are done by any partner, in regard to partnership property or cantracts, beyond the scope and objects of the partnership; must, in general, to bind
the partnership, be derived from some further authority express or implied, conferred upon such partner, beyond that resulting from his character as partner.
The authority of each partner to dispose of the partnership funds, strictly and rightfully extends only to the business and transactions of the partnership itself; and
any disposition of those funds by any partner beyond such purpose, is an excess of
his authority as partners and a misappropriation of those funds for which the partner is responsible to the partnership: though in the case of bona fide purchasers,
without notice, for a valuable consideration, the partnership may be bound by the
acts of one partner.
If one partner write a letter in his own name to his creditor, referring to the concerns of the partnership, and his own private debts, to those to whom the letter -is
addressed; the letter not being written in the nanmo of the firm; it cannot be presumed that the other partner had a knowledge of-the contents of the letter, and
sanctionetl them. Unless some proof tn this effect was given, the other partner
ought not to be bound by the contents of the letter..

IN error from the, district court of the United ,States for the District
of Mississippi.
In the district court of Mississippi an action, of debt was instituted
on ail obligation executed on the first day of January, 1824, by which
John Richards & A. H. Buckholts promised, under their respective
hands and seals, to pay to N. Rogers & Sons, on the'' first day of
April, 1824, three thousand two hundred and eighty-eight dollars,
with interest from the date.
The defendant, Abel H. Buckholts, pleaded paymerint, and: there
was a general replication. After a trial and verdict for the defendant,
in 1833, and a new trial granted, the cause was again tried in February, 1836; the administrators of A.. H. Buckholts having been

SUPREME COU ui.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

brought in after his decease; and a Verdict was again found for the
defendant: the jury -attle same time having certified, that the plaintiffs, N. Rogers &-Sons, were indebted to the estate of A. H.'Buck-,
bolts, the sum of one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six dollars.
A bill, of exceptions was taken by the plaintiffs to the charge of
the Court; and judgment having been rendered on the verdict for the
defendants; the plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error. The bill of
exceptions stated, that on the triat of the cause the defendants set up
offsets to the demand of the plaintiffs. They were contained in an
account made up to April 1st, 1830; and how a balance due to John
Richards & Co., which firm was composed of John Richards and.
Abel H. Buckholts. The balance due was one thousand five hundred and forty-one dollars. The accounts credit N. Rogers & Sons,
the. plaintiffs, with the amotint of the note -for which'the suit was
instituted, and with interest on it for six years, amounting to four
thousand eight hundred and sixty-six dollars; and charges several,
items as payments to the plaintiffs, with interest on the same, showing the balance of one thousand five hundred and forty-one dollars.
Two items on the debit side of the account were, made the subject
of controversy, vi.: a charge of one thousand four hundred and fifty
dollars, received from Lambert & Brothers, on the 4th of Septem-'
ber, 1825; and a charge of three thousand dollars, under date of
January, 1827, for John Richards' acceptance of the draft of N.
Rogers, &c.
The account was stated as follows:
N. Rogers & Sons, inaccount current (account to April
'Dr.
Cr.
1st, 1830,) with John Richards & Co.
The. debits, among 'others, were:
1825. Sept. 4. To cash from Lambert & Bro's, $1450.46
530.62
Interest on the same
$1981.08
'187. To acceptances of your draft on John
3000
Richards & Co. payable at 6 mo.
800
Interest,
$3800
The credits were:
1827. April 10. By amount of John Richards & A. H.
$3325.25
Buckholt's note due this day,
1541.06
Interest on same, 6 years,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

223

[Rogers v. Batchelor.]
In support of this set-off, the-defendants relied upon the testimony
of one Rowan, who testified that some time in the year 1830, he was
requested by Buckholts to be present at a conversation he expected
to have at his office, with a Mr. Rogers, (a member of the firm of
Rogers. & Sons, as he understanids,)' relative to their accounts, and
requested him to note down and recollect the conversation; that some
time after Rogers cameinto the office, and., conversation ensued
relative to their accounts; that the accounts before them were accounts made out by Rogers & Sons, between themselves itd Rihards
& Buckholts, and John Richards & Co. and John Richards, and Lambert & Brothers, in account with John Richards & Co. Richards'and
Buckholts, and;John Richards, and an account nrade out by Buikholts, between Richards & Buckholts, and Rogers & Sons: that in
their conversation relative to those accounts, Buckholts asked Rogers
if the several items charged in his account had not been receiveO
and Rogers admitted- they had been; that arnong other items: so admitted, was the item charged in the account of offseth, filed under the
plea of payment of one-thousand four hundred and fifty'dollars and
forty-six cents, and the item of three thousand dollars.
The witness stated, that in their conversation about the one thousand
four hundred and fifty dollars and forty-six cents .tem, Rogers admitted that sum had been received by Rogers & Sons, from Lambert
& Brothers, in New York, and was part of the proceeds of seventyfour bales of cotton, shipped by Richards & Btckholts to Lambert &
Brothers. That very little wa said about the item of three thousand
dollars; the witness recollected nothing more but an admission that
it had been received. That something was said between Buckholts
and Rogers about the right to apply moneys to the payment of John
Richards' private debts; Buckholts contending Rogers had no right
to do so, and Rogers that he had: but which particular item of payment witness did not understand. This was all the evidence introduced by defendants in support of the above two items of one thousand four hundred and fifty dollafs and forty cents, and three thousand dollars. The said witness further testified, that he had understood the said John Richards had once failed, before, he went into
partnership with the said Buckholts. No other witness was introduced on the part of the defendants.' The defendants-admitted, that in
the account made out by Buckholts between Richards & Buckholts,
and Rogers & Sons, abovementioned, about which the said conversation between Buckholts and Rogers took place; that the item of three

SUPREME COURT.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

thousand dollars was charged by Buckholts, in his said account, as
ap item received upon a bill of exchange, drawn in 1825, by Rogers
& Sons on John Richards alone.
The plaintiffs then introduced a, letter from John Richards to
them, dated Natchez, June 6th, 1825, of which the, following are
extracts:
"To-day we have amount of sales of all the cotton we own,
(except half interest in seventy-eight bales gone to England, which
was sold by Messrs. Lambert in New York, at twenty cents, subject to" benefit of half profits, without being accountable for any
loss;) which, although, bought lately, nearly netted twenty per cent.
Our profits on cotton will be from four to five thousand dollars; and
our business is, I think, prospering. The following, is about the payments'we have left in the hands of Messrs. Lambert, Brothers &
Co., to be divided between you and them:
Part sales of seventy-eight bales of cotton, about
'Foster & Steel's notes,
..
-

My three notes,

-

This intended to pay my own debts,

$2800
4250
1500
$8550

On account of John Richards & Co.
The half profits of seventy-eight bales of cotton, gone to
England, which I hope may be

J. R. & Co.'s notes, due next winter, at New. Orleans,

$1500

1500$3000

"This day, sent to New Orleans six hundred and fifty-four dollars
and fifty-five cents, to purchase exchange on New York, which will
be forwarded as soon as received, to go to the payment of J. R. &
Co.'s debt to you and Messrs. Lambert, Brothers & Co. With these,
payments I hope you.will be satisfied until next winter. I have
hopes of selling my private residence, at a sacrifice of two thousand
five hundred dollars, which will be sent to you as soon as realized.
I have a prospect of getting for it nine thousand dollars,"
The plaintiffs, by their attorney, requested the court to charge the
jury : First, that the defendants are not entitled, upon the evidence
before them, to the item of one thousand four hundred and fifty dol-.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

lars and forty cents, as an offset to the plaintiff's claim. Second, that
the defendants are not entitled, upon the evidence before the jury, to
the item of three thousand dollars, as an offset. Which charge the
court refused to give; and thereupon the defendants requested the
court to charge as follows: First, that if the jury believe the offset
of one thousand four hundred and fifty dollars was the proceeds of
cotton of Richards & Buckholts, or John Richards & Co., shipped on
their joint accounts, then it is a legal offset to a joint debt; and can-.
not be applied to the individual debt of John Richards, without proof
that Buckholts was himself consulted, and agreed to it. Second, ihat
if the jury believed that the draft of three thousand dollars was paid
by Richards & Buckholts, or John Ri~hards & Co,, or out of the)
effects of either of. those firms, with the knowledge of Rogers &
Sons, then, in law, it is a legal offset to the joint debt of said Richards & Buckholts, or John Richards & Co., and cannot be applied to
the private debt of either partner, without the consent of the other
partner. Third, that the letter of John Richards, read "in this case,
is not evidence against Buckholts; unless the jury believe that Buckholts knew of the letter, and sanctioned its contents; (which Iktter
is the one beforementioned in this bill of exceptions.) Which charge
the court gave as requested.
To which decision, in refusing to charge as requested by the
plaintiffs, and in charging as requested by the defendants, the plaintiffs excepted. The defendants remitted five hundred and sixty dollars; part of the debt certified by the jury.
The case was argued by Mr. Butler, for the plaintiffs in error;
and ' y Mr. Joban and Mr. Key, for the defendafits.
Mr. Butler, for the plaintiffs in error, stated that Mr. Richards before
his partnership with Buckholts, became largely indebted to N. Rogers
& Sons in the business of shipping cotton. Afterwards, in 1825, the
firm of Richards & Co. shipped seventy-eight bales of cotton to Lambert & Brothers; 6nd the proceeds of the shipments were, according
to the directions of the shippers, paid over to the plaintiffs in error:
and of this amount fourteen hundred dollars were, according to the
directions of the letter from Richards, placed to the credit of Richards. The-judge of the. district court charged the jury, that unless
Buckholts had been consulted about this application of the funds, and
VOL. XII.-2 F

SIPR EME COURT.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

hod assented to itthe appropriation, could not be. sustained; On
whom does the, burthen of prof',lie, to show the other parter did
not conseht? It should fall upon the partner., After the property,
of 'a.partnbrship is sold,- One partner may take part of the proceeds of
the gale to pay hi's debt; and the creditor to whom the payhient
is.made may retain the money, if he does not know the partner had
objected' to, the appropriation.
The inst""ctions'giv en bythejudge to the jury, were therefore
etroneouos.

Cited Iarrison v. Starry,. 5, Cranch, 289; Winship v.

Jos, 5 Peters, 549; 13 East,. 175.
As to the item Of three thousand dollars, Mr. Butler- contended
thi this grew out of a draft drawvn by the' pl'aintiffs on John Richards alone. ,John Ri"hards'accepted the bill and it was paid'when
at waturity. The aecount 6harges this -as,"otir acceptance;" but
this was not the fac. :The evidence hows tbatthe billwas drawo:.
On John RichaTrds, -an' the drawers hiad no' right toknow it was
paid out of the partnership funds. There is 'nothing -to Show they
did know this. Cited 2 Starkie's Ev. 25-688'. note; D John.- Rep500; Walden v. Shelborne, 15 John; 409; 3 Pick. 5. The whole of,
the-case,.depends, on the good faith of the transaction., The judge
did not leave the question of good faith to the jury; but laid dowj'
the' proposition; that the -fact of the partnership, property having been
taken to pay the acceptance, was sufficient to prevent.the plaintiffs
recovering.
The cases on which'the eounsel for the defendants 'rely are cases
of guaranty;
There has been great neglect On.the part Qf Mr. B'ckholts in not
having given notice that the acceptance of the draft on Richards was'
not to be charged to him. The transaction was in 1825; and there.
is no evidence that objection to- the ckedit of the same to'Richards
alone, was made until long afterwards. All the cases which have
been cited, are cases where objections were immediately made, and
communicated.
'In reference 'to the one thousand four hundred and fifty dollars,
the-credit must have been given in the books of the' plaintiffs- in
error, in 1825, and no objection to this credit-was mado until 1830.
Cited 7 Cranch, 147; 2 Barnwell'& AlderSon, 678.
Mr. Hohan and Mi. Key, for the defendant; said the question' pre.-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

sented in this case is, whether one partner has a right to pay his
separate debts out of the partnership effectq. The letter from Richards shows that he-was using the. partnership property for that
purpose.
The charge of the court is, that one partner cannot. appropriate
the property of the partnership for such a purpose, without the approbation of his partner. Such, an appropriation is, per se, fraudulent. If it is known to be partnership property, by the" private
creditor, it is fraudulent in him to receive it. 1 East, 51; 7 Wendeli 328. All this was matter for the jury; and they have passed;
upon it on two trials, and always in favour of the defendants.
The burthen of proof is altogether on the party who receives partnership property, for hig own b6nefit; in. a transaction with one partner only. Cited Colyer on Partnership, 279; Dobb v. Halsey, 16
John. Bep. 34; 1 Wendell, 531. In England it never was contend-.
ed that partnership property could be tdken to pay a parteership
debt, without the knoWledge and cornsent of the othdr -partner,expressly given, or! well ,known. 6 Wendell, 55,; 1, Joen. 1.573 05
Cowan, 489; 2 Caines' Rep. 246; 3 Wendell, 415.
Mr. Justice SToRY defivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes before us on a writ of error to the, district court of
the district of Mississippi. The original action was-debt; brought-by
the plaintiffs in. error, (Rogers & Sons,) against Abel H. Buckholts,
upoh, the following writing obligatory,--" Natchez, Mississippi,.
$3288 03. On the first day of April next, we pr9mise io pay-N.
Rogers & Sons, or order, three thousand two hundred and! eightyeight dollars 1hree cents, value received, with interest from date.
Witness our hands and'seals, this first day, of January, 1824. Jno.
Richards, [seal.] A. 1I. Buckholts, [seal.],"
Upon such an instrument, by the laws of Mississippi, one of the parties may be sued
alone; and accordingly, Richards was no party to the suit. Upon
,the plea of payment, issue was joined; and, pending the proceedings,
Buckholts died, and his administrators were made parties; and upon
the trial, .a verdict was found for the defendants, for the sum of eighteen hundred and twenty-six dollars and seventy-four cents, being
the balance-due to them upon certain set-oflA set up at the trial. A
bill of'exceptions was taken at the trial by the plaintifts; and judgment having passed for the defendatnts, the present ,writ of error has
been brough±i{o revise that
judgment.

SUPREME COURT.
[Rogers v. Batchelor:]

By the bill of exceptions, it appears,.that the defendants set up as, a
set-off, an account headed " Dr. Messrs. N. Rogers & Sons in account
current to first of April, 1830, with John Richards & Co. Cr.," on the
debit side of which account were the two following items, which
constituted the grounds of the objections which have been made at
"To. our acceptance of
the argument;-" To cash, ,.1450 46."
your draft, payable at six months, $3000."
To support their case,
the defendants offered the testimony of one Rowan; who testified to
a conversation had in his presence, in the year 1830, between Buckholts and one of the plaintiffs, relative to their accounts; that the
accounts then before them were accounts made out by Rogers &
Sons, between themselves and Richards & Buckholts, and John
Richards & Co., and John Richards & Lambert & Brothers in account with John Richards & Co. 'Richards & Buckholts, and John
Richards; and an account made out by Buckholts between Richards
& Buckholts, and Rogers & Sons. In the conversation relative to
these accounts, Buckholts asked Rogers if the several items charged
in his account bad not been received; and Rogers admitted they had
been. Among other items so admitted, were the above items of
fourteen hundred and fifty dollars forty-six cents, and three thousand
dollars. In the conversati6n about the item of fourteen hundred
and fift :dollars forty-six cents, Rogers admitted that sum had been
received by Rogers & Sons, from Lambert and. Brothers, in New
York; and that it was part of the proceeds of seventy-four'bales of
cotton, shipped by Richards & Buckholts to Lambert & Brothers.
Very little was said about the item of three thousand dollars. Something was said between Buckholts and Rogers, about the righr to
apply moneys to the payment of John Richards'. private debts:
Buckholts contending that'he had no, right so to do, and Rogers that
he had; but which particular item of payment the, witness did not
understand. This was all the evidence of payment introduced by the
defendants to support the above two items of fourteen hundred and
fifty dollars forty-six cents; and three thousana, dollars. The witness -stated, that he had understood that John Richards had once
failed, before he went into partnership with Buckholts. It was
admitted by the defendants, that the item of three thousand dollars
was. for a bill of exchange, drawn in 1825 by Rogers & Sons on
John Richards alone.
The plaintiffs then introduced a letter written by John Richards
to the plaintiffs dated at Natchez, June 6th, 1825, (and which.is in

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

the record,) conftaining statements relative to a shipment of seventyeight bales of cotton, made to Lambert & Co. -and to certain payments which, the letter says," wd have left in the hands of Messrs.
Lambert, Brothers & Co., to be divided among you and them." It
then enumerates eight thousand five hundred and fifty dollars, "intended.to pay my own debts;" and on account of Richards & Co. three
thousand dollars. It then adds, that the sum of six hundred and
fifty-four dollars fifty-five cents 'had been that day sent to New
Orleans to purchase exchange on New York, to be forvarded, and
go to the payment of John Ricnards and Co's debt to plaintiffs, and
Messrs. 'Lambert, BiotherA & Co.
Upon 'this, evidence, the plaintiffs requested the'court to- charge
the jury, that the defendants were not entitled, upon the evidence
before them, to the item of fourteen hundred and fifty dollars fortysix cents, as an, offset to the plaintiffs' claim; and also that,the defendanls were not entitled, upon the evidence bef6re the jury; to the
item of the three thousand' dollars, as an offset, which chargo 'the
court 'refused to give, and in our judgment very properly refusea to
give,. as it involved the determinatiQn of matter of, fact, properly
belonging 'to the province of the jury.
-The defendants then requested'the. court to charge the jury as
folloiVs: " First, that if the jury believe the onset of fourteen hundred and fifty dollars was the proceeds of cotton of' Richards &
Buckhoits, or John Richards &-Co., shipped on their joint accounts,
then it is a legal offset to a joint debt, and cannot be applied to an
individual debt of John Richards, without proof that Buckholts. iwas
himself consulted, and agreed to it. Second, that if the jury believed
that the draft of three thousand dollars was paid by Ri6hards &
Buckholts or John Richards & Co., or out of the effects of either
of those firms, with the knowledge of Rogers & Sons, then in law it
is a legal offset to the joint debt of the said Richards & Buckholts,
or John Richards & Co., and cannot be applied-to the private debt
of either partner, without the consent of the-other partner. Third,
that the letter of John Richards, read in this case, is not' evidence
against Buckh0lts, unless 'the jury believe that*Buckholts knew of
the letter, and sanctioned its contents." The court gave the charge
as requested: and the present bill of exceptions has brought before
us, for consideration, the propriety of each of these instructions.
Tho first instruction raises these questions: whether the funds of
a partnership can be rightfully applied by one partner to the dis-

SUPREME COURT.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

charge of his own separate pre-existing debt, without the assent,
eqpfess or implied, of the other partner; and whether it makes any
difference, in4
quch a case, that the separate creditor had no knowledge at the time of the fact of the fund :being partnership property.
We are of opinion in the negative, on both-questions. The implied
authoriy of each partner to dispose of the partnership funds strictly
and -rightfully extends only to the business and transactions of
the partnership its'elf; and' any disposition of those funds, by any
partner, beyond such purposes; is an excess of his authority as partr
ner, and amisappropriati6n , of those funds,'for which the partner is
responsible to.the partnership; though in the case of, bona fide purchasers, Without notice, for a valuable consideration, the partnership
may'be bound by such acts. Whateveritacts, therefore, are done by
any partner, in regard to partnership property or oontracts, beyond
the.scope and objects of the partnership; must, in general, in order
t6 bind the, partnership, be derived from some further authority,
express or implied, conferred upon such. partner, beyond that resulting.
from his character as partner. Such isthe general principle; and in
our judgmeut, it is founded in. good sense and reason. One man
ought not to be permitted to dispose of the. property, or to bind the
rights qf another, unless the latter has authorized the act. In the
ease f a partner paying his own, separate debt out of the 'partnership funds, it is iinanifest that it is 'a violation of his duty and of the
right of his'partners,.unless, they have assented to it. The act is -1n
illegal conversion of the funds; and the separate, creditor can haie
no bettertitle to the tunds than the partner himself had.
Does it make any difference, that the separate creditor had no
knowledge at the-time, that there-was a misappropriation of the partnership 'funds?. We think not. If he had such, knowledge, undoubtedly he'would be guilty of gross fraud-; not only
in morals, but in
law. That was expressly decided in Sheriff v.-Wilks, 1 East, R.
48: and indeed seems too plain upon-principle to admit of any serious
.doubt But we do not think 'that such knowledge is an essential ingredient in-'such a case. The true question is, whether the title to the
property has passed from the partnership to the separate ereditor. If
it has not, then the partnership may reassert their claim to it in the
hands of such creditor. 'The case of Ridley v. Taylor, 13 East, R.
175, has been supposed to inculcate a different and more modified
doctrine. But upon a close examination, it will, be found to have
turned upon its own peculiar -circumstances. Lord Ellenborough, in

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

that case, admitted that one partner could not pledge the partnership.
property for is own separate debt; and if ,he could not do such an
act of a limited nature, it is somewhat difficult to see how he could do
an act of a higher nature, and sell the property. And:his judgment
seems to have been greatly influenced by the consideration, that the
creditor in that case might fairly presume that the partner w4as thQ
real owner of the partnership security; and that there was an absence
of all the evidence (which existed and might have been produced) to
'show that, the other partner did not know, and had not authorized the
act. If it had appeared from any evidence that the act was unknown
to, or unauthorized by the other partners, it is very far from being
clear, that the case could have been deided in favofr of the separate
creditor; for his lordship seems to haveput the case upon the ground,
that either actual covin in the creditor should be shown, or that there
should be pregnant evidence, that the act was unauthorized by the
other partners. The case of Green v. Draker 2 Starkie's Rep. 347,
before lord Ellenborough, seems to have proceeded upon the ground,
that fraud, or knowledge by the separate creditor was not a necessary
ingredient. In the recent case Ex parte Goulding, cited in Collyer
on Partnership, 283, 284, the viqe-chancellor, (Sir John Leach,)
:seems to have adopted the broad ground upon which we are diAposed
to place the doctrine. Upon the appeal, his decisipn was confirmed
by lord Lyndhurst. Upon that occasion his lordship said; "No principle can be more' clear, than that where a partner and a creditor
enter into a contract on a separate account, the partner cannot pledge
the partnership funds, or give the partnership acceptances in discharge of this contract, so as to bind the firm." There was no pretence in that case, of a, y fraud on the part of the separate creditor:
and lord Lyndhurst seems to have'put his judgment upon the ground,
that unless the other partner assented to the transaction, he was not
bound; and that it was the duty'of the creditor to ascertain whether
there was such assent or not.
The same question has been discussed in the Americah courts on
various occasions. In Dob v. Halsey, 16 John. Rep. 34, it was held
by the court, that'one partner could. not apply partnership property
to the payment of his own separate debt, without the assent of the
other partners. On that occasion, Mr. Chief Justice Spercer stated
the diff.erence between the decision in New York, and those in England, 'tb be merely this: that in 'New York the court required the
separate creditor who had obtained the partnership paper forthe pri-

SUPREME COURT.
[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

vate debt of one of the partners, to show the assent of the whole firm
to be bound; and that in England, the burthen of proDf was on'the
other partners to show their want of knowledge or dissent. The
learned judge added: "1 can perceive no substantial difference, whether the note of a firm be taken for a private debt of one of the
partners by a separate creditor of a partner, pledging the security of
the firm; and taking the property of the firm, upon a purchase of one
of the.partners,, to pay his private debt. In; both cases, the act is
equallyinjurious td the other partners. It is taking their common
property to pay ar private debt of one of the partners." The same
doctrine has been,. on various occasions, fully recognised in the supreme court of the same state. And we need do no more than refer
to one of the latest: the case of Evernghim v. Ensworth, 7 Wend.
Rep. 326. -Indeed, it had been fully considered long before, in Livingston v. Roosevelt, 4 John. Re'p 251.
It is true, that the precise point now before us, does not appear to
have received any direct adjudication;- for in all the cases above mentioned, there was a known application of the funds or securities of
the partnership to the payment of the separate debt. But we think
that the true principle to be extracted from the authorities is, that
one partner cannot apply the partnership funds or securities to the
discharge of his own private debt without their consent; and that
without their consent iheir title to the property is not divested in favour of such separate creditor, whether he knew it to be partnership
property or not. In short, his right-depends, not upon his knowledge
that it was partnership property, but upon the fact, whether the other
partners had assented to such disposition of it or not.
If we are right in the preceding views, they completely dispose of
the second instruction. The point there pUt involves the additional
ingredient, that the separate debt and draft of Richards, for the three
thousand dollars, was, with the knowledge of the plaintiffs, (Rogers
& Sons,) paid out of the partnership funds; and if so, then, unless that
payment was assented to by the other partner, it was clearly invalid,
md not binding Upon him. It is true,'that the draft of three thousand dollars was drawn on Richards alone; and, therefore, it cannot
be presumed that the plaintiffs had knowledge that it was accepted,
by the partnership, .or paid out of the partnership funds. But the
question was left, and properly left to the jury to say whether the
plaintiffs had such knowledge; and if they had, unless the other partner consented, the, payment would be a fraud upon the partnership.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

23

[Rogers v. Batchelor.]

With the question, whether the jury have drawn a right conclusion,
it is not for us to intermeddle. It was a matter fairly before them
upon the evidence; and the decision upon matters of fact Was their
peculiar province.
The third instruction admits of no real controversy. The letter
purports to be written by Richards alone, and not in the name of the
firm, or by the orders of the firm. It embraces topics belonging to
his own private affairs, as well as to those of the firm. Under uch
circumstances; not being written in the name of the firm; it cannot be
presumed that the other partner had knowledge of its contents, and
sanctioned them, unless some-proof to that effect Was offered to the
jury. If the other partner -did not know of the letter, or sanction its
contents, it is plain that he ought not to be bound by them; and such
was the instruction given to th6 jury.
Upon the whole, our opinion is, that the judgment of the court below ought to be affirmed, with six per cent. interest, and costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the district court of the United States for the district of Mississippi,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
adjudged and ordered by this Court, that the judgment of the said
district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum per annum.

VOL. XIL.-2 G

