SUPREME COURT.

MARTitA BRADSTREET, PLAINTIFI IN ERRO1

v,

ANSON THOMAS.1

It is error on the trial of a writ of right,-befdre the giand assize, to prevent the intro.
duction of written -evidence ; becaued in! a trial between the demandant, offering
the testimony, and a defendant claiming in opposition to the demandant, under the
;ame title with that of the defendant, before the grand assize, the court- had frequently examined the title set up by the written evidence offered, and had become
fully cognizant of it; and had, in that trial,.at the suit of.1he demandant, in which
it had been produced, decided that -it in nowise tended to establish a legal title to
the land in controversy, in the demandant.
'The demandant had a- right to place before the assize all the evidence which she
thought might tend to establish her right of property which had been ruled to be
competent eyidence, in another suit; against the competency of which, nothing
was objected in this suit: and the assize had a right to have such evidence before
them, that they might apply to it the instructions of the court, as the law of the
case, without which they ould not do it.
There is a safer repository of the ad.udications of courts, than the remembrance of
judges; and their declaration of them, i; no prQf :gf their exstence.

ERROR to "thedistrict court of, the United States, for the northern
district of lNew York.
This was a writ of error prosecuted by the demandant, in -the district court of the northern district of New York, in,a, writ of right
sued out by her. The case was fully argued by Mr. Myer and Mr.
Jones for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Beardslev for the defendant.
The judgment of the district court was reversed on a single point,
the rejection of certain evidence offered by the plaintiff. NO opinion
was given on any other question in the cause; and the argumetits on
the nuerous points presented to the Court, and argued by the counsel for the plaintiff and defeddant, are therefore omitted.
Mr. Justice VYAYNE. delivered the opinion of the Court:
We will direct our attenition to a single point in this cause, because
it is the most importan. 'in principle and practice; and is, in our
opinion, conclusive of the judgment which this Court must render
.upon this writ of error.
The tenant in the writ of right, upon the trial of the cause, having
given his evidence, and rested his cause upon it, the demandant, upon

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradeteet v. Thoam.]

thecourt's deciding that the tenant had proved enough to put her on
the proof of the mise on her part, gave certain oral testimony in
support of her right, with an, exemplification-of a decree of the
court of chancery in the state of New York, under the -seal of the
court. The counsel for the tenant then inquired whether the "de.
mandant intended to offer any new -or different evidence from that
heretofore, offered! by her 'in other trials had in -that court n writs of
right, by the demandant against Henry Huntington and others, for
other portions of Cosby's manor, claimed by-the demandant, by virtue of the same title deeds by which the' premises in question'were
claimed. To this'inquiry, the damandant. replied that she had no
other or different evidence; whereupon. the counsel for the tenant objeoted to the evidence, which he Then understood was to be offered
by the demandant -alluging that it had been given in evidence on
former trials in writs of right between the demandant' bnd Henry
:"Huntington and others, for' other portions of Cosby'a manor; and
had bien solemnly considered on a motion for a new trial in thecause
of the said demandant against Huntington; 'and that it' was then decided by this Court, that the evidence of the demandant then offered,
and now intended to be offered, in nowise tended'to establish. a
legal title to any portion of the land in Cosby's manor, now in controversy, That the evidence, therefore, intended to be' offered' by
the demandant, 'Would have established no right or title' in her to the
premises in question; and "was immateiial, ind irrelevant. Whereupon the said judge decided,' that inasmuch as the evidence to make
out the asserted' title of the demandant to these and other lots in
Cosby's .manor, had been frequently examined by him,' on other
trials iwbehalf'of' the said demandant, against the tenants of land in
Cosby's manor, whereby he had become fully cognizant of the same
and that, as he had solemnly considered the same, on a-m otion for a
new trial, in the case of Henry Huntington, at the suit of 'the. demandant; and had come to the conclusion, that the said evidence
tended in nowise to establish a legal title to :any portion of the land
in controversy, in the said demandant; he Was, therefore, bound to
overrule the same,.as insufficient in law, and therefore immaterial
and irrelevant. The demandant excepted to this decision, stating she
would offer each piece of her testimony, separately, and in succession
in evidence to the grand assize. As they were offered, they were rejected by the codrt.
The evidence rejected were several documents, serving, as the de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet v. Thomas.]

mandant supposes, to establish that she was seiged of the premises in
question; and as each was presented, it was overruled by the court,
the demandant excepting to the~decision. Certain facts were then
admitted -to be in eevidence, not embracing, ,however, any point to
which the rejected'testimony was supposed to apply; and the couri
delivered as its opinion to the assize, that by the practice in a writ
of right, the tenant was required to begin by offering his testimony.
That this rule seemed to imply, that he must adduce some testimony;
although to what extent or effect, seemed not very clear 1rom any
treatise in this antiquated form of action. In this instance, the proof
adduced by the tenant, did not show title or possession in himself.
Still he deemed it sufficient to put the demandant to the 'proof of her
seisin or better title in herself; and she having failed to give such
proof, was not entitled to recover: and that the grand assize ought,
find a verdict in favour of the tenant.
therefore,
To this to
charge of, the court the demandant excepted.. This
statement, it seems to us, shows the error in rejecting, the evidence. If
the demandant was put to the proof of her seisin'or, better title before the grand assize, who were sworn to say which 'of the' parties
had the "mere right to have the messuages and tenements," under
the direction of the court as to thelaw applicable to the facts; the
demandant had a right to place before the assize all the evidence
which she thought would tend to establish her right of property,
which had been ruled to be competent evidence in another suit;
against the competency of which, nothing was objected in this suit:
and the assize had a right to have, such evidence before them, that
they might apply to it the instructions of the court, or law of the
case, without which they could not do so. Where the court undertook in this case to give what it said was. the law of the case, because
it ruled the lawupon the same evidence in another case) rejecting it
in this; we have its own admission that the evidence was competent
in that case, and necessarily was competent in the case before it; if
the papers offered were authenticated in such way as the law requires,
or were of that class, which do not need official authentication as
proof by witnesses. No objection of that kind was made. The footing upon which the rejection of the evidence is put by the court, is,
that having frequently examined it in other trials, and considered it
on a motion for a new trial, in the case of Huntington at the suit of
the demandant, it had come to the conclusion, that the evidence
tended in nowise to establish a legal title to any portion of the land

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradstreet v. Thomas.]

in controversy, in the demandant. Nothing was said of its inadmissibility. The evidence was excluded upon the ground of past
adjudication, upon the court's.declaration of that fact, without record
evidence of any such verdict or judgment. There is a safer repository of the adjudications of courts, than the remembrance of judges;
and their declarations of them is no proof of* their existence. But
in what way is it attempted, in argument, to maintain the correctness
of the rejection of this evidence. The learned counsel of the tenant,,
in his very, able argument in support of it, says it was rightly rejected; because it did not prove, nor tend to prove, that the demandant
was seised'of the premises in luestion; that the deed which made
the first link in the chain of the demandant's title was void; and continuing his analysis of the rejected testimony through all the chain,
from Ten Eyck's deed, to its last link, Mrs. Livius' will; he argues,
that in no event can the demandant show that seisin in herself
which will oust the tenant. May not the demandant very well reply,
how do you 6btain your knowledge, and come to your conclusion
upon my title? Is it upon evidence in the cduse; or upon that which,
at your instance, was rejected as evidence? If the latter; can it be
used upon an excepiion to its rejection in a trial, upon a writ of error,
sued out by the demandant to overrule that rejection; in order that it
may be given as evidence in another trial in the court below, to show
what will be the legal effect of that evidence upon the demandant's
title? The object of the writ of error is to make these rejected papers evidence; and until they are so made, they cannot be used for
4ny purpose. This Court cannot, nor can the court below judicially
know'what the legal effect of these papers willbe upon the demandant's title, tfntil they have been below as evidence; and the error in
rejecting them arose from the court's not having discriminated at the
moment between judicial evidence of a fact, and the knowledge
which it-personally had of that fact in'the course of its administratration of the law.
We purposely abstain from considering any other point in the argument of the counsel for the tenant; as we could not do so, without
discussing the rights of the parties, which are not put, by any exceptions on this record, before this Court.
Mr. Justice THomPSON did not sit in this ease.

VOL. XII.-Z

