164

SUPREME COURT.

JOHN H. CLARKE, ADMINISTRATOR OF WILLARD W. WETMORE, APPELLANT V. HENRY MATHEWSON, CYRUS BUTLER, EDWARD
CARRINGTON, AND SAMUEL WETMORE, APPELLEES.
A bill was filed by W. a citizen of Connecticut, against M. and others, citizens of
Rhode Island, in the circuit court of the United States for the district of Rhode
Island. An answer was put into the bill, and the cause was referred to a master
for an account. Pending these proceedings, the complainant died; and administration of his effects was granted to C, a citizen of Rhode Island, who filed a bill of
revivor in the circuit court. The lawo° f Rhode Island do not permit a person
residing out of the state to take out administration of the effects of a deceasedperson within the state; and make such administration indispensable to the proseoution and defence of any suit in the-state, in right of the estate of the deceased.
no just sense an original suit, but was a mere
Held, that the bill of revivor was irr
continuation of the original suit. The parties to the original suit were citizens of
different states ; and the jurisdiction of thfp Court completely attached to the controversy. Having so attached, it could not be divested by any subsequent pro.
ceedings; and the circuit court of Rhode Island has rightful authority to proceed
to its final determination.
If, after the proper commencement of a suit in the circuit court, the plaintiff removes into, and becomes a citizen of, the same state with the defendant; the.
jurisdiction of the circuit court over the cause is not affected by such change ofdomicil.
The cases of Morgan's Heirs v. Morgan, 2 Wheat. 290, 4 Cond. Rep. 320; and Mol.
Ian and others v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537, 5 Cond. Rep. 666; and Dunn v. Clarke,
8 Peters, 1: cited.
The death of a party:pending a suit does not, where the cause of action survives,
amount to a determination of the suit. It might, in suits at common law, upon
the mere principles of that law have prodtced an abatement of the suit, wvhich
wonld have destroyed it. But in courts of equity, an abatement of the. suit by the
death of the party, has always been held to have a very different, effect; for such
abatement amounts to a mere suspension, and not. to a determination of the suit.
It -may again be put in motion by a bill of revivorS; and the proceedings being revived, the court proceeds to its determination as an original bill.
A bill of revivor is not the commencement of a new suit, but is the mere continuance of the old suit. It is upon ground somewhat analogous that the circuit courts
are held to have jurisdiction in cases of cross bills and injunction bills, touching
suits and judgments already in those courts.
In the 31st section of the judiciary act of 1789, congress manifestly treats the revivor
of, a suit, by or against the representatives of the deceased party, as a matter of
right, and as a mere continuance of the original suit; without any distinction as
to the citizenship of the representative, whether he belongs to the same state
where the cause is depending, or to another state.

•JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke v. Mathewson et al.1

ON appeal froni the circuit court of the United States, from the district of Rhode Island.
Willard W. Wetmore, a citizen 6f Connecticut, filed a bill to June
term, 1830, of the circuit court of the district of Rhode Island,
against Henry Mathewson, Cyrus Butler, Edward Carrington, and
Samuel Wetmore, citizens of the state of Rhode Island; claiming an
account of certain mercantile adventures, in which he alleged him-.
self to have been interested, together with the books, invoices, and
list of passengers on board of the ship Superior, in which he asserted
he was interested; and for a full settlement of all accounts between
him and the defendants: and for such other and further relief in the
premises as the court might think proper.
The separate answer of Henry Mathewson to the complainant's
bill was filed in September, 1830; the answers of the Other defendants
having been filed in June or July of the same year.
A supplementpl answer -was afterwards filed by Henry Mathewson; and in November, 1831, after various pleadings in the case,
counsel haviig been heard, the cause was referred to a master to
take and state an account between the parties, &c. The parties
appeared before the master and his assistants, and an examination of
the accounts was had and proceeded in.
In 1834, before a report was made by the master, Willard W.
Wetmore died; and administration of his estate and effects was granted
by,-and out of tho municipal court of the city of Providence, in the
state of Rhode Island, to John H. Clarke, a citizen of that state: who
thereupon filed a bill in the circuit court to revive the suit, and
prayed that the same should stand in the same situation, as at the de,cease of the-original complainant' Willard W. Wetmore.
On the 7th of July, 1834, Henry Matthewson appeared in the
circuit court; denied the jurisdiction of the court, and moved to dismiss the suit, on the ground that John H. Clarke was a citizen of
the state of Rhode Island, as were also the defendants. At November
term, 1835, the circuit court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction; and the complainant appealed to this Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Southard for the appellants; and by
Mr. Tillinghast and Mr. Webster for the appellees.

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke v. Mathewson et al.)

Mr. Southard for the appellants contended:
1st. That the court had iurisdiction of the cause upon the original
bill.
2d. That the jurisdiction would not have been taken away by the
removal of the complainant to Rhode Island.
3d. That the death of the complainant did. not abate, but suspend,
the stit; and the jurisdiction of the court -was-not thereby lost.
4th. -hat the administrator-had a right, in equity,,to revive and
continue the suit.
The ,circuit court of Rhode Island had originally jurisdiction of the
case; and the parties went on, after the filing of the bill, and the
answers, to the examination of the accounts under an interlocutory'
decree of.the court. While the cause was in this state, the complainant' died, and by the laws of Rhode Island no administration of
his affairs could be granted to any one but a citizen, of that ',state.
express on the subject and requires that
The act of the legislature is'
administration of the -estates of decedents shall only be.given .to citizens and residents of Rhode Island.
If, then, this. cause isto proceed,, it pust be by a plaintiff or complainant who is a citizen of Rhode Island; and if not, all I-the -litigation between the parties will have been fruitless and unproductive,
IWthe.jurisdiction of the court has ceased, a result will occur which
would prevail in no other state. The parties must commence a suit
in the court of the state, where he may perhaps be met with a plea
of the statute-of limitations; and thus his remedy will be for ever defeated. The case, too, is one peculiar for the jurisdiction of a court
of chancery; and the courts of the state of Rhode Island have no
chancery jurisdiction.
This is'a bill of revivor; and frori its nature and purpose, it seeks
to restore the case to the chancery docket of the circuit court, in the
-same sit&ation'it was before the death of the original complainant.
It does not ask to change the controversy, or to add .to it;, and it will
stand when revived, in the condition it did before the occurrence of
the event which made it necessary to,revive it. The bill of revivor
is not an original suit; it is nothing more than the means of continuing
the suit already commenced. It introduces -nonew matters for controversy and adjustment; and only furnishes the raeans of bringing
to a'close those already in possession of the court. The citizenship,
or residence of the administrator has no connection with the case;

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke v. Mathewsop et al.l

the matters are' litigated in the same manner as if the original party
was yet alive.
It is, then, still a controversy within the purpose of the judiciary
act, which gives the circuit courts jurisdiction of matters in suit between citizens of different states; As all the matters controverted will
be those set forth in the bill of the compplainant originally filed by
him in the circuit eQurt, he being then a citizen of Connecticut.
The death of a party to a suit in chancery does not abate the suit;
it is only suspended. In this the law of chancery differs from the
.common law. Cited Grant's Chancery, 61, 62; Cooper's Chancery,
64; and this is more especially true under the judiciary act of the
United States, and in the courts of the United States. By the 31st
section of the act, administrators and executors are authorized to pro'secute suits in the courts of the United States.:
The object of this section was 'to cairy. out the" principle that a
suit should not abate, if the cause of action survived. Co rigress intended to supply a remedy in 'the case of the-'decease of a party. It
should be shown there has 'been a decision on this point by a court
of theUnited States; and until this is done the plain language of the
section 'will prevail..
Autlhorities cited to show, that where jurisdiction' has attached,
it cannot be.divested by any thing which does not change the great
interests in the cause. 1 Peters' C. C. R. 444; 9 Wheat. 537; 2
Wheat. 290.
It has not 'been the course of the' courts of the ULnited States to
consider their jurisdiction, after it has once attached, as taken away
by the. subsequent change of residence of the party. A suit properly commenced between citizenq of different states) still proceeds;
although the parties may, before its termination, become citizens of
the same, state. This is a stronger case than -where the party dies.
It wa's the act of the party to-become a citizen of the same state with
his opponent; it is 'by the visitation of God, that the party in this
case ceased to have ability to proceed in his cause.
Suppose a citizen of Rhode Island, after taking out administration
to the estate of Willard W. Wetmore, had remoed to Connecticut;
this, if done bona fide, would give the 'ourt jurisdiction. If immediately afterwards, he returns to Rhode Island,. the jurisdiction of the
corn t is not disturbed. Cited 1 Paine's C. C. R, 594.
All the cases which have been decided, have been as to the vesting of the jurisdiction in the courts of the United States originally.

SUPREME COURT.
[Clakke v. Mathewson et al.]

This is a casd in which the jurisdiction has fully and legally vested;
and the act of congress declares that the suit shall not abate by the
death of one of the parties. No matter what the form of a bill of revivor may be, it is no mor6 than the instrument to carry into effect
the act of congress which declares the suit shall survive.
As to the suggestion that questions may arise under the bill of
revivor, and that they will be questions between citizens of the same
state; the Court must be, aware that these must be questions in the
original suit. They will be incidents to that suit, and to the matters
in controversy in it; and no more.
Mr. Webster and Mr. Tillinghast for the defendants.
The plaintiff alleges, that he was appointed administrator by a
court of probate in Rhode Island; and he sets forth various matters,
all necessary to his title and claim, and all of which the defendant
may legally controvert. The prayer of this bill, which is original as
between these parties, is, that a former bill, exhibited in the lifetime
of his intestate, when this plaintiff sustained no relation to that bill,
its liarties, or its subject matter, may be revived for his benefit and
relief, with the benefit and use of all proceedings therein; and'all,
against a citizen of the same state, who resists and controverts his
right. This %isthe controversy of this bill; and it is wholly between
citizens of the same state.
The plaintiff's relation to the estate of Wetmore, deceased, was not
thrown upon him by the act of God, or the operation of law; but was
formed and assumed by his own consent and contract.
His title to any thing claimed in the former bill, if he has any, is
by purchase'.
If a legal administrator, he is the legal and sole owner of all the
property claimed; and the court, under thisbill, canfiot, it is'presumed,
deal with any claims to the property beyond those vested in him.
But were this otherwise, still it not only does not appear in the bill
that those who may have ulterior claims on him, as creditors, surviving partners, or distributees of the property of the deceased, are Citizens of another state; but, on the contrary, the reverse appears.
The courts of general jurisdiction are open to him; and there are
perfect, remedies therein for every grievance in those courts.
It required legislative power to enable an administrator to come
into a suit pending at the death of his intestate, to revive and continue the proceedings in a court~of general jurisdiction. State, legis-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke v. Mathewson et al.]

latures have, therefore, passed enabling statutes, applicable to state
courts. Judicial power to that effect, was, and is wanting,.without
legislative enactment; even in courts of general jurisdiction. Congress has not attempted to invest the federal courts with the power
now claimed for them by the plaintiff; nor could congress give jurisdiction beyond the limitations of the constitution.
It is contended for the defendant; that the whole current of' decisions runs against the jurisdiction now asserted by the plaintiff. "If
there are not proper parties to the suit as it stands on the bill of revivor, that circumstance may, it would seem, be pleaded to such bill."
Beame's Pleas in Eq. 304; 11 Ves. 313.
It is true, on obvious grounds, that a defendant to a bill of revivor
cannot plead a plea which has been pleaded by the original defendant and overruled; nor, it ispresumed, one which might have been
pleaded by original defendant, but waived or omitted at its proper
time. Beame, obv. sup. Samuda v. Furtado, 3 Bro. C. C. 70.
Nor is a cross bill liable to any plea which will not bold to the original bill; nor to a plea to jurisdiction, though the original might
be. Beame, 310. Because a cross bill is in the nature of a defence
selected by the adverse party, the reconventio of the civil jurisdiction. Wood's Inst. Civ. Law, 325, &c.. Such cases leave it supposed
and granted, that, in the case now in question, the objection is good.
'The very point of jurisdiction raised by the plea in this case, has
been decided in the courts of the United States, and in favour of the
view taken by the defendants. Chappedelaine et al. v. Decheneaux, 4
Cranch, 306. Also the case, Potter v. Rhodes, decided in the circuit
court of the United States for Rhode Island district, November term,
1806. The suit was by Potter, of Massachusetts, against Rhodes, of
Rhode Island. Potter died during the pendency, and his administrators appeared, and were admitted as such to prosecute. It then
appeared, that one of them was a citizen of Rhode Island; and the
court decided that it had no jurisdiction for that cause.
The court always looks solely to the record. There is no case
in which they look out of it; for the record is always -of the parties
own making. It is on this ground they always refuse to go into
questions of the removal of a party after a suit has been instituted.
The only question is, does it appear on the record that the parties
are e tizens of different states; and this appearing, the L)urt go no
further.
The lawmpiight have been more advantageous to parties litigating

V L.XII.-Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Clark* v. Mathewson et I.]

in the courts of-the United States; but'it is not so; and thelaw must
prevail. There are other cases of great hardship, and producing
great embarrassment: the case of all the parties being .reqtired, to
be citizens of another state. This 'is a hardship, but it,cannot be
helped. The law is positive, and the, courts are obliged to obey it.
The bill of revivor says the original suit has abated, and asks to
revive it as a controversy between: the 4dministrat r and the defendants. While the matters in dispute between the original parties
may remain, there may be others which will be raiped'by the bill,of
revivor; and these will be between citizens of Rhode Island, exelusively.
Suppose it shall become necessary to file a cross bill, it must be
filed 'by a citizen of Rhode Island, against another citizen of that
state. This seems to be conclusive ofthe-question.
Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case, of an appeal. from ,the circuit court of the district
.f Rhode' Island The origifhal cause was a -bill in equity brought
by Willard W. Wetmore, deeased, a citizen of Connecticut, against
the'defendants,'Henry Mathewson' and. others, all citizens of Rhode
Island; for an account upon certain transactions set forth in.the bill,
and vith, a prayer for general, relief. ,After the cause was at issue
upon the hearihg, it was,'by agreement of the parties, ordered -bythe
court tQ be referred to a master to take an account; and pending the
prodeedings befor6 the masier, the 'iitestate' died. Administration
upon his estate was duly taken out by the present plaintiff, John H.
Clarke, in the state of' Rhode. Island; tbe laws of Rhode Island requiring that no, person 'not' a..isident of the state, should take out
letters'of administration;: and also' making such administration iiidispensable' t the prosecution and defence of any suit. in the state, in
right of the estate of the 'intestate.
'Clarke filed a bill of revivor in the 'circuit court, in June, 1834, in
which: he alleged hi mself to be a citizen of Rhode Island, and administrator of Wetmore, against the defendants; whom he alleged,
,also, to he citizens of the same state.' So that it wAs apparent upon
the face of the record, that the bill of revivor Was between citizens
'ofthe same state. 'Upon motion of the defendantslat the November
-teemof the circuit court, A. ). 1835, the court ordered the' ._l, of
revivor tb be dismissed for want of jurisdiction; and from, this decrdtal order, the present appeal has 'been taken by the appellait.

JA UARY TERM,1838.

17

[Clarke v. Mathewson~ef al.]

The case, as it was decided in the cjrquit court, is reported in 2
'$umner's Rep. 262, 26$8; and the ground of dismissal was, thatthe
bill of revivOr was a suit between'citizens Df the same state. The
judiciary act, of 1789, ch., 20, see. 11, confers original jurisdiction
upon the circuit courts, of all suits of a civil nature at common law

and in equity; Where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value
of five hundred ,lollars,. and the United States are plaintiffs or petitiOners, or analien is a party; or the suit is between a citizen of tle
atate where the suit is brought and a citizen of another state. If,
theretore, the present had been. an original bill brought between the
present parties, it is clear that it could not have been maintained; for
although the plaintiff could sue in 'attre droit, and as administrator.
of a citizen. of another state, yet the suit would be'deemed a contrpversy between him and the defendants, and, not between his intestate and the defendants. This isthe necessary result of the doctrine
held by this Court in Chappedelaine 'v. Decheneaux, 4 Cranch, 306,
and Childress v. Emory,' 8 Wheat. 642.
The circuit court treated the present case as'falling within the
satne p-edicameft- In this, we are of opinion. that the court erred,
The hill .ofrevivor was, in: no just sense, an original suit; but was a
mere continuation of the original suit. The parties' to the origilial
bill were citizens of different states; and the jurisdiction of the court
completely attached to the controversy: having so attached, it could
not he divested by any subsequent. events: and the court had a
rightful authority to proceed to- a-final determination of it. If, after
the commencement of the suit, the oiiginal plaintiff had removed
into, and become a citizen of Rhole Island, the jurisdiction over the
cause, would not have been divested by'such change of-domicil. So
it was held by this. Court in Morgan's Heirs v. Morgani 2 Wheat.
290., 297; and Mllan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 531; and Dunn v.
Clarke, 8,Peters, 1.
The ,death of either party, pending the suit, does not, where the
Cause of action survives, amount to a determination of the suit. It
might in suits at common law, upon the mere principles of that law,
have produced an abatement of the suit, which would have destroyed
it. But in courts of equity, an abatement of the suit, by the death of
a party, has ,alwaya been held to have a very different effect; for
such abatement amounts to a mere suspension, and not to a determination of the suit. It may again be put, in motion by a bill of revivor, and tie proceedings being revived, the cause proceeds to its

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke v. Mathewion et al.]

regular determination as an original bill. The bill of revivor is not
the commencement of a new suit; but is the mere continuation of the
old suit., It is upon a ground somewhat analogous, that the circuit
courts are held to have jurisdiction ih cases of crops bills, and injunction bills, touching suits and judgments already in those courts; for
such bills are treated not strictly as original bills, but as supplementary or dependent bills, and so properly within the reach of the
court; although the defendant, (who was plaintiff in the original suit)
lives out of the jurisdiction. A very strong application of the doctrine is to be found in the case of Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 1; where
an injunction bill was sustained, although all the parties'were citizens of the same state; the original judgment, under which the defendant in the injunction bill made title as the representative in the
realty of the deceased, having been obtained by a citizen of another
state, in the same circuit court.
But if any doubt could upon general principles be entertained upon
this subject, we think it-entirely removed by the 31st section of the
judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. That section provides that where, in
any suit pending in the courts of the United States, either of the
parties shall die before final judgment, the executor or administrator
oT such deceased party, who was plaintiff, petitioner or defendant, in
case the cause of action doth by law survive, shall have full power to
prosecute or defend any such suit or action until final judgment, and
that the defendant shall be obliged to answer thereto accordingly;
and the court before whom the cause is depending, is empowered
and directed to hear and determine the same, and to render judgment for or against the executor or administrator, as the case may
require. Other auxiliary provisions are made to carry this enactment into effect. Now, in this section, congress manifestly treat
the revivor of the suit, by or against the representative of the deceased, as-a matter of right, and as a mere continuation of the original suit; without any distinction as to the citizenship of the representative, whether he belongs to the same state where the cause is depending, or to another state. Of the competency of congress to pass
such an enactment under the constitution, no doubt is entertained.
The present case falls directly within its purview; and we are therefore of opinion, that the decree of the circuit court, dismissing the
bill of revivor, ought to be reversed; and the cause remanded to the
circuit court for further proceedings.
i take this opportunity of adding, that I fully concur in all the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke v. Mathewson et al.]

reasoning of this Court on this subject, After the decision had been
made in the cicuit court, upon more mature reflection I changed
my original opinion; and upon my expressing it in the circuit court,
and upon the suggestion of the judges of that court, the case has been
brought here for a final determination. I hope that I shall always
have the candour to acknowledge my errors, in a public manner;whenever I have become convinced of them.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec9rd
froin the circuit court of the United States for the district of'Rhode
Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed by this Court, that the
decree of the said circuit court, dismissing the bill of revivor in the
cause, ought to! be,\and the same is hereby reversed; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court,
for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this Court, and according to law.

