378

SUPREME COURT.

ISAAC BRADLIE AND JOHN GIBOS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V.

'THE

MARYLA*D INSURANCE COMPANY.
Insurance. By the well settled principles of law, in the Unitsd States, the state of
the facts, and not th6 state of the information at the time of the abandonment,
constitutes the criterion by which Is to be ascertained whether a total loss has occurred or not, for which an abandonment can be made. If the abandonment when
made is good, the rights of the parties are definitively Ajxed; and do not becdme
changed by any subsqquent eventg. If, on the other hand, the abandonment when
made is not good, subsequent circumstances will not affect it, so as retroactively
to impart to it a validity which it had not at its origin.
in cases Where the abandonment is founded upon a supposed technical total loss, by
a damage or injury, exceeding one-half of the value of the vessel ; although the
fAct of such damage or injury must exist at the, time; yet it is necessarily open to
proof, to be derived from subsequent events. Thus, if the repairs, when subsequently made, clearly exceed the kalf value, it is plain that this affords one of'the
best proofs of the actual damage or injury. On.the other hand, if the sub equent
repairs are far below the half value, this, so far as it goes),affords an inference the
ether way. In many cases of stranding, the state of the vbssel maybe such, from
the imminency of the peril, and the apparent cost of expenditure requisite to deliver her from it, as to justify an abandonment;' although, by some fortunate occurrence, she may be delivered from her peril without an actual expenditure of onehalf of her value, after she is in safety. Where, in the circumstances in which
the vessel then nway have been, in the highest degree of probability the qxpenditures to repair her would dxceed half her'value, and if her distress and peril be
such as would induce a considerate owner, uRinsured, and upon the spot, to withhold every'attempt to get the vessel off, becafise of such apparently great expenditures; the abandonment would doubtless be good.
In respect to the mode of ascertaining the' value of the ship, and, of course, whether
she is injured to the amount of balf her value, it has, on .the fullest consideration
been held by this Court; that the true basis of the' valuation is the value of the
ship at the time of the disaster; and that if after the damage is,or might be repaired, the ship is not, or would not he worth at the place of repairs, double the
cost of repairs, it is to be treated as a technical total loss.
The valpation in the policy, or the value at the'home port, or in the general market
of other ports, constitutes no ingredient in ascerfainiig whether the injury by the
disaster is more than one-half of the value of the vessel, or not. For the like'rea.
son, the ordinary deduction in case of a partial loss, of -one-third new for old,"
from the repairs, is equaily inapplicable to cases of a technical total loss, by an injury exceeding one-half of the value, of the vessel.
The mere retardation of the voyage, by any of the perils insured againstnot amounting to, or producing a total incapacity of the ship eventually to perform the voyage; cannot, upon principles well established, be admitted to constitute a technical
total loss, which.wilL authorize an abandonment. A retardation for the purpose
of repairing damage from the perils insured against, that damage not exceeding
one moiety of the value of the ship, falls directly within thif doctrine. Under

JANUARY TERM, 1838

379

['Brdlie et al. v. Thb Maryland Insurance Company.
such circurhstances, if the ship can be repaired,'and is repaired, and is thus capable of performing the voyage, there is no ground of abandantnedit founded upon
ue consideration that the voyage may not be worth pursuing, for the interest of
the'ship owner; or that the cargo has been injnred- so that it is not worth transporting further on the vqyage: for the lois of the cargo for the voyagel has nothing
to do with the insurance upon the ship fbr the voyage.
An insurance on time, differg, as to this point, in no essential manner from one. upon'a
particular voyage; except in this, that in the latter coe, the insurance is upon a specific voyage described in the policy; whereas a policy On time, insures no specific
voyage, but it cqvers any voyage or 'voyages whatsoever, undertaken within, and
not -exceeding, in point of duration, the limited period for which the insurance is
made. But it does not contain an undertaking that any particular voyage shall be
performed within apartic.ular period. It warrants nothing as to an) prolongation
or retardation of the voyage; but only that the ship 'shall be capable of performing
the voyage undertaken, notwithstanding any loss or injury which may accrue to
her during the time for which she is insured; and of repairing it, if interrupted.
There is no, principle of law which makes, the underwriters liable in the case of. a
merely partial loss of the hip, if money is. taken up itt bottomry 'for the necessary
repairs and expenditures, and which makes it the duty of the underwritets to' de.
'liver the ship from the bottomry bond to the extent of their liability for the ex,ptnditurqs; and that if' they do not, and if thevessel is sold under the bottomry
bond, they are liable, not only for the partial loss, but for all other-losses to the
owner, for their neglect.
The underwriters engage to pay the amount of the expenditures and losses directly
flowing from the perils insured against; but not any remote or contingent 'losses to
the owner, from their neglezt to pay the same.
The underwriters are not bound to supply funds in a foreign port, for the repairs of
any damage to the ship occasioned by a peril insured against. They undertake,
only, to, pay the amount, 'after dtge notice' and proof of the loss, an4 within a -pre.
scribed time.
If, to meet the expenditures for repairs; the master is compelled to take up money
on bottomry, and thereby an additional premium becomes payable, that constitutes
a part of the lost for which the underwriters are liable. But in cases of partial
loss, the money is not taken up on account of the underwriters, but of the owner;
and they become liable for -he loss, whether the bottomry bpnd ever becomes due
and payable, or not.
In the case of a partial loss, where money is taken up on bottonry bond, to defray
the expenditures of/repairs, the underwriters have nothing to do with-the bottomry
bond; "but are simply bound to lay the partial loss,ificluding their share of the
extra expenses of obtaining the money in that mode, as a part of the loss.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of
'Marryland.
'The case, as stated in the opinion of the Court, was as follows:
The original action was upon a policy of insurance, dated the 22d
of November, 1839, whereby the defendants, the Maryland Insurance Company, caused the plaintiffs, by their ag'3nts, (William

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie ct al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company .]
Howell & Son ,) -obe insured, lost or not lost, ten thousand dollars,
at a premium of Iour per cent., on the brig Gracchus, Snow, master,
(valued at that sum,) at and from Baltimore, for six calendar months,
commencing that day at noon; and if she be on a passage at the
expiration of the time, the risk to continue, at the same rate of
premium, until her arrival at the port of destination. The declaration alleged a total loss by the casting ashore and stranding of the
brig, on the 23d of March, 1833, in the river Mississippi. Upon
the trial of the cause, it appeared in evidence that the brig sailed
from Baltimore on a voyage to New Orleans, and safely arrived
there, and took on board part of cargo, (pork and sugar) at that port,
on a voyage for Baltimore; and about the middle of, the 23d day of
March, 1833,? sailed from New Orleans, intending to proceed to
Sheppard's plantation, on the river Mississippi, about thirty-three
miles below New Orleans, to take in the residue of her cargo for the
same voyage. At the English Turn, about twenty-two miles from
New Orleans, the brig attempted to come to anchor, and in so doing
lost the small bower anchor; and then dropped the best bower
anchor, which brought her up. The next morning, while the brig
was proceeding on her voyage, she struck on a log, broke the rudder
pintles, when she fell off and went on shore. A signal was then
made for a steamboat in sight, which name to the assistance of the
brig, and in attempting to haul her off, the. hadser parted. It was
then found, that the brig was making water very fast; help was obtained from a neighbouring plantation. They commenced pumping
and discharging the cargo on board of the steamboat; and after discharging all the pork, and a part of the sugar, they succeeded in
freeing the ship- on the afternoon of the same 'day. She was then
got off, and proceeded to New Orleans, where she arrived the same
night; she continuing to leak, and both pumps being kept going all
the time. The next day, the master understood that the steamboat
claimed a salvage of fifty per cent., and intended to libel for it. On
the 27th of th* same month, the brig was taken across the river for
repairs. On the same day the brig was libelled for the salvage, In
the district court of Louisiana.
On the 25th of March; Snow, the master, wrote a letter to one of
the owners, containifig an account of the loss and state of the brig;
and also of the claim by the.salvors of fifty per cent., which the underwriters on the cargo and himself had objected to; adding, that

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

they should hold the steamboat liable for any damage that might be
incurred on account of the detention.
The following is a copy of the letter.
'-New Orleans, 25th March, 1833.
"ISAAc BRADLIE, Esq., Seaford, Delaware.
"Dear Sir:-I left here on the 23d inst., to go thirty-six mile3 below, to'complete loading the brig with sugars, for Baltimore; on the
evening of the same day in coming to in the English Turn, in a
heavy blow from the S. E., parted the small bower cable, and lost
the anchor. I then let go the best, bower, which brought her up,
where we lay during the night; in the morning of the 24th, got
under way and prbceeded down the river; at 7 A.'M., struck on a
log, broke the rudder pintles, the brig fell off and went on shore. I
then made a signal for a steamboat which was in sight; she came to
our assistance and attempted to pull us off, but the hauser parted; we
then found that the brig was malking water very fast, and that she
would soon fill; got thirty odd negroes from a plantation, and commenced pumping, and discharging the cargo on board of the steamboat; after discharging all of the pork and the greater part of the
sugar, we succeeded in freeing of her, at 5 P. M.; we then got her off
and proceeded up to town, where we arrived at 11 P. M. The
owners of the steamboat claim !a salvage of fifty per cent. on vessel
and cargo, which the underwriters of the cargo, with myself, have
objected to: we have not been able to discharge the balance of the
cargo to-day; what the consequence will be I cannot say. We hold
the owners of the steamboat liable for any damage that may occur
on account of the detention; the brig continues to leak so as to keep
both pumps going almost constantly. About one-half of the sugar is
damaged. I have noted a protest and had a survey, and shall proceed to have every thing done in the most careful manner, as the
survey may direct, for the interest of all con'cerned: as soon as I am
able to ;nform you of what will be done, I will do so by-the first
opportunity."
On the 22d of April, Messrs. Howell & Son addressed a letter to
the company, submitting the letter of the 25th of March to the com
pany; ard say therein, "In consequence of the damage, together
with the detention that must grow out of a lawsuit, (in which it appears that the vessel is involved,) the voyage being broken up, we

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et al. v.. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

'do herelby abani4on to you the brig Gracchus, as ifisured in your office
per polity No. i3,703, and claim for a total loss." On the same
day, the company returned an answer, saying, "We cannpt accept
the abandonment tendercd in your letter of this date; but expect
you to do what is'necessary in the case for the safety and relief of
the vessel."
On the 9th of the ensuing May, the district court decreed onequarter of the 'value of the vessel and cargo, (estimated at seven thousand ,dollars) as salvage; the brig being valued'at twenty-five hundred
dollars. On the 14th of the sanme m6ntfi, the master got possession
again of the brig, the salvage having been paid. On the 3d ofJune,
183, the brig was repaired and ready for a freight;, and early in
July she sailed for Baltimore, with a partial cargo on board, on
freight; and duly arrived there in the latter part of the same month.
The r4pairs at New Orleans amounted to the sum of one thousand
six hundred and ninety dollars and fifteen cents; and the share of the
brig, at the general average or salvage, to the sum of one thousand
two hundred and forty-five dollars and seven cents; in the Wrhole
amounting to two thousand nine hundred and thirty-five dolla-'s
and twenty-two cents. To mieptthis sum, and some other eXpenses,
the master ,obtained an advance from Messrs. Harrison, Brown &
Co.,,of New Orleans, of three thousand seven hundred and fifteen
dollars and forty-one cents, and gave them as security therefor, a
bottomry bond on the Gracchus, for the principal sum, and five per
cent. maritirpe premium, payable on the safe arrival of the brig at
Baltimore.
On this bottomrkr. bond, the brig was libelled in Baltimore, and no
claim being interposed by any person, she was, by a decree of the
district'court of Maryland, on the 5th of September, 1833, ordered
to be hold to satisfy-the bottomry bond; and 'she was accordingly
sold by, the marshal, about the 20th of the same month, to John B.
Howell, for four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; who, on
the 24th of the same month, paid to the' attorney of the libellant the
full amount due upder the decree of the court. On the same day
the president of the company addressed a letter to Messrs. Howell
& Son, in which they say, "We have examined the statements of
general and, particular average, and the accounts relating thereto,
which you handed us some days ago, respecting the expenses incurred on the brig Gracchus, at New Orleans. Although some of
the charges are of a description for which the company is not liable

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

383

[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

by the terms of their policy; yet wishing to act li ally in the case,
we have agreed to admit every iten in the. accounts, and the differ-,
ent amounts will be as follows." Here follows a statement, deducting from the repairs one-third new for old, and admitting the sum of
two thousand four, hundred and nine dollars and eleven cents to be
due to the plaintiffs, and enclosing the premium note and a check
for the amount. The letter then adds, "If you find any other charge,
&c. has been paid at New Orleans, in order to raise the funds on
bottomry; we will pay our full proportion of the same, upon'being
made acquainte.d with the amount," On the same day Messrs. Howell
& Son returned an answer, refusing to receive the premium note And
check, adding, "4We shQuld do them (the owners) great injustice to
make such a settlement. Our opinion is, that in law and equity,
they have a claim for a total loss."
Thesb are the principal facts material to be mentioned; though
much other evidence was introduced into the cause upon collateral
points, by the parties.
'The counsel for the defendants, after the evidence on each side was
closed, moved the court to instruct the jury as follows:
Defendants' 1st Prayer.-The, defendants, by their counsel, pray
the court to instruct the jury that the notice of abandonment of the
22d April, 1883, and the accompanying letter from captain Snow, of
the 25th of March, as given in -evidence by the plaintiffs, do not
show or disclose facts which in law justifies the offer to abandon then
made; and therefore, that in the absence of all evidence that said
abandonment was accepted by the, defendants, the plaintiffs are entitled to recover only for a partial loss.
2; That if the said notice of abandonment was sufficient, still the
jury ought to find a verdict for a partial loss only; unless they shall
believe from theevidence, that the Gracchus suffered damage from
the accident .that befel her on the 24th March, 1833, to more than
one-half the sum at wh'ich she was valped in the policy: and that inl
estimating said damage, the jury ought to take the cost of her repairs only, deducting one-third therefrom, as in the case of adjusting
a partial loss.
3. That if the said abandonment was sufficient, as is assumed in
the preceding prayer, still the jury ought to find a verdict for a partial loss only; unless they shall believe upon the evidence, that the
damage so sustained by said brig exceeded in amount ono half tha-sunm
at ,which she was valued in the, policy; and that in estimating the.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et al.
v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

cost of her repairs for the parpose of ascertaining the amount of
such damage, the jury are bound to deduct one-third therefrom, as
in the case of a partial loss.
4. That if said. abandonment was sufficient, still the jury ought to
find a partial loss only, unless they shall believe that the damage as
aforesaid was more than one-half the value of the said brig at the
time the skcident happened,. according to the proof of such value as
given in evidrnce and that in estimating the amount of such damage, the jury are to take the amounts of the general and particular
averages as adjusted at New Orleans, deducting one-third fro. the
actual cost of repairs.
But the court refused to givp the instructions prayed for, and gave
t9 the jury the following instruction: If the jury find from the evidence, that the Gracchus was so damaged by the disaster mentioned
in the letter of captain Snow, of March 25th, 1833, that she could
not be got off and repaired without an expenditure of money to an
amount exceeding half lher value, at the port of New Orleans, after
such repairs were made, then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover for
a total loss, under the abandoniment made on the 2td day of April,
1833; and in ascertiining the amount of such expenditure, the jury
must include the sum for which the. brig was liable to the sPlvors, according to the decree of the district court of Louisiana, stated in the
evidence: but if the jury find that the vessel could have been got off
and repaired, without an expenditure of money to the amount of more
than half her value; then, upon the evidence offered, the plaintiffs are
not entitled to recover for a total loss, on the ground that the voyage
was retarded or lost, nor on account of the arrest and detention of the
vessel by the admiralty process, issued at the instance of the salvors.
The defendants excepted to the refusal of the court to give the instructions prayed; and also to the opinion actually given by the
court in their instructions to the jury. The plaintiffs also excepted
to the same olinion given oy the court.
The plaintiffs also prayed "the court to direct the jury, that in this
cause the insured, by their letter of the 22d April, authorized and
required the proper expenditures to be made upon the vessel, for
which said underwriters are liable under their policy: that no funds
being supplied by them in New Orleans to meet this loss; and the
salvage and repairs having been paid for by money raised upon respondentia upon the vessel; if the jury shall find that said vessel,
under the lien of this bond, came to Baltimore, and the defendants

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlie et al.v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

were then apprized of the exlstence of such respondentia, and were
also informed of the-existence of, the proceedings thereupon against
said vessel, and they neglected to pay so much thereof as they ought
to have paid to relieve said Vessel;, and omitted to place her in the
hands bf the owners, discharged of so much of such bottorn-y as the
underwriters were liable for, and in consequence thereof, said vessel
was libelled and condemned and sold, and thereby Wholly lost to the
plaintiffs; then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover for the whole
value of the vcssel."
The court refused to give this instruction, and the plaintiffs excepted to the refusal; and the court signed a bill of exceptions upon
both exceptions. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for three
thousand four hundred and eighty-nine dollars and twenty-two cents;.
upon which judgment, passed for the plaintiffs. And the present
writ of error is brought by the plaintiffs for the purpose of reviewing
the instructions above stated, so far as they excepted thereto.
Although the prayers for the instructions by the defendants are
not before the Court for the purpose of direct consideration, as the
defendants have brought no writ of error; yet it is impossible completely to understand the nature and extent and proper construction
of the opinion given by the c.ourt, without adverting to the propositions coiAtained in them ; for to them, and to thum only was the
opinion' Of the'courit given as a response,
The second instruction asked by the defendants, in substance insisted, that to entitle the plaintiffs to recover for a total loss the dan
mage to the Gracchus from the accident'should be mdre than one-half
the sum at which she was valued in the policy; and that in eslimating the damage, the costs of the repairs only were to F e taken,
deducting one-third new for old, In effect, therefore, it excluded all
consideration of ihe salvage, in the ascertainment of the loss.
The third instruction vas, in substance, similar to the second, except that it did not insist upon the exclusion of the salvage. In effect, therefore, it insisted, upon the valuation in the policy, as the
standard. by which to ascertain whether the damage was half, the
value of 'the, Gracchus, or not,.
The fourth instruction insisted, that to entitle the plaintiffs to recover for a total loss, the damage must exceed one-half the value of
the Gracehus at the time of the accident; and that in, estimating the,
:daimage, the general and particular averages,
as adjusteat at New Orleans, were to be taken, deducting one-third neWv for old. In effect,

VoL. XII.-3 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et.aL v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

therefore, it insisted that nothing but these adjustments were to be
taken into consideration, in ascertaining the totality of the loss at the
time of the abandonment; (admitting the abandonment to be sufficient;) however imminent might be the dangers, or great the losses
then actually impending over the Gracehus. And all three of these
prayers further insisted, that the deduction of one-third new for old
should be made -from the amount of "the repairs, as in the case of a
partial loss; in ascertaining whether there was a right to abandon for
a total loss, uponthe ground that the damage exceeded a moiety of
the value of the vessel.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for a partial'loss, assessing the damages at three thousand four hundred and eighty-nine dollars and. twenty-two cents, upon.which the court gave a judgment:
on this judgment the plaintiffs entered' a credit 'for four hunded
and eighty-five dollars and twenty-two .cents, the amount 'of the premium note, and interest. The Plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Johnison for the plaintiffs in error:
and by Mr. Meredith" and Mr. Stewart for the' defendants.
Mr. Johnson contended that the judgment of 'the circuit court
should be reversed, on the, following grounda:
First. That, under thq circumstances of the case, the loss of the
voyage in which the Gracchus was 'engaged, by the peril she sustained, entitled the plaintiffs to recover for a total loss.
Second. That the claim for salvage, and:the arrest and detention
of the brig consequent thereon, entitled plaintiffs to recover for such
loss;' and,
Third. That the court erred in not granting the prayer in plaintiffs' second exception.
It is assumed that the 'abandonment was sufficient. The defendants objected to'itS form; that no cause, or a suffic.ient cause for it
was not assigned: but the court decided against these objections.
The ihstructions of the court, by which the jury were authorized
to allow, in the estimate of the loss, one-third of the cost of thel new
for old, were altogether erroneous. The plaintiffs, claimed for a
technical, total loss, on the state of. things at the time of the abandonment. The validity of such a claim cannot be dehied, if at that time
the state of the facts was such as to justify the abandonment. This
was in. truth such as to induce the plaintiffs to consider a total loss

JANUARY TERM,, 1838.
[Bradlie Qt al. v. The Maryland'Insurance Company.]

as inevitable. The letter of captain Snow, of 25th March, upon
,which the abandonment was made on the 22d of April,1833; show-.
led that the salvors were about to proceed against the vessel; and
stated that they claimed fifty per cent. as their salvage. In 3, Kent's
Commentaries, 308, the authorities, on the subject of abandonment
ake summed up.
The'value of the vessel was ten thousand dollars; for this sum
she was insured. The' whole sum received for her Was but about
four thousand dollars. this is the best evidenced of the character of
the loss sustained by the assured.
What was the situation of the vessel, from all the information
which had been received, on the 23d of April, 1833, when she was
abandoned? Was there not imminent danger of actual total loss: attached for salvage, and fifty per ceit. claimed; and th voyage
broken up and destroyed? The instructions of the court, that the,
actual amount of salvage ultimately paid, was to furnish the rule to
estimate the loss, were erroneous. The probable loss, at the time of
the abandonment, is to fix the rule for abandonmeiif. In. this the
law "of insurance in this country, and in England, differ.
The loss of the voyage, by the happening of one-of the perils iniured against, was a good foundation for abandonment, and for a recovery for a total loss. The vessel was on her home voyage from
New Orleans; and was obliged to return to New Orleans by reason
of the accident, and the course of the salvors. The voyage was thus
broken' up. The libel for salvage, and the detention of the vessel
for repairs, were destructive of the voyage.
The voyage insured terminated ou the 22d of May; and all the
injury to the vessel, and the detention consequent to it, were within
the period of her protection by the insurance. Had the fifty per
cent. claimed by the 'salvors been paid, no doubt of a technical total
loss would have existed; but the, master remained at New Orleans,
as jt was his duty, and to which he was bound by his obligations to
the Underwriters, to contest this claim; and this detention kept the
vessel beyond the six months covered by the policy. Thus the detention was within the policy, Cited 3 Kent's Commentaries; 11
John. 293; 2 Starkie's Rep. 571.
The insurance having been on tme makes no difference in estimnating her loss. It was an insurance of the vessel on her voyage,
&nd,during the' time; and a guaranty that the vessel should have the
physical ability,,during that time, to continue the voyage.

SUPREME COURT.
_Bradlie et abv, The Maryland Insurance Company.j

The detention of the vessel after the accident, gave a full and legal
right to abandon. The detention was one o0 the sea risks insured
against, and all legal detentions were within the, policy.
It is also contended that the uffderwriters were bound to pay the
bottomry boird executed at New Orileans, for the repairs of the vessel, the salvage, and the expenses., The underwriters were certainly
liable to pay the whole of these. charges; and by neglecting to do
so, the vessel has, been sold and taken from her owners. Thus a
total loss has resulted.
It is admitted that a detention of a vessel insured,, by admiralty
process is not a cause of abandonment, when such detention is for
some cause not coming within anyr of the risks-of the policy; but
in this case, the, detention was on account of one of the peiils insured
against. Thus the loss of the voyage has resulted from one of the
perils insured against.
Mr. Stewart and Mr. Meredith for the defendants, denied that
there was any error in the instructions of the circuit court
Insurance is a contract for indemnity; and this contract is fully
carried out by the verdict of the jury. The jury have given -the
plainLiffs all they paid as salvage, and all the costs and expenses of
the repairs consequent to 'the injury sustained by the vessel. ,But it
is contended, by the plaintiffs, that the adventure in which the vessel
is engaged, the voyage, and its results,,upon which the vessel is proceeding, is a part of the contract for protection by the underwriters
This is not the nature of insurance. The underwriters'are only liable
for the perils insured.
Assuming- the principle to be, in the United States, that underwriters are liable for the state of the, Ioss at the time of the abando'.
nient;. there was no ground for the abandonment when the letter
from c rtaih :Snow was received. The circumstances stated in that
letter do not warrant the allegation that tedh'nical total loss had
occurred. The vessel had -suffered injury; she had been rescued
froan greater loss by the steamboat; she had been carried to New
Orleans, and, fifty per cent. was claimed as salvage; but the justice
of this claim was denied, and it was to be contested.
With this letter, the insured and the 4nderwriters were in possession of all the facts, and the claim of fifty pr cent., as salvage, must
have been seen to be unreasonable and unjust. It exceeded the
usual charge for the use of a steamboat on the Mississippi' which

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlie et al.,v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

wasknown to be at the rate of ten dollars per day. There was not
then, a probability that a technical total loss existed at that, time;
and subsequent circumstances showed that no loss, for which the
assurers were liable, had occurred t6 the extent of fifty per cent. on
te value of the vessel. If the appearance of events, when' the letter
from captain Snow wa received, authorized the expectation that thd
loss would amount to fifty per cent.; the underwriters have a right to
look at subsequent circumstances, to decide what was the real condition ofthe vessel at that time.
The Court will find, by a reference to the whole of the facts in
the case, there was no foundation-for the claim for a technical "total
loss. No damage had' been sustained, which would support such a
claim.
The whole cost of the repairs of the vessel, and the amount of salvage allowed by the court, amounted together to twon thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five dollars. The: orders for 'insurance show that
the.Gracchus, was. Valued at tei or twelve thousand dot.!ars. At:New
Orleans, the Gracchus wa,-vorth eight thousand five hundred d6l
lars. The captain was offered that sum for her; and he said he
would take nine thousand: dollars, Thus .she was worth at New
Orleans and at Baltimore nearly the same 'sum, and there was n6 approximation to half ofher"value by the actual loss.
To pvocej tothe points made for the aefendants in;the eircuit
COOLit.
The court instructed the jury, on the points submitted by the deJendants.
If the-jury find from the evidence that the Gracchus was sodamaged by the disaster mentioned in the letter of captain Snow, of
March 25th, 1833, that she could not be got off and repaired without
an~expenditure of money to an amount exceeding half her value, at
the port of New Orleans, after such repairs were made; then the
plaintiffs are entitled to recover for a total loss, under the abandonment made on the 22d day of April, 1833; and in ascertaining the
amount. of such. expenditure, the, jury must include the sum for
which the brig wa liable' to the salvors, according to the ,decree, of
the district court of Louisiana, stated in the evidence; but if the jury
find that the vessel could have been got off and repaired without an
expenditure of money to the amount of more than half her value,
-then upon the evidence offered the plaintiffs are not entitledto recover %r, a total loss, on the ground that the voyage was retarded or

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

lost, nor on account of the arrest and detention Of the vessel by the
admiralty process issued at the instance of the salvors.
The question was whether the amount of repairs, and the salvage
was half the value of, the v ssel at New Orleans, giving the assured
the benefit in the. estimate of the amount of the salvage. Is this an
open question in this Court? The policy expired on the 22d of May,
1833. How far is this point settled in the case of Alexander v. The
Baltimore Insurance Company? 9 Cranch, 370; 2 Cond. Rep. 143.
In that case Mr. Chief Justice Marshall says, that it has been
decided that the state of the fact must concur with the information to
make the abandonment for a technical total loss effectual. Cited
also, Ambler's Rep. 214; Ch. Justice-Wills' Reports, 641, 644.
As to how thic question has been considered in England, cited 2
Maule & Selwyn, 240, 247; Idem. 278, 286, 290, 293;-4 Maule &
Selwyn, 393; 5 'Maule & Selwyn, 47; Goss v. Withers, 2 Burrows,
67; Hamilton v. Mendes, Burrows, 1212.
The perils in the policy do not include the loss now set lip by the
plaintiffs; and there is no express assumption to insure against the
kind of detention for which the loss is now claimed. It must be
derived from implication, and must be a consequence of the contract
between the parties to the policy of insurance.
There was no evidence in the case that the underwriters had been
called upon to pay tT bottomry bond and prevent the sale of the
vessel; nor was any demand made on the underwriters to pay for
the repairs of the vessel. The assured claimed a total loss, and did
not proceed as if they held the underwriters liable to any thing but
the whole amount of the policy. Cited, Da Costa v. Newnham, 2
Term Rep. 407; 2 Barnwell & Ald. 513; 3 Mason's C. C. R. 429.
It isdenied that the assured have a right to abandon as for a total
loss upon a mere probability of a loss which will exceed fifty per
cent. This yiew of the rights of the assured rests only on the suggestion of Lord Ellenborough. There must be a certain subsisting
loss-when the abandonment is made, exceeding fifty per cent.
It is not admitted that the right to abandon for breaking up of a
vbyage applies to an insurance on time: Hughes on Insurance, 300,
311, 314: Smith on Mercantile Law, 17 vol. of the Law Library,
143. The insurance on time is that the vessel shall be able to proceed on the voyage during the time, and to pay the damage she may
sustain during that time. It is no contract'for the voyage, or against
interruptions which rest upon it, other than such as are within the

JANUARY TERM, 183,8.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

perils insured against. 1 Johns. Cases, 293,,294; 5 Serg. & Rawle,
501; .2 Taunton,3.62.
This voyage was not broken up or defeated: and the jury have
found that the injury sustained by the vessel did not amount to fift
per cent. of her value. The finding of the jury is conclusive on this
matter.
The arrest and detention of the vessel by admiralty process. for
salvage, did not furnish grounds for the -abandonmeot. The vessel
remained in the possession of the captain. It was a mere obstruction of the voyage, or a detehtion of the vessel, which might have
been removed, and for. which the captain was bound to relieve
her. He had, as has been stated, the means to do thisi there was no
evidence to show that he made any exertions to do this. Cited 2
Wash. C. C. R. 331; 3 Kent's Commentaries, 304. There is no
special claims in the policy'which includes the loss, and it must then
come within that which proceeds against perils of the sea. But by
no reasoning can the" loss be 'made to amount to fifty per cent. "from
•perils of the sea. Cited 5 Maule & Selw. 434; 3 Mason, 437. Cited,
also, 21 Serg. & Lowber's English Com. ,Lw Rep. 41.
Mr. Justice STOtY delivered the opinion of the Court:
This cause comes before ihe Court upon a writ of error to the
circuit court of Maryland district. The original action was upon, a
policy of insurance dated the 22d of November, 1832, whereby the
defehdarits, The Maryland Insurance Company, caused the plaintiffs by their agents, (William Howell & Son,) to be insured, 10st or
not lost, ten thousand dollars, at a premium of four per cent., an the
brig.Gracchus, Snow; master, (valued at that sum,) at and from Baltimore, for six calendar months, commencing that day at noon; and
if she be on a passage at the expiration of the time, the risk to continue at the same rate of premium, until her arrival at the port of
destination. The declaration alleged a total loss by the casting ashore
and stranding of the brig on.the 23d of March, 1833, in the river
Mississippi. Upon the trial of the cause, it appeared in evidence,
that the brig sailedl from Baltimore on a voyage to ,New Orleans, and
safely arrived there; and took on board part of her cargo, (pork and
sugar) at that port on a voyage for Baltimore; and about the middle
of the 23d day of March, 1833, sailed from New Orleans, inteilding
to proceed to Sheppard's plantation', on' the river Mississippi, about
thirty-three miles below New Orleans, to take in the residue of her

SUPREME COURT.
(Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.)

cargo for the same voyage. At the English Turn, about twenty-two
miles from New Orleans, the brig attempted to come to anchor, and
in so doing lost the small bower anchor; and then dropped the best
bower anchor, which brought her up. The' next morning, while the
brig was proceeding on her voyage, she struck on a log, broke the
rudder'pintles, when she fell off and went on shore. A signalwas
then made fora steaiboat in sight; which came to the assistance'of
the brig, and in attempting to haul her off the ha,,ser parted. It. was
then found that the brig was making water very fast. Help was
obtained from a neighbouring plantation. They commenced pumping and discharging the cargo on bohrd of the steamboati'and after
discharging all the pork, and a part of the sugar, they succeeded in
freeing the ship on the afternoon of the 6ame day. She was then got
off and proceeded to New Orleans, where she arrived the same night;
she continuing to leak, and both pumps being kept going. all the time,.
The next day the master understobd that the steamboat claimed a
salvage of fifty per cent., -and intended to libel for it.. On the 27Th:
of the same nmonth the brig was taken across the river for repairs.
On t'he same day the brig was libelled for the-salvage in the district
court of Louisiana.
On the 25th of March, Snow, the master, wrote a letter to one of
tb owners, containing An account 'df the loss and state of the brig;
and also of the claim by the salvors of fifty per cent., which the
underwriters on the cargo , and himself had-objcted to: adding th4,
they should hold.the steamboat liable for any damage that might be
incurred on account of the detention.
On the 22d'of April, Messrs. Howell & Sons addressed a lettdr&to
the company, submitting the letter !of the 25th' of March to the company, and say therein- "In: consequence of the' damage,. together
with the detention that must grow out of a lawsuit, (in which it
appears that the vessel is involved,) the voyagy being brokenrup; we
do hereby abandonto, you. the brig. Gracehus, as insuTed in your
office, per policy No. 13,703, and claim for a total loss." On the same
day the cohipany returned an'. answer, saying: "We cannot accept
the abandonment tendered in your letter of this date; but expect you
to do wiat is necessary in the case, for the safety and relief of the
vessel."

On the 9th of the ensuing May, the district court decreed onequarter of the.val:e of the vessel and cargo (estimated at 'seven thousand dollars) as salvage; ,the brig. being valued at two thousand five

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlioet al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.']

hundred dollars. On the 14th of the same month the master got possession again of the brig, the salvage having been paid. On the 3d of
June, 1833, the brig was repaired and ready-for a freight: and early in
July she sailed for Baltimore, with a partial cargo on board on freight;
and duly arrived 'there in the latter part of the same month. The
repairs at New Orleans amounted to the sum of one thousand six
hundred and ninety dollars and fifteen cents; and the share of the,
brig, at the general average or salvage, to the sum of one thousana two
hundred and forty-five dollars and seven cents; in the whole, amounting to two thousand nine hundred and thirty-five dollars and twentytwo cents. To meet this sum and some other expenses, the master
obtained an advance from Messrs. Harrison, Brown & Co., of New
Orleans, of three thousand seven hundred an'd fifteen dollars and
forty-one cents; and gave them as security therefor, a bottomry bond
on the Gracchus for the principal sum, and five per cent. maritime
,premium, payable on the safe arrival of the brig at Baltimore.
On this bottomry bond the brig was libelled in Baltimore; and no
claim being interposed by any person, she was by a decree of the
district court of Maryland, on the 5th of September,,1833, ordered
to be sold to satisfy the bottomry bond; and she was accordingly
sold, by the marshal about the 20th of the same month; to John B.
Howell, for four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; and on
the 24th of the same month there was paid to the attorney of the libellant, the full amount due under the decree of the court. On the
same day, the president of the company addressed a letter to Messrs.
Howell & Son, in which they say, "We have examined the statements
of generalI and particular average, and the accounts relating thereto,
which you handed us some days ago, respecting the expenses incurred on the brig Gracchus, at New Orleans. Although some of the
charges are of a description for which the company is not liable by
the terms of their policy'; yet, wishing to at liberally in the case,
we have agreed to admit every item in the accounts, and the different
amounts will be as follows." Here follows a statement, deducting
from the repairs one-third new for old, and admitting the sum of two
thousand four hundred and nine dollars and eleven cents to be due to
the plaintiffs; and enclosing the premium note, and a check for the
amount. The letter then adds, " If you find any other charge, &c.,
has been paid at New Orleans, in order to raise the fund's on hottomry, we will pay our full proportion of the same, upon being ruade
acquainted with the amount."
On the same day Messrs. Howell&
VOL. X1.-3D

SUPREME 'COURT.
[Badlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

Son returned an answer, refusing to receive the premium note and
check, adding, "We should do them (the owners) great injustice to
make such a settlement. Our opinion is, that in law and equity, they.
have a claim for a total loss."
These are the prinbipal facts material to be mentioned, though
much other evidence was introduced into the cause upon collateral
points, by the parties.
The counsel for the defendants, after the evidence on each side was
closed, moved the court to instruct the jury as follows:
Defendants' 1st Prayer-The defendants, by their counsel, pray
the court to instruct the jury that the notice of abandonment of the
22d April, 1833, and the accompanying letter from captain Snow, of
the 25th-of March, as given in evidence by the plaintiffS, do not show
or disclose facts which in law justify the Ofler to abandon then made;
and therefore,, that in the absence of all evidence that said abandonment was accepted by the defendants, the plaintiffs are entitled to
recover only for a partial loss.
2. That if the said notice of abandonment was sufficient, still the
jury ought to find a verdict for a partial loss oply; unless they shall
believe from the evidence, that the Gracchus suffered damage from
the accident that befel her on the 24th March, 1833, to more than
one-half the sum at which she was valued in the policy; and that in
estimating said damage, the jury ought to take the cost of her repairs
only, deducting one-third therefrom, as in the case of adjusting a
partial loss.
3. That if the said abandonment was sufficient, as is assumed in
the preceding prayer, still the jury ought to find a verdict for a partial loss only; unless they shdl believe, upon the evidence, that the
damage so sustained by said brig exceeded in amount one-half the
sum at which she was valued in the policy: and that in estimating
the cost of her repairs for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of
such damage, the jury are bound to deduct one-third therefrom, as in
the case of'a partial loss.
4. That if said abandonment was sufficient, still the jury ought to
find a partial loss only; unless they shall lielieve that the damage as
aforesaid was more than one-half the value of the said brig at the
time the accident happened, according to the, 'proof of such value as
given in evidence: and that in estimating the amount of such damage,
the jury are to take the an-ounts of the general. and particular ave-

JANUARY TERM, 183s.

395

[Bradlie et a]. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

rages as adjusted at New Orleans, deducting one-third from the actual
cost of repairs.
But the court refued to give the instruction prayed for, and gave
to the jury the following instruction: If the jury find from the evidence, that the Gracchus was so damaged by thedisaster mentioned
in the letter of captain Snow, of March 25th, 1833, that she copld
not be got off and repaired without an expenditure of money to an
amount exceeding ha~lf her value, at the port of-New Orleans, after
such repairs w-ere made; then theplaintiffs are entitled to recover for
a total loss, under the abandonment made on the 22d day of April,
1833: and in ascertaining the amount of such expenditure, the jury
must include the sum for which the brig was liable to the salvors,
according to the decree of the district court of Louisiana stated in the
evidence: but if the jury find that tle vessel could have been got off
and repaired, without an expenditure of money to the amount of
more than half her value, then upon the evidence offered, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover for a total loss,'on the ground that the
voyage was retarded or lost; nor on account of the arrest and detention of the vessel by the admiralty pr 6 cesS, issued at the instance of
the salvors.
The defendants excepted to the refusal of the court to give the instrvctions prayed: and also to the opinion actually given by the
court in their instructions to the jury. The plaintiffs also excepted
to the, same opinion, given by the court.
The plaintiffs also prayed "1the court to direct the jury, that in this
cause the insured, by their letter of the 22d April, authorized and
required the proper expenditures to be made upon the -vessel, for
which said underwriters are liable under their policy; that no funds
being supplied by 1.hem in New Orleans to meet this loss, and the
salvage and repairs having been paid for by money raised upon re'spondentia upon the vessel; if the jury shall find that said vessel,
under'the lien of this bond, came to Baltifiiore, and the defendants
were then apprized of the existence of suchu respondentia, and were
also informed of the existence of the proceedings thereupon against
said vessel, and they neglected to pay so much thereof as they ought
to have paid to relieve said vessel; and omitted to place her in the
hands of the owners, discharged of so much of such bottomry as the
underwriters were liable for; and in consequence thereof, said vessel
was libelled ard condemned and sold, and thereby wholly lost to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et al. v. The 'Maryland InsuranCe Company.]

plaintiffs; then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover for the whole
value of the vessel."

The court refused to give, this instruction, and the plaintiffs excepted to the refusal; and the cou t t signed a bill of exceptions upon
both exceptions. The jury found-a verdict for the plaintiffs for three
thousand four hundred and eighty-nine dollars and twenty-two cents;
upon which judgment passed for the plaintiffs. And the present
writ of error is brought by the plaintiffs for the-purpose of reviewing
the instructions above stated, so far as they excepted thereto.
Although the prayers for the instructions by the defendants are
,not before the Court for the purpose of direct consideration, as the
defendants, have brought no writ of error; yet it is impossible completely to understand the nature and extent, and proper oonstruction
of the opinion given by the court, without adverting to the propositions contained in them; for to them. and to them only was the opinion of the court givenas a response.
The second instruction asked by the defendants, in substance,
insisted, that to entitle the plaintiffs to recover for a total lossi the
damage to the Gracchus from the accident should be more than onelhalf the sum to which she was valued in the policy; and that in estimatingithat damage, the costs of the repairs only were to be taken,
deducting one-third new for old. In effect, therefore, it excluded all
consideration of the salvage in the ascertainment of the loss.
Thp third instruction was in substance similar to the second, exCept that it did not insist upon the exclusion of the salvage. In effect, therefore; it insisted upon the valuation in thp policy, as the
standard by which to ascertain whether the damage was half the value
of the, Gracchus, or not.
The fourth instruction insisted, that to entitle the plaintiffs to recover for a total loss, the damage must exceed ope-half the value of
the Graechus at the time of the accident; and that in estimating the
damage, the general and particular averages, as adjusted at New Orleans, were to be taken, deducting one-third new for old. In effect,"
therefore, it insisted'that nothing but these adjustments were to be
taken into consideration, in ascertaining the totality of the loss at the
time of the abandonment; (admitting the abandonment to be sufficient;) however imminent might be the dangers, or great the losses
then actually impending over the Gracchus. And all three of these
prayers further insisted, that the deduction of one-third now for old,
should be made from the amount of the repairs, as in the case of a

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

partial loss, in ascertaining whether there was a right to aban'don for
a total lossi upon the ground that. the damage exceeded a moiety of
the value of the vessel.
The instructions of the court actually given in these prayers,
involve the following propositions. 1. Thatif the expenditures in
repairing the, damage exceeded half the value of the brig at the port
of New Orleans, after such repairs were made, including therein the
salvage awarded. to the salvors; the plaintiffs were entitled to recover
for a total loss, under the abandonment made. on the 22d of April.,
2. If the expenditures to get~off and repair the brig, were less
than the half of such value, then. the plaintiffs were not entitled to
recover for a tbtal loss, upon the ground that the voyage was retarded or lost; nor on account of the arrest and detention of the brig,
under the admiralty process, for the salvage.
The question is, whether these instructions were correct. In considering the first, it is material to remark, that by the well settled
principles of our law, the state of the facts, and not'the state of the
information at the time of the abandonment, constitutes the true criterion by which we are to ascertain whether a total loss has occurred or not, for which an abandonment can be nade. If the abandonment, when made, is good, the rights of the parties are definitively
fixed; and do not become changed by any subsequent events. If, on
the other hand, the abamudohment, 'when made, is not good, subsequent circumstances will not affect it so as, retroactively, to impart to
it a validity which it had not at its origin. In some respects, our
law on this point differs from that of England; for, by the latter, the
right to a total loss vested by an abandonment, may be divested by
subsequent events, which change that total loss into a partial loss.
It is , unnecessary to cite cases on this subject, as the diversity is well
known; and the courts in neither country have shown any disposition of late years to recede from their own doctrine. The cases of
Rhinelander v. The Insurance Company of Pennsylvania, 4 Cranch,
29; and Marshall v. The. Delaware Insurance Company, 4 Cranch,
202, are direct affirmations of out rule: and those of Bainbridge v-.
Neilson, 10 East's Rep. 329; Patterson v. Ritchie, 4 M. & Selw.
394; and M'Iver v. Henderson, 4 M. & Selw. 584; of the English
rule.
In cases where the abandonment is founded upon a supposed technical total loss, by a damage or injury exceeding one-half the value
of the vessel, although the fact of such damage or injury must exist
1833.

398

SUPREME COURt.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

at the time, yet it is necessarily open to proofs, to b6 derived from
subsequent events. Thus, for example, if the repairs, when subsequently made, clearly exceed the half value, it is plain that this affords one of the best proofs of the actual damage or injury. On the
other hand, if the subsequent repairs are far below the half value,
this, so far as it goes, affords an inference the'other way. But it is
not, and in many cases cannot be decisive of the right to abandon.
In many cases of stranding, the state of the vessel at the time may
be such, from the imminency of the peril, and the apparent extent
of expenditures required to deliver her from it, as to justify an abandonment; although, by some fortunate occurrence, ghe may be delivered from her peril, without an actual expenditure of one-half of
her value after sbe is in safety. Under such circumstances, if, in
all human probability, the expenditures which must be incurred to
deliver her from her peril, are, at the time, so far as any reasonable
calculations can be made, in the highest degree of probability, beyond half value; and if her distress and peril be such s would in-'
duce a considerate owner, uninsured, and upon the spot, to withhold
any attempt to get the vessel off, because of such apparently great
expehditures, the abandonment would doubtless be good. It was to
such a case that lord Ellenborough alluded, in Anderson v. Wallis,
2 M. & Selw., when hd said: "There is not any case, nor principle,
which authorizes an abandonment, unless where the loss has been
actually a total loss, or in the highest degree probable at the time
of the abandonment." Mr. Chancellor Kent, in his learned Commen'taries, vol. 3, 321, has laid down the true results of the doctrine of
law on this subject. "The right of abandonment (says he,) does not
depend upon the certainty, but upon the high pr(bability of a total
loss, either of the property or of the voyage, or both. The insured
is to act, not upon certainties, but upon probabilities; and if the facts
pres~nt a' case of extreme hazard, and of probable expense, exceeding
half the value of the ship, the insured may abandon; though it should
We
happen that she was afterwards recovered at a less expense."
have no difficulty, therefore, in acceding to the argument of the counsel for the plaintiffs in error,on this point. But its application to the
ruling of the court, will be considered hereafter.
In respect to the mode of ascertaining the Value of the ship, and,
pf course, whether she is injured to the amount of half her value, it
has, upon the fullest consideration, been held by this Court, that the
true basis of the valuation is the value of the ship at the time of the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
, [Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]
disaster; and that, if after the damage is or might be repaired, the
ship is not, or would not be worth, at the place of the repairs, double
the cost of the repairs, it is to be treated as a technical total loss.
This was the doctrine asserted in the Patapsco Insurance Company
v. Southgate, 5 Peters, 604; in which the court below had instructed
the jury, that, if the vessel could' not have been repaired without an
expenditure exceeding half her value at the port of the repairs, after
the repairs were mad'e,it constituted a total loss. This Court held
that instruction to be entirely correct. It follows, from this doctrine, that the valuation of the vessel in the policy, or the value at
the home port, or in the general market of other ports, constitutes
no ingredient 'in ascertaining whether the injury by the disaster is
more than one-half the value of the vessel, or not. For the like reason, the ordinary deduction in cases of a partial loss of one-third
new for old, from the repairs, is equally inapplicable to cases of 'a
technical total loss, by an injury exceeding one-half of the value of
the vessel. Thut rule supposes the vessel. to be repaired and returned to the owner; who receives a correspondent benefit from the repairs beyond his 'loss) to the amount of the one-third. But in the
case of a total loss, the owner receives no such benefit; the vessel never returns to him, but is transferred to the underwriters. If
the actual cost of the repairs exceeds one-half of her value after the
repairs are made, then the case falls directly witbin the predicament
of the doctrine asserted in the case of 5 Peters, 604. The same li
mitations of the rule, and the reasons of it, are very accurately laid
down by Mr. Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, 3 vol. 330; and
in Da Costa v. Newnham, 2 Term Rep. 407.
If, with these.'principles in view, we examine tho first instruction
given in this case in the circuit court, it will be found to be perfectly
correct. Indeed, that part of the instruction which declares that if
the brig "1could not be got off and repaired without an expenditure
of money to an amount exceeding half her value at the port of New
Orleans, after such repairs were made, then the plaintiffs are entitled
to recover for a total losA under the abandonment," is precisely in
the terms o' the instruction given in The Patapsco Insurance Com-

pany v. Soufihgatc, 5 Peters, 604. The error, which has been insistel on at thie argument by the plaintiffs, is in the additional direction; that

"

ib ascertaining the amount of such expenditure, the jury

must include the sum for which the brig was' liable to the salvors,
according to the decree of the district courL of .Louisiana, stated in

400

UPR)EME COURT.
[l3radli e et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

the evidence:" Which, it is contended, removed from the consideration' of the jury the right to take into the account the high'probability, at the time of the abandonment, of the allowance of a greater'
salvage, and even to the extent of the fifty percent. then claimed bythe salvors. And in support of the argument, it is insisted that the
state of the facts, 'and the high probabilities 'at the time of the aban-,

donment, constitute the governing rule; 'and not the ultimate result
in the subsequent events. But it appears to us that the argument is
founded upon a total misunderstanding of the true import of this
part of the instructibn. The court did i0t undertake to.say, and did
not say, that the jury might not properly take into copsideration the
high probability of a larger salvage at the time of the, abandonment;
but simply, that the jury must include inthe half value, the amount
of the actual salvage decreed, because that was, in truth, a part of the
logs. The instruction was, therefore, not a limitation restrictive of
thei rights' afid claims 'of .the plaintiffs, but, in fact, a direction in favour of their rights and claims, fnd 4ih support of the abandonment.
This is demonstrated by the theh actual position of the cause. The
defendants'.had asked an instruction that the costs of the repairs only,
exclusive of the salvage, should. be taken into consideration in estimating the half value; and -also that the one-third new for oldi
should be deducted from, the amount of the cost, in estimating the
half value. The court, in effect, negatived both, instructions; and in
the particulars-now objected to, there was a positive direction to.the.
jury not to exclude, but to include the salvage, in the estimate of the
loss. In this view of the matter, the instructioi Was most favourable
to the plaintiffs; arid, so far from excluding evidence which might
show the amount of the actual damage at the time of the abandonment; it' resorted, and very properly resorted to the subsequent,ascertainment of salvage as positive evidence, that to that extent at
least, the actual damage was enhanced beyond the cost of the repairs.
We are entirely satisfied with this part' of the instruction, in this
view, which seems to us to be the true interpretation of it.
In respect to the other part of the instruction there is no substantial difficulty. The mere retardation of the voyage by any of the
perils insured against, not amounting to or producing- a total incapacity of the ship eventually to perform the voyage,. cannot, upon
principles well established, be admitted to constitute a technical total
loss, which will authorize an abandonment. A retardation for the
purpose of repairing damages from the perils insured against, that

JANUARY TERM, l,838.

401

[Bradlie et a]. v.'The Maryland Insurance Conipany.]

damage not exce'eding one moiety of the value of the ship, falls
directly within this doctrine. Under such circumstances, if the ship
can be repaired and is repaired, and is thus capable of perforning
the voyage, there is no ground, of .abandonment founded upon the
.'considerztion that the voyage may not be Worth 'pursuing for the interest cof the ship owner; or that the cargo has. been injured; so that
it is not worth transpQrting further ornthe voyage: for' the loss of
the cargo for the voyage, has nothing to do with an insurance upon
the ship for the voyage., This was expressly held by this Court, in
the case of Alexander v. The. Baltimore Insuranca Company, 4
Cranph R., 370; where it was decided that an insuraocew.n a ship for
a voyage, was- not to be treated, as an insurance on the ship and the
voyage, or as, an undertaking that she shall actually perform the
'Voyage: ard, only, that notWithst'anding any of the perils insured
against, she shall be of ability to,perform the voyage; and that. the
underwriters will pay any damage sustained by her,1froiA those perils,
during the voyage. The Court farther held,,'that upon such an-in-,
surahee, a total loss of the cargo for the voyage,- was not a total loss
of'the ship for, the voyage. In 'respect to the point of retardation
for repairs, the. more recent authorities 'contain reasoning altogether'
sktisfactory, and 'consistent with the' true nature and objects of poli
cies, of irslnrance. 'The subject was a Aood deal discussed in the
ase of Anderson v...
WAilis,'. 2 Maule & Selw. 240, which "was a
policy or4 cargo; 'and' again. in Everth v. Smith, 2,M, & Selw. 278,
which was a policy on-. freight and again in Falkner v,.Ritchie,,*
M. & Selw- 90, which Was a,policy on. ship: and *.in each' of the
cases, the' court came to the conclusion that a mere retardation of
the voyage ;by any peril insured- against, did not entitle the insure:
to- rqcover for a totalloss; 'if the thing insured was capable of performing the: voyage. Lord Ellenboroughb, in the iirst case, said:
'.Disappointment of arrival isa new head of abandonment in insurance law." "If the-retardation of the voyage be a cause of AbandonMent;, the, happening of any, marine peril, to the ship, by which ,?
delay is caused in her 'ariival at the earliest market, Would also be a
cause of abandonment. I'am well aware that an insurance upon a
cargo, for p particular vbyage, contemplates that the voyage shall be
performed with that cargo; and any risk which renders the cargo
pernmanently lost to the assured, may be a cause-of abandonment. In
like manner a total, loss of' cargo may be effected not merely by the
destination of that cargo,, but by a permanent incapacity of the ship
VoL. XII.-3 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et al. v, The Maryland Insurance Company.]

to perform the voyage; that is, a destruction of the contemplated
adventure, But the case of an interruption Of the voyage, does not
warrant the assured in totally disengaging himself from the adventure, anl throwing this burthen on the underwriters." In Falkner
v. Ritchie, 2 M. & Seiw. 290, his lordship added: "What has a loss
of the voyage to do with a loss of the ship?" meaning, as the, context shows, that the loss of the voyage is no ground of abandonment,
where the ship is not damaged to an extent which permanently
disables her to perform it. The same doctrine was affirmed in Hunt
y. Royal Exchange Assurance Company, 5 M. & Selw. 47; and in
Naylor v. Taylor, 9 Barn. & Cresw. 718. And it. was long ago recognised by this Court, by necessary implication,, in the 'case of
Alexander v. Baltimore Insurance Company, 4 Cranch R. 370; and
Smith v. The Universal Insurance Company, 6 Wheat. R. 176. In
this latter case, the Court said: ." The insurers do not undertake that
the voyage shall be performed without delay, or that the perils insured against shall not occur. They undertake only for losses sustained by those perils; and if any peril does act 6pon the subject,
yet if it be removed before any loss takes- place, and the voyage be
not thereby broken up, but is, or may be resumed,, the insured cannot abandon for a total, loss," Language more explicit upon this
point, could scarcely have been used.
Nor is there any, the slightest difference in law, whether the retardation or temporary suspension of the voyage be for the p;irpose
of repairs, or to meet-any other exigency which interrupts, but does
not finally defeat the actual resumption of it. The detention of the
ship, under theadmiralty proceedings, does not, therefore, in any
manner change the posture of the case. It is admitted on all sides,
and indeed it admits of no legal controversy, that this detention cannot be construed to be a substantive peril within the clause of the
policy respecting "restraints and detainments of all kings, princes
or people;" for the restraints and detainments there alluded to, are
the operations of the sovereign power by ah exercise of the vis major, in its sovereign capacity, controlling or divesting, for the. timd, the
dominion or authority of the owner over the ship.; and not proceedings of a mere civil nature to enforce private rights, claimed under
the owner for services actuilly rendered in the preservation of his
property. This, indeed, if it admitted oi any doubt, would be disposed of by the reasoning of the court in Nesbitt v. Lushington, 4
Term R. 783; and Thornely v. Hebson, 2 Barn. & Ald. R. 513. See

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

also S Kent's Comm. 304, 326. In truth the detention by the admiralty, process was, in this caise; as is apparent from the admitted factse
a mere retardation of the voyage. The brig was delivered from
that proceeding; the salvage was paid; and she not only was capable,
but did in fact resume and complete her voyage to Baltimore.
The considerations already suggested, dispose of the other point
raised undei' this instruction, as to the loss of the voyage. It is apparent that the loss of theivoyage ppokeh of, and necessarily implied in
this instruction upon the admitted state' of the facts, was the loss of
the cargo for the voyage, and not the loss of the vessel by incapacity
to perform the voyage. If the vessel could, as the instruction, supposes, be got off and repaired without'an expenditure exceeding half
her value, and be thereby enabled to resume the voyage; it is plain
that the loss of the cargo for that voyage, constituted no total loss of
the vessel for the voyage. It was absolutely impossible for the
court, upon. the authorities already cited, to arrive at any other conclusion.
The state of things at the' time of the abandonment, did not demonstrate ahy incapacity of the ship to resume her voyage after the
repairs; and in' point of fact, as has been already suggested, she not
only did resume it, but actually performed it. The insurance was
upon time; and the policy actually expired, by its own* limitqtion,
upon the 22d of May, 1833, before she had actually resumed her
voyage. But that can make no difference. An insurance on tirihe
differs as to this point in no essential manner whatsoever from an insurance upon a particular voyage; except in this, that in the latter
ease the insurance is upon and for a specific voyage.described in the
policy; whereas a policy on time, insures no specific voyage, but-it
covers any voyage or voyages whatsoever undertaken within, and
not exceedi tg in point of duration, the limited period for which the
insurance is made. But an- insurance on, time by no means contains
any undertaking on the part of the underwriters, that any particular
voyage undertaken by the insured within the prescribed period,
shall be performed before the expiration of the policy. It warrants
nothing as to any retardation- or prolongation, of the voyage; but
only that the ship shall be capable of performing -the voyage undertaken, notwithstanding any loss or injury which may accrue to her
during the time for which she is insured; and of resuming it, if interrupted. In other words, the undertaking is that the ship shall
not, by the operation of any peril insured against during the time

404

SUPREME COURT.
Bradlie et al.,
v.. The Aparyland Insurance Company.]

for which' the policy c.ontinues, be totally and. permanently lost or
.disabled from performing, the voyage then in progress or any. other
voyage within the scope of the policy. 'The case of Pole v. Fitzgerald, Willes' Rep. 641; S. C. Amber's Rep. 214, affords a striking illustration-of this doctrine; and- whatever doubts may 'be entertained as to some of the dicta, in that case, lord Ellenborough has
well said, that it ;may be of great. use to resort to it, in order to
purify the mind from these generalities, respecting the loss of the
voyage of the ship, constituting, per se, a loss of the ship. Falkner
v. -Ritcbie, Z Maule & Selw. 293. There is no error, theu, in the
instructions aciually given to the jury in the response of the: court to
those asked by the defendants.
In the next place, as to the instruction asked by the plaintiffs, and
refused by the court. In substance, it insisted. that if the underwgiters had authorized the expenditures t be niade for the repairs.,
and had. not supplied, the appropriate funds for these repairs, and for
the salvage, and the bottomry bond was given to secure them; an(l
the underwriters were apprized of the admiralty proceedings at Baltimore, and there neglected to pay so muh thereof as they ought to
havepaid to discharge the same; and that the vessel in' consequence
thereof was sold under those proceedings: then the-plaintiffs were
entitled to recover for the whole value of the vessel. Tthis instructionit May be remarked, proceeds'upon the supposition that there
was"not a technical total loss, entitling the plaintile to abandon; and
that- the abandonment of the 22d of April was. not available ,for the
plaintiffs. For, if it had been,, then the underwriters would have
become from that time ithe owners of the ship;' And the subsequent
losses,. whatever they might be, would be on their sole account.
The case -puty then, supposes that,'in point of law, in tho case of a
merely partial loss to the ship, if money is taken up'on bottomry
for' the necessary repairs and, expenditures, it 'becomes the dutyof
the 'underwriters-to deliver the, ship ftom the bottomry bond to-the
extent of their liability for the expenditures; and that if they do not,
and the veissel is sold under the bottomry bond, they are liable not
onily for the partial ldss,. but for all other losses to the owner from
their n'eglect. We know of no principle of law which justifies any
such do.trine. The underwriters engage to pay the ampount of the
expenditures and losses, directly flowing ,from 'the 'perils insured
against; but not any remote or 'consequential losses to the owners,
from their neglectoto pay the Same. It might be as well contended,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

405

[Bradlie et al. v. The Mar3 land Insurance Company.]
that if by the neglect to pay a partial loss the owners were prevented
from undertaking a new and profitable voyage, the underwriters
would be responsible to them for such consequential loss. The
maxim here, as in many other cases 'in the law, is, causa proxima non
remotA spectatur. The underwriters are not bound to supply funds
in a foreign \port for the repairs 6f any damage to the ship, occasioned by a peril insured, against. They undertake only to pay
the, amount after due notice and proof of the loss; and, usually,
this is to be done, (as was in 'fact the present case) after a prescribed
time from such notice'and proof of the loss. If to meet the expenditures for the repairs,, the master is compelled to take up money oil
bottomry, and thereby an additional premium becomes payable, that
constitutes a part of the loss, for which the underwriters are liable.
But in cases of a partial loss, the money upon bottomnry is not taken
up on account of the underwriters, but of the owner; and they be6ome liable 'to the payment of the loss, whether the bottomry bond
ever becomes due and payable or not. In short, with the in6de by
which the owner, obtains the necessary advances, they have nothing
to do; except that Ithey must hear their share of 'the increased expenses to furnish the repairs, as. a common sacrifice. Indeed, it
seenis difficult to understand upon what-ground it is, thatin case of a
partial loss th'e owner is exonerated from the duty of delivering his
own ship f' m the lien of the bottomry bond, and is at liberty to
throw upon the underwriters the whole obligation of discharging it,
under the penalty. of being otherwise responsible in case of a sale;
not for their share of the loss, (assuming that they were at all bound
to discharge any part of the bond,) but for the whole loss. Upon
what ground can it be said that the.loss of fh6 vessel by the sale in
this casd, is attributable to the neglect of the underwriters, which
does not equally apply to the owners. They had at least, upon their
own argument, an equal duty to perform; for the underwriters were
not liable for the'whole amount of the bottomry bond, but for a part
only;' and the owners were bound to discharge the residue. How,
then, can they call upon the underwriters to pay them a total loss on
account of a sale; which upon their own argument was as much attributable to their own neglect as to that- of the underwriters. But
we wish'to be understood as putting this point upon its true ground
in floint of law; and that is, that in the case of a partial loss, Where
money is taken up on bottomry, bond, to, defray the expenditures to
repair it, the underwriters have nothing to do with the bottomry

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

bond, but are simply bound to pay the partial loss, including their
share of the extra expenses of obtaining the money.in that mode, as
a part of the loss. If it were otherwise, any partial loss, however
small, might, if money weie taken up on bottomry'to meet it, be
converted, at the will of the owner, into a total loss, if the underwriters should 'neglect to pay to the owner the amount of such partial
loss. The case of Thornely v. Hebson, 2 Barn. & Ald. 513, ihculcates a very different doctrine. It was there held, that even in the
case of a libel for salvage, it is the duty of the owner, if he can, to
raise the money to pay the salvage; and if he makes no such attempt,
but suffers the ship to be sold under the admiralty process, he cannot
thereby convert a loss, which is partial, into a total loss. And it
was there further said, by Mr. Justice Bayley, (what is entirely applicable to the present case,) that the sale, in order to constitute a
total loss in such a case, must be from necessity, and wholly without
the fault of the owner.
The instruction asked in the present instance seems
to have prothe case of
the
ground
of
the
doctrine
asserted
in'
ceeded.wholly upon
Da Costa v. Newnham, 2 Tei'M Rep. 407. But assuming that case
to have been decided with entire correctness upon its own particular
circumstances; it seems difficult, consistently with the principles of
law, to apply the doctrine to cases which are not exactly in the same
predicament and it is not the first time that an attempt has been
made to~press that case into the service of other cases which are essentially different. The whole argument turns upon this, that the
brig never came into the hldnds of the owner free from the lien of
the bottomry bond; and therefore, the total loss by the sale is properly attributable to the neglect of the underwriters. But the same
argument would equally have appliedrf there had, been, for the first
time, admiralty proceedings in the home port against the brig, (without any bottornry bond laving been given,) for the repairs thus
made in a foreign port, as well as for the salvage. Yet no doubt
could have been entertained that, under such circumstances, the underwriters would not have been bound to deliver the vessel from the
liens thus incurred, at the peril of-otherwise becoming answerable for
a total loss. In what essential particular is the' case hanged by the
substitution of an express lien by bottormry, for 'an implied lien by
the maritime law? In none, that we can perceive,
But what were the circumstances of the case of Da Costa v.
Neweiham? In that case, the insurance was for a voyage from Leg-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

horn to London. The ship met with an accident in the course of
the voyage, and put into Nice for repairs. Upon receiving notice
thereof, the assured wished to abandon, and, indeed, was entitled to
abandon'; but the underwriters insisted upon the ship's being repaired,
telling him to pay the tradesmen's bills. He consented, at last, that
the repairs should be done, but refused to adyance any money; in
consequence of which it became necessary to take up a large sum of
money.on a.bottomry bond, to defray the expenses. The ship resumed and performed her voyage; and after her arrival, the underwriters were applied to take up the bottomry bond, but they refused.
Admiralty proceedings were, as it should seem, accordingly instituted,
and the ship was sold for six hundred guineas; the bottomry. boid
being for six hundred pounds, which, with the interest, amounted to
a larger sum, viz. six hundred and seventy-eight pounds.
The question under these circumstances was, whether the plaintiff
was entitled to recover. Mr. Justice Bulle'r, who tried the eause.
was of opinion, under the circumstances, that for all the subsequent
injury which had accrued to the owner, in consequence of the refusal
of the underwriters to discharge the bottomry b
, and by. which
the owner was damnified to the full amount of the insuranee, the
underwriters were liable; because it was their own fault in not taking
up the bond- for the expenses of those repairs, which had been incurred, by their own express directions; and the only remaining
question was, how the average was to be calculated. The jury found
a verdict for the. owrler for sixty-two pounds nineteen shillings,
which, together with seventeen -pounds ten shillings paid into court
by the underwriters, they calculated as the average loss, per cent.
which. the owner was entitled to. A motion was afterwards made
for a new trial; and refused y the court; substantially upon the
grounds maintained by the learned judge at the trial,
From this -statement of the facts, and the reasoning of the court
applicable theretoi in the case of Da Costa v. Newnham, it is apparent, that, in that case, the actual cost of the repairs,. (including of
necessity the bottomry premium,) exceeded the actual value of' the
ship; that the underwriters had fully authorized all these repairs, and
had, expressly promised to pay all the costs of the repairs and the
,necessary incidents. The owner of the ship, at the termination of
the voyage, never 6ame into the possession of the ship free fiom the
lien of the bottomry bond; for the whole amount of which, as it included nothing but the costs anid incidents of the repairs, the under-

SUPREME COURT.
. [Bradlie et al. v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

writers were liable, and which, by necessary implication, they had
promised to pay, The sum claimed by the owner of the underwriters was in fact less than the amount of the cost of the repairs,
that cost being six hundred' and seventy-eight-pounds; whereas the
loss claimed was a total loss of the ship, which sold for six hundred
guineas only; and it seems that the insurance was on an open
policy.
The question, in effect, therefore, was whether the owner was not
entitled to recover the full amount of tie insurance, which was the
amount of his actual loss, directly arising from the breach of the promise of indemnity made to him by the underwriters. Upon-such a
point, there should not seem to be much reason for any real juridical
doubt.
Now, there are essential distinctions between that case and the
present. In the first place, the. repairs in this case were not made
under any positive engagement of the underwriters beyond whit the
policy, by its own terms, necessarily included: The language of the
underwriters in their answers, refusing the abandonment, in our
judgment imports no more than this. It merely'ays, "we expect
you to do what is necessary in the case for the safety and relief of
the vessel." It was rather an admonition than a contract; a warning
that the underwriters would hold the owners to the performance of
all the duties imposed upon them by law; and not any promise as t6
their own obligations. In the next place, in the present case, the
loss is to be taken upon the very form of the instruction, prayed to
be a partial loss only; and as to the repairs, the underwriters were
clearly, in such a case, entitled to the deduction of one-third new
for old. . In the case of Da Costa v, Newnham, the loss was treated
by the court as a technical total loss; )n account ot the amount required for the necessary repairs. In the next place, in that ease, the
insured asked only to recover the amount of the costs of the repairs,
which in fact exceeded the value of the ship: in tAe present case, the
cost of the repairs, and the salvage, for which the underwriters were
liable, fell short of'the half value; and yet the plaintiffs insist to recover for a total loss. In the next place, in that case, the underwriters, by their refusal to make any advances, compelled, and
indeed authorized the owner to resort to a bottomry bond, to supply
the means of repairing the loss; and of course, as has been already
intimated, thu underwriters, by necessary implit'ation, undertook',to
indemnify the owner against the lien and burden of ihe whole of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

409

[Bradlie etal., v. The Maryland Insurance Company.]

that bond, in onsideration of his undertaking to cause the repairs to
be made:
The r-efusal to make good that promise, was the direct and immediate cause of the loss and sale of the ship. In the present case, the
bottomry bond included charges and amounts, for which the underwriters were not liable. How, then, can it be inferred from the
facts stated 'in the instructions, that the underwriters, by implication,
and without consideration, undertook to indemnify the plaiftiffs
against the whole bottomry bond; for the payment of a part of which,
only, they were by law responsible?
Sothat, admitting the authority of Dra Costa v. Newnham to the
fullest extent which its own circumstances warrant, it 'stands upon
grounds entirely distinguishable from those which ought to govern the
present case. If the underwriters, in the present case, bad authorized
the whole expenditures ou their sole account, and had promised to
save the plaintiffs harmless from the whole amount of the bottomry
bond, and the plaintiffs had made the expenditures, and procured the.
advances for this purpose, upon the faith of such authority and promise; a very different case would have been presented for our consideration. At present, it is only necessary to say, that the instruction before us states no such case, and calls for no such question; and,
therefore, Da Costa v. Newnham cannot be admitted to govern the
present, case.
Upon the whole, our opinion is, that there is no error in the instructions given or refused by the circuit court; and the judgment is
therefore affirmed, with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland, and
Was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here or
dered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said
circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby -affirmed, With
costs and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

VoL.. XI1.--3 F.

