JANUARY TERM, 1838

CHARLES SCOTT, BAILIFF OF WILLIAM S.

MOORE,

ERROR V. JOHN LLOYD, DEFENDANT

PLAINTIFF IN

IN ERROR.

Where the grantor oIf
annuity by deed, has conveyed all his interest in the property
charged with the annuity, and an allegation of usury in the granting of the annuity
is afterwards made, he maybe a witness to prove usury ; if he is not a party to the
suit, and has conveyed all his right and title to the property to others, his creditors,
thus divesting himself of all interest arising out of the original agreement: and
is released from his debts by them, and is not liable to the costs of the suit.
The decision in 1 Peters' Circuit Codrt Reports, 301, (Willings v. Consequa,) where
the court held, that a party named on the record might be released, so as to constitute him a competent witness, was cited in the argument. The court said, such
a rule would hold out to parties a'strong temptation to perjury; and we think it is
not sustained either by principle or authority.

IN eri'or to the circuit court of the United States, for the county of
Washington, in the District of Columbia.
This case was before the Court at the January term, 1830, 4 Peters,
205; and again at January term, 1835, 9 Peters, 418. It n6w came
up on a wfit of error, prosecuted by the plaintiff in -the circuit court.
The questions involved in the case when it was before the Court in
1830 and 1835, and also in this case, are stated in the opixiion of the
Court. The competency of Jonathan Scolfield, who was examined
as a witness for the defendant, was the only question in this writ of
prror.
The cause was argued by Mr. Jones, and Cox for the plaintiff in
error; and by Mr. Key and Mr. Swann for the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error, the following cases were cited. Starkie's
Evidence, 93, 94, 292; Phillips' Ev. chap. 5, sect. 4,.p. 74; .7
East, 578; 1 Maule & Selwyn, 636; 10 East, 39 ; 5 Barnwell &
Creswell, 188.
.For the defendant, were cited, Willings v. Consequa, 1 Pdters' C. C.
R, 301 ; I lBaindolph's Rqp. 235" 6-Vesev Jr. 547; 1 Term Rep. 162;
7 Cranch, 271; 1 Wheat. 160;, 1N heat.. 60; 2 Starkie's Ev. 136; 1
MUmf6rd's Rep. 398; 3 Call's Rep. 372; 6 Wendell's Rep. 415.
VOL. XII.-T

SUPREME COURT.
[Scott v, Lloyd.]

Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the third time that this case has been brought before the
Court, by writ of error to the circuit court of the District of Columbia.
The first decision is reported in 4 Peters, 205; and the secor.d in
9 Peters, 418.
The controversy arose out of 3 certain deed executed by Jonathan
Scholfield and wife to William S. Moore, all of the town of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia. For the, consideration of five
thousand dollars, Scholfield and wife conveyed to Moore, his heirs
and assigns, forever, one certain annuity or rent of five hundred dollars, to be issuing out of, and charged upon a lot of ground and four
brick tenements, &c. The annuity to be paid in half yearly payments; and in default of such payment, from time to time, Moore,
his heirs and assigns, had a right to enter, and levy by distress, &c.
And should there not be sufficient property found on the premises,
&c., the grantee had a right to expel the grantor, and occupy the
premises. Scholfield, his heirs and assigns, were bound to keep the
premises insured, and to assign to Moore the policies: and Moore,
for himself, his heirs and assigns, did covenant with Scholfield, that
after the expiration of five years, on the payment of the sum of
five thousand dollars, and all arrears of rent, the rent charge should
be released.
Scholield and wife conveyed the above premises, the 29th October, 1816, to John Lloyd. The annuity being unpaid in 1825,
Scott, as the bailiff of Mocre, entered, and made distress, &c. and
Lloyd replevied the property.
The principal question in this case, when it was before the Cour
in 1830, arose on certain special pleas, which averred the contract
to be- usurious. And this' Court decided that, although the instrument was not usurious upon its face; yet that the second and fourth
pleas contained averments, connected with the contract, which constituted usury; and the judgment of the circuit court was reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
The case was again brought up in 1835, on certain exceptions to
the ruling of the circuit court; and among others, to the compe 7
tency of Jonathan Scholfield, who was sworn, and examined as a
witness.
To show his interest, the following iihstruments of writing were
read.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Scott v. Lloyd.]

1. The original contract between him and Moore, as above stated.
2. A letter from Scholfield to Lloyd, dated 9th June, 1824,
which stated that the contract which created the rent charge was
usurious, and that measures would be taken to set it aside. And
Moore was notified not to pay any part of the rent; and assured, if
distress should be made, he should be saved harmless.
3. A deed, dated 18th November, 1825, from Scholfield, making
a conditional assignment of one-fifth of the annuity to Thomas K.
Beale, in which he recites and acknowledges his responsibility to
Lloyd.
4. An exemplification of a record showing the discharge of Scholfield under the insolvent laws of Virginia.
To show the competency of Scholfield, the following documents
were given in evidence:
1. A release from Scholfield to the plaintiff, in replevin, dated 13th
June, 1831, whereby, for the consideration of five thousand dollars,
he releases to Lloyd all the right, title atid interest which he has or
may have from the decision of the suit depending for the, annuity
or rent charge; or which he htts, or may have, in the property out of
which it issues. He also releases Lloyd from all covenants or obligagations, express or implied, arising out of the deed of assignment.
2. A:release, dated 25th April, 1828, from Scholfield to Lloyd of
all his right, &c., to the suit, &c., and to all sums of money which
may accrue, and from-all actions, &c.
3. A release, of the same date, from Thomas K. Beale and James
M. M'Crea, to Scholfield, for nine hundred and fifty dollars, part of
a debt of two thousand dollars, due from him to them..
4. A release, of the same date, from Joseph Smith, for one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars, part of a debt of three thousand
dollars, due to him from Scholfield.
5. An obligation of Lloyd, dated 25th April, 1828, binding himself
to pay to the persons named, the several sums released, as above, to
Scholfield; should he succeed in the above suit.
6. A release from Lloyd to Scholfield of five thousand dollars,
debt, &c.
In giving the opinion of the Court on the competency
of Scholfield
as a witness, the late Chief Justice says: "Some diversity of opinion
prevailed on the question, whether he could be received to invalidate
a paper executed by himself; but without deciding this question, a

SUPREME, COURT.
[Scott v. Lloyd.]

majority of the Court is'of opinion, that he is interested in the event
of the suit."
His letter of the 9th of June, to Ljpyd, the tenant in possession,
requiring him to withhold from Moore the payment of any further
sum of money, on account of this rent charge,, contains this declaration: "and in case distress should be made upon you for the rent, I
promise to save you harmless, if. you will resist payment by writ of
replevy. I wish you to understand, that if. you make any further
payments after receiving this notice, that you make them at your
own risk." This, says the Chief Justice, is an explicit and absolute
undertaking, to assume all the liabilities which Lloyd might incur
by suing out a writ'of replevin. Mr. Scholfield, then, is responsible
to Lloyd for the costs of this suit.
And the Court held, that the various releases above stated, did not
release Scholfield from his obligation to pay the costs, which had
accrued in the suit, should the final decision be against Lloyd; and
that he was therefore an interested and incompetent witness. On
this ground the judgment of the circuit court was reversed, and the
cause remanded, &c.
During. the late trial of the issues in the circuit court, the deposition of Jonathan Scholfield was offered in evidence by the plaintiff
below, and objected to by the defendant, but the court overruled the
objection; andto this opinion of the court the defendant excepted.
The pompetency of this witness is the only question raised on the
present writ of error.
To show the relation of this witness to the cause, and his interest
in it, the instruments of writing used in the former trial, and which
are above referred to,) were given in evidence; and in addition, a
release, dated 24th March, 1835, from Lloyd to Scholfield, of all
liability arising under his letter of June 9th, 1824, for the payment
of costs; and from all responsibility growing out of this suit, in any
form or manner whatsoever.
A part of the documents referred to as used in the former trial,
are not found in the record of the late trial; the clerk of the circuit
court, as is alleged, having omitted to certify them. But as those
documents were used in the former trial, and are found in the report
of the ease, in 9 Peters, and as they do not change the result to which
tht CoUtrt have come on the present writ of error; there can be no
objection to "con-sidering them as now before us.
The question is not, whether Scholfield has not been so connected

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Scott v. Lloyd.]

with the commencement and prosecution of this suit, as to impair his
credit with the jury, but, whether he has an interest in the decision
of the case?.
It is not contended, that the ruld whichdoes not permit a party to
a negotiable instrument to invalidate it by his own testimony, applies
to Scholfield. The rule is laid down in the case, of the Bank of the
United States v. Dunn, 6 Peters, 57;, and also in the case of Walton
et al. Assignees of Sutton v. Shelly, 1 Term Rep. 296, as applied to
negotiable paper.
From the various releases executed by Lloyd and Scholfield,.and
the other documents in the case, it is not perceived that the witness
can have any interest in the decision of this sqit. He has relinquished
all possible benefit in the judgment, should it be entered in favour of
the plaintiff below. And he is exonerated from all responsibility
should a judgment be given for the defendant.
11 is clear from the opinion of the Court, as, above cited, that
Scholfield's liability for costs, was the only ground on which he was
held to be incompetent; and this is entirely removed by the release
of Lloyd subsequently executed.
On the part of the plaintiff in error, it is contended that Scholfield
stood in the strict relations of privity of estate and contract'to both
the parties to the suit; and that, there was also privity in the action.
This -may be admitted when the suit was first commenced; but the
question arises, whether this relation to the contract, the estate and
the action, has Iqot been dissolved. There can be no doubt of this,
unless the rights of other parties, as the creditors of Scholfield had
become so interwoven in the transaction as not to be affected by th
acts of the witness and Lloyd. And this is the goound assumed in
the argument. But on a careful examination of the points presented,
and the authorities cited, the Court do not perceive that there is sufficient ground to pronounce any of the releases executed fraudulent.
The decision in 1 Peters' C. C. R. 301, where the court held, that
a party named on the record might be released, so as to constitute
him a competet witness, has been cited -and relied on in the argument.
Such a rule would hold out to parties a strong temptation to
perjury; and we ihink it is not sustained either by principle or
authority.
Scholfield in this case was not a party on the record, and having
divested himselt of all interest arising out of the original agreement

150

SUPREME COURT.
[Scott v. Lloyd.]

and the prosecution of th issuit, and not-being liable to pay costs;
we think the circuit court did not err, in admitting his deposition as
evidence. The judgment of the eircuit court is, therefore, affirmed,
with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
thecircuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia,
holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here adjudged and ordered, by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in
this cause be, and the-same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

