THE DECISIONS

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITEI

STATES,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

TnE UN19IED STATES; PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. ANDREW N.

LAUB.

The United States instituted an action on a treasury transcript fothe accounts of
the defendant, who had been a clerk in the treasury department, and as such, and
as agent under the authority of the secr6tary of the treasury, had disbursed public
moneys under several heads of appropriation; some, specific and temporary, others
of a more permanent and general sharacter. On the night of the 30th of March i
1833, the treasury building was consumed by fire, which destroyed all his books,
papers and vouchers, relating to the disbursements made by him. During the
period, in which the defendant had performed the duties of agent, he had settled
his accounts with punctuality, and to the satisfaction of' the accounting officers.
All suspicion of fraudulent misapplication of the money was disclaimed by the
counsel of the United States, in the argument of the cause-and the question
before the court was, whether the defendant had entitled himself to relief in a
court of justice, or must be turned over to legislative aid. I Upon te questions of
evidence, prqsented in the cause,the court said: This, thenpresents acase, where
all the books, papers and vouchers, of the defendant, relating to his disbursements
and agency, have been destroyed by fire, without any fault ofhis; and is, of necessity, open to the admission of secondary evidence. And under the general rule of
evidence, he might berequired to produce' the best evidence which the nature of
the case, under the circumstances, would admit. This rule, however) does not
require of a party the production of the strongest possible evidence; but must be

VOL. XII.-A

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Laub.]
governed, in a gikaat measure, by the circumstances of the case; and must have a
bearing upon the matter in controversy; and must not be such as to leave it open to
the suspicion or presumption, that any thing left behind, and within the power of
the party, would, if produced, make against him.
Suppose a debtor should put into the hands of an agent, a sum of money for thu
payment of specified demands against him, and the amount limited to such demands;
.nd t, be paid in small sums to a numerous class of creditors, scattered over
various and distant parts of the -country: and it should be made to appear, that he
had disbursed all the money thus put into his hands, bqt that the vouchers for
such payments had been destroyed by fire, without any fault of his; and he could
not ascertain the names of the creditors to whom payment had beeh made; but
that no claim had been presented to his principal, by any one of the creditors, to
whom payment was to be made by the agent, after the lapse of three years: and
allthis,-accompanied by-proof, that he had faithfully discharged the duties of a like
agency for several years, and regularly accounted for his disbursements.; would it
not afford reasonable grounds to conclude, that he had disbursed all the moneys
placed in his hands by his principal, for the purposes for which he received ii;
and prqtect him against a suit for any balance?
It appeared, that the defendant offered to read in evidence, certain passages from a
pablic document, mentioned in the bill of exceptions. Th6 plaintiffs' counsel
consented to its being read,- as the defendant's evidence. And after the same was
read, the plaintiff's counsel requested the court to instruct) the jury, that the conversation of the defendant with Mr. Dickens and Mr. M'Lean, read from the executive document, was not evidence to the jury of the facts stated in such conversation; which the court refused tp give. The court said: The entire document
referred. to, is not set out in the bill of exceptions; and from what is stated, no
conversation of the character objected to appears. But the evidence was admitted
by consent. The plaintiffs were entitled to have the whole document read; and
it was all in evidence-before the court and jury. But the objection, on the ground
that some of-the facts stated were only hearsay evidence, fails. The document, so
far as it appears on the bill of exceptions, contains no such conversation. This
instruction was, therefore, properly refused.
IN ergor from the -circuit court of the United States-,of the District
of Columbia, in the county of. Washington.
The United States instituted two actions'of assumpsit against the
defendant, to recover the balances stated to be due to the United
States, on transcripts regularly certified by the treasury department.
The first account was with the defendant, as "agent for paying the
contingent expenses of the office of the secretary of the treasury;"
and charges a balance due to the United States, and those warrants
drawn by the secretary of the treasury in favour of the defendant,
amounting, together, to four thousand dollars. It credits a payment
of two hundred and forty-one dollars and fifty-eight cents, paid on
the 22,d July, 1833, leaving a balance due to the 'United States, on the
14th November, 1833, of three thousand seven hundred and seventy-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[United States v. Laub.]

six dollars and fifty-eight cents. The other accotrt is against the
defendant as " superintendent of the south-east executive building, in
relation to the compensation of superintendent, and watchman, of said
building;" and after charging a warrant of four hundred and twenty'five dollars, ard crediting one hundred and fourteen dollars and
ninety-seven cents, paid July 22d 1833, claims a balance of three
hundred and ten dollars and three cents. The whole sum claimed to
be due to the United 5,tates, on the two transcripts, was, four thousand
and eighty-six dollars and fifty-one cents. 'In the other action, the
United States claimed seven thousand seven hundred ard sixty-nine
dollars and twenty-five cents. This account is for a treasury warrant
for two thousand dollars, and for five thousand seven hundred and
sixty-nine dollars and twenty-five cents, for balances due by the defendant as "superintendent of the south-east executive building"
in relation to contingent expenses of the said buifding, to alterations
and improvements thereof, and to enclosing the grbunds attached
thereto; and also as " agent for expenditures in relation to insolvent
debtors," and in relation to manufactures.
The defendant pleaded non assumpsit to both actions, and the cases
were tried together, in the circuit court ; the jury fbund verdicts for
the defendant.
Three bills of exception, entirely similar, were taken in each case,
by the plaintiffs, and judgment being given for the defendant, the
plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error. The material facts of the
case, in the blls of exception, are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Butler, the attorney general, and by
Coxe, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice I HOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes up on a writ of error from the circuit court of the
District-of Columbia for the county of Washington.
The action is founded upon a balance certified at the treasury against
the defendant for eleven thousand eight hundred and fifty-five dollars and eighty-six cents. A verdict was found by the jury for the
defendant; and upon the trial several bills of exception were taken
to the instructions given by the court.
The main question in the case related to certain credits, which the
defendant claimed to have allowed to him; and which had been rejeeted by the accounting officers of the treasury.

SUPREME tCOURT.
[United States v. Laub.]

These credits, so claimed and rejected, consisted of three items, as
stated in the defendant's claims.
1st. Four hundred and ninety-three dollars and sixteen cents, paid
the Bank of Metropolis for advances to ind'ividuals.
2d. Three thousand eight hundred and fifty-two dollars and fifteen
cents, for drafts drawn by the Bank of the United States in favour
of individuals, between the 1st of October, 1832, and the 1st of
April, 1833.
3d. Two thousand nine hundred and fifty-four dollars and fortythree cents, claimed as a credit for disbursements to sundry persons,.whose names were 'not recollected; the vouchers,'as was alleged, having been destroyed in the conflagration of the treasury
department.
After the evidence in the cause was closed, the plaintiffs, by their
counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the defendant was
not entitled to the credit claimedfor the tbree items above mentioned;
which instructions the court refused to give. But, upon the prayer
of the defendant, gave to the jury the followirig-instruction:
"That if from the evidence, aforesaid, they shall believe, that the
defendant has faithfully paid qver for public purposes, and within the
sphere of his official duty, ,all the public money which came to his
hands, then the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover;" and, bills of
exception were taken on the part of the plaintiffs, to the refusal tb
give the instructions prayed in their behalf, and to the instructions
given oi the prayer of-the defendant.
There was another bill of exceptions taken, which will be noticed
hereafter.
It will be seen from this statement, that.the instruction prayed on
the part of the plaintiffs, was a positive direction to the jury, that the
defendant was not entitled to the credit claimed by him for the three
items abovdmentioned. If the court erred in refusing to give this
instruction, it must have been either by reason 6'f some insuperable
objection in point of law against the claims; or because there was no
evidence whatever before tboiury in support of them. There is no
pretence for the instruction prayed on the first ground. No objection
was made to the admissibility in evidence of the claims, if any could
have been made. But none did exist. It was a claim made by the
defendant for disbursements or payments made by hi'h, in discharge
of his appropriate duties under the trust assumed. And the claims, if
necessary, tinder the act of the 3d March, 1797, (of which there may

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[United States v. Laub.]

be some doubt,) had been presented to the accounting officers of the
treasury, and disallowed; and was, of course, open to be set up "'nthe
trial of this cause.
If, therefore, the court erred in not giving the instructions asked
on the part of the plaintiff, it must have beeh of the ground, that no
evidence, tending to prove the matter in dispute, had been given 'to
the jury. For it is a point too well settled, to be now drawn in question, that the effect and sufficiency of the evidence, are for the consideration and determination of the jury; and the error "isto be
redressed, if at all, by application to the court below. for a new trial,
and cannot be made a ground of objection on a writ of error. All
the evidence on the trial was admitted without objection; and the
instructions asked from the court, did not point to any part of the
evidence as inadmissible or irrelevant; but for a general direction upon
the whole evidence, that the defendant was not entitled to the credits
claimed by hin for the three items abovemeationed,
The general outlines of the case, as stated in the6 bill of exceptions,
are: That the defendant had been. .clerk in the treasury department
of the United States, and as Siach, and as agent under the authority of
the secretary of the treasury, had disbursed public moneys under
several hea4s of appropriation: some, specific and temporary, others
of a more permanent and general character. That he was required
to take an oath faithfully to perform the duties of his office; and had
performed such duties during the years 1831 and 1832, and up to the
30th of March, 1833. That on the night of the 30th of March, 1833.,
the treasury building was consumed by fire; which destroyed all the
books, papers and vouchers, relating to the public business of the department. That, by the course of business, in conducting his agency,
the money was placed in his hands by warrants from the secretary of
the treasury, in his favour as agent; which warrants were irsued by
the secretary, upon the requisition of the defendant, stating the purpose for whichthe money was required, and at the disoretion of the
secretary. The warrants thus issued were charged to the defendant
on the books.of, the treasury, and placed to his credit as agent in the
Bianch Bank of the United States at Washington; and the moneys
drawn put of the bank by the defendant's checkj, as such agent, in
favour of.the individuals respectively, to whom the same was payable,
which was according to the usual pt'tcice of other disbursing officers.
And it appeared, that after the destruction of the treasury building,
by an order drawn by the secretary of the treasury, all the moneys

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Laub.]

standing to the credit of the defendant in the branch bank, on the
20th of March, 1833, were drawn out, except ten dollars. It also appeared, that the books of, the bank do not furnish anyinformation
showing the names of the persons or the character of the services for
which the moneys. were disbursed; but merely exhibit the dates of
the checks, and .the amount of the money for which they were drawn
respectively. The defendant also showed, that he kept no private
account in the bank, nor any other account than as agent. That,
during the period in which he had performed the duties of such agent,
he had settled his accounts with punctuality, and entirely to the satisfaction of the accounting officers. That such accounts, so far as specific appropriations had 'been made, were settled up to the 1st of
January, 1833, and the others up to the 1st of October, 1,834; and
that,.for all the vouchers accompanying such settlements, so far as the
same extends, corresponding' checks appear in the bank statemen.
Such being the general. outlines, of the case, and no dispute, except in
relation to the three items- abovementioned, .the question, arises
whether there was any evidence before the jury conducing to prove
the disbursements of the defendant thus claimed.
All suspicion of a fraudilent misapplication by the defendant of
the money pl iced in his hands, was disclaimed on the argument; and
the question seemed to resolve itself-into the inquiry, whether, under
the evidence in the,cause, the defendant had entitled himself to relief
in a court of. justice, or must be turned over to legislative aid.
This then presents a case,. where all the books, papers and vouchers of the defendant, relating to his disbursements and agency, have
been destroyed by fire, without any fault of his; and is of necessity
open to the admission of.secondary-evidence. And under the general,
rule of evidence, he might be required to produce thq best evidence
Which the nature of the case, under. the circumstances, would admit.
This rule, however, does..not require of a party the production of
the strongest possible evidence; but must be governed, in a great
measure, by the oircumstances of the case, and must have a bearing
upon the matter in controversy.; and must not be such as to leave it
open to the suspicion or presumption that any thipg left behind, and
withirt the power of the'party, would, if produced, make against him.
But the evidence in this case is not open to the objection, that it was
not the best evidence in the power of the party: no objection on that
ground was made at the trial: and the case is then brought to the
single point, was there any evidence before the jury conducing to

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
*United States v. Laub.]

support the claim for the disbursements, which were rejected by the
accounting officers.
With respect to the four hundred and ninety-three dollars and
sixteen cents, claimed, under -the.charge of moneys paid- the. Bank
of Metropolis, for advances to individuals having claims against
the government;. it was proved that it was the practice in tie
treasury departrrient, to pay the clerks, &c. monthly, when there
were funds out of Which they could be paid*; and that it was usual,
when such moneys were due and payable and there were no such
funds, or when the appropriation, bill had not been. passed'by congress, for the defendant to give such as requ ired it, a certificate,
showing the amount due, and that it would be paid when the appropriation bill should pass. Upon which certificate, the holder would
obtain either an advance, or discountfrom the banks; and that the
defendant had given, several such c,,rtificates, whiqh, in the winters of
1832-3, had been brought to the. Bank of Metrpolis, and money
paid on them: and that some time in March, 1833, after the appropriation bill had passed, all the certificates held.-by the bank) were
carried to the defendant; who gave in lieu of them a chock upon the
Branch Bank, which had been paid. But the witness dil not recollect the ampunt paid, nor the names of the persons to whom'the
certificates had -been given, but only that .there were several of them,
and the amount considerable; but' that the books of the bank contained no information on the subjiet.This was certainly evidence,- and that' too,, not' of a very'slight
character,,cQnducing to proVe the disbursement claimed. The precise amount was riot proved; but all .the detendant's vouchers being
destroyed, and the hank books furnishing no information on the
subject, it was a question for the jury to decide, as to the aribuht, thus
paid;, taking their evidence in eohnection .with the othe6r evidence in
the cause.
With respect to the claims for drafts -drawn by the Branch Bank
in favaur.of individuals, between the Ist of, ctober, 1832, and the 1st
of April, 1833, the evidence was, that sometimes when moneys were
to be disbursed at a distance, the defepdant would obtain drafts from
the Cashier of the bank,.upon other banks or bran hes. where the
money was disbursable ; which drafts were drawn. in favour of the
defendant, and indorsed by him to the patty who was to receive the
the usual
money, and remitted to. him by mail,; and that ,such was
practice of other disbursing officers. And it appeared, from the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. LaubJ

statement of the Branch Bank, that the drafts of this description,
drawn in favour of the defendant, between the 1st of October, 1832,
and the 1st of April, 1833, corresponded in amount precisely with
the sum claimed. It does not appear what became of; these drafts.
But in the natural course of business, they would go into the possession of the person to whom payment was to be, made; and a receipt
for the same returned to .the defendant, which have been destroyed
by the fire. This evidence, although not conclusive, afforded presumption that such was the fact. It was, at all events, evidence condcing to prove the payments, and was matter for the jury.
With respect to the other claim of two thousand nine hundred and
fifty-four dollars and forty-three cents, there is no evidence particularly pointed to this item. But there was evidence of a more general character, which, under the circumstances of the case,., at least
afforded some grounds for the conclusion that the money had been
applied to the payment of claims on the government. It stands
charged in the account presented. to the accounting officers of the
treasury, as a claim for disbursements to sundry persons, whose names
could nof be recollected; the vouchers having been destroyed in the
burning of the treasury bcilding. The jury had evidence of the destruction of the vouchers for such disbursements, if any ever existed;
it was in evidence, that the money placed in the defendant's hatds,
was by means of warrants, drawn by the secretary of the treasury,
upon the requisitions of the defendant, stating the purpose for which
the money Was required-the amount resting in the discretion of the
secretary; and that the warrants thus drawn, were passed to the credit
of the defendant, as agent, in the Branch-Bank of the United States
at Washington; and drawn ;out by his checks, as such agent, in favour
of the individue s to whom the same was payable; and that all the money had been drawn out except ten dollars. Under such circumstances,
where is the ground upon whi~qh any misapplication of the money is
chargeable upon the defendant? If he has disbursed all the money
he has received, for the purposes for which he received it, the government can 'have no claim upon him. The amount. of money placed in
his hands, was governed and limited by the specific purpose and object stated in the -requisitions of the defendant, to which it 'was to be
applied; and was,.of course, confined to disbursements known to the
secretary, and warranted by law. And it was in evidence, that, by the
practice of the department, no persons entitled to payment, through
the agency of the defendant, could receive payment from the govern-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[United States v. Laub.]

ment, unless their accounts were accompanied with the oath of the
claimant, or other satisfactory evidence that he had not been paid.
Add to this, that no claim has been made upon the government, for
payment of any demand falling under the agency of the defendant.
Does not this afford reasonable ground to conclude, that he had applied all the funds placed in his hands, to the purposes for which they
were intended? At all events, it was evidence conducing to prove it;
and the effect and sufficiency of it, was a question for the jury.
It is not intended to apply to this ease, a different rule than would
be applied to any other agency for the disbursement of money, under
like circumstances.
Suppose a debtor should put into the hands of an agent, a sum of
money for the payment of specified demands against him, and the
amount limited to such demands, and to be paid in small sums to a
numerous class of creditors, scattered over various and distant parts
of the country: and it should be made to appear, that he had disbursed all the money thus put into his hands, but that the vouchers
for such payments had been destroyed by fire, without any fault of
his, and he could not ascertain the names of the creditors to whom
payment had been made; but that no claim had been presented to his
principal, by any one of the creditors, to whom payment was to be
made by the agent, after the lapse of three years; and all this accoinpanied by prdo that he had faithfully discharged the duties of a li4ye
agency for several years, and regularly accounted frr his disbursements: would it not afford reasonable ground to conclude, that he lAad
disbursed all the moneys placed in his hands by his principal, for the
purposes for which he received it, and protect him against a suit for
any balance?
Considering the number and character of the claims to be paid by
the defendant; a lapse of nearly three years, from the burning of the
treasury building to the time of trial, and no claim having been made
by any one entitled to payment through the defendant's agency, is a
circumstance affording presumptiv6 evidence that all had been paid.
Upon the whole, under all the circumstances of this case, we are of
opinion, that the court did not err, in refusing to give the instructions
prayed on the part of the plaintiffs; nor in giving the instructions
to the jury, that if from the evidence, they should believe, that the
defendant had faithfully paid over, for public purposes, and within
the sphere of his official duties, all the public money which came to
•his hands, the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover.
Vo.. X 11.-13

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Laub.]

The second bill of exceptions was abandoned on the argument;
and need not be noticed.
A third bill of exceptions was taken at the trial; by which it appears, that the defendant offered to read in evidence, certain passages
from a public document, mentioned in the bill of exceptions. The
plaintiffs' counsel consented to its being read as the defendant's evidence. And after the same was read, the plaintiffs' counsel requested
the court to instruct the jury, that the conversation of the defendant
with Mr. Dickins and Mr. M'Lean, read from the executive document, was not evidence to the jury of the fa6ts stated in sch
conversation; which the court refused to give.
The entire document referred to, is not set out in the bill of exceptions; and from what is stated, no conversation of the character
objected to appears. But theevidence was admitted by consent. The
plaintiffs were entitled to have the whole document read ; and it was
all in evidence before the court and jury. But the objection, on the
ground that s9me of the facts stated, were only hearsay evidence,
fails. The document, so far as it appears on the bill of exceptions,
contains no such conversation. This instruction was, therefore, properly refused; and the judgment of the court below is affirmed.

