JANUARY TERM,

1838.

BEULAH, STELLE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V.
DUDDYNGTON,

DANIEL CARROLL,

OF

DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Dower. The doctrines of the common law, on the subject of dower, although since
altered by an act of assembly of Maryland, were still the law of Maryland, NWhen
the United.States assumed jurisdiction over the District of Columbia: and the act
of congress of February 27th, 1801, which provides for its government, declares
that the laws of Maryland, as they then existed, should continue and be in force
in that part of the district which was ceded by that state.
According to the principles of the common law, a widow was not dowable in her
husband's equity of redemption; and if a man mortgages in fee, before marriage,
and dies without redeeming the mortgage, his widow is not entitled-to dowr.
Mortgages were made during the coverture, but the mortgage deeds were acknowledged by the wife upon privy examination; and these acknowledgments, xinder
the acts of assembly of Maryland of 1715, ch. 47, and 1766, ch. 14, bar the right of
dower in the lots thus conveyed to the mortgagee. The legal estate passed to the
mortgagee; and the husband retained nothing but the equity of redemption: and
as the wife had no right of dower in this equitable interest, a subsequent deed,
executed by the husband, conveyed the whole of his iriterest in the estate, and
was a bar to the ,clim of dower. It whs not necessary for the. wife to join in such
a deed, as she had no right of dower in the equity of redemption, which was con.
veyed by the deed.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States, for the county of
Washington, in the District of Columbia.
The plaintiff in error brought an action claiming to be endowed
out of certain lots, with the improvements on them, being No. 16
and No. 17, in square 728, in the city of Washington; and relied on
the followihg circumstances, as giving her the right- thereto.
On the 24th of August, 1804, George Walker and William Turnicliffe conveyed, in fee simple, to Pontius D. Stelle, lots 16 and 17, in
square 728, in the city of Washington. And on the 25th of August,
1804, Pontius D. Stelle reconveyed these lots to William Turnicliffe,
by way of mortgage, to secure the payment of the purchase money;
but his wife did not relinquish her dower.
On the 14th day of November, 1808, Pontius D. Stelle executed
to Peter Miller another deed of bargain and sale, in fee simple, of
lot 18, in square .728; and Beulah Stelle, his wife, joined with him in
the acknowledgment, and relinquished her dower.
On the It day of March, 1810, Pontius D. Stelle conveyed the
VOL. XI.-2 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Stelle v. Carroll.]

same lots to Peter Miller, in fee simple, by way of mortgage, and
Beulah Stelle, the demandant, relinquished her dower in them.
On the 28th of January, 1811, Pontius D. Stelle executed another
deed, in fee simple, to Peter Miller- by which, after reciting that he
had, on the 25th of August, 1804, mortgaged lots 16 and i7 Lo William Turnicliffe, to secure the payment of four thousand dollars, the
balance of which had been, or was, secured to be paid to Turniclifre
by Miller, "and from which the said Pontius D. Stelle is wholly released and exonerated;" that Miller had advanced to him (Stelle)
several large sums of money, for securing the payment of which he
(Stelle) had conveyed to Miller lot 18, in square 728, with a deed
of defeasance from Miller to Stelle; which sums of money "Stelle
having failed to pay to the said Miller, the said conveyance of lot
numbered 18 to the said Miller hath become absolute and unconditional;" and that Stelle is desirous of " more fully conveyir.g and
assuring the above described lots of ground to the said Peter Miller;"
and for the consideration of eight hundred and ninety-two dollars nd
ninety-eight cents, he proceeded to convey, by bargain and sale, to
the said Peter Miller, his heirs and assigns, the said lots 16, 17, and
i
18. 4 and all the right, title, interest,, property, claim, and demand,
whether in law or equity," which he had in them; with covenants
of general warranty (" except the liens abovementioned,") and for
further assurances. This deed has no r~lease of dower.
Afterward Pontius D. Stelle left the possession of the said lots,
and tlfiey were sold under a decree of the court of chancery of
Washington, by Zachariah Walker, trustee, and were purchased by
the defendant, and the buildings -on lot 16 were erected, after the
deed to Peter Miller, in 1811; and not by P. D. Stelle.
The circuit court instructed the jury the plaintiff could not recover, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant,
who thereupon prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by the Messrs. Brent for the plaintiff, and by
Mr. Bradley, and Coxe for the defendant.
The plaintiff's counsel relied on the following points for reversing
the judgment.
1. The defendant, claiming 'under the deed of 1811, from P. D.
Stelle to Peter Miller, could not deny the seisin by P. D. Stelle of
the premises in question at that date.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

203

[Stelle v. Carroll.]

2. That the mortgage to Turnicliffe was no bar to the claim for
dower, because the wife did not join in 'it, and because the deed of
1811, from Stelle to Miller, recites the satisfaction of this mortgage.
3. That the two mortgages from Stelle and wife to Peter Miller,
were-absolutely satisfied and discharged, by the sale of the equity of
redemption in 1811, to Peter Miller by said Stelle.
4.-That, admitting the existence of outstanding mortgages, in
which the demandant had joined, still such mortgages are no bar to
this demand; because the said defendant does not hold under said
mortgages, or any of them, but alone, under the deed of 1811.
5. That where the tenant in possession has not entered under existing mortgages, the fact of there being such outstanding nortgages
is no bar to dower.
6. That the demandant did not duly and legally relinquish her
, dower by any deed, as alleged.
For the plaintiff, the followifig cases were cited, 6 John. Rep. 290;
7 John. Rep. 281; 9 John. Rep. 344; 13 Mass. 228; 4 Kent's Com.
44, "45; 2 Halstead's Rep. 408; 5 Pickering's Rep. 416, 475; 3
Wheat. 226, 227; 17 Mass. 564; 15 Mass. 278; 1 Cowan, 460.

The counsel for the defendant in error contended:
1. That Pontius D. Stelle never had an estate in lots 16 and 17; of
which the demandant could be endowed.
2. That if he had such estate, yet she has relinquished her dower
by the deed of the'lst of March, 1810; and if any equity remained
in her, (which the defendant denies,) it was released by the deed of
her husband of the 28th of January, 1811.
Cases cited: 1 Atkyn's Rep. 441', 442; 6 John. Rep. 294, 7 Greenleaf's Rep. 42, &c.

Mr. Chief Justice TANy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action of dower, and was brought by the plaintiff in
error against the defendant, in the circuit court for Washington
county, in the District of Columbia, to recover her dower in lots
No. 16, 17,.18, and 19, in square No. 728, in the city of Washington. At the trial of the ease, the circuit court instructed the jury
that the demandant was not entitled to recover; to which instruction,,
no exception was taken: and the verdict and judgment being foi the
defendant, the case has been brought here by the demandant, by
writ of error.

204

SUPREME COURT.
[Stelle v. Carroll.]

The claim for dower in lot No. 19, seems to have been abandoned,
as no evidence in relation to it is contained in. the Tecord. As
respects the other three 1dts, it appears that Pontius D. Stelle was
seised of them in fee, during the coverture of the demandant; and
being so seised, by deeds duly executed and recorded., mortgaged
them in fee to a certain Peter Miller. The deeds were acknowledged by the demandant, on pcivy examination, according to the act
of assembly of Maryland ; which was in force when congress assumed
jurisdiction over the District of Columbia.
. Lots No. 16 and 17 bad been encumbered by Stelle,
by a previous
mortgage, to a certain William Turnicliffe; and after these several
mortgages had, been made, Stelle executed a deed to Miller, dated
January 28th, 1811, duly acknowledged and recorded; in which,
after reciting that he had mortgaged lots No. 16 and 17, to Turnicliffe,-to secure the payment 6f four thousand dollars, the balnce of
which had been paid by Miller, and from which the said Stelle was
wholly released and exonerated; and reciting also, that Miller had
advanced to Stelle several large sums 6f money; to secure which,
Stelle had conveyed to him lot No. 18, with a deed of defeasanee
fnom Miller to Stelle; which sums of money the said Stelle having
failed to pay, the conveyance of this lot had becomie absolute and
unconditional; and that the said Stelle was desirous of more fully
conveying and assuring these lots to Miller, he, the said Stelle, in
consideration of the premises, and for and in consideration of the sum
of eiglt hundred and ninety-two dollars and ninety-eight cents, paid
him by the said Miller, the receipt of which he thereby acknowledged, did "give, grant, bargain, sell, alien, release, and confirm"
these three lots to the said Peter Miller, his heirs and assigns. The
'deed contained a covenant of general warranty, "excepting the
liens beforementioned." The demandan did not join in, nor acknowledge this deed. Stelle died in 1828; and was out of possession of these lots for some time before his death. The defendant,
Carroll, claims under Peter Miller.
The case has been fully argued, and many. decisions in different
state courts have been cited and relied on, in the argument. It -is,
however, unnecessary to review and compare them; because the
question must depend on the laws of Maryland as they stood at the
time that congress assumed jurisdiction over the District of Columbia; and the decisions referred to in the argument, although made
by tribunals entitled to high respect, yet cannot be received as evi-

JANUARY TERM, 183s8.
[Stolle v. Carroll.]

dence of the law, in the case before us: since it is well known, that
in the states where these decisions have been made, the rules of the
common law, in relation to dower, have been modified by acourse
of judicial decision; and the strictness of the rule which excluded
'the widow from dower, in an equitable interest, has been, in some
degree, relaxed. But the doctrines of the comcmon law upon thi's
subject, (although since altered by act of assembly,) were still the
law of Maryland When the United States assumed jurisdiction over
this District; and the act of congress, of February 27th,,1801, which
provides for its government, declares that the laws of Maryland, as
they then existed, should continue and be in force in that part of the
District which ,Was ceded by that state.
It is not necessary to refer to adjudged cases, for the purpose of
proving, that, according to the principles of the common law5 a
widow is not do'w-ble in her husband's equity of redemption; and
if a man mortgages in fee, before marriage, and dies without redeeming the mortgage, l1is widow is not entitled to dower. In this case,
the mortgages were Made during the cover'ture; but the mortgage
deeds were acknowledged by the wife, upon privy examinations; and
these acknowledgments, under the acts of assembly of Marylaud, of
1715, ch. 47,. and 1766, ch. i4, which'are in force in this District,
debarred herof the right of dower in the lots thus conveyed to the
mortgagee.- The legal estate passed to' the niortgagee, and the husband retained nothing but the equity of redemption; and as his wife
had no right of dower in this equitable interest, the deed of Stelle
to Miller, of January 28th, 1811, abovementioned, conveyed to. Miller 'the wlole interest which had remained in S'telle. It was unnecessary for the wife to join in, or to acknowledge this deed; for
as she had no right of dower in the equity of redemption, she had
no interest to relinquish, when her husband conveyed it to Miller.
The recitals herein beforementioned in. the deed of January 28th,
1811, have been much relied on, in the argument for the plaintiff in
error; and it is insisted that; according to'the facts there stated, the
mortgage to Turnicliffe had been paid off by Miller; and that as it
does not appear. in the record, that it, had been assigned to Miller,
the payments made -byhim, as recited in the deed abovementioned,
were a satisfaction of the mortgage, and restored to Stelle the legal
estate; and consequently revived the right of dower in his wife, in
lots No. 16 and 17, which had been mortgaged to Turnicliffe. But
it must be remembered, that Miller held a mortgage to himself

SUPREME COURT.
[Stelle v. Carroll.)

for these lots, junior to that of Turnicliffe; and that the payments
made by him, to discharge a prior incumbrance, would not entire to
the benefit of Stelle; but that Miller had a right to hold on to the
legal estate conveyed to him by his mortgage -deed, to secure the
payments he had made to Turnicliffe; and Stelle was not entitled to
be restored to his legal estate in these lands, until the payments to,
Turnicliffe were satisfied, as well as the money due to Miller on the
mortgage to himself. Besides, if these payments to Miller could be
regarded as an extinguishment of the incumbrance created by the
mortgage to Turnicliffe, yet the mortgagd; of the same lots to Miller
was outstanding and unsatisfied. The interest of Stelle, therefore,
even in that case, could be nothing more than an equity of redemptjon; and the satisfaction of Turnicliffe's mortgage by Stelle himself, would not have restored to the demandant the right of dower, of
'vhich she had debarred herself, by acknowledging the' deeds to Miller, herein beforementioned. The conveyance of the equity of redemption to Miller,.for a valuable consideration, united in him the
entire legal and equitable interests; and this conveyance cannot,
upon any principle of law or justice, give a right of dower in these
lots to the wife of Stelle.
We think the instruction given by the circuit court was right;
and the judgmentmust therefore be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington; and was argued by
counsel. On consideration wvhereof, it is now here adjudged and
ordered by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

