JANUARY TERM, 1838.

511

MANUEi GARCIA, PLAINThIFF IN ERROR V. SAMUEL LEE.
T'he ,decision of the Court in the case of Foster and Elam v; Neilson, 2 Peters, 254;
by which grants made bythe crown of'Spain, after the treaty of St Ildefonso,
of lands west of the river Perdido, "
I the United'States declared
to be. ,thin the territory
n
hc
h tontd
ttsdcae States,
of oLouisiana
ceded eeb
by France
the. United
.wete declared void'; affirimid.
Congress, in order to guard 'against imposition, declared, by. the law of 1804, that
all grants of'lapd made by the Spanish authorities, in the territory west of the
Perdido, lifter the, date of the treaty of St. Ildefoao should be. null ind-void;
excepting those to actual settlers acquired before December 20th 1803.
The controversi in, relatiof to the eountry lying between the Mississippi and the
Perdido rivers, and. the validity of the grants made by Spain in the disputed terri.
tory, after the cession of Louisiana to the United States, were carefully examihed
and decided in the case of'Foster and Elam v: Neilsmn. This Court, ir that case,
decided that the question of boundary, between the United States and.Spaip was
a, question for the political departents of:the governnent that the legislative
and executive 'branches' having decided the 4uestion, the courts of. the United
States are bound 4to regard the boundary determined by them as the true oie,;
that grants made by the Spanish .aut~orJities of lands,- which,.according to this,
boundary line belonged to the United 'States, gave n6 title to the grantees, in op.
positifn to those claiming under the United States; unless the Spanish grants.
were protected by the. sublse-qUent arrangements made between the two govern
ments; 'and that no such, arrangements wexe to be found in the treaty of 1819, 'by
which Spain ceded. the Floridats to the United States, according to the fair import
of its words, and, its trie construction.
lp the case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, this Court said that the Florida treaty of
1819 declares that all grants made before the 24th January, 1818, by the Spanish
authorities, 15shall be ratified and confirmied to the persons in possession of the
lands, to the same extent that the same grants would be valid, if the territories
had remained under the dominion of his catholic majesty:" and in -deciding the
case ofr Foster v.'Elain, "the Court held, that even'if this stipulation applied to
lands in the tefritory in question, yet the words used' did not import a present confirmation by virtue of the treaty itself, but that they were words of contract;
"that the ratification and confirmation which were promised, must be the act of
the legislature; and until such shall be passed, the Court is not at liberty to dis.
regard the'exigting laws on the subject." Afterwards, in the case of the United
States v. Vercheman, 7 Peters, 86,-in reviewing the words of the eighth irticle of
the treaty, the Court, for thq reasons there assigned, came, to a; different conclusion; and held that the words were words of pres nt confirmation, by the treaty,
here the land had begn rightfully granted before the cession; and that it did not
need the aid of an actof congress to ratify and confirm the grant. This language"
was, however, applied by the. Court, and was intended to apply to grants made in a
territory which belonged to Spain at the time of the grant. The case tlhen before
'the Court was one of that description. It was in relation 'to a grant of land in
Florida, which unquestionably belonged to Spain at fhe time the grant was made;
and where the Spanish authorities had an undoubted right to grant until the treaty

SUPREME COURT.
[Garcia v. Lee.]
of cession in 1819. It is of such grants that the Court speak, when they declare
them to be confirmed and protected by the true construction of the treaty- and
that they do not need the aid of an act of congress to ratify and confirm th itle
of the purchaser. The Court do not apply this princiIle to grants made within
the territory of Louisiana. The case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, must in all
other respects be considered as affirmed by the case of Percheman; ag it underwent a careful examination in that case, and as none of its principles were questioned, except that referred to.
The leading principle in the case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, which declares
that the boundary line determined on as the true one by the political departments
of the -government, must be recognised as the true one by the judicial departments; was after that .case directly acknowledged and affirmed by this Court, in
1832, in the case of the United States v. Arredondo and others, 8 Peters, 711:
and this decision was given by thp Court, with the same information befdre them
as to the meaning of the Spanish side of the treaty, which is mentioned in the
case of Percheman.

ERROR to the district court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana.
In the district court of Louisiana, the plaintiff in error, a resident
in Cuba,.on the 26th January, 1836, filed a petition, stating that on
the 1st of September, 1806, he purchased of the Spanish government, for a valuable consideration, and was put into possession of the
,ame, fifteen thousand arpentA of' land, divided into three tracts or
parcels, having such marks and bounds as are laid down in the original plots and surveys annexed to the deed of sale by Juan Ventura
Morales, then intendant of the Spanish government, dated the 5th
day of September, 1806. Certified copies of the deed of sale, plots,
and surveys were~annexed to the petition.
The petition stated that Samuel Lee, a residefit
in the parish of
Feliciana, and a citizen of the state, had taken possession of ten
thousand arpents, part of the said grant, which is situated in the now
state of Louisiana; and refuses to deliver up the same. The Petitioner prays to be put in possession of the said land, &c.
On the 17th day of May, 1836, Samuel Lee filed an answer and
exception to the plaiditiff's petition, in which he denied "all and singular the allegations in the plaintiff's petition herein exhibited against
him, and.will, on trial, require strict and legal. proof of the same;
and especially does he deny any jurisdiction of the Spanish government over the territory in which the land claime , by the plaintiff
is situated at tie time the grant exhibited by him was made, or at
any time subsequent thereto: and strictly denies the right of th6 said

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
.[Garwia V. Lee.]

government, or-the officers thereof to' make grants or sales of land
therein."
On' the 27th -of February, 1837, the distriet court' of Louisiana entered a judgment in favour of the defendant; and the plaintiff prosecuted-this appeal.
At thb hearing of this case'in the district court, certain documentary evidence was offered by the plaintiff, which was not received by
the court; and the plaintiff took an exception to the rejection of the
same. This bill of exceptions, containing all the documents offered
and rejected in the court below, was sent up with the record.
The case wa~s argued by Mr. M'Caleb and Mr. Southard, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Jones,'for'the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error asked a reversal of ..
the
judgment of the district court of Louisiana, on the following grounds:
1st. The grant or sale to the plaintiff was made at a period when
the territory between the Mississippi and Perdido was in the actual
possession, and under the-jurisdiction and sovereignty of the crown
of Spain.
2d. Great Britain Was the first' nation that exercised authority
over the said territory in a sovereign, capacity; France asserted pretensions to it until the ratification of the treaty of 1763, by which
she finally and forever surrendered them to Great Britain: and consequently, the said territory could not have been,, and was never
intended-to be ceded by France to Spain, by a treaty of the same
dater to wit, 1763., as part of Louisiana.
3d.' The said territory was never called a part of Louisiand by
any nation except France; and after the. final relinquishment of all
her right and title, it was owned and possessed by Great'Britain, as
part of her West Florida, until the treaty of 1783; when it was ceded
by her as such to Spain as a conquered country.
.4th. The said territory formed no part of iouisiana, as retroceded
by Spain to France by.the treaty of St. Ildefonso, of 1800; nor of
Louisiana, as ceded by France to the government of the United States
by the treaty of Paris, of 1803.
5th. Spain never finally relinquished her right and title to the
said territory, until the ratification of the treaty of 1819, which was
expressly a treaty for the settlement of all the pretensions of the
governments of the-United States and Spain; and. which expressly
VOL. XII.-3 T

514

SUPREME COURT

[Garcia v. Loe.]
0onlirms all grants made by the Spanish government, prior to the
24th of January, 1818, situated in all the territories to the eatward of the Mississippi, khown by the name of East and Wpst

Florida.
Mr. Jones, for the defendant, contended that,
The only exception to the decision of the district court is on a
pqint of eyidence; namely, the admissibility, as evidence to the jury,
of certain papers, seVenteen in number.
The-only possible tendency of those papers; indeed, the sole and
professed object of'theiintroduction, wasto expound the meaning,
operations, and effect of the treaty concluded at Paris, April "30,
1803, by which 'France ceded to this, country the province, of
Louisiana.
The particular question which those papers were intended to
affect, was one purely of the true construction of the treaty; and that
was whether the eastern limit of "the ceded territory was ;bounded
by the Mississippi, or extended to the Perdido: a questic., in time
past, bf extensive, aninjated, and protracted discussion between the
governmaents of Spain and the United States; but practically solved
by the latter, who took actual possession of the territory within the
disputed limits, as part and parcel of the territory ceded by the treaty;
definitively 'incorporated the whole of ,itwith the territory of the
United States, and annexed a part of it to the state of Louisiana: 'll
inder the sole .authoity of that treaty, and with no other title or
pretence of title whatever.
We maintain the decision of the district court, ruling out these
.paliers as 6vidence, upon the following, grounds:
1., If this were a question of fact'proper to be 'left toa jury, on
extrinsic evidence, the papers in question were not competent. evidence of the fact.
9. It is not now, nor was it ever such a question; but was always,
so long as it remained open to any sort of controversy, one of construetion, completely determinable by the words of the treaty, either
taken by itself, or in connection with circumstances 'of equal notoriety; and eqtally within the 'proper sphere Qf judicial cognizance.
3. Maintaining, as we do, the 'sufficiency of the reasons upon which
the claim to this territory was originally asserted on behalf of the
United States, we nevertheless deny that it is, or ever was, a question of judicature; and affirm, that as a question of sovereign right

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
(Garcia v: Lee.)

between th6 two nations, it came originally, and has ever remained
within the peculiar province of such departments of the government
as are charged with the management of our foreign relationsi and
with thehighest functions of, sovereignty in aterting and maintaining national rights 'against fore-gn powers: an as such a question,
that it has been long 4go con'clusively terminated and settled by a
series of public acts, in which the executive and legislative powers
or the government have concurred to assert and establish thd territorial sovereignty and rights of the nation, by the -supreme authority
of the nation: an authority which no private rights of property,
founded in any conflicting rules of municipal law, can oppose; which
is supreme over all the people and all the tribunals of the country;
and which this Court has judicially recognied and deferred to, as
"supreme and incontrovertible.
Mt. Chief ,Justice.TANE ' delivered the opinion of the Court:
In this case, the appellant claims ten thousand arpents, of land,
being part of a grant for fifteen thousand arpents; Which he alleges,
in his petition, were granted to him by the Spanish authorities in
1806i The land is situated in the state of Louisiana, and in the territory lying north-of the Iberville, and between the Perdido-and the
Mississippi; which was so long a subject of controversy between the
United States and Spain; and which was finally settled by the' cession of the, Ploridas to *theUnited ,States, by the treaty of 'February
22, 1819.
It is well known as a matter -of history. that the executive and
legislative departments of our government, have continually insisted
that the true b6undary of Louisiana as we acquired it by the treaty
with France-of the 30th of April, 1803, extended .to the Perdido;
that the claim of the' United States was disputed by Spain'; and that
she refused to deliver the territory, .and claimed a right to exercise
the powers of government over it: which claim, the United States
denied. On the 29th of March 1804,.congress passed a law dividing
Louisiana'into two territorial governments; and in order to protect
the interest of the United Sthtes in the disputed territory, the 14th
section of this law. enacts, That all grants for lands within the territories ceded by "the Freich republic to the United States, by the
treaty of the 30th April, 1803, the title whereof was at the date of
the treaty of St. Ildefonso in the crown, government or nation of
Spain, and every act and proceeding subsequent thereto,-of *hatso-

516

SUPREME COURT.
[Garcia v. Lee.]

ever nature, towards the obtaining of any grant, title or claim to such
lands, and under whatsoever authority transacted or pretended, be,
,and the same are hereby declared to be, and to have been fiom the
beginning, null and void, and of no effect in law or in equity." The
-titles of actual settleis,'acquired before the 20th of December, 1803;
are excepted by a proviso from the operation of this section.
The grant under which the appellant, Garcia, claims, falls within
the provisions of this section; and as this law of congress has never
been repealed or modified in. relation to grants made by the Spanish
authorities, the appellant has, no title at law or in equity; unless it can
be shown that the act of congress in question, upon some ground or
other, 'is void and inoperative; and that the courts of the'United
States are bound to recognise a title acquired in.opposition to its provisions.
The questions presented by-the record before us, are not new in
.this Court. They were examined and considered in the case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, decided here in 1829; and reported in 2
Peters, 254. In that case, the land in dispute was granted by the
Spanish governor on the 2d of January, 1804, and ratified by the
king of Spain on the 29th of May, 1804. The controversy in relation to the country lying between the Mississippi. and the Perdido;
and the validity of the grants m'ade by Spain in the disputed territory.after the cession.of Louisiana to the United States;-were carefully examined and decided in that case: and all of the facts and
arguments necessary to a correct decision were -then before the
Court. They are substantially the same with those now offered to
support the claim of the appellant; and are so fully set forth in the
reportof that case, that it isunnecessary here to repeat them. This
Court then decided, that the question of boundary b6tween the
United States and Spain, was a question for the political departments
of the government; that the legislative and executive branches having decided the question, the courts of the United'States were bound
to regard the. bouhdary determined on by them as the true one.
That grants made by tho Spanish authorities of lands, which, according to this boundary line belonged to the United States, gave,no title
to the grantees,' in opposition to those claiming under the United
States; unless the Spanish grants were protected by the subsequent
arrangements made between the two governments: and that no such
arrangements were to be found in the treaty of 1819, by -which
Spain ceded the Floridas to the United States, according to the fair

JANUARY' TERM, 1838.

517

[Garcia v. Lee.]

import of its words and its true construction. These positions have
all been controverted in the argument at the bar, in the case now before us. But we do not think it necessary in deciding the case, to
enter upon a discussion of the various topics pressed upon the attention of the Court; and shall content ourselves with extracting several
portions of the opinion delivered by Chief Justice Marshall, in the
case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, in order to show that all of the
points now raised were carefully considered and decided in the case
referred to. In page 309 of 2 vol. of Peters' Reports, the Chief Justice states the opinion of the Court, in the following words:
"After these acts of 'sovereign power (by the United States) over
the territory in dispute, asserting the American construction of the
treaty, by which the government claims it; to maintain the oppbsite
construction in its own courts, would certainly be an anomaly in the
history and practice of nations. If those departments which are intrusted with the foreign intercourse of the nation, which assert and
maintain its interests against foreign powers, have unequivocally asserted its rights of dominion over a country of which it is in possession,' and which it claims under a treaty; if the legislature has acted
on the construction thus asserted; it is not in its own courts that this
construction, is to be denied. A question like this, respecting boundaries of nations, is, as has been'truly said, more a political than a legal question; and in its discussion, the courts of every country must
respect the pronounced will of the legislature. Had this suif been
instituted iwmediatdly after the passage of the act for extending the
bounds of Louisiana, could the Spanish construction of the treaty of
St. Ildefonso have been maintained? Could the plaintiff have insisted that the land did not lie in Louisiana, but in West Florida; that
the occupation of the country by the United States was wrongful;
and that his title under a Spanish grant must prevail: because the
acts of congress on the subject were founded on a misconstruction
of the treaty? If it be said that this statement does not present the
question fairly, because a plaintiff admits the authority of this Court,
let the parties be changed. If the Spanish grantee had obtained
possession, so as to be the defendant, would a court of the United
States maintain his title under a Spanish grant, made subsequent to
the acquisition of Louisiana, singly on the principle that the Spanish construction of the treaty of St. Ildefonso was- right, and' the
American construction wrong? Such a decision would. we think,

SUPREME COURT.
[Garcia-v. Lehe.)

have subiverted thosl prireplqs which govern't he relations between
the legislature and judicial departments, and mark; the limits of each.
"If the rights of the parties are in any degree changed, that
change must be produced by the subsequent arrangements made between thetwO governments&."
After having thus. fully expressed tne opinion that the Court, were
bound to recognise the. boundary of Louisiana, as.insisted on hy the
legislature of the United States;. and that the American grants 'of land
must .prevail over those made by the Spanish authorities, after the
date of the treaty of St. Ildefonso, unless "ihe rights of the parties
had been changed by subsequent arrangements made between the
two governments;" the Court, in the same case, proceed to examine
whether the validity of these grants were recognised by the United
States, or'provided for in the treaty of 1819. And'after examiriing
the articles of the treAty, which had been relied on in the argument
as providing -for the grants made by the Spanish authorities, the
opinion of the Court, on that part of the .case, is stated by the Chief
Justice in -the following words: "It is not improbable, that terms
were selected which rpight not compromise the dignity of either
government; and which each might understand, consistently with its
fTorimer pretensions. But if a court of the United States would have
been bound under the state of things existing on the signature of
the treaty, to consider the territory, then composing a part of the
state of'Louisiana as rightfully belonging to the United States, it
would be difficult' to construe this article into an admission that it
belonged, rightfully, to his catholic majety." It had also been contended in argument in that case, that thh exception of certain large
grants of land by name, (which had been made by thet Spanish government,) in the ratification of the treaty by Spain, implied that
other fair grants were to be obligatory on the United States. But
the Court held otherwise, and say: "The form of this ratification
ought not, in their opinion, to change the natural construction of the
words of the eightla article, or extend them to embrace grants not
otherwise intended to be confirmed by it."
"An extreme solicitude to provide against injury or inconvenience from the known existence of such large grants, byinsisting
upon a declaration of their alsolute nullity, can, in their opinion,
furnish no satisfactory proof that the government meant to recognise
the small grants as valid; which in every previous act and struggle,

JANUARY TIRM., 1838.

519

[Garcia v..Lee-

it had proclaimed to be void, as being. for lands within the American territory."
Such'were the opinions and. language of this Court, in the case of
Foster and Elam v. Neilson. Itis tiue, that. upon another and different point froni those abovementioned, an opinion expressed in
that case, was .afterwards, upon information subsequently obtained,.
overruled; and in order to prevent misconstruction, it may. be proper
to state it. It was this. The eighth article of the treaty of 1819,
declares that all grants made before the 24th of January, 1818, by
the.Spanish authorities, "shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands; to the same extent that the same
grants would be Valid, if the territories bad remained under the dominion of his catholic majesty."

And in decidi'ng the case of Fos-

ter and Elam v. Neilson, the Court held, that even it this stipulation
applied to lands in the territory in question, yet the words bsed did
not import a present confirmation by virtue of the treaty itself; but
that they were words of contract between the two nations, and that
"the legislature must execute the contract;" "that the ratification
and confirmation wh.ich are prorpised, must 'be the act of the legislature;" and "until such act shall be passed, the Court is not'at liberty
to disregard the existing laws on the subject." Afterwards, in' the
case of the United States v. Percheman, 7 Peiers, 86, in reviewing
these words of the eigl~th article of the treaty; the Court for the reasons then assigned, came to a different 'conclsion, and held that the
words used, were words of present confirmation by the treaty, where
the land had been rightfully granted before the cession; and that it
did. not need the aid of an act of congress to ratify and confirm the
grant. This language was, however, applied by the Court, and intended to apply to grants made in a territory which belonged to
Spain at the time of the grant. The case before the Court was one
of that description. It was in relation to a grant of land in Florida,
which unquestionably belonged to 'Spain at the time the grant was
made; and wher6 the Spanish authorities had an undoubted right to
grant, until the treaty of cession in 1819. It is of such grants that
the Court speak, when they declare them to be confirmed and protected by the true construction of the treaty; and that they do not
need the aid of an act of congress to ratify and confirm the title of
the purchaser. But they do not, in any part of the last mentioned
case, apply this principle to grants made by Spain within the limits
of Louisiana, in the territory which belonged to the United States

SUPREME COURT.
[Garcia v. Lee.]

according to its true boundary; and where Spain shad no iight to
grant landsafter the cession' to France by the treaty of St. Ildefonso,
in 1800, as herein before mentioned. On the contrary, although the
Court, in the case of The tlnited States v. Percheman, refer to the
case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, and carefully explain the reasons which led them to change their opinion as to the true construction of the words " shall be confirmed," in the eighth article of the
treaty; yet they use no expression from which ,it
can be inferred that
the opinion of the Court had changed in relation to any other principle decided in Foster and Elam v. Neilson. And as that case was
then under review, and manifestly, at that time, underwent a careful
examination by the Court; and as none of' its principles were questioned except the one abovementioned; the case of Foster and Elam
v. Neilson must, in all other respects, be considered as affirmed by
that of The United States v. Percheman. Indeed, we are not aware
of any case in which its authority has been doubted by the Court
ii any of its principles, with the single exception abovementioned.
Express ons may perhaps be found in some opinions delivered here,
which, detached from the case under consideration, might create
some doubt upon the subject. But these expressions must'always be
-taken with reference to the particular subject matter in the mind of
the Court: and,when this just rule of cortstruction is applied to the
language used,.it will be found that there is no case in which the
Court ever designed to shake the authority of the case now relied
on, or to question the principles there decided; further than is herein
before stated. So far from it, the leading principle of the case, which
declares that the boundary line determined on as the true one by
the political departments of the government, must be-recognised as
the true one .by the judicial department; was subsequently directly
acknowledged and affirmed, by this Court, in 1832, in the case of The
United States v. Arredondo and others,f6 Peters, 711; And this de"
cisionr was given with the same information before them as to the
meaning of the Spanish'side of the treaty, which is mentioned in the
case of Percheman; and, consequently,-that information could not
have shaken the confidence of the Court in any of the opini6ns pronounced in Foster and Elain v. Neilson; further than has been already, stated.
In this view'of the subject, the case of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, deeides this case. It decides that the territory in which this
land was situated, belonged to the United States at the time that this

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

521

[Garcia v, Lee.]

grant was made by the Spanish authority; it decides that this grant
is not embraced by the eighth article of the treaty, which ceded the
Floridas to the United States; that the stipulations in that article
are confined to the territory Which belonged to Spain at the time
of the cession, 'according to the American construction of the treaty;
and that the exception of the three grants made in the ratification of
this treaty, by the king of Spain, cannot enlarge-the meaning of, the
words used in the eighth article; and cannot, in the' language of the
Court, "extend them to embrace grants not otherwise intended to be
confirmed;" or grants "which it (the American governmeht,) had
proclaimed to be void, as being for lands wi hin the American territory." These principles, thus settled by this Court, cover the
whole ground now in controversy.
Indeed, when it is once admitted that the boundary line, according to the American construction of the treaty, is to be treated as
the true one in the courts of the United States; it would seem to
follow as a necessary consequence, that the grant now before the
Court, which was made by the Spanish -authorities Within the limits
of the territory which then belonged to the United States, must be
null and void; unless it has been confirmed by the United States by
treaty or otherwise. It is obvious that one nation cannot grant away
the territory of another: and if a proposition so evident needed confirmation, it will be found in the case of Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Peters,
210. In that case, there had been a disputed boundary between two
st4tes; and the parties claimed the same land under grants from different states. The boundary line had been ascertained by compact
between the states, after the grants were made. And, in deciding
between the claimants in that case, this Court said: "In this view of
the matter, it is perfectly clear that the grants made by North Carolina and Tennessee, under -which the defendant claimed, were not
rightfully made, because they were originally beyond her territorial:
boundary; and that the grant under which the claimants claim was
rightfully made, because it was within the territorial boundary of
Virginia." And again+ "If the states.of North Carolina and Tennessee could not rightfully grant the land in question, and the states
of Virginia and Kentucky could;. the invalidity of the grants of the
former arises, not from any violation of the obligation of. the grant,
but from an intrinsic defect of title in the states."
In the pase before us, the grant is invalid from. " an intrinsic defeet" in the title of Spain. It 'is true that she still claimed the counVot. XII.-3 U

SUPREME COURT.
[Garcia v. Lee.]

try, and refused to deliver it to the United States. But her conduct
was, in this respect, in violation of the rights of the United States;
and of the obligation of treaties. The United States did not immediately take forcible possession, as.they might jiistly have done; and
preferred a more pacific and magnanimous policy towards a weaker
adversary. Yet their forbearance could, upon no just grounds, impair
their rights or legalize the wrongful grants of Spain, made in a territory which did not belong to her; for the authorities of the United
Stites made known by every means in their power their inflexible
determination to assert the rights of this country: and con'gress, in
order to guard against imposition and injustice, declared by law, in
1804, that all grants of land made by the Spanish aiithorities after
the date of the treaty of St, Ildefonso, would be null and void; excepting only those to actual settlers, acquired before December .20,
1803.

The present appellant procured his title from Spain, after the passage of this law. The land granted to him belonged not to Spain, but
to the United States; and notice had been given in the most public

and authentic manner, that the Spanish grants would confer no title,
.before the appellant obtained his grant. Unon what ground of law
or equity, then, can the United States be now required to make good
this grant? They had done nothing to mislead him, but had taken
every measure to warn him and every one else that they would not,
submit to have the soil which, belonged to the United States granted
away by a foreign power. If he has been deceived, he'has either deceived himself or been misled by the Spanish authorities; and has no
right to complain of the conduct of the United States. And if either
Spain or the United States intended to provide for these grants in
Louisiana, by the treaty ceding the Floridas; it is impossible to believe that words would not have been used which clearly embraced
-hem, and would have left no doubt as to the intention of the parties
to the treaty.
If, therefore, this was a pew question, and had not already been
decided in this Court; we should' be prepared now to adopt all of
the principles affirmed in Foster & Elam v. Neilson, with the ex,ception of the one since overruled in the case of the United States
against Peicheman, as hereinbefore stated. The questions, however,
are not new ones in relation to these grants. The same principles
have been s.nctioned by t~e legislative, executive and judicial departments ofthe government; and they must be regarded as too

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

523

(Gareia v. Lee,]

well settled to be now disturbed: and we think the court below were
,right in rejecting the testimony stated in the exception, which, if
even properly authenticated, could not, upon established principles,
have shown title in the, appellant tinder a Spariish grant made in
1806.
The judgment of the distTict court is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN dissented.

This cause came on to be heard,on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana, and Was argued' by counsel. On consideration wneieof,
-it is now here ordered and adju4ged by this Court, that the judgment of the' said district, court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmedf with- costs.

