JANUARY'TERM,, iW.

PIEItR

CROTEAU, SENIOR .PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. MARGUERITE,
A WOMAN OF COLOUR, DEFENDANT.

Jurisdiction. The Supreme Court has not jurisdiction of a case brought by a writ 6f
error from the supreme court of the state of Mississippi, under the ?5th section of
the judiciary, act, where the question was whether, the appellee was a slave. The
provisions of the treaty by which Louisiana was ceded to the United $tate,s and
,
-in which was a guaninty of the property of persons residing at tlie time of the
cession Within the territory of Louisiana, may be' enforced in the courts of the
state of Missouri. The allogation that the treaty has been misconstrued by the
supreme court of the state, in rofusing to sanction the claim sserted, will not givo
the Suprene Court of the United States ju isdiction in the case.
In'thecasa of Crowell v, Randall, 10 Peters, 369p -he Court revised all the cases on
jurisdiction under the 25th sectionof the judiciary act, and laid down the law as

they wished it to be universally understood.
ERROR to the supreme court of the third judicial district of the
state of Missouri.
In 1825,Marguerite, a woman of colour, by her next friend, Pierre
Barrebeau, filed a declaration in the circuit court for the county of
Jefferson, in the. state of Missouri,, alleging that Pierre Chateau,,sr.,
had beat and, bruised her, and unlawfully cdetained her in prison,
against her will, &c. The object of this proceeding was -to esablish
that the complainant, the descendant of an Indian woman, Marie
Scipion, was free, and was unlawfully held as a slave by the d&fendant.
Pierre Choteau appeared to the suit, and pleaded that Marguerite
was a slave, in his lawful possession, and so detained by him..
The case was submitted to a jury in Jefferson county, and a verdict was found for the plaintiff; which was afterwards set aside by
the court, and a new trial ordered. The suit was afterwards tried
before the same court, and a verdict was given for the defendant.
The plaintiff filed a bill of exceptions; and on a writ of error to the
supreme court of Missouri, the judgment of the circuit courtiwas reversed, and the cause was remanded to that court. It was afterwards remanded to the circuit court of St. Charles county, and Was
there tried again before a jury; and a verdict and judgment were rendered in favour of the plaintiff. The defendant, on the trial, moved
tbe court to instruct the jury:

SUPREME. COURT.
[Choteau v. Marguerite.]

1st. If the-jury find, from the evidence, that the mother of Marie
Scipion was an Indian woman, of the Natchez nation, taken captive
in war by the French; and that she and her descendants were publicly and. mtoriously held as slaves, in .the province of Louisiana,
while the same was held by the French, prior to the year 1769; and
that she and her descendants were so publicly and notoriously held
as slaves, without interruption, in the said province, until the 30th
April, 1303, and thence to the time of the commencement of this
suit; the jury ought to find for the defendant.
2d. If the jury find, from the evidence, that the mother of Marie
Scipion was an Indian woman, taken captive in war, and reduced to
slavery by the French; and that from the time of her capture she and
her descendants were publicly and notoriously held as slaves, in the
province of Louisiana, while the same was held by the French, before the year.1769, and afterwards, while the same province was in
the possession of, and held by Spain and France, until the 30th day
of April, 1803, and thence until the commencement of this suit; they
ought to find for the defendant.
3d. That Indians taken captive in war by the French, might, law-fully, be 'educed and held in slavery in the province of Louisiana;
whilst it was held bythe crown of France.
4th. If the jury find, from the evidence, that the said Marie Scipion was born while her mother was so held in slavery, within the
prov ince of Louisiana, while the same was held by the French, prior
to the year 1769; that the said mother was held in slavery, in the
province of Louisiana) frbm the time of her birth until the 30th
April, 1803, and thence until the time of her death; then the jury
ought to find for the defendant.
5th. If the jury find, from the evidence, that Marie Scipion was
born while her mother was held in slavery, and that she; the said
Marie Scipiogi, was publicly and notoriously held as a slave, from
the time of her birth until her death, within the territory ceded to
the United States, by the treaty between the United States of America and the French Republic, bearing date the 30th April, 1803, and
that, at the date of said treaty,the said Marie Scipion was so held as
a slave, within the said ceded 'territory, by an inhabitant thereof;
then the jury ought to find for the defendant.
The court refused to give these instructions: and the defendant
sued out a writ of error to the supreme court of Missouri,. where the
judgment of the circuit court of Jefferson county was affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

509

[Choteau v. Marguerite.]

The defendant then sued out the writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the United States, under the 25th section of the judiciary
act of 1789, to the supreme court of Missouri.
Mr. Butler, for the defendant in error, moved to dismiss the writ
of error on the ground that the case is not within' the provisions of
the 25th section of the judiciary act.
He contended that no question had arisen in the case, in which this
Court could be caled on to interfere with its revising, powers. The
plaintiff in error claimed that the treaty of Louisiana, of 30th April,
1803, protected him in his property in the defendant, as she was his
slave. The question before the circuit court, and which was submitted to the jury, was, whether the plaintiff was a shvye; and the
jury found that she was free.
Under the 25th sec. of the judiciary act, the jurisdiction of this
Court in writs of error to the supreme courts of the state, prevails
in those cases in which a treaty of the United States has been drawn
in question, and has been misconstrued; or a statute of the United
States has been misconstrued and disregarded.
It has been supposed that this suit is within the class of cases cognizable in the Supreme Court of the United States; as the defe'ndant
claimed Marguerite as a slave, under the Louisiana treaty.
The first instruction has no reference to the treaty. The counsel
sought to have the instructions of the court, that if the plaintiff was
always held as a slave, up to the time of the treaty, she continued
such. The court held that she could not be a slave. Whether this
opinion was right or not, the construction of the treaty was not
drawn in question. The protection of the tr.aty was not denied; and
the decision of the court was such as did not make the case within its
provisions. The plaintiff had no property in Marguerite, which the
treaty operated upon.
But this Court decided that the general provisions of the ordinance of 1787, could not give to the Supreple Court jurisdiction,
'where rights of property were asserted to bave been violated by the
decision of a state court. Menard v. Aspasia, 5 Peters, 525.
In the case of Crowell v. Randall, 10 Peters, 368, there is a review o fall the cases onthe question of the jurisdiction of this Court,
in cases from the highest court of the states of the United States.
In that, and in all the other cases, the-laW is laid down to be, that
the appellate jurisdiction of this Court can only be sustained when

SUPREME COURT.
[Chotea ,v.
Margutrrito.]

it appears that the question over which the ,jurisdiction exists must
appear to. have been brought before the Court, and decided accoiding to the provisions of 'he twenty-ffth seetior,; Or that by:clear and
necessary intendmnent, the questionmust have arisen and must have
been decided.
The very poidt invo~jved in this case, has been decided. -n the
ease of the Mayor of New Orleans v. De Armas, it was held that
the protection of 'the, treaty, existed) and itO prqvisions were applicable and would be euforced by the courts ,of the. United States, until
the territory became a state; afterwards, that protection. was, given
by the constitution and. laws .of the state. If such a casecas this
could be entertained,then all questions of property, arising in the
states erected in the country acquired by the United States, by the
Louisiana troaty, could be brought here; as the guaranty of the
treaty appliesto all propertv.
Mr. Key, with whom was Mr. Benton, opposed the motion. He
contended that the .decisioni of this Court, in Ctowell v. Randall, 10
Peters, 368, did not in any way enlarge the principles which had
prevailed before. All the Court are-required to do before they take
jurisdition, is to see that the~case is such as presented a question
cognizable by the Court. The Court, if is consideration was essential to the decision'of the cause, will hold that it did arise, and was
decided. He argued that the treaty of Louisiana must have been
considered ,by the supreme court of. Louisiana in this case.
Mi. Justice STORY said that ithad been thought that the decisions
of the Court had been misnriderstood': and the dourt, in the case of
Crowell v.Randall, 10 Peters, had. revised all' the, cases; and, had
laid 7down the law as they wished it should, be universally under,stood,
The motion to dismiss the ease was sustained.

