JANUARY TERM, 1838.

755

TiE STAT9 OF MASSACHUSETTS ADS, .TtB.STATE or RHODR
ISLAND.
The state of Massachusetts, after' having appeared to process issued against her, at
-the -suit of the state Qf Rhode, island, on a bill filed for the settlement of bouh.
dary, apd after having filed an answer and plea to the bill, au, having failed ina
motion to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction, -vas, on motion of her counsel,
allowed to withdraw her appearance.
The cases of The State of New York v. The State' of New Jersey, 5 Nters, 287;
Grayson v. The Conlmonwvealth of Virginia, 3 Dill, 320; 1 Cond. Rep. 141; Chisholms Ex~ettore v. The State of Georgia, 2 Dall. 419; 1 Cond, Rep. 6, cited.
Inthe case of The State of Rhode I§iand v. The State of Massachusetts, ante
page 657,- the Court did not mean to put the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court,
on the ground that jUrisdiction was .assuidd in consequence of the state of
Massachusetts having appeared in that cause. It was only intended to say, that
the appearance o4"the state superseded the necessity of considering the question,
whether any and what course Would have been adopted by the Court, if the -state
had not appeared. The Court did not mean to be understood, that the state had
concluded herself, on the ground that she had voluntarily appeared; or, that if
she had not appeared, the Court would nothave assumed jurisdidtion of the case.
Being datisfied the Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter of the bill, so far
at least as respected the question of boundary, all inquiry as to the mode and
manher iii which the state was to be brought into Court, or what would be the
course-of proceeding,if the state declined to appear, became entirely unnecessary.
'The practice seems to be well settled, that in suits against a, state, if th6 state shall
neglect to appear, on due service of process, no coercive mneasures will be taken to
compel appearance, but the complair.ant will be allowed to proceed, ex parte.

MR. WEBSTER, in behalf of the state of Massachusetts, as her attorney and counsel in Court, moved the Courf for leAte to withdraw
the plea 'filed in this case, on the part of the state of Massachusetts;
and also the appearance which has been entered -in this ,C6urt, for
the said state.
Mr. Hazard, counsel for the, state of Rhibde Island, moved the
Court for leave to withdraw the general replication to the defendto amend the original bill.
ant's plea, in bar and answer; and
Mt'. Webster, in support'of his motion, stfated that the governor
of the state of Massachusetts had given him authority to represent
the state; and to have it determined by the Court, wlhether it had
jurisdiction of the case.,

This authcrity is dated November 30th,

1833.

It directs him to object to the jurisdiction, and to'defend the

,cause.

The appearance of Massachusetts was voluntary; it was not

SUPREME COURT
[The State of Massachusetts ads The State otfRhode Islaad.]

intended, by the appearance, to admit the validity of the, proceeding or the regularity of the process. It was not supposed. that the
state of Mazsaeh'setts would sustain any prejudice by this. course.If tne Cotirt hdd no jurisdiction in the matter set out in the bill, the
appearance of the state repre'snted by hini would-,not giveit. It
was thought most respectful to the Court, and proper in the cause,
to file the plea with an intention to movethe question of jurisdiction, at a, subsequent time. Nothing has been done by the state of
Massachusetts since; and this Court has determined not to dismiss
the bill Of the complainants.
The Court has given :an' opinion in favour of their jurisdidtion in
the, case. In the course of the arguinent, it appeared that'certaih
difficultits, which might have existedin the case, had been removed
by the appearance and pleai that'jurisdiction was affirmed by the ap-,
pearance and plea. It was said, if the question w" on the bill only
the situation'6f'the case might be different'
There is a great deal from Which it may beinferred that if Mas-'
sachusetts, had stood out, contumaciously, there would be no authoLrity in-the Court to proceed: against her in this case. But it was not
foi that state to stand off, and put the Court to defiance. If, then,
the state, by considerations of respect; if from a desire, to have the
question of jurisdiction settled; Massachusetts has appeared; this
Court will not permit advantage to be taken of such an act, induced
by such' motives, and for such a purpose.
It is the desire of the counsel 'for the, state of Mas achusetts to
withdraw the plea and appearance; and to place the case in the same
aituation as it.
would have been, had' there not been process. 'If a
.

t fair inference may be made,h t'he'state' has appeared to the process of the Court, leave is. asked to withdraw the appearance. It
will be determined, hereafter, what course will be pursued by the
state 'of Massachusetts.
Mr. Hazard, against the motion made by Mr. Webster, cited
Knox & Crawford v. Summers & Thomas, 3 Cranch, 421, 496; 1
Cond. Rqp. 607. In that case, it was decided, that the appearance
of the party was a waiver of all the errors in the proceedings. In
that case, one of the parties was out of the j qrisdiction of the Court;
and yet having appeared to the process, the right of. the Court to
proceed in the case could not be denied.
The authority given by. the governor of the state of Massachu-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

757

[The State of Massachusetts ads. The State of Rhode Island.]

setts, which is of record in this case, is ample to all the purposes of
this suit. It is an authority to appear and defend the case, and to
object to the jurisdiction, Can the counsel of. the state disappear?
If they do, they can carry nothing With them. The argument which
was submitted to the Court, on the motion to dismiss this cause, precludes this. They cannot disappear, and carry the plea with them.
The application is heterogeneous in its character. It is to withdraw the plea; this may be done, and the Court may allow it. It is
also to withdraw the appearance; this is contradictory to the other
application, ard is made by the state of Masaachusetts, denying its
being bound to comply with the process, after having appeared to it.'
Mr. Southard:
By the facts of the case, an answer is given to the motion on the
part of the state of Massachusetts. A bill was filed on behalf of
the state of Rhode Island, and an application was made for process.
After advisement, the case being held over for one year, the process
.was ordered, and was served on the state :of Massachusetts. The
state then gave a written authority to counsel to appear in the cause,
to object to the jurisdiction, and to do whatever was nedessary in
the suit; and an appearance was entered. After this, a plea Was put
in to the merits, and not a demurrer to the jurisdiction of th'r Court.
The delay of the state of Rhode Island to proceed in the case, can
have no effect on the cause. The question is, whether, after appearance, plea, and inswer; the party can withdraw from the cause, and
the cause stand as if no appearance had been entered.
The appearance of the counsel for the state of Massacnusetts was
general; and it was followed by an application for a continuance, and
for leave to plead, answer or demur. At the following term in January, 1835, a plea and answer were filed. At the January term, 1836,
an agreement was made by the counsel in the cause, that the complainant should file a replication withii six months. This was done;
and in 1837 the application of one of the counsel for the complainant
for a continuance was opposed, and was argued by the counsel for tht
state of Massachusetts. Thus thewhole action of the counsel for
the defendant was such as a party fully before the court would adopt
and pursue. There was no question made as to the jurisdiction.
The appearance was not followed by a motion to dismiss the bill on
that ground.; nor was the general appearance explained by its being
followed by such a motion. After all these proceedings on behalf

758

SUPRtME COixf.
[The tsite ofM~ssachUsetts a4. The State 'of Rhode rsland.J

of the'state O~f Ma sachuqsetts, and after.the lapse of four years from.
the :appearance of the state by tbe authoritylof, the governor,'giig
full power to counsel to, act in the cabse, a motion to' dismiss the
cause, for want of jurisdiction , was made by thestat'e .of Massachusetts;, and was argued. 'This motion havirig fied, the Court are now
asked'to consider the case as if 'Massachusetts had not appeared; and
as ifprocess had. not. been issued i'n . the cause.
It appears that upon a statement of the ease, noo rther 'reply to
the application on the part of the state of Massachusetts is necessary,
The purpose of it is to, avoid'. the effect of'the judgment of this
Court on the motion to dismiss this 'bill, to Withdraw from the cause.
This could not be done in a private case; and why-should it be allowed in a case between states?
The counsel seems to found his motion on something in the case,
by which it woull appear that if no appearance- had. been entered "
the'Court would not hiave taken jurisdiction of the cause; ,and, desires; therefore, to put himself in the'situation he woUld have been
in had he not appeared. Suppose a demurrer to thio jurisdiction had
been put in, could the party, after the question had been argued, :and
decided against the demurrer, move to dismiss the case for want of
j6risdiction. This was never hoard of.
Mr. Webstei, in: reply:,.
The authority to the counsel for the state of Massachusetts to appear in the cause, is no part of the record, and is no part of the case.
The object of the motion is, that if any thing has been done -by
Massachusetts to her prejudice, she may have liberty to withdraw it
She has done it 4y mistake-process having been issued against her
she came hiSand'appeared- to it.
Is it considered that this Court has'a right to issue process against
4 state; 'and that it is the duty of the state to obey the process? If
this iS so, there is .an, end of the motion. But if the right of the
'Court to issue process is. not determined, and yet the process has
been' issued, and the state of Massachusetts has come in, and has appeared,; although there was no ',right to issue the process, the state
should sustain no prejudice from having appeared for the purpose of
having the question of jurisdiction settled. It is yet -to be determined, whether the Court can issue process against a state; and, Massachusetts is not to be entrapped by any thing done by her, before this
shall be decided. If the state of Massachusetts, from respect to the

'JANUARY TERM, 1838.

7,9

[Thq State of Massachusetts ads. The Stateof Rhode Island.

Court has appeared, she asks the Court to say that -there is a right to
issue process against a state, and she will obey; but if wrongfully. issued, she asks that she shall not be affected by' what she, hasdone.
Mr. Justice THoMPsOA
N delivered the opinion of, the Court:
A motion has been made on the part of the state of Massachusetts,
for leave- to withdraw the plea filed on te pal't of that states 4nd
also to withdraw the appearance heretofore entered for the state.
A *notion has also been made on the part of Rhode Island, for
leave to withdraw the- general replication tQ the defendant's answer
and plea in bar; and, to amend the original bill filed in'thi8'case.
The motion. on the part of the state of Massachusetts, -to withdraw
the "appearance heretofore entered, seems to he founddd on what'is
supposed to h.ave fallen from the Court at the preset'-term,-in the
opinion delivered upon the question of jurisdiction in this case. It
is thouglht that opinion is open to the inference Lhat jurisdiction is,
assumed, in consequence of the defendant's. having appeared in the
'cause. We did not mean to put thejurisdiction of'the Court upon
thatsground. It was only intended to say, that the appearance of'the
state, superseded the necessity of considering the'questiod whether
athy atd what course would have been adopted by the, Court, if the
state had not. appeared. We certainly did ndt' mean to be understood, that the state had eonicl.uded herself on the' ground that she
had voluntarily appeared; or that if she had not, we' could not have
assumed jurisdictio'n of the case. But. being satisfied that we 'had
jurisdiction Qf the'subject matter of the bill; so far at least fa regpected the question of" boundary, all inquiry as to the mode and, manner
in which the state was to be brought into Court, or.what' would be
the course of' proceeding if the state declined to appear, became entirely unnecessary. But as the question is now brought directly before us, it becomes necessary to dispose-of it. We think, however,
that the course of decisions. in 'this Court, does not leave us at liberty
to consider this an open question.
In the.case of the State of New Jersey v. The State of New York.,
5 Peters, 287, this question was very fully examined by the Court,
and the course of practice considered as settled by the former decisions of the Court, both before and after the amendment of the constitution; which declared, that the judicial power of the United States
shall not extend to any suit in .law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against a state by citizensof another state, or subjects of any

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Massachusetts ads. The State of Rhode Island.]

foreign state. This amendment did not affect suits by a state against
another state; and the mode of proceeding in such suits, was not at
all afle ted'by that amendment.
We do not propose to enter into this question, any farther than
brieflyto notice what the Court has already decided upon the practi-e in this respect. These cases were reviewed li the case referred
to, of New Jersey v. New York; and the practice found to, have
been established by former decisions of the C6urt, as far as- it w6nt,
was adopted. And the Court went a step farther, and declared what
would be the course of proceeding in a stage of the cause, beyond
which former decisions had not found it necessary to prescribe such
course.

The'Court, in the case, of New Jersey v. New York, commence
the opinion by saying: "This is a bill filed for the purpose of 'ascertaining and settling the boundary between the two states."
And
this is precisely the question presented in the bill now before us.
And it is added, that- congress has passed no act for the special purpose of prescribing the mode of proceeding in suits instituted against
a state.
The precise question was, therefore, presented, whether the existing. legislation of congress was sufficient to enable- the Court to
proceed in such a case; without any special legislation for that purpose, And the Court observed, that at a very'early period of otr
judicial history, suits were instituted, in this Court, against states;.
and the questions conc'rring its jurisdiction were necessarily considered.
An examination of the acts -f congress, in relatidn to process and
proceedings, and the, power of the Court to,make and establish all
necessary rules for conductingbusiness in. the courts, is gone into,
and considered sufficient to authorize process and proceedings against
a state; and the -Court adopted the practice prescribed in the case of
Grayson v. The Compnonweaith of Virginia, 3 Dali. 320, that when
process in common law, or in equity shall issue against a State, it
shall be served on the governor, or chief executive magistrate, and
the attorney general of the state. The Court, in that case, declined
issuing'a distringab, to compel' the appearance of the state;. and ordered, as a general rule, that if the defendant, on service of the subpcena, shall not appear at the return day ther'ein, the complainant
fhali be at liberty to proceed ex parte. And the course of practice
has since been to proceed ex par te, if the state does not appear.

JANUARY TERM, 18-28.

761

[The State of.Massachusotts v. The State'of Rhode lsland.]

And aveordingly, in several 'cases, on te rpturn 'of%the process,
orders have been entered; that unless the state, appear by a given'
day, judgment by default will be entered. And further proceedings have been had in the causes. In the case of Chisholm's Exeoutors v. The State of .Gebrgia, 2 Dall. 419, judgment: by default was
entered, and a writ of inquiry awarded in February term, 1794.
]ut the amendment of the constitation prevented its being exectited.
And inother oases, commissions hhve been taken out for the examination of witnesses. By such proceedings, therefore, showing progressive stages in cases towards' a final hearing, and. in,accordance
with this course of practice; the Court, in the case of New Jersey v.
New York, ddopted the course prescribed by the general order made
in the case of Grayson v. The Commonwealth of Virginia; and entered a rule, that 'the subpcena having been returned, executed -sixty
days before the return day thereof, and the defendant having failed
to appear, it is decreed and ordered, that the complainant be at
liberty to proceed ex parte; and that, unless the defendant, on being
served with a copy of this decree, shal appear and answer the bill
of the complainant, the Court will proceded to hear the cause on the
part of the complainant, and decree on the matter of the said bill.
So that the practice seems to be well settled, that in suits against
a state, if the state shall refuse or neglect to appear, upon due service
of process, no coercive measures will be taken to compel appearance; but the camplainant, or plaintiff, will be allowed to proceed
ex parte.
If, upon this view of'the case, the counsel for the state of 'Massa-.
chusetts shall elect to withdraw the appearance heretofore entered,
leave will accordingly be given;' and tha state of Rhode Island may
proceed ex parte. And if the appearance is not withdrawn, as no
testimdny has been taken, we shall allow the parties to withdraw or
amend the pleadings; tinder such order as the Court shall hereafter make.
Mr.' Justice

BALDWrN

dissented

Mr. Justice STORY did not sit in this case.

On consideration of the motion made by Mr. Webster, on Satur.
day, the 24th of February, A. D. 1838, for, leave to withdraw the
'VOL.
XII,-

D

SUPREME COURT.
[The State of Massachusetts v. The State of Rhode Island.]

plea filed on the part of the defendant, and the appearance heretofore entered for the defendailt; and also of the, notion made by Mi.
Hazard, on the same day of the present term, for leave to withdraw
the general replication to the defendant's answer and plea in bar,
and' to amend the orignal bill filed in this case. and of the arguments
of counsel thereupon had, as well for the complainant as for the
defendant; it is now here considered and ordered by the Court, that
if the counsel for the state'of Massachusetts shall elect to withdraw
the appearance heretofore entered, that leave be and the same- is
atcordingly hereby given; and that the state of Rhode Island may
proceed ex parte. IBut that, if the appearance be not withdrawn,
that then, as no testimony has been taken,'the parties be allowed to
withdraw or amend the pleadings, under such order as the Court
shall hereaftor make in the premises.

ME0MORANDVM.

The Reporter has omitred to siate, that in the following cases, Mr. Jpstice Baldwin
dissented.
Page
59, 174
Martha BradstreetPlaintiff in Error v,Anson Thomas,
84
Jbhn MNeil v. Lowell Holbxook,
178
Joseph S. CWlare et al. v. William G. W. White,
215
The.United States-v. Mills' Heirs,
218
Moses E. Levy v. Fernando Arredoado et al.

