414

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

requirement of a permit incident to the filling and to
supervising its execution by regulation as to time and
method, so that it should not disturb the public order.
Had the refusal of the Commissioner of Docks, charged
with the police regulation as to the docks, taken this
form, an application for mandamus might well have been
denied, because only an effort to control the police discretion of the public authorities, but the refusal to permit
the ifiling to begin is not put on any such ground. It is
denied because the city has a different plan, which does
not permit the filling at all. This is an assertion of the
right of the city absolutely to prevent the filling which
is an impairment of the obligation of the contract made
by the city with these plaintiffs, in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
THORNTON

ET

AL. v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 255. Argued April 20, 1926-Decided June 1, 1926.
1. Regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture issued pursuant to
statute are noticed judicially. P. 418.
2. Under the Acts governing the subject, it is not essential to the
validity of regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture respecting
live stock diseases that the regulations be certified to, or accepted
by, the State. P. 422.
3. An indictment for conspiracy to commit the offense, under § 62
of the Penal Code, of interfering with and assaulting agents of the
Bureau of Animal Industry while discharging their duties in supervising and causing the dipping of cattle to prevent the spread of
a contagious disease, and charging the use of deadly weapons, need
not allege that the cattle dipped were subject-matter of interstate

THORNTON v. UNITED STATES.
414

Argument for Petitioners.

commerce, that they had come under the supervision or control
of the Secretary of Agriculture, or that the agents were working to
prevent the disease from spreading from one State to another.

P. 423.
4. Congress has power, (as in the Animal Industry Act and subsequent legislation,) to provide measures for quarantining and disinfecting cattle in a State to prevent spread of disease to other
States. P. 424.
5. The ranging of cattle across a state line is interstate commerce,
as well as driving them across, or transporting them by rail. P. 425.
6. Spread of disease from State to State by ranging cattle is a burden
on interstate commerce which Congress may prevent. Id.
2 Fed. (2d) 561, affirmed.

CERTIORAM to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a conviction in the District Court for
conspiracy to violate § 62 of the Penal Code.
Mr. Lee W. Branch, with whom Messrs. E. K. Wilcox,
John W. Bennett, and Omer W. Franklin were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Section 3 of the Animal Industry Act, when read in
the light of the entire statute, plainly has as its purpose
co~peration with the state authorities on the part of the
Bureau of Animal Industry in an advisory way, insofar
as the work of extirpating the cattle tick from domestic
animals is concerned.
If, by the Act of May 29, 1884, establishing the Bureau
of Animal Industry, it was the intention of Congress to
confer upon the Secretary of Agriculture authority to
send agents and employees of the Bureau into the borders
of any State in the Union and empower them to supervise the dipping and by compulsion and force cause domestic cattle to be dipped, the Act must be held unconstitutional and void. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1;
United States v. Boyer, 85 Fed. 425; Covington Bridge
Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 210; The DanielBall, 10 Wall.
557; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; In re Greene, 52 Fed.
113; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Shafer v. Farmers

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

271 U. S.

Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189; Ills. Cent. R. Co. v. McKendree,
203 U. S. 514; United States v. Shauver, 214 Fed. 154;
United States v. McCullagh, 221 Fed. 288; Howard v.
Ills. Cent. R. Co., 207 U. S. 463; Robertson v. Memphis
R. Co., 109 U. S. 3; Butts v. Merchants & Miners Trans.
Co., 230 U. S. 125; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44. The
Act itself, properly construed, does not give to such employees any authority to enforce the disinfection and
quarantine measures, except where animals are subjects
of interstate commerce. United States v. Gibson, 47
Fed. 833.
The allegations of the indictment were not sufficient to
bring it within the provisions of the Act of May 29, 1884.
Abby Dodge v. United States, 223 U. S. 166; United
States v. Birdsall, 195 Fed. 980; United States v. Baird,48
Fed. 554; United States v. Pittoto, 267 Fed. 603; United
States v. Hallowell, 271 Fed. 795; United States v. Page,
277 Fed. 459.
Mr. Gardner P. Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was
on the brief, for the United States.
If the employees of the Bureau of Animal Industry
named in the indictment were performing any duty legally
imposed upon them pursuant to the federal statutes, the
conspiracy alleged in the indictment and established by
the evidence was a conspiracy to violate § 62 of the criminal code, whether or not they were also performing other
work beyond the scope of their federal duties. Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; In re Coy, 127 U. S, 731; Ex
parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S.
399. Under the rule expressed in the above cases, there
can be no doubt that the federal government may use, in
the performance of its functions, persons who are also engaged in performing duties for a State. Some portion,
at least, of the work performed by the employees of the

THORNTON v. UNITED STATES.
414

417

Opinion of the Court.

Bureau of Animal Industry was authorized by the federal
statutes. M. K. & T. Ry. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Reid
v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; Oregon-Wash. R. R. & Nay.
Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87.
The power of Congress to regulate commerce includes
power to quarantine areas where contagious diseases of
cattle exist, to prohibit interstate movements of cattle
from such areas, and to authorize the supervision of dipping of cattle in such areas by federal agents. United
States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199; Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495; 1. C. C. v. Goodrich Tr. Co., 224 U. S. 194;
California v. Pacific R. R. Co, 127 U S. 1; Luxton v.
North River Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525; United States
v. Gettysburg Elec. Ry., 160 U. S. 668; Massachusetts v.
Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.
The indictment is valid. Stokes v. United States, 157
U. S. 187; United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78;
Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; Wolf v.
United States, 283 Fed. 885; Fosterv. United States, 256
Fed. 207; Ledbetter v. United States, 170 U. S. 606; Connors v .United States, 158 U. S. 408; Armour Packing Co.
v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Rev. Stats. § 1025.

Mn.

CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here by certiorari from thb Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit. 267 U. S. 589.
The judgment is one of conviction of the petitioners
under an indictment found in the District Court for the
Southern District of Georgia, charging the petitioners and
sixteen others with the crime of conspiracy under § 37
of the Criminal Code to commit the offense against the
United States denounced in § 62 of the same Code. Section 62 punishes anyone who shall assault or interfere
with an employee of the Bureau of Animal Industry of
the Agricultural Department in the execution of his
9542"-26----27'

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

duties or on account of his execution of them, and who
shall u~e a deadly weapon in resisting any such employee
in such execution. The indictment was demurred to and
the demurrer was overruled. The defendants were tried
and found guilty. On writ of error the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the judgment. 2 Fed. (2d) 561.
The first count of the indictment charged that the defendants conspired to deter and prevent certain employees
of the Bureau of Animal Industry from discharging their
duties in supervising the dipping of, and causing to be
dipped, cattle in order to prevent the spread of splenetic
fever among them, and to eradicate the cattle fever tick,
and that for this purpose the defendants used deadly
weapons and killed one such employee and wounded
others, all in the county of Echols, Georgia. The second
count charged that the conspiracy was directed not only
to the use of force against the employees themselves but
also to the dynamiting of spray pens and dipping vats
used by such employees in their duties in causing the
dipping of the cattle and the supervision thereof.
Under the Act of May 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31, c. 60, a
Bureau of Animal Industry was organized in the Department of Agriculture. It is made the duty of the Bureau,
by § 1, to investigate and report upon the condition of
the domestic animals, their protection and use, to inquire
into and Teport the causes of contagious, infectious and
communicable diseases among them, and to collect information on the subject. By § 2 it is authorized to employ
experts. By § 3, it is made the duty of the Commissioner of Agriculture to prepare such rules and regulations
as may be deemed necessary for the supervision and
effective suppression and extirpation of such diseases, and
to certify such rules and regulations to the executive
authorities of each state and territory, and invite them
to co~perate in the execution and enforcement of the Act.
Whenever the plans and methods are accepted by any

THORNTON v. UNITED STATES.
414

Opinion of the Court.

state or territory, in which such diseases are declared to
exist, and the state or territory has adopted plans and
methods for the suppression and extirpation of the diseases, and those plans shall be accepted by the Commissioner of Agriculture, and whenever a governor or other
properly constituted authority of a state signifies his
readiness to coiperate for the extinction of such disease
in conformity with the Act, the Commissioner is authorized to expend so much of the money appropriated as
may be necessary in such investigation and in such disinfection and quarantine measures as may be necessary
to prevent the spread of the disease from one territory or
state into another.
By an Act of February 9, 1889, 25 Stat. 659, c. 122, the
Department of Agriculture was made an executive department of the Government under a Secretary of Agriculture, who was vested with all the authority conferred
by the Act of May 29, 1884, supra, on the Commissioner
of Agriculture. By Act of February 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 791,
c. 349, the Secretary of Agriculture was authorized and
directed from time to time to make regulations concerning
the exportation and transportation of live stock from any
place within the United States where he had reason to
believe a contagious cattle disease existed into and
through any other state or territory as he might deem
necessary, and all such rules and regulations were to have
the force of law. Whenever any inspector or assistant
inspector of the Bureau of Animal Industry issued a certificate showing that the officer had inspected any cattle
or other live stock to be transported from one locality to
another and had found them free from Texas or splenetic
fever infection or other disease, it was provided that the
cattle might be shipped, driven or transported from one
state or territory to another without further inspection,
but that such animals should at all times be under the
control and supervision of the Bureau for the purposes of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

such inspection, and that the Secretary might make regulations to prevent the introduction or dissemination of
contagion from one state to another.
By Act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1264, c. 1496, the
Secretary is authorized and directed to quarantine any
state or territory, or any portion of any state or territory,
when he shall determine the fact that cattle or other live
stock therein are affected with any communicable disease.
Section 2 of that Act prohibits the transportation, delivery for transportation, or driving on foot, from any
quarantined state or territory into any other state or
territory, cattle or live stock except as provided in the
Act. Sections 3 and 4 give the Secretary authority to
make rules and regulations for the inspection, disinfection, certification, treatment, handling and method and
manner of delivery and shipment of cattle or other live
stock from a quarantined state into any other state when
the public safety will permit, but prohibits such movement in manner or method or under conditions other
than those prescribed by the Secretary.
Under date of June 15, 1916, various regulations were
issued by the Secretary of Agriculture. They are not
printed in the record, but they are matters of which we
may take judicial notice. Caha v. United States, 152
U. S. 211. Under the regulations, when the Secretary
determines that cattle in any state or territory are affected with a contagious disease, and he thinks a quarantine should be established, a rule is to be issued giving
notice of the fact, to forbid the interstate movement of
live stock from the quarantined area to be prescribed.
Regulation 2 provides that cattle of the quarantined area
exposed to or infested with ticks, which have been properly dipped twice with a certain solution and in the
proper way under the supervision of an inspector of the
Bureau, may be moved interstate for any purpose when
the inspector certifies them to be free of infection from

THORNTON v. UNITED STATES.
414

1

Opinion of the Court.

splenetic fever; provided that the conditions are such
that the cattle may be moved to the free area without
exposure to infection. The cattle are to be accompanied
by a statement of dipping by the inspector supervising
the same at the point of origin, and showing the ownership of the cattle, etc.; and cattle located in areas where
tick eradication is being conducted in co~peration with
the state authorities, and which are on premises known
by the Bureau of Inspection to be free from ticks, may
upon inspection and certification at a suitable season by
a bureau inspector be moved interstate for any purpose
without dipping. One rule issued by the Secretary of
Agriculture shows a description of the areas quarantined,
which included Echols County, Georgia.
The evidence for the Government at the trial showed
that Echols County, where this conspiracy was formed
and the overt acts took place, was on the line between
Georgia and Florida; that cattle ranged between one state
and the other in that region; that the Department of
Agriculture had quarantined in interstate transportation
the cattle coming from Echols County because of the
presence of the cattle tick among them'; that under the
Act an agreement had been made between the Secretary
of Agriculture and the Georgia authorities acting under
a Georgia statute, by which the regulations of the Secretary had been accepted as guidance for the state employees engaged in attempting to suppress the disease by
requiring tick infested cattle to be dipped; that spray
pens and dipping vats had been erected in Echols County
at the expense of the United States, to carry out the duties
of the Bureau of Animal Industry; that the state law
authorized and directed the county and state officers to
enforce the dipping of cattle in the counties which were
tick infested, by process served in the name of the State,
and that the state officers served such processes upon
cattle-owners in the county; that the cattle which were

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

thoroughly dipped were marked with indelible paint;
that United States inspectors were not always present at
the dipping, but usually supervised what was done to
gain a knowledge of what the state officers were doing in
enforcing the state law, so that if successful the quarantine against cattle for shipment out of Georgia against
Echols County could be discontinued; that this was only
one instance of the investigations required under the Act
of 1884 by the Bureau of Animal Industry employees to
help cattle movements from the southern States to the
north in promotion of interstate commerce; that it was
while these activities of the employees of the Federal
Bureau were progressing that the defendants and others,
residents of Echols County, owners of cattle and neighbors, resenting the necessity for dipping, dynamited the
spray pens and the dipping vats and assaulted the United
States employees of the Bureau, wounded several and
killed one by gun shot.
The first objection to the conviction is based on the
indictment in that it contains no allegation that the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture for the suppression
and extirpation of the disease among live stock have been
certified to the executive authority of the State of Georgia and accepted. The legality and validity of the action
of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Bureau of Animal
Industry in preventing the spread of disease from one
state to another do not depend upon the consent of the
state authorities. In the broad provisions of the legislation we have quoted, the authority of the Secretary of
Agriculture to direct the employees of the Bureau of Animal Industry to engage in quarantine measures and the
inspection of animals suspected of or known to have communicable diseases, is not limited to cases in which there
is co6peration between the United States and the state
authorities in the suppression of the spread of disease
among cattle, the one as between states and the other as

THORNTON v. UNITED STATES.
414

Opinion of the Court.

within a state. In order to make the action of both more
effective, they may coperate so that their respective
purposes may be more effectively carried out, but the
power of each to act in its field does not depend upon the
consent of the other. Therefore it is that such an averment as that suggested by the defendants' objection would
be superfluous for the indictment of the federal crime,
although it would be quite relevant in evidence as one of
the circumstances to explain what happened.
It is next objected that there were no allegations in the
indictment that the cattle being dipped were the subject
matter of interstate commerce or had in any way under
the law become subject to the supervision or control of the
Secretary of Agriculture, or that what the employees were
doing was to prevent the spread of communicable disease among the cattle from one state to another. The
charge is of a conspiracy to commit the offense of an
assault upon employees of the Bureau of Animal Industry, to prevent the execution of their duties as such, and
does not charge the substantive offense itself. The rules
of criminal pleading do not require the same degree of
detail in an indictment for conspiracy in stating the object
of the conspiracy as if it were one charging the substantive offense. Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425,
447; Wolf v. United States, 283 Fed. 885; Foster v.
United States, 256 Fed. 207. Compare Ledbetter v.
United States, 170 U. S. 606, 612; Connors v. United
States, 158 U. S. 408, 411; Armour Packing Co. v. United
States, 209 U. S. 56, 84.
The assaults upon the employees of the Bureau of
Animal Industry and the interference with their duties
were described in the indictment as having to do with the
inspection of suspected cattle and the supervision of their
dipping. As their duties in connection with suspected
and diseased cattle were described in the statute as imposed for the purpose of preventing the spread of con-

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

tagious cattle disease from one state to another, it is sufficient certainty to a common intent to describe generally
that they were performing their duties under the statute
in the supervision and dipping of cattle, without further
definition.
It is finally urged against this conviction that the statute of 1884, supra, is unconstitutional in that Congress
had no power to make it a duty of a federal employee to
dip cattle and suppress disease among cattle within a
State; that such power is vested in the Legislature of the
State under the reservations of the Tenth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution; and that such legislation by
Congress can not be sustained as a regulation of interstate commerce, because it is not confined to interstate
commerce and the cattle treated were not in interstate
commerce.
It is very evident from the Act of 1884 and the subsequent legislation and the regulations issued under them
that everything authorized to be done was expressly intended to prevent the spread of disease from one State to
another by contagion, which of course means by the passage of diseased cattle from one state to another. This
is interstate commerce. The quarantine provided for was
to stop and regulate such interstate commerce until it
could be safely carried on. Not until suitable inspection
by the federal authorities and treatment prescribed for
dipping of the cattle could the cattle be certainly rid of
the ticks and splenetic fever and prevented from being a
dangerous source of contagion in the state into which
they were going. The duties of the employees of the Bureau of Animal Industry here interfered with were all
part of the measure of quarantine reasonably adapted to
prevent the spread of contagion in and by interstate
commerce.
The requirement of dipping was a reasonable condition of allowing cattle from a suspected district to pass

THORNTON v. UNITED STATES.
414

Opinion of the Court.

into another state, and the provision of dipping vats and
other means of complying with this requirement in a
border county by the United States, and the supervision
of such dipping by federal employees and, indeed, the
dipping itself by them, were conveniences promoting interstate commerce where quarantine was necessary.
There is no evidence that federal employees took part in
enforcing dipping of all cattle of the county. That was
done by state officers under the state law.
But it is said that these cattle do not appear to have
been intended to be transported by rail or boat from one
state to another and this only is interstate commerce in
cattle under the Constitution. They were on the line
between the two States. To drive them across the line
would be interstate commerce, and the Act of 1905 expressly prohibits driving them on foot when carrying
contagion. It is argued, however, that when the cattle
only range across the line between the States and are not
transported or driven, their passage is not interstate cominerce. We do not think that such passage by ranging
can be differentiated from interstate commerce. It is
intercourse between states, made possible by the failure of
owners to restrict their ranging and is due, therefore, to
the will of their owners.
More than this, it is established by United States v.
Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, that the authority of Congress over
interstate commerce extends to dealing with and preventing burdens to that commerce and the spread of disease
from one state to another by such cattle ranging would
clearly be such a burden, if it were not to be regarded as
commerce itself, and is therefore properly within the
congressional inhibition. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.
495.
Judgment affirmed.

