40

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

MISSOURI EX EEL. HURWITZ v. NORTH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 209. Submitted March 12, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. A state statute which authorizes a board of health to revoke the
license of a physician upon the ground that he has unlawfully produced an abortion, giving him reasonable notice, specification of
charges and opportunity to be heard with hiswitnesses before the
board, with a right of review in the state courts, held valid under
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Mo. Rev. Stat. § 7336. Pp. 41, 43.
2. Failure of the statute to authorize the board to subpoena witnesses is not an objection, the right to compel their testimony by
deposition being granted. P. 42.
304 Mo. 607, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, which affirmed the state circuit court in sustaining, on certiorari, an order of the Board of Health revoking the license of the plaintiff in error to practice in
the State as a physician.
Mr. I. V. McPherson for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. North T. Gentry and J. Henry Caruthers for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiff in error was a physician licensed to practice
by the State Board of Health of Missouri. On complaint
made to the Board, and after notice and hearing, his
license to practice was revoked on the ground that he had
unlawfully produced an abortion. The proceedings
before the Board were reviewed on certiorari by the state
Circuit Court and the determination of the Board sustained. On appeal to the Supreme Court of Missouri,

HURWITZ v. NORTH.
40

Opinion of the Court.

the judgment was affirmed. 304 Mo. 607. The case
comes here on writ of error. Jud. Code, § 237.
By § 7336 of the Missouri Revised Statutes, the State
Board of Health is authorized to grant licenses for the
practice of medicine within the State, and, after hearing,
to revoke licenses" for producing criminal abortions," and
for other specified causes. Hearings are required to be
upon twenty days' written notice personally served upon
the physician against whom charges are made, containing
"an exact statement of the charges and the date and place
set for hearing." The statute provides:
"Testimony may be taken by deposition to be used in
evidence at the trial of such charges before the Board in
the same manner and under the same rules and practice
as is now provided for the taking of depositions in civil
1
cases.
It is also provided that proceedings before the Board
may be reviewed by the state Circuit Court on certiorari
and, as was done here, an appeal may be taken from the
judgment of the Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of
the State.
Plaintiff's assigmnents of error assail the correctness of
various rulings of the state court as to the meaning and
effect of the statute drawn in question. These assignments must be disregarded here, as upon writ of error to
a state court we are bound by its construction of the
state law. See West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258; Gatewood v. North Carolina, 203 U. S. 531, 541; Watson v.
Maryland, 218 U. S. 173; Schneider Granite Co. v. Gast
Realty Co., 245 U. S. 288, 290. The Supreme Court of
Missouri held that in the proceedings for the revocation
of the plaintiff's license, he was entitled to take testimony
on deposition, as provided by the statute, but not to subpoena witnesses to appear before the Board, and that his
application for such subpoenas was properly denied. It
is assigned as error that these rulings and the revocation

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of plaintiff's license by the State Board of Health were
a denial of due process of law and of the equal protection
of the laws under the Fourteenth Amendment.
It has been so often pointed out in the opinions of this
Court that the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned with
the substance and not with the forms of procedure, as to
make unnecessary any extended discussion of the question
here presented. The due process clause does not guarantee to a citizen of a State any particular form or method
of state procedure. Its requirements are satisfied if he
has reasonable notice, and reasonable opportunity to be
heard and to present his claim or defence, due regard
being had to the nature of the proceedings and the character of the rights which may be affected by it. Hurtado
v. California,110 U. S. 516; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S.
581; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S.
230; West v. Louisiana, supra; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78; Oregon R. R. & N. Co., v. Fairchild,224
'U. S. 510.
The procedure authorized by the Missouri statute as
it was applied by the Board satisfied these requirements.
The notice prescribed was reasonable. The testimony of
all witnesses who appeared before the Board was taken
and recorded, including that of the plaintiff in error.
Although the statute did not authorize the Board to issue
subpoenas, the plaintiff in error was authorized, as the
state court held, to take the depositions of witnesses who
did not voluntarily appear. See State ex rel. .Farber v.
Shot, 304 Mo. 523. Officers who take depositions are
authorized to compel witnesses to attend and give testimony. Mo. Rev. Stat. (1919) § 5460. The depositions,
when taken, may be read at the hearing before the Board.
State ex rel. Farber v. Shot, supra. The procedure prescribed and followed here gave ample opportunity to
plaintiff to make a defense to the charges preferred and
there was no denial of due process.

HARTSVILLE MILL v. UNITED STATES.
40

43

Counsel for Appellant.

Nor did the statute deny to the plaintiff in error the
equal protection of the laws. A statute which places all
physicians in a single class, and prescribes a uniform
standard of professional attainment and conduct, as a
condition of the practice of their profession, and a reasonable procedure applicable to them as a class to insure conformity to that standard, does not deny the equal protection of the laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114;
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; Watson v. Maryland,
supra.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmed.

HARTSVILLE OIL MILL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 609.

Argued March 3, 4, 1926.--Decided April 12, 1926.

1. Jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to hear and decide a claim,
existing under Jud. Code, § 145, was not affected by a resolution
of the Senate referring to that court for consideration and report (Jud. Code, § 151) a bill for payment of the claim. P. 44.
2. The fact that a government contractor signed a settlement after
negotiations in which government officers threatened to break the
existing contract if the settlement were not accepted, does not of
itself support a legal inference that the settlement was procured by
duress. Freund v. United States, 260 U. S. 60, distinguished.
P. 48.
3. A threat to break a contract does not constitute duress in the
absence of evidence of some probable consequences of it to person
or property for which the remedy afforded by the courts would
be inadequate. P. 49.
4. Mutual promises of the parties are adequate consideration sustaining a compromise of a disputed contract. P. 50.
60 Ct. Cls. 712, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims.

Messrs. Christie Benet and Wade H. Ellis, with whom
Mr. Don F. Reed was on the brief, for appellant.

