PANAMA R. R. v. VASQUEZ.
Syllabus.

552

ority over this mortgage of the vessel." The petitioner
had easy access to these instruments and, by exercising
slight diligence, might have ascertained their contents.
They deprived the owner of both right and authority,
within the true intent of the statute, to create the lien
now claimed by the repair company. The purpose of this
enactment was to protect honest furnishers who exercise
diligence, and not to offer a wide-opened door for crooked
transactions.
The trial judge held that under the circumstances the
petitioner acquired no lien. I agree with him, and even
venture to think that the argument in support of his
conclusion cannot be vaporized by mere negation.
PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. VASQUEZ,

ADMINISTRATOR,

ETC.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.

No. 260.

Argued January 13, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. The clause in Jud. Code, §§ 24, 256, relating to causes arising
under the maritime law and "saving to suitors in all cases the
right to a common-law remedy where the common law is competent to give it," is not limited to rights recognized by the maritime law as exsting in 1789 when the clause was first adopted, but
includes rights brought into that law by subsequent legislation,
if of a kind to be readily enforced in actions in personam in the
course of the common law. P. 560.
2. State courts have jurisdiction concurrently with federal courts in
actions brought by seamen under § 20 of the Seamen's Act, as
amended by the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, to recover damages
for personal injuries. P. 561.
3. In providing that "Jurisdiction in such actions shall be under the
court of the district in which the defendant employer resides or in
which his principal office is located," the Act regulates venue and
does not deal with jurisdiction as between state and federal courts.
Id.
239 N. Y. 590, affirmed.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

CERTIORARI

271 U. S.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

New York, entered on affirmance by the Court of Appeals, awarding damages against the Railroad Company,
in an action for negligence resulting in the death of
plaintiff's intestate while employed as a seaman on
defendant's ship.
Mr. Richard Reid Rogers for petitioner.
The action is maritime in its nature, and there now
exists under the laws of New York no concurrent jurisdiction in the state courts to recover damages for the death
of a seaman occurring in maritime territory; the jurisdiction of the United States courts, therefore, under the Constitution, the statutory law and the decisions of this Court,
is exclusive. Knapp, Stout & Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S.
638; The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130;
Stevenson v. Fain, 195 U. S. 167; Farrell v. Waterman
S. S. Co., 291 Fed. 604; Butler v. Boston Steamboat Co.,
130 U. S. 527; Sou. Pac.Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; The
Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How.
583.; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256; Knickerbocker Ice
Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Waring v. Clarke, 4 How.
450; The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 204; The Alaska, 130 U. S.
201; La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95; Western Fuel Co. v.
Garcia, 257 U. S. 233; Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit
Co., 264 U. S. 109; The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398;
Even if the first proposition be not true, Congress, legislating within its constitutional powers, has now for the
first time created a liability upon the part of a shipowner
for the death of a seaman in navigable waters occurring
within the geographical limits of a State, and has in the
Act creating this liability provided a special remedy for its
enforcement-that is to say, an action in the United States
court of the district wherein the defendant resides or has
a principal place of business; which remedy, to wit, an

PANAMA R. R. v. VASQUEZ.
557

Opinion of the Court.

action in a federal court, is the only one by which the new
right thus created can be enforced.
Mr. Martin A. Schenck, with whom M11r. Frederick R.
Graves was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was an action by the personal representative of a
deceased seaman against the owner of the ship whereon
he was serving at the time of his death to recover damages
for the death on the ground that it was caused by the
owner's negligence in providing an unfit lighting appliance to be used by him in his work. The right of action
was based on § 20 of the Seamen's Act of 1915, c. 153,
38 Stat. 1164, as amended by § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act of 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988. A judgment for the
plaintiff was affirmed by the highest court of the State;
and the defendant brings the case here.
The sole question presented is whether state courts may
entertain such actions, the defendant's contention being
that they are cognizable only in the federal district courts.
Amended § 20,* as heretofore construed, changes the
prior maritime law of the United States by giving to seamen injured through the negligence of their employers,
See. 20. That any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in
the course of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action
for damages at law, with the right of trial by jury, and in such action
all statutes of the United States modifying or extending the commonlaw right or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway employees
shall apply; and in case of the death of any seaman as a result of
any such personal injury the personal representative of such seaman
may maintain an action for damages at law with the right of trial
by jury, and in such action all statutes of the United States conferring or regulating the right of action for death in the case of
railway employees shall be applicable. Jurisdiction in such actions
shall be under the court of the district in which the defendant employer resides or in which his principal office is located."
*"

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and to their personal representatives where the injuries
result in death, the rights given to railway employees and
their personal representatives by the Employers' Liability
Act of 1908 and its amendments. Panama R. R. Co. v.
Johnson, 264 U. S. 375. And the procedural provisions
therein have been construed-when read in connection
with §§ 24 (third) and 256 (third) of the Judicial Code.
and in the light of constitutional rules respecting admiralty and maritime jurisdiction-to mean that the new
substantive rights may be asserted and enforced either in
actions in personam against the employers in courts administering common-law remedies, with a right of trial by
jury, or in suits in admiralty in courts administering
remedies in admiralty, without trial by jury; but always
taking the changed maritime law as the basis and measure
of the rights asserted. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson,
supra.
The sections of the Judicial Code just cited, while investing the federal district courts with jurisdiction "exclusive of the courts of the several States" of all "civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," contain an excepting clause expressly "saving to suitors in all cases the
right to a common-law remedy where the common law is
competent to give it." This clause is a continuation of a
like clause in the Judiciary Act of 1789 and always has
been construed as permitting substantive rights under the
maritime law to recover money for service rendered, or
as damages for tortious injuries, to be asserted and enforced in actions in personam according to the course of
the common law. Chelentis v. Luckenbach Steamship
Co., 247 U. S. 372, 384; Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson,
supra, pp. 388, 390. And it uniformly has been regarded
as permitting such actions to be brought in either the
federal courts or the state courts, as the possessor of the
right may elect. Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 185, 188;
Schoonmaker v. Gilmore, 102 U. S. 118; Chappell v.

PANAMA R. R. v. VASQUEZ.
557

Opinion of the Court.

Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132, 134; Carlisle Packing Co. v.
Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255; Red Cross Line v. Atlantic
Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109, 123.
In so saying, we must be understood as fully recognizing what often has been held in other cases-that the
saving clause does not include suits in rein or other forms
of proceeding unknown to the common law. The Moses
Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 431; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall.
555, 571; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205,
218. But an action in pcrsonam to recover damages for
tort is one of the most familiar of the common-law
remedies; and it is such a remedy at law that is contemplated by amended § 20 of the Seamen's Act and invoked
in this case.
The defendant insists that the saving clause refers only
to rights recognized by the maritime law as existing in
1789, when the clause first was adopted, and therefore
does not include rights brought into the maritime law by
subsequent legislative changes. We think the clause has
a broader meaning, looks to the future as well as the past
and includes new as well as old rights, if only they are
such as readily adnit of assertion and enforcement in
actions in, personam according to the course of the common law. This is the view that was taken in Steamboat
Company v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522, 533.
The defendant also points to the provision in amended
§ 20 saying, "Jurisdiction in such actions shall be under
the court of the district in which the defendant employer
resides or in which his principal office is located," and
argues therefrom that Congress has manifested a purpose to restrict the enforcement of the newly given rights
to the federal district courts. The provision is not aptly
worded to express that purpose, and taken alone is confusing. We think it falls short of that certainty which
naturally would be manifested in making an intended
departure from the long-prevailing policy evidenced by

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

the saving clause in the Judiciary Act of 1789 and in the
two sections of the Judicial Code, and that the more
reasonable view is that it is intended to regulate venue
and not to deal with jurisdiction as between federal and
state courts. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, supra, pp.
384, 391; Re East River Co., 266 U. S. 355, 368; Engel
v. Davenport, ante, p. 33.
We well might have rested our decision here on the
conclusion reached in Engel v. Davenport, where we said,
"It is clear that the state courts have jurisdiction, concurrently with the federal courts, to enforce the right
of action established by the Merchant Marine Act as a
part of the maritime law." But out of deference to the
elaborate presentation of the question in this case we have
stated and dealt with the several points advanced as
making for a different conclusion.
Judgment affirmed.
BERIZZI BROTHERS COMPANY v. STEAMSHIP
PESARO.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 334.

Argued May 7, 1926.---Decided June 7, 1926.

A ship owned and possessed by a friendly foreign government, and
operated by it in the carriage of merchandise for hire, in the interest
and service of the nation, is a public ship and is immune from
arrest under process based on a libel in rem by a private suitor;
and the District Court has no jurisdiction of the case under Jud.
Code, § 24, cl. 3, granting that court jurisdiction of "all civil
causes of admirality and maritime jurisdiction." P. 570.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court in admiralty
dismissing a libel in rem against a ship owned, possessed.
and operated for trade purposes by the Italian Government, for want of jurisdiction. See 277 Fed. 473.

