218

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U3. S.

256 U. S. 575, 581. There is nothing in the averments in
the pleadings in this case to show that the officers of the
Government collected this interest or that it was received
into the Treasury for the benefit of the Investment
Company.
The judgment is
Reversed.
CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
NIXON, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 306. Argued May 3, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
A railroad section foreman, one of whose duties was to go over and
inspect the track and keep it in repair, assumed the risk of being
run down by a train while going to his work over a part of the
track that was in his charge, riding (by permission of a superior)
the railway velocipede which he used in track inspections. P. 219.
140 Va. 351, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, which affirmed a recovery of damages in
an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.

Messrs. S. H. Williams and Randolph Harrison, with
whom Mr. A. R. Long was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Duncan Drysdale, with whom Mr. Aubrey E.
Strode was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to recover damages for the death of the
plaintiff's husband, the intestate, from the Railroad Company upon whosetracks the death occurred. The plaintiff, (the respondent here,) obtained a verdict and

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. NIXON.
218

Opinion of the Court.

judgment in the trial Court and upon a writ of error
the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. 140 Va. 351. As the recovery was
based upon the Employers' Liability Act of April 22,
1908, c. 149, ยง 1, 35 Stat. 65, the death having occurred
in interstate commerce, a writ of certiorari was granted
by this Court to review certain questions of law that
arose in the case. 267 U. S. 590.
The deceased was an experienced section foreman upon
the defendant's road. One of his duties was to go over
and examine the track and to keep it in proper repair.
When inspecting the track he used a three wheeled velocipede that fitted the rails and was propelled by the feet
of the user. He had obtained from his immediate superior, the Supervisor of Track, leave to use the machine
also in going to his work from his house, about a mile
distant, over a part of the track that was in his charge.
His work began at seven in the morning and at half-past
six on the day of his death he started as usual. Five
minutes later he was overtaken by a train and killed.
For reasons that the jury found insufficient to excuse the
omission, the engineer and fireman of the train were not
on the lookout, and the question raised is whether as
toward the deceased the defendant owed a duty to keep a
lookout, or whether on the other hand the deceased took
the risk.
If the accident had happened an hour later when the
deceased was inspecting the track, we think that there is
no doubt that he would be held to have assumed the risk,
and to have understood, as he instructed his men, that
he must rely upon his own watchfulness and keep out of
the way. The Railroad Company was entitled to expect
that self-protection from its employees. Aerkfetz v.
Humphreys, 145 U. S. 418; Boldt v. Pennsylvania R. R.
Co., 245 U. S. 441, 445, 446. Comelly v. Pennisylvania
R. Co., 201 Fed. 54; Davis v. Philadelphia& R. Ry. Co.,

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

276 Fed. 187; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Wachter, 60
Md. 395; 4 Elliott on Railroads, 3d ed., ยง 1862. The
duty of the railroad company toward this class of employees was not affected by that which it might owe to
others.
The permission to use the velocipede in going to his
work did not make the defendant's obligation to the
deceased greater than it would have been after he got
there. We assume that it was as effective to make the
use of the car lawful as would have been a stockholders'
vote spread upon the records of the company. But the
implications are not necessarily the same. It was a
trifling incident of daily life by which a subordinate officer
of the company allowed one lower in grade to enlarge
his customary use of the machine by an hour for his own
convenience, although even then, in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals of Virginia, already engaged in his
duties. It seems to us to have been no more than an
extension of his ordinary rights and his usual risks.
Judgment reversed.
VIRGINIAN RAILWAY COMPANY v. MULLENS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF WYOMING COUNTY,
WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 163.

Argued January 21, 22, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. A railroad company is not liable for floodings of private land resulting from a condition of the railroad structure amounting to a
nuisance, when the nuisance was created by its predecessor in title,
and where the injurious consequences occurred when the railroad
had been taken over and was being operated by the Government
under the Federal Control Act. P. 223.
2. A plaintiff who has brought and tried an action for damages to
his land upon the ground that the defendant was liable as a tort
feasor, can not shift, on appeal, to a theory of contract liability.
P. 227.
Reversed.

