CASES AIDJU)GED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNMTE) STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
KEITH, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. JOHNSON,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 295.

Argued January 6, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. The New York transfer tax (Cons. Ls. c. 60, Art. X) is primarily payable by the personal representative out of the estate,
and not by the heirs, though they are required to pay if the property is transferred to them without prior deduction of the tax.
P. 4.
2. An executrix who paid this tax, as required, out of funds of the
estate, was entitled, under the Revenue Act of 1916, to deduct the
amount from the income of the estate, during administration, for
the purpose of computing the net income subject to the federal
income tax. P. 9.
3 Fed. (2d) 361, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment in the District Court against
the Collector in an action to recover money paid under
protest as an income tax.
IM4

-2t---1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

271 U. S.

Messrs. Newton K. Fox and W. H. Trigg, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. A. W. Gregg, Solicitor
of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for petitioner.
This Court has decided that taxes which are deductible
from the income of an estate for the purpose of determining net income taxable under the federal Income Tax
Act, are those taxes which are" charges against the estate"
and are "to be paid out of it by the administrator or
executor substantially as other taxes and charges are
paid."
This Court has also held that the transfer tax imposed
by the State of New York is not a charge against the
estate, but is a charge against the beneficiaries. Furthermore, the New York tax is not paid by the personal
representative of the decedent out of the mass of the
property before distribution, as other taxes are paid, but
is paid out of the particular shares after those shares have
been determined.
Therefore a tax which is not imposed upon the estate
is not deductible from gross income of the estate for
the purpose of determining the net income taxable under
the federal Income Tax Act. Citing: New York Trust
Co.v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345; United States v. Woodward,
256 U. S. 632; New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 263 Fed.
620; Winans v. Atty. General, (1910) App. Cas. (H. L.)
27; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Bugbee v. Roebling,
94 N. J. Law 438; New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 3 Fed.
(2d) 361; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S.625; United
States v. Fox, 94 U. S.315; Snyder v. Bettman, 190 U. S.
249; Prentiss v. Eisner, 267 Fed. 16; Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co. v. Winthrop, 238 N. Y. 488; Home Trust Co.
v. Law, 236 N. Y. 607; In re Meyer, 209 N. Y. 386; Smith
v. Browning, 225 N. Y. 358; In re Gihon, 169 N. Y. 443;
Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S.556; Northern. Trust
Co. v. McCoach, 215 Fed. 991; National Bank of Commerce v. Allen, 211 Fed. 743, aff. 223 Fed. 472; First

KEITH v. JOHNSON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

National Bank v. McNeel, 238 Fed. 559; Eliot National
Bank v. Gill, 218 Fed. 600.
Messrs. Sidney V. Lowell and John M. Perry, with
whom Messrs. Harrison Tweed and Benjamin Mahler
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 1917, John B. Johnson, a resident of New York,

died intestate.

Respondent was appointed administra-

trix, and in that year paid to the State $233,044.20, the
transfer tax imposed pursuant to Art. X, Tax Law, c. 60,
Consolidated Laws. When respondent made the income
tax return for the estate for 1917 (Revenue Act of 1916,
c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 757), she claimed that the state
transfer tax paid in that year was deductible; but, yielding to the regulations of the Treasury Department, she
did not make the deduction, and under protest paid to
the United States an income tax calculated on $164,958.00,
amounting to $30,985.53. If the deduction had been
made there would have been no taxable income. This
action was brought to recover the amount paid. The
District Court gave respondent judgment which was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Under the Revenue Act of 1916, the income of the
estate for 1917 during administration was subject to a
tax to be assessed against the administratrix. She was
required to pay the tax and was indemnified against
claims of beneficiaries for the amount paid. § 2(b). It
is provided that, in computing net income, in the case
of a citizen or resident of the United States, for the purpose of the tax, there shall be allowed as deductions the
taxes imposed by the authority of the United States or
of any State and paid within the year. § 5(a) Third.
Administrators and other fiduciaries are subject to all the
provisions which apply to individuals. § 8(c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

In United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632, it was
held that the federal estate taxes imposed by the Revenue
Act of 1916 are deductible in ascertaining net taxable
income received by estates of deceased persons during the
period of administration or settlement. Revenue Act of
1918, Title II. The court said (p. 635): "It [the estate
tax] is made a charge on the estate and is to be paid out
of it by the administrator or executor substantially as
other taxes and charges are paid.
.
It does not
segregate any part of the estate from the rest and keep
it from passing to the administrator or executor for purposes of administration, . . . but is made a general
charge on the gross estate and is to be paid in money
out of any available funds or, if there be none, by converting other property into money for the purpose."
The government contends that the state transfer tax
is not imposed on the estate and is not deductible in calculating the federal tax on the income of the estate.
The transfer tax law imposes a tax "upon the transfer
of property" from the deceased (§ 220) at rates graduated, according to the amount transferred to each beneficiary and the relationship, or absence of any, between
the deceased and beneficiaries. § § 221, 221(a). Until
paid the tax is a lien upon the property of the deceased.
The person to whom the property is transferred is made
personally liable for the tax. The personal representatives of the deceased are personally liable for the tax
until its payment; they are authorized to sell the property
of the estate to obtain money to pay the tax in the same
manner as they may to pay debts of the deceased. § 224.*
* "Lien of tax and collection by executors, administrators and
trustees. Every such tax shall be and remain a lien upon the
property transferred until paid and the person to whom the property
is so transferred, and the executors, administrators and trustees of
every estate so transferred shall be personally liable for such tax
until its payment. Every executor, administrator or trustee shall
have full power to sell so much of the property of the decedent as

KEITH v. JOHNSON.
I

Opinion of the Court.

They are not entitled to discharge until the tax is paid.
§ 236. The law plainly makes it their duty to pay the
tax out of the estate. The property remaining passes
to the beneficiaries. When property is transferred without the deduction of the tax the beneficiary is required
to pay. But, by whomsoever the amount may be handed
over to the State, the tax is in effect an appropriation by
the State of a part of the property of the deceased at the
time of death. And the State's portion is deductible
from the legacy and does not pass to the legatee. If
money is transferred the tax is withheld; property other
than money passes subject to the transfer tax. Cf. Matter
of Estate of Swift, 137 N. Y. 77, 83. In Matter of Merriam, 141 N. Y. 479, a bequest to the United States was
will enable him to pay such tax in the same manner as he might
be entitled by law to do for the payment of the debts of the testator
or intestate. Any such executor, administrator or trustee having
in charge or in trust any legacy or property for distribution subject
to such tax shall deduct the tax therefrom and shall pay over the
same to the state comptroller or county treasurer, as herein provided. If such legacy or property be not in money, he shall collect
the tax thereon upon the appraised value thereof from the person
entitled thereto. He shall not deliver or be compelled to deliver
any specific legacy or property subject to tax under this article to
any person until he shall have collected the tax thereon. If any such
legacy shall be charged upon or payable out of real property, the
heir or devisee shall deduct such tax therefrom and pay it to the
executor, administrator or trustee, and the tax shall remain a lien
or charge on such real property until paid; and the payment thereof
shall be enforced by the executor, administrator or trustee in the
same manner that payment of the legacy might be enforced, or by
the district attorney under section two hundred and thirty-five of
this chapter. If any such legacy shall be given in money to any
such person for a limited period, the executor, administrator or
trustee shall retain the tax upon the whole amount, but if it be
not in money, he shall make application to the court having jurisdiction of an accounting by him, to make an apportionment, if the
case require it, of the sum to be paid into his hands by such legatees,
and for such further order relative thereto as the case may require."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

held subject to the tax. The court said (p. 484), "This
tax, in effect, limits the power of testamentary disposition, and legatees and devisees take their bequests and
devises subject to this tax imposed upon the succession
of property. This view eliminates from the case the point
urged by the appellant that to collect this tax would be
in violation of the well-established rule that the state
cannot tax the property of the United States. Assuming
this legacy vested in the United States at the moment
of testator's death, yet in contemplation of law the tax
was fixed on the succession at the same instant of time.
This is not a tax imposed by the state on the property
of the United States. The property that vests in the
United States under this will is the net amount of its
legacy after the succession tax is paid." That case was
brought to this court on writ of error. United States v.
Perkins, 163 U. S. 625. Following the decisions of the
New York court it was held that the transfer tax is not
imposed on property but on the transfer, and that the
property does not pass to the heirs or legatees until, by
the enforced contribution to the State, it has suffered
diminution to the amount of the tax. And see Prentiss
v. Eisner, 260 Fed. 589, affirmed, 267 Fed. 16; People v.
Fraser,145 N. Y. 593, affirming 74 Hun. 282.
The government cites New York Trust Co. v. Eisner,
256 U. S. 345. In that case there was involved the
amount of the federal estate tax under § 201 of the
Revenue Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 756, 777. Section 203 provided that there should be deducted from the value of
the gross estate funeral expenses, administration expenses,
claims against the estate, certain losses, "and such other
charges against the estate as are allowed by the laws of
the jurisdiction" where the estate was administered.
When that case was before this court the latest decision
of the New York Court of Appeals, having a direct bearing upon the matter, was Matter of Gihon, 169 N. Y.

KEITH v. JOHNSON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

443. It was there held that the state transfer tax was
the same as the federal inheritance tax imposed by the
War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat. 448,
which was considered by this court in Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S.41; that the tax was not primarily payable out
of the estate; that it was a tax not upon property but
upon succession; "that is to say, a tax on the legatee
for the privilege of succeeding to property," and that
payment of the tax by the personal representative was
for the legatee and not on account of the estate. In
harmony with that case this court held that the state
transfer tax paid by the executors was not deductible in
calculating the amount of the federal estate tax. Since
then the courts of New York, notwithstanding the Gihon
Case, have construed the statute in harmony with the
earlier decisions of the New York courts and United
States v. Perkins, supra.
In Home Trust Company v. Law, 204 App. Div. 590,
the court considered the state law which imposes an income tax on individuals (Tax Law, § 351,) and makes
that tax applicable to income of estates of deceased
persons received during administration. § 365. It is
shown that the state income tax and deductions (§ 360)
from gross earnings, authorized to be made to determine
the amount of the taxable income of the estate, are patterned after the corresponding federal taxes and deductions; and, following the decision of this court in United
States v. Woodward, supra, it was held that, since the
federal estate tax paid is deductible to arrive at the income of the estate subject to the federal tax, the state
transfer tax should be held to be deductible in ascertaining the income of the estate taxable under the state law.
The court said (p. 594), "Aside from authority and
theory we think it was the clear legislative intent, as
indicated by the various provisions of the Tax Law, that
in calculating the net income of the estate of a decedent

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

for income tax purposes, the amount paid by an executor
during the year in satisfaction of a transfer tax should
be deducted. The income tax payment is made by the
executor of the estate from funds of the estate and not
from funds belonging to legatees. (Kings County Trust
Company v. Law, 201 App. Div. 181.) The transfer tax
payment is made by the executor from the funds of the
estate. 'The transfer tax is imposed upon the estate of
the decedent as it exists at the hour of his death, and its
value is to be fixed as of that time.' (Matter of Hubbard,
234 N. Y. 179.) Thus the tax is measurable not by the
funds received by a legatee, but by the funds the executor
receives. As the burden of paying the income tax, as
well as the burden of paying the transfer tax, is cast upon
the executor, and as the taxable income of the estate
is under the terms of the Tax Law measurable by gross
income received less taxes paid, it would seem clear that
the person paying the income tax, namely, the executor.
is entitled to deduct the very transfer tax which he himself pays." This decision was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals without opinion. 236 N. Y. 607. This court
will follow the decisions of the state courts as to the
meaning and proper application of the state transfer tax
law, any expressions in its earlier decision to the contrary
notwithstanding. Green v. Lessee of Neal, 6 Pet. 291,
298, 299; Fairfield v. County of Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47;
Edward Hines Trustees v. Martin,268 U. S. 458, 464.
By indicating that the latest decisions of the state
courts will be followed here as binding, it is not intended
to intimate that a different view is entertained as to the
construction properly to be given the state law. In fact
we agree with that construction; and feel justified in so
saying as the same question arises in another case-No.
470, the opinion in which is announced concurrently with
this one-on a substantially similar statute of a State
where there has been no authoritative construction by

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
1

Syllabus.

the state courts. Compare Harriganv. Bergdoll, 270 U. S.
560. And we are of opinion that the transfer tax is deductible. It was primarily payable by the respondent
out of moneys and other property of the estate; and it
was so paid by her. While this lessens the amount for
distribution among the heirs, it cannot be said that they
bore any part of that tax. As well might it be claimed
that they paid the funeral expenses and debts, if any,
of the intestate. No part of the transfer tax so paid could
be taken by the heirs as a deduction in calculating their
federal income taxes. It follows that the amount of the
transfer tax paid in 1917 by the respondent was deductible in ascertaining the taxable income of the estate
received by her in that year.
Judgmentt affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 470.

Argued March 18, 19, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. In calculating the income tax on an estate during administration,
under the Revenue Act of 1918, federal estate taxes are deductible
from gross income. United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632.
P. 11.
2. But where the estate tax, though it accrued during the income
tax year, was not paid until later, and the tax-payer's books were
kept upon the basis of actual receipts and disbursements-not the
"accrual" basis-, and the return showed such income only as was
received during the tax year, the estate tax was not deductible in
computing the taxable income of that year. United States v.
Anderson, 269 U. S. 422. Woodward Case, supra, distinguished.
Id.
3. Where claimants' right to recover money paid as income taxes
depended on their books having been kept on the accrual basis, the
burden was on them to prove that the books were so kept. P. 12.

