58

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

Only brief consideration need be given to the contention that the amendment of ยง 105 of the Illinois Corporation Act impairs the obligation of contract. That plaintiff's stock when issued was not subject to the tax computed at the rate of $100 per share, which was later
authorized by ยง 105 as amended, was decided in Roberts
& Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 305 Ill. 348. The fact that
the corporation issued its stock under statutes which were
later so interpreted can give rise to no inference that the
State contracted not to increase or otherwise modify the
tax. See Home Ins. Co. v. City Council, 93 U. S. 116;
Memphis Gas Co. v. Shelby County, 109 U. S.398; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379; Seaton
Hall College v. South Orange, 242 U. S. 100.
Even if the taxing statute be deemed to be a part of
its corporate charter, it was nevertheless subject to the
provisions of ยง 146 of the Illinois General Corporation
Act reserving to the legislature the power "to amend,
repeal or modify this act at pleasure."
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
Affirmcd.
READING COMPANY v. KOONS, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 213.

OF THE STATE

OF

Argued March 12, 15, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

Section 6 of the Employers' Liability Act, providing "That no
action shall be maintained under this Act unless commenced
within two years from the day the cause of action accrued," is to
be construed as allowing, in death cases, two years from the time
of death-not two years from the appointment of the administrator. P. 60.
281 Pa. 270, reversed.

READING CO. v. KOONS.
.58

Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Pennsylvania, which affirmed a judgment (26 Dauphin
Co. Pa. Reps. 234) in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. John T. Brady, with whom Mr. Charles Heebner
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John R. Geyer, with whom Messrs. Geo. Ross
Hull and Paul G. Smith were on the brief, for respondent.
AIR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent's intestate, while employed by the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company, an interstate carrier of which petitioner is the successor, received injuries
from which he died on the following day, April 23, 1915.
Letters of administration were granted to respondent
September 23, 1921. Five months later, on February 6,
1922, nearly seven years after the death, respondent
brought the action, now under review, in the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, to establish a liability
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, April 22,
1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, 66, as amended by the Act of
April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291.
A petition of the defendant below, petitioner here,
for judgment of nol. pros. on the ground that the action,
having been brought more than two years after the death,
was barred by the statute of limitations, was denied (26
Dauphin County Pa. Reports 234) and judgment was
entered for plaintiff, respondent here. On an appeal to
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the judgment was
affirmed. 281 Pa. 270. This court granted certiorari.
266 U. S. 600.
As respondent brought his action more than two years
after the death and, less than two years after his appointment as administrator, the sole question presented for

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

review is whether, in an action for wrongful death brought
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the two-year
statute of limitations begins to run at the date of the
death or at the date of the appointment of the administrator of the decedent.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act imposes upon
common carriers by railroad, engaged in interstate commerce, liability for the death of an employee employed
in such commerce, when the death results from the negligence of the carrier or its agents, and gives a right of
action to the personal representative of the decedent for
the benefit of the surviving spouse and children of such
employee, or if there are no such survivors, then for the
benefit of his dependent next of kin. By ยง 6 of the Act,
it is provided "That no action shall be maintained under
this Act unless commenced within two years from the day
the cause of action accrued."
The application of this statute turns on the question
whether the cause of action created by the Act may be
deemed to have "accrued," within the meaning of the
Act, at the time of death or on the appointment of the
administrator, who is the only person authorized by the
statute to maintain the action. American R. R. of Porto
Rico v. Birch, 224 U. S. 547; St. Louis, S. F. & T. Ry. v.
Seale, 229 U. S. 156. The question has never been directly answered by this Court. although in .Missouri,K.
& T. Ry. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, it was assumed that the
cause of action was barred in two years after the death.
It has received conflicting answers in the decisions of
other courts. The decision of the First Circuit Court of
Appeals in American R. R. of Porto Rico v. Coronas,
230 Fed. 545, holding that the statute does not begin to
run until the appointment of the administrator, has been
followed in Guinther v. Philadelphia & R. Ry., 1 Fed.
(2d) 85; in Kierejewski v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
Co., 280 Fed. 125, and in Bird v. Ft. Worth & Rio Grande

READING CO v. KOONS.
5-

Opinion of the Court.

Railway, 109 Tex. 323. Other cases have laid down a
similar rule with respect to state laws giving a right of
recovery for wrongful death. Andrews v. Hartford &
New Haven R. R., 34 Conn. 57; Capro v. City of Syracuse,
183 N. Y. 395.
On the other hand, the Supreme Court of Georgia (Seaboard Air Line v. Brooks, 151 Ga. 625) and the Supreme
Court of Kansas (Giersch v. Atchison., Topeka & Santa
Fc Ry., 171 Pac. 591) have expressly declined to follow
the rule laid down in the first circuit in American R. R.
of Porto Rico v. Coronas, supra. The same result was
reached in Bixler v. Pennsylvania R. R., 201 Fed. 553,
and a like rule has been applied in state courts to similar
state statutes. See Radezky v. Sargent & Co., 77 Conn.
110; Rodmait v. Ry., 65 Kan. 645; Swisher v. Ry., 76
Kan. 07; Cardcn, Adm'r. v. L. & N. R. R., 101 Ky. 113;
(lulledge v. R. R., 147 N. C. 234; Hall v. R. R., 149 N.
C. 108.
This diversity of view arises principally from the
attempt made to find in the word "accrued" used in the
statute, some definite technical meaning which will in
itself enable courts to say at what point of time the cause
of action has come into existence and consequently at
what point of time the statute of limitations begins to
run.
It is argued in support of one view, as the court below
held, that, as the cause of action for death is the creature
of statute and is given exclusively to the administrator
of the decedent, no cause of action can arise or accrue
until there is an administrator. On the other hand, it is
asserted with, we think, equal plausibility, that, when all
of the events have occurred which determine the liability
of the connon carrier, the cause of action has come into
existence or has "accrued."
We do not think it is possible to assign to the word
"accrued " any definite technical meaning which by

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

itself would enable us to say whether the statutory period
begins to run at one time or the other; but the uncertainty is removed when the word is interpreted in the
light of the general purposes of the statute and of its
other provisions, and with due regard to those practical
ends which are to be served by any limitation of the time
within which an action must be brought.
Whatever effect may be given to the assertion often
made in judicial opinion that, in the ordinary case where
a cause of action arises in favor of the estate of a decedent,
there is no person who can enforce it if there is no executor
or administrator,' that statement cannot be applied
strictly to causes of action for death arising under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. For while it is true
that the executor or administrator is the person authorized to bring the suit, he nevertheless acts only for the
benefit of persons specifically designated in the statute.
At the time of death there are identified persons for
whose benefit the liability exists and who can start the
machinery of the law in motion to enforce it, by applying for the appointment of an administrator. This Court
has held that a suit brought by such persons in their
individual capacity is not a nullity within the provisions
of the Act, and that if by amendment the plaintiff is
properly described as executor or administrator of the
decedent, even though the amendment is had after the
expiration of the statutory period, the suit may be maintained and a recovery had under the statute. See Missouri, K. & T. Ry. v. Wulf, supra. See also Seaboard Air
Line v. Renn, 241 U. S. 290, and New York C. & H. R. R. R.
Co. v. Kinney, 260 U. S. 340. Thus, at the death of deceI See Johnson, Adm'r v. Wren, 3 Stew. 172; Bucklin v. Ford, 5
Barb. 393; Dunning v. Ocean Nat. Bank, 61 N. Y. 497; Seymour
v. Mechanics & Metals Nat. Bank, 199 App. Div. 707; Murray v.
East India Co., 5 B. & Ald. 204; but see Tynan v. Walker, 35 Cal.
634, 637-8.

READING CO. v. KOONS.
58

Opinion of the Court.

dent, there are real parties in interest who may procure
the action to be brought; and there are no such practical
inconveniences or necessary delays as would lead to the
conclusion that the word "accrued," as used in the statute, cannot be taken to refer to the time of death.
The language of the statute evidences an intention to
set a definite limit to the period within which an action
may be brought under it, without reference to the exigencies which arise from the administration of a decedent's
estate. The statute relates not only to causes of action
for wrongful death but to causes of action for other injuries. Where the cause of action for personal injury survives to personal representatives of an injured employee
who dies after the injury from other causes, the language
of the statute seems peremptorily to require the action to
be brought within two years from the time of injury,
without regard to any intervening period after death when
there is no executor or administrator. Compare Whipple
v. Johnson, 66 Ark. 204; Gibson v. Ruff, 8 App. D. C. 262;
Samnis v. Wightinan, 31 Fla. 10; Sanford v. Sanford, 62
N. Y. 553, 555.
It cannot be supposed that Congress, in enacting the
statute, intended to impose a fixed limitation of two years
within which all actions for personal injury must be
begun, regardless of death and of the time of appointment
of an administrator of the injured employee, and at the
same time intended to allow an indefinite period within
which application may be made for the appointment of
an administrator as the prerequisite to an action to recover for wrongful death. Indeed, the limitation would
seem to be more necessary in the case of personal injuries
than in the case of a wrongful death; for in the former
case some part of the period of limitations will have run
at the time of death. This inconsistency is avoided if the
word "accrued," whether applied to causes of action for
personal injury or for wrongful death, be taken to apply

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

uniformly to the time when the events have occurred
which determine that the carrier is liable, even though the
particular person through whose agency the liabilty is to
be enforced, has not been designated.
It is argued that, as it was provided by Lord Campbell's Act that the period of limitation should run from
the time of death, the omission of that phraseology from
the Employers' Liability Act indicates that it was the
intention of Congress that the statutory period should
run from a different time, namely, from the time of the
appointment of an administrator. This argument, however, leaves out of account the fact that the present
statute deals with causes of action arising from personal
injury as well as causes of action arising from a wrongful death. The limitation that no action shall be maintained under this Act unless commenced within two
years from the day the cause of action accrued, applies
to both. This accounts for the omission of any specific
reference to death in fixing the period of limitation; and
the fact that the limitation is made applicable equally
to the two causes of action, one of which admittedly
"accrues on the happening of the events which fix the
defendant's liability, leads persuasively to the conclusion that a like test was intended for determining when
the cause of action accrued for wrongful death.
Every practical consideration which would lead to the
imposition of any period of limitation, would require that
the period should begin to run from the definitely ascertained time of death rather than the uncertain time of
the appointment of an administrator. Here the appointment was not made until six years after the death. No,
reason appears, if the opinion of the court below is followed, why the time might not have been extended indefinitely by the failure to apply for administration.
The only persons who can procure the appointment of an
administrator are ordinarily spouse, next of kin, or

MASSACHUSETTS v. NEW YORK.
58

Syllabus.

creditors of the decedent. Certainly the common carrier would have no standing to make the application.
The very purpose of a period of limitation is that there
may be, at some definitely ascertainable period, an end
to litigation. If the persons who are designated beneficiaries of the right of action created may choose their
own time for applying for the appointment of an administrator and consequently for setting the statute running, the two-year period of limitation so far as it applies to actions for wrongful death might as well have
been omitted from the statute. An interpretation of a
statute purporting to set a definite limitation upon the
time of bringing action, without saving clauses, which
would, nevertheless, leave defendants subject indefinitely
to actions for the wrong done, would, we think, defeat
its obvious purpose. There is nothing in the language
of the statute to require, or indeed to support, such an
interpretation.
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is
Reversed.
MASSACHUSETTS v. NEW YORK ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

No. 14, Original.

Argued March 4, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. Property and dominion over lands in America discovered under
royal authority vested in the Crown to be held as part of the
public domain for the benefit of the nation. P. 85.
2. As a result of the Revolution, the people of each State became
.zovereign, and in that capacity acquired the rights of the Crown
in the public domain. Id.
3. A treaty between two of the States granting land and reserving
jurisdictional rights is to be construed with regard not only to
technical meanings of words used, but also to public convenience,
avoidance of controversy, and the object to be achieved. P. 87.
.,542'-26-5

