96

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

271 U. S.

Hartford provided "that no adverse possession of the said
lands for any length of time shall be adjudged a disseisin
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts," it does not affect the interpretation by Massachusetts of her own deeds
and acts, or her long continued acquiescence in that interpretation, as persuasive, if not conclusive, evidence of the
correctness of the construction which we place upon the
deeds themselves.
The complainant has failed to sustain its claim of title
to the land in question. The decree will therefore be for
the defendants, and, since no public boundary or public
ownership was involved, costs are awarded against the
complainant. The parties, or either of them if so advised, may, within thirty days, submit the form of a decree
to carry this opinion into effect; failing which a decree
dismissing the bill, with costs to the defendants, will be
entered.
It is so ordered.
SUN SHIP BUILDING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
KENILWORTH COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
DORRIS MOTOR CAR COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 237,240,241. Argued April 15,16,1926.--Decided April 19, 1926.
Judgments of the Court of Claims rejecting claims because settled by
agreement or manifestly not justified under the contracts involved,
held clearly correct.
59 Ct. Cls. 156, 757; 60 Ct. Cls. 68, affirmed.

Mr. Frank E. Scott for appellant in No. 237.
Mr. Benjamin Carter,with whom Mr. Junius G. Adame

was on the brief, for appellant in No. 240.

SUN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
96

Opinion of the Court.
Mr. John E. Hughes for appellant, in No. 241.

Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Jerome Michael, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the briefs,
for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are three appeals from the Court of Claims
which it is convenient to dispose of together.
No. 237.
The Sun Shipbuilding Company sought compensation
on account of several items, chiefly one for loss sustained
by it in obeying the request of certain naval officers and
the Secretary of the Navy to hold free from other use a
ship-way which they thought would probably be needed
for the construction of one of a number of mine sweepers
which the claimant was under a cost-plus contract to
build. The claimant had private contracts to execute in
which it could use this way, and which were thus delayed.
The negotiations as to this way took place before the contract was drafted and executed. The contract provided
for a Compensation Board to fix the cost, and specified
elements of cost to be considered, including a proper proportion for loss resulting from displacement of, or delay
in, work contracted for prior to the date of the contract,
caused by or attributed to work, under emergency conditions, by the contractor for the Government, and items
similar thereto in principle. The Court of Claims held
that all the items of the claim were covered by the decision and award of the Board except one for $1,500 for
which it gave judgment. On the findings and the contract we hold the conclusion correct, deny the motion to
remand and affirm the judgment.
9542

-26----7

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

No. 240.
The Kenilworth Company leased its hotel at Asheville
to the Government for five months for use as a hospital,
with a restriction that it should not be used for the purpose of receiving for treatment any person having tuberculosis in any form or any other like contagious or obnoxious disease, provided, however, that this should not
apply to a patient housed temporarily in the premises
for the purpose of an operation or the like. The suit was
for breach of this restriction. The finding of the Court
of Claims showed that no tuberculosis cases as such were
received, and that the only ones actually housed were
brought in for the purpose of an operation or the like.
It was also alleged by the claimant that syphilitic cases
were treated in the hospital. The finding of the Court
was that such cases were not contagious within the meaning of the contract and denied the claim for damages.
There is nothing in the record or in the other findings on
which we can reach a different conclusion. We deny the
motion to remand for further findings and affirm the
judgment.
No. 241.
The Dorris Motor Car Company had a contract with
the Government for the manufacture of Liberty Motor
governors and petrol air pumps. The contract provided
for its cancellation by the Government in the event of the
termination of the war or in anticipation thereof, upon
thirty days' notice and payment for all articles delivered
during the contract and the thirty days' period. The
Ordnance Department notified the contractor to suspend
operations under the contract December 14, 1918. The
general manager of the claimant discussed the question of
termination with the local Claims Board at St. Louis,
which declined to recommend payment for anything un-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. GALBREATH CO.
96

99

Syllabus.

less the suspension was accepted. Thereupon a complete
settlement was made, and the amount agreed upon paid.
There was a reservation in the settlement which by no
reasonable construction could include the claim here
made. The claim was for profit for what might have been
made in the 30 days. The Court of Claims held that the
claim must fail by reason of the executed settlement and
we affirm that judgment.
Valuable time was taken in hearing these cases. After
arguments on behalf of the claimants, we declined to
hear the other side because the correctness of the judgments of the Court of Claims was clear. It is fortunate
for all that under the Act of February 13, 1925, judgments of the Court of Claims entered after May 13,
1925, can only be reviewed here after a showing of
merits.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GALBREATH CATTLE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MONTANA
No. 138.

Argued January 15, 1926.-Decided April 19, 1926.

1. Where a petition for removal is based on diverse citizenship and
also on the ground that the suit arises under federal law, the case
is removable if either ground be well taken. P. 101.
2. Where the removal papers are well grounded, it is error for the
state court to deny the petition and proceed further with the
case. Id.
3. An action against a railroad by one who was owner, consignor
and consignee of cattle shipped in, partly by another railroad,
from another State on a through bill of lading governed by the
Carmack Amendment, for damage resulting from defendant's failire to unload them, while in transit, for rest, water, and feeding, as
required by the Act of Congress (34 Stat. 607), is a suit arising
under the laws of the United States. P. 102.
4. A suit by a citizen of the State where it is brought and a citizen
of another State, against a citizen of a third State, is a suit between

