CULVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

CULVER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 816. Submitted April 12, 1926-Decided May 24, 1926.
After issuance by the President of Army Regulation 12691 , an
officer of flying status assigned to the War College, as a student,
by order of the Secretary of War, was required by that regulation
to participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights, and was
therefore entitled to extra pay under ยง 13a of the Army Reorganization Act; but prior to the date of that regulation it was otherwise, since the officer, even though he took regular flights, was not
required to do so, being relieved from the Air Service regulation
in that regard by the order of the Secretary assigning him to the
War College.
60 Ct. Cls. 825, reversed.

to a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition for extra pay.
Messrs. George A. King, William B. King, and George
R. Shields for petitioner.
CERTIORARI

Solicitor General Mitchell for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff brought this action to recover increase of pay
from August 15, 1921 to June 30, 1922, under the Army
Reorganization Act of June 4, 1920, ยง 13a, c. 227, 41 Stat.
759, 768. The Court of Claims made findings of fact,
held him not entitled to recover and dismissed the
petition.
That section provided that officers and enlisted men
of the Army should receive an increase of 50 per centum
of their pay while on duty requiring them to participate
regularly and frequently in aerial flights. Plaintiff was
a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Service, and was rated
as an airplane pilot. For some time prior to August 15,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

1921, he was assigned to duty which required him to
participate regularly and frequently in aerial flights, and
up to that date he received the increase of pay allowed
for that service. August 9, 1921, the Secretary of War
issued a special order that plaintiff be relieved "from his
present assignment and duties" and that, on August 15,
1921, he report to the commandant, General Staff War
College, for duty as a student officer. Plaintiff complied,
and remained on duty as a student officer from that date
to June 30, 1922. While there he performed a number
of flights in each month, 131 in all.
Paragraph 1575 of the Army Regulations charges the
Chief of Air Service, under direction of the Secretary of
War, with command of the Air Service, both staff and
line, and with its management, including the regulation
of the duties of officers and others who may be employed
under his direction, excepting such persons as may be
specifically detached by the order of the Secretary of War.
December 2, 1920, a circular letter was issued by the
Chief of Air Service to the commanding officers of all air
stations. It was there stated that he considered that any
officer holding a flying rating was on duty which required
his participation in regular and frequent flights no matter what the nature of that duty might be. December
31, 1921, after the controversy culminating in this suit
arose, the President issued a regulation (Paragraph
12691/, Army Regulations) requiring all officers of the
Air Service who are rated as pilots of airplanes or airships and on a duty status to participate regularly in
aerial flights as pilots whenever flying facilities are available.
The United States concedes that, after the taking effect of that regulation, plaintiff was on a duty status requiring him to participate regularly and frequently in
flights, and that he was entitled to have the increase of
pay given by the Act of June 4, 1920.

CULVER v. UNITED STATES.
315

Opinion of the Court.

It remains to be considered whether he was entitled to
the increase of pay from August 15 to December 31, 1921.
The findings sufficiently show that he actually took frequent and regular flights during that period; but there is
no finding that he was required to do so. Paragraph
1575 of the Army Regulations expressly excepts from the
command of the Chief of the Air Service such persons as
may be specifically detached by order of the Secretary
of War. The plaintiff was so detached by the order of
August 9, 1921. It follows that the circular letter of
December 2, 1920, did not apply to him while on duty
as a student officer at the General Staff War College.
During that time he was not subject to the orders or regulations of the Chief of the Air Service; and undoubtedly
that was the reason the President made the regulation
of December 31, 1921.
The facts found are not sufficient to show that plaintiff was on duty requiring him to participate in the flights
which he actually took prior to that regulation. It does
not appear that he would have been subject to military
discipline if he had not taken the flights. In the absence
of such finding he is not entitled to recover increase of
pay for that period. But the regulation of December
31, 1921, did require him to take such flights, and-as
conceded by the United States-he is entitled to recover
such increase for the period between that date and June
30, 1922.
Judgment reversed.
REPORTER'S NOTE-In the foregoing case the Solicitor General conceded that there was substantial reason for the view that the judgment below was erroneous, and did not oppose the issuance of the
certiorari.

