OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

348

Syllabus.

271 U. S.

The evidence must at least point to the essential fact
which the jury is required to find in order to sustain the
verdict.
We need not inquire whether decedent was employed in
interstate commerce at the time of his death, or whether
the rule laid down in Erie R. R. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 170,
can be extended, as the court below held, so as to support
the judgment of the District Court.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BLAIR, COMMISSIONER, v. UNITED STATES Ex
EL.

BIRKENSTOCK

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

ETC.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 713.

Argued May 4, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

Under § 1019 of the Revenue Act of 1924, which provides: "Upon
the allowance of a credit or refund of any internal-revenue tax
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, . . . interest shall
be allowed and paid on the amount of such credit or refund at the
rate of 6 per centum per annum from the date such tax
was paid to the date of the allowance of the refund, or in case of
a credit, to the due date of the amount against which the credit
is taken
."-eld:
1. Interest runs to the date on which the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue signs the authorization to the Disbursing Clerk
of the Treasury, directing him to pay the refund. Girard Trust
Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 163. P. 348.
2. Where an excessive income tax is paid in instalments, interest
does not begin running upon payments in excess of instalments due
until the payments exceed the total tax due. Revenue Act, 1918,
§§ 250(a) (b), 252. P. 351.
3. The provision of § 1019 that "in case of a credit" interest
is to be allowed "to the due date of the amount against which
the credit is taken," relates to a credit properly allowed of a

BLAIR v. BIRKENSTOCK.
348

Opinion of the Court.

"tax erroneously or illegally assessed or collected," and has no
application to excess payments of quarterly instalments which the
Government was entitled to treat as an advance payment of later
instalments, under the provisions of § 250. P. 353.
55 App. D. C. 376, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia which affirmed a judgment granting the writ of mandamus to compel the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue to compute and allow interest on income tax refunds.
Mr. T. H. Lewis, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell
and Messrs. Newton K. Fox and Ralph E. Smith were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James Craig Peacock, with whom Mr. John W.
Townsend was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 1920, Margaret Murphy, testatrix of respondents,
paid without protest, to the Collector of Internal Revenue
at Philadelphia, the sum of $88,956.92 as income tax for
the year 1919. On May 18, 1923, a claim was filed with
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, for a refund of
$35,054.85 as an overpayment of her taxes for 1919. On
May 19, 1924, the Commissioner signed a "schedule of
overassessment and allowance of abatement, credit and
refund," in the amount claimed, and gave certain instructions to the Collector with respect to it. On a statement
from the Collector that the amount claimed was subject
to refund, the Commissioner, on August 12, 1924, signed
an authorization to the Disbursing Clerk of the Treasury
to pay to respondents the refund demanded, with interest computed from November 18, 1923 (six months after
the filing of the claim for refund, as provided by § 1324
of the Revenue Act of 1921, which he deemed applicable)

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

to May 19, 1924, the date on which the Commissioner
signed the schedule of overassessment.
Respondents protested the amount of interest allowed,
and demanded that it be computed on the excess of each
quarterly payment from the date when it was made, in
1920, to August 12, 1924, the date upon which the Commissioner signed the authorization to the Disbursing
Clerk. Upon the refusal of the Commissioner to allow
this claim, respondents petitioned the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia for a writ of mandamus to compel him to compute and aHow the interest demanded.
The Commissioner, the petitioner here, filed an answer to
which the respondents demurred. The Supreme Court
of the District sustained the demurrer and granted the
writ; and upon appeal, the Court of Appeals sustained
the judgment, modifying it in only one particular, not
important to the decision in this case. This court granted
certiorari. 269 U. S. 545.
The Government having expressly waived the point
made below that mandamus will not lie, only two questions are presented for consideration here. One is the
date from which, the other is the date to which, interest
allowed on the refund should be computed. Since the
certiorari was allowed, the second question has been decided by this court in Girard Trust Company v. United
States, 270 U. S. 163. In that case we held that the
date of allowance of the refund, and therefore the date
to which interest should be computed under § 1019 of
the Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 346, is the
date on which the Commissioner signed the authorization
to the Disbursing Clerk of the Treasury, directing him to
pay the refund. The court 'below therefore correctly held
that interest should be computed to that date, which was
August 12, 1924, and that as this date was subsequent to
the enactment of § 1019 of the Revenue Act of 1924, the
allowance of interest must be in accordance with that

BLAIR v. BIRKENSTOCK
348

Opinion of the Court.

section, and not § 1324 of the Act of 1921, which had been
repealed. Hence we are not concerned with the ruling of
the Commissioner, applying the 1921 Act, that interest
ran only from six months after filing of the claim for re:
fund, because it was based on his erroneous conclusion as
to the date when the refund was "allowed."
The question remaining for decision is, from what date
interest on the refund is to be computed, under § 1019
of the Act of 1924, which provides:
"Upon the allowance of a credit or refund of any internal-revenue tax erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, . . . interest shall be allowed and paid on
the amount of such credit or refund at the rate of 6 per
centum per annum from the date such tax . . . was
paid to the date of the allowance of the refund, or in case
of a credit, to the due date of the amount against which
the credit is taken.
The respondents contend that as each of the quarterly
instalments paid by the taxpayer was in excess of onefourth of the proper amount of the tax for the year, interest allowed on the refund should have been computed,
as the court below held, on the excess of each quarterly
payment, from the date on which it was paid. But the
Government argues that such an excess quarterly payment is not a "tax erroneously or illegally assessed or
collected," within the meaning of § 1019, if, when it is
made, any part of the proper tax for the year has not
been paid; that such overpayment becomes a "tax
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected," only when
the amount paid, added to the previous quarterly payments, exceeds the whole tax due for the year. In support of this position, it relies on §§ 250 and 252 of the
Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, in force when
the tax was paid. Section 250 (a) provides (p. 1082):
"That . . . the tax shall be paid in four install-

352

5CTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

ments, each consisting of one-fourth of the total amount
of the tax. .
"The tax may at the option of the taxpayer, be paid
.
"
in a single payment instead of in installments
Subdivision (b) of § 250 provides (p. 1083):
"As soon as practicable after the return is filed, the
Commissioner shall examine it. If it then appears that
the correct amount of the tax is greater or less than that
shown in the return, the installments shall be recomputed. If the amount already paid exceeds that which
should have been paid on the basis of the installments
as recomputed, the excess so paid shall be credited against
the subsequent installments; and if the amount already
paid exceeds the correct amount of the tax, the excess
shall be credited or refunded to the taxpayer in accordance with the provisions of section 252."
Section 252 provides (p. 1085):
"That if, upon examination of any return of income
made pursuant to this Act . . . it appears that an
amount of income . . . tax has been paid in excess
of that properly due, then, notwithstanding the provisions
of section 3228 of the Revised Statutes, the amount of
the excess shall be credited against any income, warprofits or excess profits taxes, or installment thereof, then
due from the taxpayer under any other return, and any
balance of such excess shall be immediately refunded to
"
the taxpayer
By § 250 (a) the payment of the whole tax in a single
payment is expressly made optional with the taxpayer,
and any payment in excess of the correct amount of a
quarterly instalment is by § 250(b) to be treated as a
payment on account of the whole tax. It is clear that a
taxpayer who, anticipating the required quarterly instalments, pays the entire tax in one payment, is not entitled
to interest or a discount, on the anticipated instalments,
as upon a "tax erroneously or illegally assessed or collected" under § 1019 of the Act of 1924.

BLAIR v. BIRKENSTOCK.
348

353

Opinion of the Court.

We think that, under any reasonable interpretation of
§ 1019, the payment of a lesser amount which is in excess
of the required quarterly instalments must stand on the
same footing. Under §§ 250 and 252 of the Act of 1918,
there is no provision for a refund to the taxpayer of any
excess payment of a quarterly instalment, when the
whole tax for the year has not been paid. Read together,
these sections show that the mere overpayment of an
instalment is treated as a payment on account of the tax
which is assessed for that year, and is not a "tax erroneously or illegally assessed or collected," within the meaning of the refund provisions of § 1019 of the Act of 1924,
and so is not subject to its provisions regulating the allowance of interest. Payments in excess of the total
amount of the tax, then and subsequently made, are subject to refund or credit under the provisions of § 1019,
and interest must be allowed on them at the rate of 6 per
cent., from the date of payment.
The provision of § 1019 that "in case of a credit"
interest is to be allowed "to the due date of the amount
against which the credit is taken," relates to a credit
properly allowed of a "tax erroneously or illegally assessed or collected," and has no application to excess payments of quarterly instalments which the Government
was entitled to treat as an advance payment of later instalments, under the provisions of § 250.
The judgment below was erroneous, insofar as it allowed interest on payments made prior to September 27,
1920, on which date the total amount of the instalments
paid first exceeded the total amount of tax due, by the
sum of $12,815.62. Interest should have been allowed on
that amount from that date, and on the full amount of
the fourth instalment from December 13, 1920, when it
was paid.
Judgment reversed, with costs to the respondents.
9542°-26---23

