NEW YORK INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.

109

Syllabus.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
EDWARDS, COLLECTOR.
EDWARDS, COLLECTOR, v. NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 712, 804.

Argued March 2, 3, 1926.-Decided April 19, 1926.

1. The proviso of the Revenue Act of 1913, § II G (b), "That ...
life insurance companies shall not include as income in any year
such portion of any actual premium received from any individual
policyholder as shall have been paid back or credited to such
individual policyholder, or treated as an abatement of premium
of such individual policyholder, within such year . . . ," does not
apply to overpayments by deferred-dividend policyholders of a
mutual level premium company, which though formally credited
to the respective policyholders are held in the aggregate for
apportionment and distribution to the survivors in good standing
at the end of a prescribed period of time. P. 115.
2. Annual additions made by a life insurance company to a fund
accumulated for the amortization of the premiums paid on its
investments in bonds above par, are not deductible from gross
income under § II G (b), supra, as "losses actually sustained
within the year." P. 116.
3. The estimated value of the future premiums waived by a policy
stipulation exempting the insured from further premiums on proof
of total and permanent disability, held not deductible from gross
income, under § II G (b), ,supra, as part of "the net addition
required by law to be made within the year to reserve funds."
P. 117.
4. A special fund required by a state Superintendent of Insurance
to be set aside to meet unreported losses due to death of policyholders, held not an addition to reserve funds, required by law.
P. 119.
5. The compensation which an insurance company agrees to pay
soliciting agents has no relation to the reserve held to meet maturing policies; and, when it sets aside a fund to provide payments
to such agents, this cannot be regarded as a reserve within intendment of the statute. P. 119.
8 Fed. (2d) 851, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for N. Y. Life Ins. Co.
CERTIORARi

271 U. S.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of

Appeals which affirmed in part a judgment of the District Court (3 Fed. (2d) 280) allowing recovery on various items demanded by the Insurance Company in a suit
against the Collector to regain alleged excessive income
tax payments. Certiorari was applied for and allowed
on both sides.
Mr. James H. McIntosh for petitioner, in No. 712 and
respondent in No. 804.
Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Lederer, 252 U. S.
523, involved dividends, and dividends only. This case
involves over-payments of premiums and overpayments
only.
The accounting made in 1913 disclosed that the petitioner's deferred dividend policy holders over-paid it in
1912, $8,189,918. This sum the petitioner distributed
among its individual deferred dividend policy holders by
a mathematical calculation based on the amount of deferred dividend insurance in force, the year of issue of the
several policies, the plan of the policy, and the age at
issue. By this calculation was ascertained the amount of
overpayment made by each individual deferred dividend
policy holder on each one thousand dollars of insurance
for each year of issue, on each insurance plan, and at each
age at issue; and the overpayment was credited to each
individual policy holder on the form in use for this
purpose.
This clause is one of the few additions to the Corporate
Excise Tax Act of 1909 which Congress made in passing
the Revenue Act of 1913. Congress was enacting a law
to tax income. The federal court had lately held and
demonstrated that these over-payments were not income
of the company; and, as Congress was authorized to tax
income only and had no power, without apportionment,
to tax something that was not income, it framed this
clause to exclude from income all these over-payments of

NEW YORK INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
109

Argument for N. Y. Life Ins. Co.

premium. Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. v. Herold, 198
Fed. 199; Herold v. Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co., 201
Fed. 918.
No part of any premium is ever paid back, credited or
treated as an abatement of the premium in the year in
which the policy holder pays it. He pays the premium
in one year, the accounting is taken after the end of the
year, and the amount of the over-payment, if any, thereby
ascertained is then paid back, credited or treated as an
abatement of premium. This is necessarily true of all
policies, both annual and deferred dividend policies.
Hence the clause would have no meaning for any policy
or for any company if it required the portion of premium
to be both received and credited within the taxing year.
The credited over-payments are none the less credits
because the policy holder may lose his credit by dying or
lapsing his policy before the dividend date named in it.
A taxing statute is strictly construed in favor of the taxpayer. Why should a, credit be any less a credit because
it is subject to be lost by the happening of a condition
subsequent? When the amount of the over-payment is
first ascertained, it is credited to each individual policy
holder and will be paid with interest to each such policy
holder whose insurance is in force on the date agreed upon
in the policy for returning it to him, plus his proportionate share of the accumulated credits of those of his
class who lost their credits by dying or lapsing their
policies.
To hold that this clause applies to annual dividend
policies only, and not equally to deferred dividend policies,
is not merely contrary to the plain and unambiguous terms
of the law, but discriminates between taxpayers of the
same class, and between different groups of policy holders
of the same taxpayer.
Subdivision I G (b) of the Revenue Act of 1913 authorizes the deduction from gross income of "all losses

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for N. Y. Life Ins. Co.

271 U. S.

actually sustained within the year and not compensated
by insurance or otherwise." The petitioner each year
amortizes its securities purchased at a premium and treats
the deduction from the premium paid as an annual loss.
In making its return it deducted from its gross income the
total loss by amortization. The respondent claims this
procedure was wrong,-that what the petitioner should
have deducted was the amount of the premium paid on
only those securities purchased above par that became
due in the taxing year. The petitioner's method of taking this loss annually instead of taking it at the due date
of the security is the method followed by all large investors.
The valuation here referred to is the yearly valuation;
the loss is the yearly loss. This practice obtained and
laws in harmony with it were in force in New York and
many other States when Congress passed this law, and
Congress is presumed to have legislated with reference
to the prevailing business customs and the legal requirements imposed upon- business at the time the law was
passed. This question often arises in trust estates.
Matter of Stevens, 187 N. Y. 471; New York Life &
Trust Co. v. Baker, 38 A. D. 417, aff'd. 165 N. Y. 484.
On securities purchased at a premium there was an
intrinsic change in the value of the securities each year
which was perfectly susceptible of calculation; and the
aggregate sum shown by the petitioner's return was the
true amount of the intrinsic change and actual loss on
securities purchased at a premium. No authoritative
decision has been made on this subject by the federal
courts. Cf. Fink v. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co.,
267 Fed. 968; NorthwesternMutual Life Ins. Co. v. Fink,
248 Fed. 568. Securities sell at a premium because they
are sound and pay a high interest return. A part of the
high interest return must be put aside each year to
reimburse for the premium paid, that is, for the yearly

NEW YORK INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
109

Argument for Edwards.

loss of the premium. But the entire interest was taxed
as income. Hence, if the part of the ihterest used to
reimburse for the yearly loss of premium is deducted, then
by the deduction only that part of the interest is taxed
which was in fact interest income.
As to "the net addition, if any, required by law to be
made within the year to reserve funds." If Congress
had intended to limit this clause to the policy reserve,
we have a right to assume they would have said so.
What are reserve funds as the phrase is used in this law
and in the business of insurance? Already the Court
has answered this question. Maryland Casualty Co. v.
United States, 251 U. S. 342. When is a reserve fund
required by law9 When it is required directly by statute,
or by a public official who has authority to require it.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor GeneralMitchell was on the
brief, for respondent in No. 712 and petitioner in No. 804.
The over-payments of premiums made by deferred
dividend policy holders in 1912, ascertained in 1913, and
added to the amount held for future distribution, were
not deductible from plaintiff's 1913 income, because the
amount thereof was neither paid back or credited to the
individual policy holders who made them, nor treated as
an abatement of premium of such individual policy holders in 1913.
The Revenue Act of 1913 does not permit the deduction from plaintiff's gross income for 1913 of the sum
representing amortization of securities purchased at a
premium.
Sums representing liability arising (a) because of
waived premiums under special benefit disability contracts, (b) from unreported loss claims, and (c) upon
pension contracts with agents, are not reserves within the
meaning of the Revenue Act of 1913.
9542°-26-.--8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

See Fink v. Northwestern L. Ins. Co., 267 Fed. 968;
Lumber Mut. L. Ins. Co. v. Malley, 256 Fed. 383; Mutual
Benefit L. Ins. Co. v. Herold, 198 Fed. 199, aff'd. 201 Fed.
918; McCoach v. Ins. Co. of North America, 244 U. S.
585; Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States 251 U. S.
342; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Anderson, 263 Fed. 527; Penn
Mut. Ins. Co. v. Lederer, 252 U. S.523; United States v.
Boston Ins. Co., 269 U. S. 197; Von Baumbach v. Sargent
Land Co., 242 U. S.503.
MR. JUsTiCE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Insurance Company brought suit in the District
Court at New York to recover of Edwards, Collector, the
alleged excessive sum demanded of it as income tax for
the year 1913, and obtained judgment for a part. 3 Fed.
(2d) 280. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this
except as to one item. 8 Fed. (2d) 851. Both parties
are here by certiorari, and five questions require consideration. All involve the construction or application of
the Revenue Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114,
172. Section II G (a) imposed an annual tax of one per
centum upon the net income of "every insurance company organized in the United States," and (b) directed"Such net income shall be ascertained by deducting
from the gross amount of the income of such . . . insurance company, received within the year from all sources,
(first) all the ordinary and necessary expenses paid
within the year in the maintenance and operation of its
business and properties, including rentals or other payments required to be made as a condition to the continued use or possession of property; (second) all losses
actually sustained within the year and not compensated
by insurance or otherwise, including a reasonable allowance for depreciation by use, wear and tear of property,
if any; . . . and in case of insurance companies the net

NEW YORK INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
109

Opinion of the Court.

addition, if any, required by law to be made within the
year to reserve funds and the sums other than dividends
paid within the year on policy and annuity contracts:
Provided, That . . . life insurance companies shall not
include as income in any year such portion of any actual
premium received from any individual policyholder as
shall have been paid back or credited to such individual
policyholder, or treated as an abatement of premium of
such individual policyholder, within such year ... "
1. The Company, a New York corporation without
capital stock, does business on the mutual, level premium
plan and issues both "annual dividend" and "deferred
dividend" policies. Under this plan each policyholder
pays annually in advance a fixed sum which, when added
to like payments by others, probably will create a fund
larger than necessary to meet all maturing policies and
estimated expenses. At the end of each year the actual
insurance costs and expenses incurred are ascertained.
The difference between their sum and the total of advance payments and other income, then becomes the
"overpayment " or surplus fund for immediate pro rata
distribution among policyholders as dividends or for such
future disposition as the contracts provide. An "annual
dividend" policyholder receives his proportionate part of
this fund each year in cash or as a credit upon or abatement of his next premium. "Deferred dividend" or, as
sometimes called, "distribution" policies provide"That no dividend or surplus shall be allowed or paid
upon this policy, unless the insured shall survive until
completion of its distribution period, and unless this
policy shall then be in force. That surplus or profits
derived from such policies on the distribution policy plan
as shall not be in force at the date of the completion of
their respective distribution periods, shall be apportioned
among such policies as shall complete the distribution
periods."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

Accordingly, all overpayments by deferred dividend policyholders must await apportionment until the prescribed
period ends; and no one of them will receive anything
therefrom if his policy lapses or if he dies before that
time. The whole of this fund goes to the survivors.
Overpayments by deferred dividend policyholders for
1912 amounted to $8,198,918. The Collector refused to
deduct this sum from the total receipts, and demanded the
prescribed tax of one per centum thereon. We think he
acted properly. Both courts below so held.
The applicable doctrine was much considered in Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Lederer, 252 U. S. 523.
We there pointed out the probable reason for the permitted non-inclusion in the net income of a life insurance
company of "such portion of any actual premium received
from any individual policyholder as shall have been paid
back or credited to such individual policyholder, or treated
as an abatement of premium of such individual policyholder, within such year." Here it is insisted that within
the meaning of the quoted provision each deferred dividend policyholder's overpayment was actually credited to
him during the year; but we cannot accept this theory.
The aggregate of all such payments was held for distribution among policyholders alive at the end of the period.
The receipts for the year were not really diminished.
2. The Company owned many bonds, etc., payable at
future dates, purchased at prices above their par values,
and to amortize these premiums a fund was set up. It
claimed that an addition to this fund should be deducted
from gross receipts. The District Court thought the
claim well founded, but the Circuit Court of Appeals took
another view. Unless the addition amounted to a loss
"actually sustained within the year" no deduction colild
be made therefor. Obviously, no actual ascertainable loss
had occurred. All of the securities might have been sold
thereafter above cost. The result of the venture could
not be known until they were either sold or paid off.

NEW YORK INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
109

Opinion of the Court.

3. In 1910 the Company introduced a clause into some
policies by which it agreed to waive payment of premiums after proof of total and permanent disability.
The estimated value on December 31, 1913, of future
premiums so waived amounted to $16,629. It claimed
this should be added to the reserve fund and deducted
from gross income. Insurance companies may deduct
"the net addition, if any, required by law to be made
within the year to reserve funds."
The pertinent portion of the agreed statement of facts
follows"In 1910 the plaintiff introduced into some of its contracts of life insurance a clause under which it agreed that
upon receipt, before default in the payment of premium,
of due proof that the insured had become totally and
permanently disabled, the plaintiff would waive payment
of any premium thereafter falling due. In taking its account at the end of the calendar year 1913, the plaintiff
had then received due proof that the insured under a number of these policies were totally and permanently disabled in accordance with the terms of said contracts providing for the waiver of the payment of future premiums.
The value at December 31, 1913, of the future premiums
waived on account of total and permanent disability
was the sum of $16,629. The value at December 31,
1912, of the future premiums so waived was the sum of
$5,637.
"In the calculation of the general reserve fund at the
end of any calendar year, the Company and the Insurance
Department of the State of New York make the computation by deducting from the value of the contractual benefits under each policy the then value of all future premiums under the policy. The general reserve fund of the
plaintiff stated in its Annual Statement is thus the reserve
computed by deducting the value of all future premiums

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

from the valuation of all policr obligations.

271 U. S.

But, under

the policies on the lives of those who had become totally
and permanently disabled and whose contracts provided
for the waiver of the payment of future premiums, no
future premiums will be received by the plaintiff and
therefore, the net reserve reported for these policies is
understated to the extent of the value of these future premiums.
"In the official blank for the plaintiff's Annual Statement to be used at December 31, 1913, there was an item
of liabilities, #9-a entitled, 'Present Value of Future
Premiums Waived on Account of Total and Permanent
Disability,' -and in the plaintiff's Annual Statement the
sum reported under this item was $16,629 at December
31, 1913. The sum of $16,629 reported under Item #9-a
was not included in the plaintiff's general reserve. In
the official blank for use at December 31, 1912, there was
no such item as #9-a, and the plaintiff included the
value at December 31, 1912, of future premiums waived
on account of total and permanent disability (viz: $5,637)
as a part of the general reserve at that date.
"If said sum of $5,637 had not been included as a part
of the general reserve at December 31, 1912, the net addition to the value of future premiums waived on account
of total and permanent disability would have been the
excess of $16,629 over $5,637. Since, however, owing to
the change in the form of the official blank, the said
$5,637 was deducted as a part of the plaintiff's general
reserve in obtaining the net addition to the general reserve, the sum to use in obtaining the net addition to the
value of future premiums waived on account of total and
permanent disability is the sum of $16,629."
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the deduction should
have been allowed, but we think otherwise.
The Superintendent of Insurance of New York required
this item to be reported as a liability and did not treat

NEW YORK INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
109

Opinion of the Court.

it as part of the general reserve. Upon the agreed facts
we cannot say that it was part of any reserve required
by the laws of New York. There is nothing to show how
"the value of the contractual benefits" under these policies
was arrived at and, considering the evidence presented,
we must accept the Superintendent's conclusion. The
Company has not shown enough to establish its right to
the exemption.
4. A number of policyholders died during the calendar
year, but their deaths were not reported before it terminated. The Superintendent of Insurance required the
Company to set aside a special fund to meet these unreported losses, and it claimed that this was an addition to
the reserve fund required by law. We think this claim
was properly rejected by the Commissioner, although the
courts below held otherwise. McCoach v. Insurance Co.
(if North America, 244 U. S. 585, and United States v.
Boston Insurance Co., 269 U. S. 197, pointed out that
"the net addition, if any, required by law to be made
within the year to reserve funds," does not necessarily
include whatever a state official may so designate; that
"reserve funds" has a technical meaning. It is unnecessary now to amplify what was there said. The item under
consideration represented a liability and not something
reserved from premiums to meet policy obligations at
maturity.
5. The Company also claimed deduction for additions
to a fund set aside to provide for payment of annuities to
former soliciting agents as provided by their contracts of
employment. The Commissioner properly rejected this
item, although both courts below held a different view.
The agreed statement of facts shows"The plaintiff has a form of contract of employment
with many of its soliciting agents under which, if such
agents for a period of twenty years continuously devote
their entire time, talents and energies in soliciting appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

cations for insurance, and if they shall for the twenty
years accomplish certain prescribed minimum results,
then at the end of twenty years of such service each such
agent becomes entitled to an income for life payable
monthly, the amount of the payment being based upon
the results obtained by each such agent during the twenty
year period. The laws of New York require the Superintendent of Insurance, in making a valuation of the obligations of the plaintiff, to value annuities on the standard
of McClintock's 'Table of Mortality among Annuitants,'
with interest not exceeding four per centum per annum.
Said Superintendent of Insurance after making an examination of the plaintiff and valuing its liabilities, required
the plaintiff to carry, and it does carry, a fund to meet its
said liabilities on said contracts with its soliciting agents;
and this fund it increased during the year 1913. The net
addition to said fund for said year was the sum of $160,641, which the plaintiff, in making its said return deducted from gross income under that clause of the law
which authorizes a life insurance corporation to deduct
the net addition required by law to be made within the
year to reserve funds. But in amending said return the
Commissioner refused to allow said deduction, and thereby
made the plaintiff's net income for the year appear to be
$160,641 more than it would have been if said deduction
had been allowed, and he assessed and collected an additional tax on account thereof accordingly in the sum of
$1,606.41, which forms a part of the tax in controversy
in this suit."
As pointed out above, the term "reserve funds," in the
taxing Act, has a technical meaning. The compensation
which an insurance company agrees to pay soliciting
agents has no relation to the reserve held to meet maturing policies; and when it sets aside a fund to provide payments to such agents this cannot be regarded as a reserve
within intendment of the statute.

UNION INSULATING CO. v. U. S.
109

Opinion of the Court.

The judgment below must be reversed. The cause will
be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
UNION INSULATING & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM T]H
No. 263.

COURT OF CLAIMS.

Submitted April 21, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.

1. Stipulations by the United States, in a construction contract, to
furnish a right of way for ingress and egress to and from the
places where materials to be furnished by the United States were
stored and the place of their use in the work, construed, in relation
to other facts, as allowing the contractor to use a right of way on
which was a railroad, but not as obliging the Government to put
the railroad in repair. P. 122.
2. Damages will not be awarded for a slight delay in starting work
under a contract, not satisfactorily shown to have been caused
wholly by the Government, where the contractor made no protest
at the time and no claim until nine months later. P. 124.
59 Ct. Cls. 582, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting claims under a building contract.
APPEAL

Messrs. Edmund D. Adcock and George I. Haight were
on the brief for appellant.
Solicitor GeneralMitchell and Assistant Attorney General Galloway were on the brief for the United States.

MIR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant sued the United States in the Court of
Claims for $30,697.73, for breach of a contract made by
it with the United States for certain construction work
at the government nitrate plant No. 2 at Muscle Shoals,

