TURNER LUMBER CO. v. C., M. & ST. P. RY.

259

Counsel for Parties.

TURNER, DENNIS & LOWRY LUMBER COMPANY
v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 271. Argued April 26, 27, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. A suit by a shipper to recover money exacted by a carrier under
an interstate tariff alleged to be unauthorized by the Interstate
Commerce Act, or unconstitutional, is within the jurisdiction of
the District Court, irrespective of the amount involved, as a suit
arising under a law regulating commerce. Jud. Code ยง 24, par.
eighth. P. 261.
2. Preliminary resort to the Interstate Commerce Commission is
not essential to a suit to recover alleged wrongful demurrage
charges, no administrative question being presented. P. 262.
3. An additional demurrage charge, miscalled a penalty, of ten
dollars per car, per day, imposed by tariff on cars of lumber held
at initial destination beyond a specified time, for reconsignment,
and found reasonable, on evidence, by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, does not exceed the Commission's statutory authority
nor the power of Congress to delegate authority to the Commission. P. 262.
4. Neither is such charge violative of due process, because without
notice other than that conveyed by the tariff, or violative of equal
protection of the laws, because applicable only to cars loaded with
lumber. P. 263.
2 Fed. (2d) 292, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court for the Railway Company in an action by the Lumber Company to
recover a sum collected under a demurrage tariff.
Messrs. Rees Turpin and Edward A. Haid for plaintiff
in error.
Messrs. 0. W. Dynes and J. N. Davis for respondent.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE, BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Turner, Dennis & Lowry Lumber Company brought
this action against the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Company in the federal court for western Missouri to recover $40 alleged to have been illegally exacted
in December, 1921. That sum was collected by the carrier, in accordance with a demurrage tariff duly filed, as
a so-called penalty at the rate of $10 a day for the detention of a car containing lumber shipped interstate over
the defendant's railroad to the plaintiff at Aberdeen,
South Dakota, and there held at its request for reconsignment. The claim that the charge was illegally exacted rests upon the contentions that imposition of a
penalty exceeds the statutory authority conferred upon
the Commission; that if the Interstate Commerce Act be
construed as conferring such authority, the provision is
void, because Congress is without power to authorize the
Commission to impose it, since prescribing a penalty is a
legislative function which cannot be delegated; and that,
even if authority to impose a penalty was validly conferred, this particular provision is void, because, by imposing the penalty without notice, there is a denial of
due process of law; and that, being imposed only on shippers of lumber, there is a denial of equal protection of
the laws.
The tariff in question provides:
"To prevent undue detention of equipment under present emergency, the following additional penalties for
detention of equipment will apply:
"On cars loaded with lumber held for reconsignment' a
storage charge of $10 per car will be assessed for each day
or fractional part of a day that a car is held for reconsignment after 48 hours after the hour at which free time
begins to run under the demurrage rules.

TURNER LUMBER CO. v. C., M. & ST. P. RY.
259

261

Opinion of the Court.

"These charges will be assessed regardless of whether
cars are held on railroad hold tracks or transfer tracks,
including consignee's or other private sidings, and will be
in addition to any existing demurrage and storage
charges."
The general nature of charges under the Uniform Demurrage Code was considered in Swift & Co. v. Hocking
Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281, and Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. Kitanning Iron & Steel Co., 253 U. S. 319. The
origin and purpose of the penalty charge here in question
were discussed in Edward Hines, etc., Trustees v. United
States, 263 U. S. 143. The nature and scope of the reconsignment privilege are stated in Reconsignment Case, 47
I. C. C. 590; Reconsignment Case No. 3, 53 I. C. C. 455;
Stetson, Cutler & Co. v. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co., 91 I. C. C. 3. This penalty charge was
attacked as unreasonable and unjustly discriminatory in
American Wholesale Lumber Association v. DirectorGeneral, 66 I. C. C. 393, and there held by the Interstate
Commerce Commission to be neither unreasonable nor
otherwise unlawful.'
By stipulation in writing a jury was waived; the case
was submitted on agreed facts; these were adopted by the
court as a special finding of facts; and judgment was
entered for the defendant on November 8, 1924, 2 Fed.
(2d) 291. The District Court had jurisdiction under
Paragraph Eight of ยง 24 of the Judicial Code, despite the
small amount, because the suit arises under a law regulating commerce. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
IDuring the period of federal control this tariff was filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, as provided by law, to be effective
October 20, 1919. After the termination of federal control the defendant and other railroads continued to maintain the provision in
their published tariffs until March 13, 1922, when it was cancelled

in pursuance of the decision and order of the Commission in
American Wholesale Lumber Co. v. Director General, 66 I. C. C. 393.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Rice, 247 U. S. 201. Preliminary resort to the Interstate
Commerce Commission was unnecessary, because no administrative question is presented. Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285. The case
is here on direct writ of error under ยง 238 of the Judicial
Code, prior to its recent amendment, because of the constitutional questions involved.
The efficient use of freight cars is an essential of an
adequate transportation system. To secure it, broad
powers are conferred upon the Commission. Compare
United States v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533; Avent v.
United States, 266 U. S. 127; United States v. P. Koenig
Coal Co., 270 U. S. 512. One cause of undue detention is
lack of promptness in loading at the point of origin or
in unloading at the point of destination. Another cause
is diversion of the car from its primary use as an instrument of transportation by employing it as a place of
storage, either at destination or at reconsignment points,
for a long period while seeking a market for the goods
stored therein. To permit a shipper so to use freight cars
is obviously beyond the ordinary duties of a carrier.
The right to assess charges for undue detention existed
at common law. Now, they are subject, like other freight
charges, to regulation by the Commission. Demurrage
charges are thus published as a part of the tariffs filed
pursuant to the statutes.
All demurrage charges have a double purpose. One is
to secure compensation for the use of the car and of the
track which it occupies. The other is to promote car
efficiency by providing a deterrent against undue detention. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Kitanning Iron & Steel
Co., 253 U. S. 319, 323; Edward Hines, etc., Trustees v.
United States, 263 U. S. 143, 145. The charge here in
question, although called a penalty, is in essence an additional demurrage charge, increasing at a step rate. Such
additional charges increasing with the length of the pe-

UNITED STATES v. WYCKOFF CO.
259

Syllabus.

riod of detention were introduced in respect to some cars
by the National Car Demurrage Rules. See Rule 7.Demurrage Charges, sections A and B. They were widely
applied while the railroads were under federal control.
See General Orders of the Director General Nos. 3, 7,
and 7a. Bulletin No. 4, Revised (1919), pp. 146, 151;
Supplement to Bulletin, Revised (1920), p. 44. The
power to impose such charges, if reasonable, is clear.
Those here in question have been found by the Commission to be reasonable. It is not claimed that there was
no evidence to support the finding. Compare Louisiana
& Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 114.
The further contentions are that there was a denial of
due process of law because the so-called penalty was
imposed without notice; and that there was a denial of
equal protection of the laws, because the charge was
applicable only to cars loaded with lumber. The demurrage charge is, however, a tariff provision and not a
penal law, and thus the tariff duly filed charges the shipper with the requisite notice. And neither the Constitution nor the rule of reason requires that either freight
or demurrage charges or the reconsignment privilege
shall be the same for all commodities. We find no reason
to disturb the basis of the Commission's classification.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. WYCKOFF PIPE & CREOSOTING COMPANY, INC.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 282.

Argued April 29, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. Where a contractor with the Government completed the job under
the contract, reserving the right to claim damages due to long
delays by the Government in performing its part, the measure of
such damages was not the difference between the contract price

