OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
271 U. S.

Syllabus.

TAYLOR, TRUSTEE,

ET AL.

v. VOSS, TRUSTEE.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 199.

Argued March 8, 9, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

1. The "controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings" referred
to in § 24a of the Bankruptcy Act, include those matters arising in
the course of a bankruptcy proceeding, which are not mere steps
in the ordinary administration of the bankrupt estate, but present,
by intervention or otherwise, distinct and separable issues between
the trustee and adverse claimants concerning the right and title to
the bankrupt's estate. P. 180.
2. In such "controversies" the decrees of the court of bankruptcy
may be reviewed by appeals which bring up the whole matter and
open both the facts and the law for consideration. P. 181.
3. The "proceedings" in bankruptcy referred to in § 24b are those
matters of an administrative character, including questions between
the bankrupt and his creditors, which are presented in the ordinary
course of the administration of the bankrupt's estate. In such
administrative matters-as to which the courts of bankruptcy proceed in a summary way in the final settlement and distribution of
the estate-their orders and decrees may be reviewed by petitions
for revision which bring up questions of law only. P. 181.
4. The essential distinction between the different methods provided
for reviewing the orders and decrees of the courts of bankruptcy
is, that "controversies" in bankruptcy proceedings, arising between the trustee representing the bankrupt and his creditors, on
the one side, and adverse claimants on the other, affecting the extent of the estate to be distributed, may be reviewed both as to
fact and law; while "proceedings" in bankruptcy affecting merely
the administration and distribution of the estate, may be reviewed
in matter of law only, except as to the three classes of such "proceedings" enumerated in § 25a, as to which a short right of appeal
is given, both as to fact and law. P. 181.
5. Although a petition for revision cannot be treated as an appeal for
the purpose of enlarging the scope of the review so as to extend to
questions of fact, where a matter which is only reviewable in law
is taken up by an appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals, if the
question of law is sufficiently presented on the record, may treat

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

177

Statement of the Case

the appeal as a petition for revision and dispose of it accordingly. P. 182.
6. A petition filed by the trustee, in the bankruptcy proceeding, todetermine an adverse claim to an interest in the bankrupt's real
estate, based on the statutory rights of his wife, is a "controversy"
which may be reviewed by appeal under § 24a of the Bankruptcy
Act. P. 182.
7. Section 4 of the Jurisdictional Act of 1916, providing that no appellate court "shall dismiss a writ of error solely because an appeal
should have been taken, or dismiss an appeal solely because a writ
of error should have been sued out," can not be extended by implication to the special provisions of the Bankruptcy Act as to
appeals and petitions for revision. P. 182.
S. In a " controversy" in a bankruptcy proceeding, when the facts
are undisputed or no longer in question, it is not necessary to
resort to an appeal under § 24a, but the controlling questions of
law may also be reviewed by a petition for revision under § 24b,
whether they relate merely to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court or to the merits of the controversy. P. 182.
9. Such a review by petition for revision, is a concurrent remedy
merely, and cannot, irrespective of any other limitation, be deemed
an additional remedy which may be resorted to after the time
for an appeal has expired. P. 187.
10. The right of inheritance, free from demands of creditors, granted
by Indiana Rev. Stats. (1881), §§ 2483, 2491, to a widow upon the
death of her husband, remains contingent during his life and can
not be held to mature at his bankruptcy upon the theory that the
adjudication brings about his "civil death." P. 187.
11. The adjudication of a husband as a bankrupt, followed by appointment of a trustee in bankruptcy, operates as a "judicial sale"
of his real estate within the meaning of the Indiana Judicial Sales
Act, (Rev. Stats. 1887, §§ 2508, 2509,) in virtue of which the wife's
inchoate interest in his real estate (not exceeding $20,000) thereupon becomes absolute and free from the demands of creditors as,
and to the extent, provided by §§ 2483-2491 in case of his death.
P. 188.
1 Fed. (2d) 149, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of

Appeals which reversed, on a petition to revise, an order
of the District Court sustaining the claim of Taylor, as
testamentary trustee of a bankrupt's deceased wife, to an
9542'-26-----12

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

interest in her husband's real estate. The controversy
was initiated by a petition filed in the bankruptcy proceedings by the trustee in bankruptcy, Voss.
Mr. Daniel H. Ortmeyer, with whom Mr. Harold Taylor
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Henry B. Walker, with whom Mr. James T. Walker
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In December, 1921, Wilbur Erskine, a married man,
residing and owning real estate in Indiana, was adjudged
a bankrupt on his voluntary petition in the federal District Court for that State. In February, 1922, the respondent Voss was appointed the trustee in bankruptcy.
In March, before any sale of the real estate, the bankrupt's wife, Mary E. Erskine, died testate, leaving by her
will her entire property to the petitioner Taylor, as testamentary trustee. In May, the trustee in bankruptcy
filed a petition in the bankruptcy proceeding, alleging
that the testamentary trustee claimed an interest in the
real estate of the bankrupt, and praying that he be required to set up this claim, and that such interest be fixed
by the court and the right to sell the real estate free from
such claim be declared. The testamentary trustee answered, alleging that upon the adjudication in bankruptcy Mrs. Erskine had become absolutely vested under
the state laws and the Bankruptcy Act, with a wife's
interest in the real estate of her husband, to which she
was entitled at the time of her death; and also praying
that the court fix this interest. Pending a hearing as to
this claim, the real estate was sold by the trustee in bankruptcy, by consent, for $36,870; under an agreement that
not less than one-fifth of the proceeds should be held by

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

him to protect whaltever rights the testamentary trustee
might have in the real estate, and that, if the final decision
should be in favor of the latter, the trustee in bankruptcy
should pay over to him the amount found to be due on
account of his interest in the real estate. Thereafter, the
question as to the disposition of the proceeds of sale was
submitted to the referee under the foregoing agreement
and a stipulation as to the facts, as they have been set
out. Upon this hearing the referee held that the testamentary trustee was entitled to receive one-fifth of the
proceeds of sale, amounting to $7,374, and directed that
this sum be paid to him by the trustee in bankruptcy.
This order was confirmed by the District Judge. Within
two months thereafter the trustee in bankruptcy filed a
petition in the Circuit Court of Appeals for a revision of
this order in matter of law, under § 24b of the Bankruptcy Act.' The testamentary trustee moved to dismiss
this petition on the ground that it presented a controversy arising in the bankruptcy proceeding which could
be reviewed only by an appeal under § 24a of the Act.
The Court of Appeals denied this motion, on the ground
that, while the petition presented such a controversy the
matter might nevertheless be considered as though it had
been brought up by appeal, in accordance with the provisions of § 4 of the Jurisdictional Act of 1916.2 And,
thus considering the matter, the court held, that upon the
death of Mrs. Erskine before the real estate had been sold,
all her right therein had been extinguished, and no interest had passed to the testamentary trustee; and accordingly reversed the order of the District Court. 1 F.
(2d) 149. This writ of certiorari was then granted. 267
U. S. 588.
The contentions of the testamentary trustee are: (1)
That the Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction to
1 30 Stat. 544, c. 541.

239 Stat. 726, c. 448.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

review the order of the District Court under the petition
for revision; and (2) that, even if such jurisdiction
existed, the decree reversing that order was erroneous as
a matter of law.
1. The first of these contentions requires a consideration of the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act dealing
with the review of proceedings in courts of bankruptcy
in the exercise of the appellate and supervisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
By § 24a of the Act the Circuit Courts of Appeals are
"invested with appellate jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy proceeding from the courts of bankruptcy." By § 24b they are given jurisdiction "to superintend and i evise in matter of law the proceedings of the
several inferior courts of bankruptcy

.

.

.

on due

notice and petition by any party aggrieved." And by
§ 25a it is provided that appeals "in bankruptcy proceedings" may be taken to them, within ten days, from judgments as to adjudications of bankruptcy, discharges, and
claims of five hundred dollars or over.
These provisions--which are to be read in the light of
the provision in § 23a, giving the District Courts, as the
successors of the Circuit Courts, general jurisdiction in
plenary actions of "controversies at law and in equity, as
distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy, between
trustees as such and adverse claimants concerning the
property acquired or claimed by the trustees,"-have
given rise to much conflict of opinion in the various Circuit Courts of Appeals in respect of the distinction between "controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings"
and mere "proceedings" in bankruptcy, and the procedure by which they may be brought up for review.
It is now settled by the decisions of this Court, that the
Cc controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings
" referred to in § 24a, include those matters arising in the
course of a bankruptcy proceeding, which are not mere

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

steps in the ordinary administration of the bankrupt estate, but present, by intervention or otherwise, distinct
and separable issues between the trustee and adverse
claimants concerning the right and title to the bankrupt's
estate. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296,
300; Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, 234; Tefft & Co. v.
Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114, 118; Swift & Co. v. Hoover, 242
U. S. 107, 109. In such "controversies" the decrees of
the court of bankruptcy may be reviewed by appeals
which bring up the whole matter and open both the facts
and the law for consideration. Duryea Power Co. v.
Sternbergh, 218 U. S. 299, 302; Houghton v. Burden, 228
U. S. 161, 165.
On the other hand, the "proceedings" in bankruptcy
referred to in § 24b are those matters of an administrative
character, including questions between the bankrupt and
his creditors, which are presented in the ordinary course
of the administration of the bankrupt's estate. Matter
of Loving, 224 U. S. 183, 189. In such administrative
matters-as to which the courts of bankruptcy proceed
in a summary way in the final settlement and distribution
of the estate, U. S. Fidelity Co. v. Bray, 225 U. S. 205,
218 -their orders and decrees may be reviewed by petitions for revision which bring up questions of law only.
Duryea Power Co. v. Sternbergh, supra, 302.
It thus appears that the essential distinction between
the different methods provided for reviewing the orders
and decrees of the courts of bankruptcy is, that "controversies" in bankruptcy proceedings, arising between the
trustee representing the bankrupt and his creditors, on the
one side, and adverse claimants on the other, affecting the
extent of the estate to be distributed, may be reviewed
both as to fact and law; while "proceedings" in bankruptcy affecting merely the administration and distribution of the estate, may be reviewed in matter of law only,
3Many of these administrative matters are enumerated at p. 207.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

except as to the three classes of such "proceedings"
enumerated in § 25a, as to which a short right of appeal
is given, both as to fact and law. Furthermore, apart
from the scope of the review permitted by the Act, the
distinction between an appeal and a petition for revision
in the mere matter of form, is immaterial. Thus, although a petition for revision cannot be treated as an
appeal for the purpose of enlarging the scope of the review
so as to extend to questions of fact, Duryea Power Co. v.
Sternbergh, supra,302, where a matter which is only reviewable in law is taken up by an appeal, the Circuit
Court of Appeals, if the question of law is sufficiently presented on the record, may treat the appeal as a petition
for revision and dispose of it accordingly. Bryan v.
Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188, 193; Holden v. Stratton, 191
U. S. 115, 118, 119; Duryea Power Co. v. Sternbergh,
supra, 301.
Coming then to the procedural question involved in
the present case, it is clear, in the first place, that, as was
held by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the matter presented
is a "controversy" between the trustee in bankruptcy
and the testamentary trustee, as an adverse claimant, in
respect to the title to the bankrupt's estate, which might
have been reviewed by an appeal under § 24a of the Bankruptcy Act. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, supra, 300;
Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545, 553;
Houghton v. Burden, supra, 165; Greey v. Dockendorff,
231 U. S. 513, 514; Globe Bank v. Martin, 236 U. S. 288,
296; Bailey v. Baker Machinery Co., 239 U. S. 268, 270;
Moody v. Century Bank, 239 U. S. 374, 377; Benedict v.
Ratner, 268 U. S. 353, 358. And if, under the provisions
of the Bankruptcy Act, an appeal was the only method by
which this "controversy" could be reviewed, we think it
is clear that there was no warrant for treating the petition for revision as bringing the matter up on appeal,
under the provision of § 4 of the Jurisdictional Act of

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

1916, that no appellate court "shall dismiss a writ of
error solely because an appeal should have been taken, or
dismiss an appeal solely because a writ of error should
have been sued out." This remedial provision, as plainly
appears from the language used and the entire context,
was intended to apply only to the general distinction between appeals and writs of error, obtaining from the
foundation of our judicial system and cannot be extended
by implication to the special provisions of the Bankruptcy Act as to appeals and petitions for revision, to
which no reference whatever was made.
On the question whether the method of reviewing a
" controversy" in bankruptcy provided by § 24a of the
Bankruptcy Act, is necessarily exclusive of that provided
by § 24b, that is, whether a controversy which may be reviewed both as to fact and law by an appeal under § 24a,
may also, when the facts are undisputed, be reviewed in
matter of law by a petition for revision under § 24b, there
has been an irreconcilable conflict of decisions in the various Circuit Courts of Appeals. This had led to much confusion and to the determination of many cases upon the
procedural question merely, without reference to the
merits. See cases collected in 8 Remington on Bankruptcy, 3d ed., §§ 3704, 3706, 3734.4
4It

was said in Re Holmes (C. C. A.), 142 Fed. 391, 392, that the

question whether the appellate and revisory jurisdiction of the courts
of appeals are exclusive of each other "has resulted in such contrariety of decision relative to the proper method of review of specific orders and such confusion and uncertainty in the practice that
it has become necessary for lawyers in many instances to take an
appeal and file a petition for revision in the same case in order to
be sure to obtain a review of the ruling challenged .... Moreover,
... a large share of the time and labor of the judges of the courts of
appeals, and of the lawyers who assist them, and no insignificant portion of the means of the litigants, all of which are imperatively de-

manded for the decision of the merits of the questions the parties

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

This precise question, in the broad form in which it is
now presented, has not been specifically decided by this
Court. It is true that in Matter of Loving, supra, 188,
there was general language, incidentally used, which if
taken broadly, indicates that "controversies" which are
appealable under § 24a cannot be reviewed by petitions
for revision under § 24b. But, according to a familiar
rule, this language should be regarded as limited by the
circumstances in which it was used. Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 264, 399; Bailey v. Baker Ice Machine Co.,
supra, 272. The case did not present a "controversy"
appealable under § 24a, but, as was explicitly stated, a
"proceeding" in bankruptcy relating to a proof of claim
filed by a creditor, with the incidental assertion of a statutory lien, as to which a special appeal was granted by
§ 25a, to be taken with ten days. The trustee contested
both the amount of the claim and the existence of the
lien. The bankruptcy court allowed the claim for its full
amount as a lien against the bankrupt estate. Thereupon, more than ten days thereafter, the trustee fied a
petition for a revision of this order, abandoning his contest as to the amount of the claim, and insisting merely
that there was error in matter of law in allowing the lien
as security. On a certificate from the Circuit Court of
Appeals, presenting the single question whether, under
these circumstances, the order of the bankruptcy court
could be reviewed upon a petition for revision, it was
held that § 24b "was not intended to give an additional
remedy to those whose rights could be protected by an
appeal under § 25 of the Act." And, since no question
as to the effect of § 24a was presented by the certificate
seek to present, or of still more important issues of law, are consumed
in the litigation, determination, and preparation of opinions concerning the question whether an order or proceeding in bankruptcy which
is clearly reviewable must be reviewed by appeal or by petition for
revision,"

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

or involved in the decision, it is clear that its effect must
be limited, as a controlling authority, to the holding that
when the ten days had expired within which the special
appeal might have been taken under § 25a, bringing up
both the facts and the law, the trustee could not thereafter, by abandoning his contention of fact, obtain by a
petition for revision a review of the question of law which
he might have obtained by an appeal taken within the
prescribed time, and thereby extend, as to the question of
law, the time within which he was entitled to obtain a
review of the order.
On the other hand, in Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works,
supra, 299, presenting a "controversy" in a bankruptcy
proceeding in which the facts were not disputed that had
been reviewed by an appeal under § 24a, it was distinctly
recognized that a review might also have been had in
matter of law by a petition for revision under § 24b.
And it is well settled by other decisions of this Court that
a "controversy"
in bankruptcy proceedings may be
reviewed by a petition for revision as to some matters of
law, at least. Thus, where a trustee has instituted a
summary proceeding in a bankruptcy court for the recovery of property in the possession of a third person asserting a claim adverse to the bankrupt estate, a petition for
revision will lie to bring up for review the question of
law whether the court of bankruptcy has jurisdiction to
adjudicate the merits of such controversy in a summary
proceeding. Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S.
18, 25; Schweer v. Brown, 195 U. S. 171, 172; Galbraithv.
Vallely, 256 U. S. 46, 48; Taubel Co. v. Fox, 264 U. S.
426, 429. An analogous rule was also applied in Weidhorn v. Levy, 253 U. S. 268, 270. There the trustee had
filed in the bankruptcy suit a bill in equity against an
adverse claimant, thereby instituting a "controversy" in
the bankruptcy proceeding. The referee, over an objection to his jurisdiction, had entertained the bill and en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

tered a final decree in favor of the trustee. The District
Judge, considering the jurisdictional question alone, dis-

missed the bill upon the ground that the referee had
exceeded his powers. This question was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals by a petition for revision, and,
while this Court said that, if the District Court had sustained the jurisdiction and passed upon the merits, the
decree could only have been reviewed by an appealevidently referring to a review both of fact and lawit was held that " since the decision turned upon a mere
question of law as to whether the referee had authority to
hear and determine the controversy-in effect a question
of procedure-it properly was reviewable by petition to
revise under § 24b." And, subsequently, it was tacitly
assumed by this Court, in two decisions, without question, that where trustees had instituted summary proceedings in the bankruptcy courts involving controversies
with third persons asserting adverse claims to the property of the bankrupts, the Circuit Courts of Appeals had
jurisdiction under petitions for revision to determine all
the questions of law presented on the undisputed facts,
both as to the summary jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
courts and the merits of the controversies; and this Court
based its judgments upon a review of the questions of
law thus presented, both as to the existence of summary
jurisdiction and the merits. Chicago Board of Trade v.
Johnson,264 U. S. 1, 6; May v. Henderson, 268 U. S. 111,
112.
In the light of these decisions,-bearing in mind that
the only distinction in matter of substance between an appeal and a petition for revision is that the one brings up
for review questions both of fact and law, and the other,
those of law merely, and finding nothing in the letter of
the Act which necessarily makes the comprehensive
remedy of an appeal as to both fact and law, exclusive of
the narrower remedy of a petition for revision in matter

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

of law,-we conclude that, in a "controversy" arising in
a bankruptcy proceeding, it is not essential to a review,
when the facts are undisputed or no longer questioned,
that resort should be had to an appeal under § 24a; but
that in such case the controlling questions of law may
also be reviewed by a petition for revision under § 24b,
whether they relate merely to the jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy court or to the merits of the controversy.
Such a review, however, by petition for revision, is a concurrent remedy merely, and in conformity with the decision in the Loving Case, cannot, irrespective of any other
limitation, be deemed an "additional remedy" which may
be resorted to after the time for an appeal has expired.
This construction of the Act is, we think, consistent with
its letter; accords with its spirit and manifest purpose;
and gives it a practical effect removing in large measure the technical question of procedure which has so
greatly obstructed its efficient administration, and
served in so many instances as a trap, not intended
by Congress, to unwary persons enmeshed in abstruse
perplexities.
It results that, as the controversy in the present case
was presented in the bankruptcy proceeding by consent
of the parties, for determination as a matter of law on
stipulated facts, it was properly reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals in such matter of law under the petition for revision.
2. This brings us to the questions presented upon the
merits, whether Mrs. Erskine at the time of her death
was vested with any interest in the real estate of the
bankrupt; and if so, the extent of such interest.
The testamentary trustee contends, alternatively, that
under the statutes of Indiana she became vested with a
one-fifth interest in all the real estate when her husband
was adjudged a bankrupt; or, if not, then with a lesser
interest when the trustee in bankruptcy was appointed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

The first contention is based upon the Indiana statute
of descent, which provides that: "If a husband die
leaving a widow, one-third of his real estate shall descend to her in fee-simple, free from all demands of
creditors: Provided, however, That where the real estate
exceeds in value ten thousand dollars, the widow shall
have one-fourth only, and where the real estate exceeds
twenty thousand dollars, one-fifth only, as against creditors." Ind. Rev. Stat. (1881), § 2483; also § 2491, to the
same effect. This contention lacks any substantial basis.
The statute creates no estate in the wife during her husband's lifetime, but merely an inchoate and contingent
interest, which depends upon her survivorship and is extinguished if she dies before him. Thompson v. McCorkle, 136 Ind. 484, 495, 497; Fry v. Hare, 166 Ind. 415,
420. The argument that the adjudiction of a husband as
a bankrupt brings about his "civil death," so that his wife
is to be regarded as a "widow" within the meaning of the
statute, vested by virtue of the adjudication with the interest in his real estate which would have descended to
her if she had survived him, is inconsistent with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, the language of the
Indiana statute, and the decisions of the courts of the
State; and the contention was rightly denied by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The alternative contention of the testamentary trustee
is based upon the Indiana Judicial Sales Act, which provides that: "In all cases of judicial sales of real property
in which any married woman has an inchoate interest by
virtue of her marriage,

.

.

.

such interest shall become

absolute and vest in the wife in the same manner and to
the same extent as such inchoate interest of a married
woman now becomes absolute upon the death of the
husband, whenever, by virtue of said sale, the legal title
of the husband

.

.

.

shall become absolute and vested

in the purchaser thereof "; but this provision shall not

TAYLOR v. VOSS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

apply to so much of such real property as exceeds in value
twenty thousand dollars. Ind. Rev. Stat. (1881),
§§ 2508, 2509. 5
It is settled by repeated decisions of the Supreme Court
of Indiana that under the Bankruptcy Act of 1867 6 a
conveyance made by the judge or register in bankruptcy
of the real estate of an adjudged bankrupt to his assignee
in bankruptcy, was "a judicial sale" within the meaning
of the Indiana statute, and that the inchoate interest of
the bankrupt's wife in such real estate thereupon became
absolute and vested in her in the same manner as it would
have done in case of his death. Roberts v. Shroyer, 68
Ind. 64, 67; Ketchum v. Schicketanz, 73 Ind. 137, 143;
McCracken v. Kuhn, 73 Ind. 149, 151; Haggerty v. Byrne,
75 Ind. 499, 502; Lawson v. DeBolt, 78 Ind. 563, 565;
Leary v. Shaffer, 79 Ind. 567, 570; Straugham v. White,
88 Ind. 242, 246; Mattill v. Baas, 89 Ind. 220, 222;
Ragsdale v. Mitchell, 97 Ind. 458, 460; Mayer v. Haggerty,
138 Ind. 628, 634. This rule was also followed by the
federal court in Indiana, in Warford v. Noble (C. C.),
2 Fed. 202, 203. In Roberts v. Shroyer, supra, 67, it was
said that "the foundation of all subsequent proceedings
in bankruptcy, including the conveyance by the judge or
register to the assignee, is the previous adjudication of the
debtor's bankruptcy. That adjudication gives character
to the conveyance made by the judge or register to the
assignee, and makes it a judicial sale. It is judicial because it is founded on the judgment of the court
That the conveyance thus made by the judge or register
must be regarded as a sale within the meaning of our
statute, we think is equally clear."
5

The Circuit Court of Appeals, misapprehending, it appears, the
position taken by the testamentary trustee, and thinking that he did
not claim any title under the Judicial Sales Act, did not pass upon
this contention.
14 Stat. 517, c. 176.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

In Harlin v. American Trust Co., 67 Ind. App. 213, 220,
it was held by the Appellate Court of Indiana that these
decisions applied with full force to cases arising under the
present Bankruptcy Act, and that an adjudication in
bankruptcy followed by the appointment of a trustee, in
whom, under § 70 of the Act, title to the bankrupt's property was vested by operation of law, likewise operated as
a "judicial sale" within the meaning of the Indiana statute and made absolute the interest of the bankrupt's wife
in the real estate.
We see no substantial distinction, so far as the reasoning of the Indiana courts is concerned, between the cases
arising under the Bankruptcy Act of 1867 and under the
present Bankruptcy Act, since under both Acts the transfer of title to -the bankrupt's property is based, in its last
analysis, upon the adjudication in bankruptcy, that is,
rests upon the judgment of the bankruptcy court, carried
into effect in the one case by a conveyance to the assignee,
and in the other by transfer to the trustee by operation
of the law.
In the absence of any conflicting provision in the Bankruptcy Act the question of a wife's interest in the
bankrupt's property is governed by the local law. See
Stellwagenr v. Clum, 245 U. S. 605. And, following the
construction placed upon the Indiana statute by the courts
of that State, we conclude that the adjudication of
Erskine as a bankrupt, when followed by the appointment
of the trustee in bankruptcy, operated as a "judicial
sale" of his real estate within the meaning of the statute,
and made absolute his wife's interest therein.
Since, however, the application of this statute is expressly limited to $20,000 in value of the husband's real
estate, and by the statute of descent the widow's share in
real estate exceeding $10,000 and not exceeding $20,000
in value, is one-fourth, it follows that the testamentary
trustee was only entitled to receive out of the proceeds of

HARRISON v. CHAMBERLIN.
176

Statement of the Case.

the sale, one-fourth of $20,000, that is, $5,000, and not
the one-fifth of the entire proceeds which was awarded to
him by the District Court.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly reversed, and the cause remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
HARRISON, TRUSTEE, v. CHAMBERLIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 168.

Argued January 22, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

1. A proceeding instituted by a trustee in bankruptcy, in the bankruptcy suit, to recover property in the possession of an adverse
claimant, is a controversy in bankruptcy reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, both as to fact and law, by an appeal taken
under § 24a of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 193.
2. A court of bankruptcy is without jurisdiction to adjudicate in a
summary proceeding a controversy over property held adversely

to the bankrupt estate, unless the adverse claimant consent, or the
claim be merely colorable. P. 193.
3. An actual claim may be adverse and substantial even though in
fact fraudulent and voidable. P. 194.
4. A claim is to be deemed substantial when the claimant's contention discloses a contested matter of right, involving some fair doubt

and reasonable room for controversy, in matters either of fact or
law; and is not to be held merely colorable unless the preliminary
inquiry shows that it is so unsubstantial and obviously insufficient,
either in fact or law, as to be plainly without color of merit, and
a mere pretense. P. 195.
298 Fed. 926, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing an order made by the District Court summarily in a bankruptcy case, requiring the respondent
Chamberlin to deliver money, adversely claimed by her,
to Harrison, the trustee in bankruptcy.
CERTIORARI

