VENNER v. MICH. CENT. R. R. CO.
124

Syllabus.

Court they are not too late to argue it here. There was
no order in the former hearing before the State Commission that the Railroads could have brought before us.
This is the first moment when they have had a chance to
raise what we regard as a perfectly clear point, as it is the
first moment when their rights have been infringed.
There now is an order which is in the teeth of the statute.
It would not be reasonable to hold that they are precluded
from getting the protection that this Court owes them, by
their having failed to go as far as they now learn that
they might have gone in a previous state proceeding
which did not infringe their rights and which could not
be brought here. "The judgment under review was the
only final judgment . . . from which plaintiff in error
could prosecute a writ of error, and until such final judgment the case could not have been brought here for review." Chesapeake & Ohio By. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S.
207, 214. Smith v. McCullough, 270 U. S. 456.
Writ of certiorarigranted.
Writ of error dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

VENNER v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 190. Argued January 28, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.
1. A suit against a railroad by a minority stockholder to enjoin the
company from carrying out an agreement for obtaining additional
equipment and issuing certificates therefor as permitted by an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission which the plaintiff assails

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

as invalid, is essentially a suit to set aside the order, of which a
state court has no jurisdiction. P. 128.
2. Suits to set aside orders, mandatory or permissive, of the Interstate Commerce Commission can be brought only against the
United States and only in the federal courts. P. 130.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing

an injunction suit for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. FrederickA. Henry for appellant.
Mr. S. H. West for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of a federal district
court dismissing a suit for want of jurisdiction. The
suit was begun in a state court and then removed into
the federal court, on the defendant's petition, by reason
of the diverse citizenship of the parties. Want of jurisdiction was adjudged because the court was of opinion
that the suit was essentially one to annul or set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission made under § 20a of the Interstate Commerce Act, c. 91, 41 Stat.
494; that the United States was a necessary defendant
and had not consented to be sued in a state court; and
that the removal did not give the federal court jurisdiction when the state court had none.
A short description of the suit as displayed in the
plaintiff's amended bill will suffice to show its nature.
The plaintiff is a minority stockholder of a railway company which owns and operates an interstate railroad, and
that company is the sole defendant. The purpose with
which the suit is brought is to enjoin the defendant company from carrying out an agreement with two other
railroad- companies under which the three, collectively

VENNER v. MICH. CtNT. R. R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

127

styled "New York Central Lines," are to acquire a large
number of locomotives for use on their respective roads
in both interstate and intrastate commerce; are to obtain
money to pay for this equipment by issuing certificates,
payable at intervals during a period of 15 years, with
semi-annual dividend warrants representing interest; and
are to covenant jointly and severally to pay rentals for
the equipment sufficient to pay the certificates and dividend warrants as they mature. On application by the
three companies pursuant to § 20a the Interstate Commerce Commission, after notice and investigation, made
an order approving the agreement and authorizing the
acts contemplated therein. The order was made the day
before the suit was begun.
The plaintiff alleges in his amended bill that to issue
the certificates and provide for their payment in the manner proposed will be in violation of the laws of the State
wherein the defendant company was incorporated and of
the other States into which its road extends, unless the
approval of designated agencies of those States be secured; that such approval has not been and is not intended to be secured; and that the defendant company
is relying on the order of the Interstate Commerce Comsion and is proceeding to carry out the agreement as
approved by that order. He also alleges that the order
and the provisions of § 20a, under which it was made,
transcend the limits of federal power and encroach on the
power of the States before named. The prayer is that
the defendant company be enjoined from carrying out the
agreement, notwithstanding its approval by the Interstate Commerce Commission under that section.
The defendant challenged the court's jurisdiction by a
motion to dismiss on the grounds before stated, and it
was on consideration of that motion that the decree of
dismissal was entered. The decree was entered and the
10542°-26-.--9

130

OCTOBtR TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

present appeal was allowed prior to the change made in
our appellate jurisdiction by the Act of February 13,
1925.
By § 20a the Commission is empowered to entertain an
application by any carrier by railroad engaged in interstate commerce for authority to issue bonds or other
evidences of indebtedness, or to assume obligations or
liabilities as a lessor or lessee, or as a guarantor or surety
of another carrier; and is further empowered, after notice
to "the Governor of each State in which the applicant
carrier operates" and on due investigation, to grant or
refuse such authority in whole or in part, and thereafter,
for good cause shown, to make such supplemental orders
in the premises as it may deem necessary or appropriate.
The section also provides: "(7) The jurisdiction conferred
upon the Commission by this section shall be exclusive
and plenary, and a carrier may issue securities and assume
obligations or liabilities in accordance with the provisions
of this section without securing approval other than as
specified herein."
We agree with the court below that the suit is essentially one to annul or set aside the order of the Commission. While the amended bill does not expressly pray
that the order be annulled or set aside, it does assail the
validity of the order and pray that the defendant company be enjoined from doing what the order specifically
authorizes, which is equivalent to asking that the order
be adjudged invalid and set aside. Lambert Run Coal
Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 377, 380, 382.
Such a suit must be brought against the United States as
the representative of the public and may be brought only
in a federal district court. Judicial Code, §§ 208, 211; Act
of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 219; Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S.
493, 504-505; North Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 485, 487; Texas v. Interstate Corn-

PATTERSON v. MOBILE GAS CO.
127

Syllabus.

merce Commission, 258 U. S. 158, 164; Lambert Run Coal
Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., supra. That the order
is not mandatory but permissive makes no difference in
this regard. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263.
And as the state court was without jurisdiction the federal
court acquired none by the removal. Lambert Run Coal
Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., supra.
The plaintiff cites Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70, and Texas v. Eastern
Texas R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204, as showing jurisdiction
below; but neither case is open to such an interpretation.
In the first no order of the Commission was involved
either directly or indirectly. In the second this Court
dealt in a single opinion with two distinct proceedings.
One was a suit to set aside an order of the Commission
and was brought against the United States and a railroad
company in the proper federal district court. The other
was a prior and related suit brought in a state court
against the railroad company and removed into another
federal district court before the order was made by the
Commission. Afterwards, when the order was made, its
interpretation and operation were drawn in question in
that suit. The question of jurisdiction with which we are
concerned here was not raised there, and there is doubt
that it could have been.
We hold that the dismissal for want of jurisdiction was
right.
Decree affirmed.
PATTERSON ET AL._.v. MOBILE GAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 226. Argued March 19, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.
1. Failure to make up a record in accordance with the rule is cause
for dismissing an appeal. P. 132.

