OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

271 U. S.

OLD COLONY TRUST COMPANY v. CITY OF
SEATTLE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 194.

Argued March 5, 1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.

1. In a suit in the District Court to enjoin distraint of property to
satisfy taxes or for subrogation to a tax lien on other property,
the effect of payment of the taxes under protest and alleged coercion, before dismissal of the bill for want of jurisdiction, and the
effect of a subsequent judgment in another suit, are questions relating to the merits and cannot be considered as grounds for dismissing a jurisdictional appeal. P. 429.
2. In virtue of the Eleventh Amendment, a federal district court
has no jurisdiction over a suit by a private party against a State.
P. 430.
3. A bill against state tax-collecting agents to enjoin, not the collection, but a wrongful and abusive use of the process of collecting,
state taxes, is not a suit against the State. P. 430.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court dismissing the suit for want of jurisdiction. The appellant, as
trustee for bonds secured on street railway property, sued
the City of Seattle, The County of King, W. W. Shields,
as Treasurer of King County, and Matt W. Starwich, as
Sheriff of King County, to enjoin wrongful and inequitable distraint of that property for collection of taxes.

Messrs. James B. Howe, Hugh A. Tait, and Edgar L.
Crider for appellant, submitted.
Messrs. Howard A. Hanson and George A. Meagher,
with whom Messrs. Eing D. Colvin and Thomas J. L.
Kennedy were on the brief, for appellees.

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. SEATTLE.
426

427

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTICE VAw DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In the beginning of the year 1919 the Puget Sound
Power & Light Company owned and was operating two
public utilities in the City of Seattle-one a power and
lighting system and the other a street railway system.
It still owns and operates the power and lighting system,
and the Old Colony Trust Company is the trustee in a
mortgage which was given thereon in 1921 to secure a
large issue of bonds still outstanding.
The City of Seattle now owns and operates the street
railway system. The transfer from the Puget Sound
Company to the city was effected March 31, 1919, under
a. contract between them entered into six weeks before.
Anticipating that the system would be taxed for that.
year by reason of the company's ownership in the early
months, they stipulated in the contract, and again in the
deed of transfer, that "state, county and municipal
taxes" laid on the property for 1919 should be borne
and paid by them in proportions conforming to their
respective periods of possession during the year. On
that basis the company became obligated to pay onefourth and the city three-fourths.
Shortly after the transfer, state, county, and municipal
taxes aggregating over $400,000 were laid on the property
for the year 1919. Of that amount over $179,000 represented taxes imposed by the city. The taxes became a
lien on the property March 15, 1919, and were listed
against the company in the tax records by reason of its
ownership on that date. The county treasurer was to
collect the taxes and pay the money over to the State,
county, and city in definite proportions. If it became
necessary to collect through distraint and sale that was
to be done through the sheriff.
When the taxes became due the city refused to pay any
part of them; and the county treasurer refused to receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

from the company the part allotted to it by the contract
and deed of transfer, and also refused to receive from it
the whole of the state and county taxes unless it also paid
the city taxes. Then, because the company would not
accede to paying all, the treasurer caused the sheriff to
take steps to collect the whole out of the power and
lighting system by distraint and sale.
The present suit was brought in the federal district
court by the Old Colony Trust Company, the mortgagee
of the power and lighting system, to prevent the threatened distraint and sale of that property to pay the taxes
so laid on the street railway property. The bill grounded
the jurisdiction on diverse citizenship, the plaintiff being
a Massachusetts corporation and the defendants being
public corporations and individual citizens of the State of
Washington. The original bill was brought when the
sheriff was about to distrain the property. Besides setting forth the matters we have stated, it charged that the
defendants were acting in concert and collusion to collect
out of the mortgaged power and lighting property the
taxes which had been laid on the street railway property
and made a special lien thereon, and thus to relieve the
city from the performance of its obligation under the
contract and deed. The principal prayer was that the
defendants be enjoined from resorting to the mortgaged
property until after appropriate steps were taken to collect the taxes out of the property on which they were
laid and were a lien. There was also a prayer for an
interlocutory injunction. After the bill was filed the
sheriff distrained the mortgaged property, as before
threatened, and gave public notice of intended sale. This
was set up by the court's leave in a supplemental bill,
which repeated the prayers of the original bill and prayed
further that the plaintiff, if coerced by the threatened
sale into paying the taxes, be accorded the benefit of the
-lien on the street railway property.

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. SEATTLE.
426

429

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants appeared and moved that the two
bills-original and supplemental-be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction of the subject matter and want of equity,
both said to be apparent on the face of the bills. After
a hearing on the prayer for an interlocutory injunction
and the motion to dismiss, the prayer for the injunction
was refused; and three weeks later a decree was entered
dismissing the bills for want of jurisdiction. The court
allowed a direct appeal to this Court, and also certified
that the sole ground of the dismissal was that the suit
was, in effect, a suit against the State and therefore not
cognizable in a federal district court. The statute in
force when the appeal was taken limits the consideration
here to the jurisdictional question shown in the certificate.
The defendants ask that the appeal be dismissed on
two grounds in support of which they make a showing by
affidavits. One ground is that the taxes have been paid
and that this has put an end to the effort to collect them
from the mortgaged property. The showing is that the
taxes were paid by the mortgagor almost three weeks
prior to the decree of dismissal. The plaintiff makes
a counter ,howing that the payment was made by it
and the mortgagor acting together; that they were coerced into this by an impending sale which the court
refused to restrain; and that they at the time not only
protested that the distraint and intended sale were arbitrary and an abusive use of legal process but reserved all
their legal and equitable rights. Obviously, the fact of
payment and its legal effect pertain to the merits and
cannot be considered on this jurisdictional appeal. The
other ground is that since the appeal was taken a decree
has been rendered in another suit between the mortgagor
and some or all of the defendants which determined the
questions relating to these taxes. That decree may have
a bearing on the merits, but affords no ground for dismissing this appeal. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

180 U. S. 28, 31; Male v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., 240 U. S. 97, 99.
We come then to the question whether the suit was in
effect a suit against the State. If it was, the court below
was forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution to take jurisdiction of it; otherwise the jurisdiction was plain.
The bills did not name the State as a defendant; nor
did they complain of any act or omission by it, or seek
any relief against it. They did show that some of the
taxes were state taxes and when collected were to be paid
over to the State. But they were not directed against
the collection of the taxes. On the contrary, they distinctly treated the taxes as valid and collectible. The
complaint was that those who were attempting the collection were wrongfully pursuing a course which was so
much in violation of the rights of the plaintiff as to entitle
it to an injunction-not against collection, but against
that course of action. On this point the bills alleged that
the street railway property on which the taxes were laid
and were a special lien was readily available and amply
sufficient to satisfy them; that the city in acquiring that
property had engaged to pay three-fourths of them; and
that with knowledge of these matters the defendants
wrongfully and collusively entered into an arrangement
to refrain from collecting any part of the taxes out of
the street railway property or from the city and to collect
them out of the power and lighting property which was
mortgaged to the plaintiff; and that the distraint and
threatened sale were in pursuance of that arrangement
and intended to relieve the city from its obligation
through a sacrifice of the plaintiff's mortgage security.
In short, the charge was that the defendants were wrongfully and abusively using the process of collection for a
purpose and in a mode at variance with applicable legal
and equitable principles and hurtful to the plaintiff.

OLD COLONY TRUST CO. v. SEATTLE.
426

431

Opinion of the Court.

We think it apparent from this review of the bills that
the suit was not in name or in effect a suit against the
State, but only a suit against state agents to restrain
them from wrongful acts threatened and attempted
under color of their agency.
The test to be applied is illustrated in Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 636. There a state agent when sued
on account of a wrongful act done under color of the
agency advanced the contention that the State was a
necessary party and that its hnmunity from suit extended
to the agent. But this Court, on a full review of prior
decisions, rejected the contention and said (p. 642):
"But immunity from suit is a high attribute of sovereignty-a prerogative of the State itself-which cannot be availed of by public agents when sued for their
own torts. The Eleventh Amendment was not intended
to afford them freedom from liability in any case where,
under color of their office, they have injured one of the
State's citizens. To grant them such immunity would
be to create a privileged class free from liability from
wrongs inflicted or injuries threatened. Public agents
must be liable to the law, unless they are to be put above
the law."
In Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 285, et seq.,
the question presented was whether a suit against a tax
collector to recover specific property which he had distrained for a state tax and was proceeding to sell was in
substance a suit against the State. Prior to the distraint
the plaintiff had tendered in payment of the tax certain
coupons from state bonds, and the collector had rejected
them as not receivable for the tax. The plaintiff stood
on the tender and after the distraint brought the suit
on the theory that the tender was valid and the subsequent distraint wrongful. This Court held that the suit
was not against the State in form or in substance, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

against the collector for his personal wrong. In the opinion it was said (pp. 293, 299):
"Tried by every test which has been judicially suggested for the determination of the question, this cannot
be considered to be a suit against the state. . . . His
[the plaintiff's] tender, as we have already seen, was
equivalent to payment so far as concerns the legality of
all subsequent steps by the collector to enforce payment
by distraint of his property. He has the right to say he
will not pay the amount a second time, even for the
privilege of recovering it back. And if he chooses to
stand upon a lawful payment once made, he asks no
remedy to recover back taxes illegally collected, but may
resist the exaction, and treat as a wrongdoer the officer
who seizes his property to enforce it."
Other cases well in point, although not relating to
taxes, are PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, 223 U. S.
605, 619; Johnson v. Lank ford, 245 U. S. 541.
The dismissal below for want of jurisdiction was error.
Decree reversed.
MR. JusTICE HOLMES did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA

ET AL.

ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208. Argued November 18, 19, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1926.

1. The Pueblo Indian tribes in New Mexico are dependent communities under the protective care of the United States, and their
lands, though held by title in fee simple, are subject to the legislation of Congress enacted in the exercise of the Government's
guardianship. P. 439.
2. The purpose of Congress to subject the lands of these Indians to
such legislation has been made certain in various ways, including
an act annulling and forbidding taxation of lands by the Territory

