GT. NORTHERN RY. v. GALBREATH CO.
96

99

Syllabus.

less the suspension was accepted. Thereupon a complete
settlement was made, and the amount agreed upon paid.
There was a reservation in the settlement which by no
reasonable construction could include the claim here
made. The claim was for profit for what might have been
made in the 30 days. The Court of Claims held that the
claim must fail by reason of the executed settlement and
we affirm that judgment.
Valuable time was taken in hearing these cases. After
arguments on behalf of the claimants, we declined to
hear the other side because the correctness of the judgments of the Court of Claims was clear. It is fortunate
for all that under the Act of February 13, 1925, judgments of the Court of Claims entered after May 13,
1925, can only be reviewed here after a showing of
merits.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GALBREATH CATTLE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MONTANA
No. 138.

Argued January 15, 1926.-Decided April 19, 1926.

1. Where a petition for removal is based on diverse citizenship and
also on the ground that the suit arises under federal law, the case
is removable if either ground be well taken. P. 101.
2. Where the removal papers are well grounded, it is error for the
state court to deny the petition and proceed further with the
case. Id.
3. An action against a railroad by one who was owner, consignor
and consignee of cattle shipped in, partly by another railroad,
from another State on a through bill of lading governed by the
Carmack Amendment, for damage resulting from defendant's failire to unload them, while in transit, for rest, water, and feeding, as
required by the Act of Congress (34 Stat. 607), is a suit arising
under the laws of the United States. P. 102.
4. A suit by a citizen of the State where it is brought and a citizen
of another State, against a citizen of a third State, is a suit between

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

citizens of different States in the sense of Jud. Code, § 24, defining
the general jurisdiction of the District Courts, and, the other
requisites being present, is removable by the defendant to that
court from a state court. Jud. Code, § 28. P. 102.
66 Mont. 198; 71 id. 56, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Montana affirming a judgment against the Railway Company in an action for damages to a shipment of cattle.
Mr. I. Parker Veazey, Jr., with whom Mr. F. G.
Dorety was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. E. E. Enterline
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.

This was an action begun in a state court in Montana
to recover for injuries to cattle shipped by railroad in interstate commerce.
In due time the defendant presented a verified petition,
accompanied by a proper bond with good and sufficient
surety, for the removal of the case into the federal district court for Montana; but the state court denied the
petition, accorded the defendant an exception, and proceeded to the disposal of the case on the merits. After a
trial it gave judgment for the plaintiffs, which the Supreme Court of the State affirmed after a part of the
damages awarded was remitted. 66 Mont. 198; 71 Mont.
56; Montana Rev. Code, 1921, § 9748. The case is here
on writ of certiorari.
One of the rulings assigned for error in the Supreme
Court of the State was the denial of the petition for removal; but that court held that the case was not removable and sustained the ruling. It was to review the decision on this point that certiorari was granted.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. GALBREATH CO. 101
99

Opinion of the Court.

The material allegations of the plaintiffs' complaint
were to the following effect: One of the plaintiffs is a
corporate citizen of Montana and the other is an individual citizen of Wyoming; while the defendant is a corporate citizen of Minnesota. The cattle were shipped
from Cody, Wyoming, to Seville, Montana, on a through
bill of lading over two connecting lines of railroad, the
second being owned and operated by the defendant. The
plaintiffs owned the cattle, were both consignors and consignees of the shipment and were the lawful holders of
the bill of lading. The cattle were injured while in
transit over the defendant's road by the defendant's action in unreasonably delaying and carelessly handling
them and wrongfully omitting to unload them, when necessary, in a humane manner into properly equipped pens
for rest, water and feeding-the resulting damages to the
plaintiffs being upwards of $30,000.
The petition for removal, besides showing the presence
of the requisite jurisdictional amount and the defendant's
non-residence in the State where sued, asserted a right
of removal on two grounds; first, that the case was one
arising under the laws of the United States, particularly
those applying to the shipment of cattle by railroad in
interstate commerce; and, secondly, that the case was
between citizens of different States.
If either ground was well taken the case was removable, Judicial Code, § 28; General Investment Co. v. Lake
Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 271,
et seq.; Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 653,
and the state court erred in denying the petition and
proceeding further with the case, Judicial Code, § 29;
New Orleans, Mobile and Texas R. R. Co. v. Mississippi,
102 U. S. 135, 141; National Steamship Company v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, 122.
Whether the first ground was well taken is to be determined from the plaintiffs' statement in the complaint

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of their cause of action. According to that statement the
cause of action was for injuries to cattle resulting from
the defendant's negligent and wrongful non-performance
of duties devolving on it as a second and connecting carrier while the cattle were being transported over its road
on a through bill of lading-including the duty to unload
them for needed rest, water and feeding. The bill of
lading was issued under a law of Congress, Carmack
Amendment, c. 3591, § 7, 34 Stat. 593, 595, and governed
the entire transportation-that over the defendant's line
as well as that over the line of the initial carrier, Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Ward, 244 U. S. 383, 387. And
the carriers' duties in respect of unloading the cattle "in
a humane manner into properly equipped pens for rest,
water and feeding" were prescribed by a law of Congress,
c. 3594, 34 Stat. 607. So it is apparent that the case
stated in the complaint was one arising under the laws of
the United States. Cincinnati, etc., Ry. Co. v. Rankin,
241 U. S. 319, 326; St. Louis, etc., Ry. Co. v. Starbird,
243 U. S. 592, 595; Southern Pacific Co. v. Stewart, 245
U. S. 359; ibid. 562; same case, 248 U. S. 446. And see
Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 215
U. S. 501, 507.
It also is apparent from the complaint and the petition
for removal that the case was one between citizens of
different States in the sense of the statute defining the
general jurisdiction of the federal district courts, Judicial
Code, § 24. The words of that statute are, "shall have
original jurisdiction . . . of all suits of a civil nature . . .
where the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value of three thousand
dollars, and . . . is between citizens of different States."
This was such a case. The amount in controversy exceeded the requirement, and the plaintiffs were citizens
of States other than the one of which the defendant was
a citizen. Sweeney v. Carter Oil Co., 109 U. S. 252, 256.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. GALBREATH CO. 103
99

Opinion of the Court.

And as the case was begun in a court of a State of which
the defendant was a nonresident, it came plainly within
the provision for the removal of cases on the ground of
diverse citizenship, Judicial Code, § 28. In concluding
otherwise the state courts conceived that.they were following Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, and Camp v. Gress,
250 U. S. 308. But they misapprehended the question
involved in those cases. Both were begun in a federal
court, and both were recognized as falling within the general jurisdiction of those courts. The question in each was
one of venue-whether the case could be maintained in the
court of a particular district against the defendant's objection. That question was answered in the negative. In
Camp v. Gress the Court was careful to point out the
difference in purpose and operation between the statutory
provision defining the general jurisdiction of the federal
district courts and the provision dealing with venue.
And in General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern, Ry. Co., supra, and Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co., supra, this Court again pointed out that difference, and also that the venue provision respecting suits
begun in those courts has no application to suits removed
into them from state courts. The difference between the
original removal statute of 1789, c. 29, § 12, 1 Stat. 79,
to which the state courts gave some attention, and the
present statute was shown in the last paragraph of the
opinion in Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., supra, and
does not call for further comment here.
We are of opinion that the state court of first instance
should have given effect to the petition for removal and
have declined to proceed further in the case and that the
appellate court should have reversed the judgment with
a direction that that be done.
Judgment reversed.

