HARRISON v. CHAMBERLIN.
176

Statement of the Case.

the sale, one-fourth of $20,000, that is, $5,000, and not
the one-fifth of the entire proceeds which was awarded to
him by the District Court.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly reversed, and the cause remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
HARRISON, TRUSTEE, v. CHAMBERLIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 168.

Argued January 22, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

1. A proceeding instituted by a trustee in bankruptcy, in the bankruptcy suit, to recover property in the possession of an adverse
claimant, is a controversy in bankruptcy reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, both as to fact and law, by an appeal taken
under ยง 24a of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 193.
2. A court of bankruptcy is without jurisdiction to adjudicate in a
summary proceeding a controversy over property held adversely

to the bankrupt estate, unless the adverse claimant consent, or the
claim be merely colorable. P. 193.
3. An actual claim may be adverse and substantial even though in
fact fraudulent and voidable. P. 194.
4. A claim is to be deemed substantial when the claimant's contention discloses a contested matter of right, involving some fair doubt

and reasonable room for controversy, in matters either of fact or
law; and is not to be held merely colorable unless the preliminary
inquiry shows that it is so unsubstantial and obviously insufficient,
either in fact or law, as to be plainly without color of merit, and
a mere pretense. P. 195.
298 Fed. 926, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing an order made by the District Court summarily in a bankruptcy case, requiring the respondent
Chamberlin to deliver money, adversely claimed by her,
to Harrison, the trustee in bankruptcy.
CERTIORARI

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Mr. Philip Kates, with whom Mr. S. A. Mitchell was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry B. Martin for respondent, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In the course of the administration of the estate of the
bankrupt corporation in the District Court for Eastern
Oklahoma, the petitioner Harrison, the trustee in bankruptcy, filed a petition for a summary order requiring
Mrs. Chamberlin, the respondent, a stranger to the proceeding, to deliver to him certain money in her possession which, he alleged, was the property of the bankrupt, held by her fraudulently and without color or claim
of title. She filed a demurrer for want of jurisdiction in
the court to proceed summarily. This was overruled.
She then answered, asserting that the money was her
individual property, acquired and held by her in good
faith; and renewing her jurisdictional objection. The
matter was referred to the referee in bankruptcy to report his findings of fact and conclusions of law. He reported, upon the evidence, that the respondent's claim
was based on fraud and merely colorable; and that the
money was an asset of the estate and subject to the summary jurisdiction of the court. The District Judge confirmed this report and entered a decree finding that the
money was an asset of the estate, held by the respondent
without color of title and in fraud of the rights of the
trustee; and ordering that she deliver it to him forthwith.
She appealed from this order to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and also filed a petition for revision in matter
of law. The Circuit Court of Appeals, being of opinion
that, as questions of fact were involved in the hearing,
the method of review was by appeal, dismissed the petition to revise. On the appeal, it held that the claim of

HARRISON v. CHAMBERLIN.
191

Opinion of the Court.

the respondent was adverse to the trustee and not merely
colorable, and that the District Court was therefore without jurisdiction to proceed against the respondent summarily; and the order of the District Court was reversed,
with instructions to dismiss the proceeding without prejudice to the institution of a plenary action by the trustee
in any court of proper jurisdiction. 298 Fed. 926. This
writ of certiorari was then granted. 266 U. S. 598.
The contentions of the trustee are: (1) That the Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction to review the
order of the District Court under the appeal; and (2)
that, even if such jurisdiction existed, the decree reversing that order was erroneous.
1. It is clear that the proceeding instituted by the
trustee for the recovery of property in the possession of
the respondent, to which she asserted an adverse claim,
presented "a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding,"-as distinguished from an administrative
"proceeding" in bankruptcy-which might be reviewed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, both as to fact and law,
by an appeal taken under ยง 24a of the Bankruptcy Act.
Taylor v. Voss, aite, p. 176, and cases therein cited;
Hinds v. Moore (C. C. A.), 134 Fed. 221, 223; Re Eilers
Music House (C. C. A.), 270 Fed. 915, 925.
2. It is well settled that a court of bankruptcy is without jurisdiction to adjudicate in a summary proceeding a
controversy in reference to property held adversely to the
bankrupt estate, without the consent of the adverse claimant; but resort must be had by the trustee to a plenary
suit. Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1, 15; Louisville
Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18, 24; Jaquith v. Rowley, 188 U. S. 620, 623; Schweer v. Brown, 195 U. S.
171, 172; Galbraith v. Vallely, 256 U. S. 46, 48; Taubel
Co. v. Fox, 264 U. S. 426, 433; May v. Henderson, 268
U. S. 111, 115; Board of Education v. Leary (C. C. A.),
236 Fed. 521, 524; Lynch v. Roberson (C. C. A.), 287
9542,-2C---13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Fed. 433, 435, 437. However, the court is not ousted of its
jurisdiction by the mere assertion of an adverse claim;
but, having the power in the first instance to determine
whether it has jurisdiction to proceed, the court may
enter upon a preliminary inquiry to determine whether
the adverse claim is real and substantial or merely colorable. And if found to be merely colorable the court may
then proceed to adjudicate the merits summarily; but if
found to be real and substantial it must decline to determine the merits and dismiss the summary proceeding.
Mueller v. Nugent, supra, 15; Louisville Trust Co. v.
Comingor, supra, 25; Taubel Co. v. Fox, supra, 433;
May v. Henderson, supra, 16; Board of Education v.
Leary, supra, 525; Lynch v. Roberson, supra, 436.
In the present case the holding of the District Court
that the adverse claim was merely colorable was evidently
based upon its conclusion, upon the entire evidence, that
the claim was fraudulent; and was, in effect, an adjudication upon the merits. And, on the other hand, the holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the claim was of
such a substantial character as to require its determination in a plenary suit, was based upon the view "that a
claim alleged to be adverse is only colorably so when,
admitting facts to be as alleged by the claimant, there
is, as matter of law, no adverseness in the claim." It is
clear, however, that an actual claim may be adverse and
substantial even though in fact "fraudulent and voidable." Mueller v. Nugent, supra, 15; Johnston v. Spencer
(C. C. A.), 195 Fed. 215, 220; Board of Education v.
Leary, supra, 525. And, on the other hand, a claim is
merely colorable if "on its face made in bad faith and
without any legal justification." May v. Henderson,
supra, 109.
Without entering upon a discussion of various cases in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals in which divergent views
have been expressed as to the test to be applied in deter-

HASSLER v. SHAW.
191

Syllabus.

mining whether an adverse claim is substantial or merely
colorable, we are of opinion that it is to be deemed of a
substantial character when the claimant's contention
"discloses a contested matter of right, involving some fair
doubt and reasonable room for controversy," Board of
Education v. Leary, supra, 527, in matters either of fact
or law; and is not to be held merely colorable unless the
preliminary inquiry shows that it is so unsubstantial and
obviously insufficient, either in fact or law, as to be plainly without color of merit, and a mere pretense. Compare Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, 295;
and Moore v. New York Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S. 593.
In the present case it clearly appears that the validity
of the respondent's claim depended upon disputed facts,
as to which there was a conflict of evidence, as well as a
controversy in matter of law. Its determination involved
"fair doubt and reasonable room for controversy" both as
to fact and law. It was therefore substantial, and not
merely colorable; and its merits could only be adjudged
in a plenary suit.
As the respondent's objection to the summary jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court was well taken, and there
was no waiver of her right in this respect, Galbraith v.
Vallely, supra, 50, the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

HASSLER, INC. v. SHAW.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 278.

Argued April 27, 1926.-Decided May 10, 1926.

1. A petition to remove from state to federal court is not a general
appearance. P. 199.
2. Pleading to the merits, after overruling of motion to dismiss for
lack of jurisdiction over defendant which defendant does not waive,

is not submission to the jurisdiction. P. 200.

