HASSLER v. SHAW.
191

Syllabus.

mining whether an adverse claim is substantial or merely
colorable, we are of opinion that it is to be deemed of a
substantial character when the claimant's contention
"discloses a contested matter of right, involving some fair
doubt and reasonable room for controversy," Board of
Education v. Leary, supra, 527, in matters either of fact
or law; and is not to be held merely colorable unless the
preliminary inquiry shows that it is so unsubstantial and
obviously insufficient, either in fact or law, as to be plainly without color of merit, and a mere pretense. Compare Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, 295;
and Moore v. New York Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S. 593.
In the present case it clearly appears that the validity
of the respondent's claim depended upon disputed facts,
as to which there was a conflict of evidence, as well as a
controversy in matter of law. Its determination involved
"fair doubt and reasonable room for controversy" both as
to fact and law. It was therefore substantial, and not
merely colorable; and its merits could only be adjudged
in a plenary suit.
As the respondent's objection to the summary jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court was well taken, and there
was no waiver of her right in this respect, Galbraith v.
Vallely, supra, 50, the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

HASSLER, INC. v. SHAW.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 278.

Argued April 27, 1926.-Decided May 10, 1926.

1. A petition to remove from state to federal court is not a general
appearance. P. 199.
2. Pleading to the merits, after overruling of motion to dismiss for
lack of jurisdiction over defendant which defendant does not waive,

is not submission to the jurisdiction. P. 200.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error

271 U. S.

3. Where objection to the jurisdiction appears in the record proper it
is not necessary to reiterate it in a bill of exceptions. P. 200.
3 Fed. (2d) 605, reversed.

ERuoR to a judgment of the District Court on a verdict
recovered in an action on contract brought in a South
Carolina court by a resident of that State against an Indiana corporation, and removed to the federal court.
Mr. Charles Martindale, with whom Messrs. Benjamin
H. Rutledge and Simeon Hyde were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. S. Harby, with whom Mr. L. D. Jennings was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
If the bill of exceptions be striken out in accordance
with the motion made, the record shows merely that the
defendant in the first instance appeared by answer containing objections to the jurisdiction of the court and a
general defense to the merit, upon which it went to trial
without making any exception to the court's rule on the
jurisdictional point, or without preserving this ruling, and
attempts now, after all other issues are decided against
it, to raise the question of jurisdiction of its person in this
Court. If, on the other hand, the motion to strike out
the bill of exceptions fails, the record shows that the summons and complaint were served personally upon defendant, though such service was made without the State of
South Carolina. Thereafter the defendant appearing especially in the state court moved to set aside the service.
The motion fas refused without prejudice, leaving the
question of jurisdiction still open. Promptly thereafter
the defendant filed in the state court a petition and bond
for removal. Thereafter, without renewing its motion to
set aside the service, or without saving the right to do so,
the defendant filed its answer, which contained a first defense to the jurisdiction of the court, and a second defense upon the merits. Thereafter the cause was tried, at

IASSLER v. SHAW.
195

Argument for Defendant in Error.

which trial the court refused to direct a verdict in favor
of the defendant on the question of jurisdiction, and refused to peremptorily charge the jury that the court would
have no jurisdiction if the attached property was not that
of the defendant Hassler. This trial resulted in a mistral,
and when the cause came on for trial again the record
shows that the defendant entered into the trial, offered
testimony and took no steps to raise the jurisdictional
question, or to except to the judge's rulings thereon, or
to preserve its rights under the first defense of its answer.
The question involving the jurisdiction of a federal
court is not controlled by state statutes or decisions.
Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Casselrnan, 215 U. S. 437.
See also Western Loan & Savings Co. v. Butte & Boston,
etc., 210 U. S. 681.
Defendant's privilege to be sued in Indiana could have
been waived. Ex parte Schollenberger,96 U. S. 378. The
Act of Congress prescribing the place where a person may
be sued is not one affecting the general jurisdiction of
the court. Filing a petition for removal was such a
waiver, and amounted to a consent to the jurisdiction.
Ex parte Moore, 209 U. S. 490. Defendant's plea to the
merits was also a waiver, and submitted it to the jurisdiction of the court. St. Louis Ry. Co. v. McBride, 141
U. S. 127; Western Loan & Savings Co. v. Butte & Boston Min. Co., 210 U. S. 368. See also Texas & Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S 593.
Defendant relies upon the order in the state court,
which refused a motion to set aside the service of the summons "without prejudice, however, to the right of defendant to set up such special defense in its answer as to the
jurisdiction of the court as it may deem advisable." This
proviso manifestly conferred no new rights on defendant.
It merely left the way clear for it to assert the alleged
lack of jurisdiction of the court, provided it did not waive
its right to so do.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

The defendant further submitted itself to the jurisdiction of the court by going to trial without saving an
exception as to the court's ruling on this point. German
Alliance Ins. Co. v. Hale, 219 U. S. 307.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error upon a judgment in personam
against the plaintiff in error on the ground that there
never was any valid service of process against it and that
therefore there was no jurisdiction in the Court. The
writ was transferred from the Circuit Court of Appeals
to this Court, the case being one in which the jurisdiction
of the District Court and that alone was in issue within
the meaning of § 238 of the Judicial Code, under the decisions in Shepard v. Adams, 168 U. S. 618; Remington
v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 95, and Board of
Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co., 198 U. S. 424; and
therefore not open to review in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Carlo Poma, 255 U. S. 219.
The suit is for an alleged breach of contract and was
brought in a Court of the State of South Carolina against
a corporation of Indiana. The only personal service was
by delivery of copies of the summons and complaint in
Indiana, on May 12, 1919, as the record shows. An attachment was levied on property alleged to belong to the
defendant and within the State. The record further
shows that in the same month the defendant moved to
set aside the service, and that the motion was refused.
without prejudice to the defendant's right to set up the
special defense in its answer, this being a right clearly
given by the statutes of South Carolina. The case then
was removed to the District Court of the United States
and subsequently, in September of the same year, an answer was filed alleging the above mentioned motion and
order, and setting up that the Court had no jurisdiction,

HASSLER v. SHAW.
195

Opinion of the Court.

because the defendant was an Indiana corporation doing
no business and having no property within the State upon
which attachment could be levied so as to give the Court
jurisdiction, and also, reserving its right to object to the
jurisdiction, pleading to the merits. In March, 1921, an
amended complaint was filed alleging that the defendant
had property in the State and setting forth the cause of
action. The defendant answered denying the jurisdiction
as before and denying that it had property within the
State, and saving its right to object to the jurisdiction,
again answering to the merits. With regard to the attachment, it is enough to say that a third party intervened, claimed the goods and finally got judgment for
them. But before that happened, there was a trial on the
merits between the plaintiff and defendant and a verdict
for the plaintiff, in 1921. The motion for judgment was
delayed until May, 1924. In the same month the defendant moved to set aside the verdict and to dismiss the complaint for want of jurisdiction. The judge then sitting
thought that the question of jurisdiction should be left
to the decision of the appellate court and ordered judgment. A motion to vacate the judgment was overruled
on the same ground.
Thus it is manifest that the record shows a judgment
against a defendant never served with process and without any attachment of property-a judgment void upon
its face unless the record discloses that the defendant
came in and submitted to the jurisdiction, although not
served. The record discloses no general appearance in
terms, but on the contrary a continuous insistence by the
defendant that it had not been brought within the power
of the Court. But acts and omissions are relied upon as
having the effect of a general appearance. First in order
of time it is said that the petition to remove had that
effect. This if true would be unjust, but the contrary is

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

established. General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore &
Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 268, 269.
Wabash Western Ry. Co. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271, 279.
Then it is said that pleading to the merits was an appearance, notwithstanding the effort of the defendant to
subordinate its denial of the cause of action to its protest
against the jurisdiction, and notwithstanding the statute
of South Carolina and the order in the case purporting
to save its rights. This again would be unjust; but such
is not the law. Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476, 479.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 209. It is
said that going to trial on the merits without saving an
exception submitted to the jurisdiction. The plaintiff,
(the defendant in error,) objects to our seeking any explanation in a bill of exceptions that he says was allowed
too late, but the record shows that at the time of the trial
the attachment was outstanding, not having been vacated
until later, and that it no doubt may have been, as the
bill of exceptions shows that it was, the expectation of
the trial judge that the verdict would be satisfied out of
the attached goods. The record showed the defendant's
denial of the right to proceed, and the grounds for it. It
was not necessary to reiterate the denial in a bill of exceptions, in order to get it on the record. It already was
there.
There was some suggestion that the emphasis, at least,
of the answer denying jurisdiction was on the absence of
the defendant from the State and its having no property
there. But the answer and the amended answer elaborately set out the motion to set aside the service and the
reservation of the defendant's rights by the State judge.
It seems to us impossible to doubt that this was meant to
save the question and that it would be hypertechnical to
require a more explicit statement that the grounds of the
motion as well as the other matters mentioned were still
the basis on which jurisdiction was denied. The other

UNITED STATES v. NOVECK.
195

201

Counsel for Parties.

matters were added simply to give further force to the
failure to serve within the State. We are of opinion that
the record does not disclose an appearance by the defendant, or any submission to the jurisdiction that it
sought and had a right to avoid.
Judgnent reversed.
UNITED STATES v. NOVECK.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 169.

Argued January 25, 1926.-Decided May 10, 1926.

1. That part of Rev. Stats. § 1044, as amended November 17, 1921,
which provides a six year period of limitation "in offenses involving the defrauding or attempts to defraud the United States," does
not apply where such fraud is not an element of tbe offense as
defined by the penal statute on which the indictment is based.
P. 202.
2. The Act of July 5, 1SS4, as amended, and Rev. Stats. § 1046,
fixing limitations for offenses arising under the internal revenue
laws, do not apply to perjury under Criminal Code, § 125. P. 203.
3. Section 125 of the Criminal Code, defining perjury, does not make
intent to defraud the United States an element of the crime. Id.
4. Therefore, a prosecution for perjury under § 125 is subject to the
three year limitation of Rev. Stats. § 1044, and is not made subject to the six year limitation by allegations of the indictment
showing that the false oath was made in an income tax return for
the purpose of defrauding the United States. Id.
Affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court quashing a

count charging perjury, upon the ground that prosecution was barred by statute of limitations.
Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.

