OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

271 U. S.

Commissioners to be fixed by the Court, shall be paid
equally by the parties hereto-that is, each shall pay
one-half, except the cost of printing the evidence and
Supplemental Report of the Commissioners and exhibits,
which will be paid by Tennessee.
It is so finally ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the
Court.

SCOTT v. PAISLEY

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 253.

Argued April 19, 20, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. Under § 6037 of the Georgia Code, 1910, the holder of a debt
and of the legal title of land conveyed to him as security by the
debtor, may, upon default in payment, reduce the debt to judgment, place of record a quitclaim reinvesting the debtor with the
legal title to the land, and thereupon-have the land levied on and
sold in satisfaction of the judgment, free from the claims of persons who purchased the land from the debtor subject to the
security deed. P. 634.
2. Held, that there is no principle entitling such purchasers to notice
of the exercise of this statutory power by the creditor, and that
in failing to provide such notice the statute does not deprive them
of property without due process of law or deny them the equal
protection of the laws. P. 635.
158 Ga. 876, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia,
which affirmed a judgment dismissing the petition in a
suit by Dorothy Scott, purchaser of land subject to a
security deed, to set aside a sale made thereunder, and to
redeem the legal title by payment of the debt.
ERROR

Mr. Paul Donehoo, with whom Messrs. Hooper Alexander and N. T. Anderson, Jr., were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter McElreath for defendants in error.

SCOTT v. PAISLEY.
632

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves a single question relating to the constitutional validity of § 6037 of the Georgia Code of 1910.
This section, which is set forth in the margin,1 provides,
in substance, that, in cases where a deed has been executed conveying the legal title to land as security for
the payment of a debt 2-- known in Georgia as a" security
deed "-and the holder of the debt, upon default in payment, has reduced it to judgment, and the holder of the
legal title to the land makes and places of record a quitclaim conveyance to the debtor, reinvesting him with the
legal title to the land, it may thereupon be levied upon
and sold in satisfaction of the judgment.
This suit was brought by Dorothy Scott in a Superior
Court of Georgia. The case made by her petition was,
in substance, this: In 1919 she purchased a tract of land,
subject to a security deed which the previous owner had
executed to secure a note for borrowed money. Thereafter, the note not being paid at maturity, the holder, the
grantee in the security deed, brought suit, without notice
to her, against the grantor in the security deed, and, after
recovering judgment on the note, executed and placed of
record a quitclaim deed to the defendant; whereupon the
sheriff levied an execution on the land, and, after due
advertisement, sold it at public sale in satisfaction of the
" § 6037. In cases where . . . a deed to secure a debt has
been executed, and the . . . secured debt has been reduced to
judgment by the . . . holder of said debt, the holder of the legal
title . . . shall, without order of any court, make and execute
to said defendant in fi.fa. . . . a quitclaim conveyance to such
. . . property, and file and have the same recorded in the clerk's
office; and thereupon the same may be levied upon and sold as other
property of said defendant, and the proceeds shall be applied to the
payment of such judgment. . .
2

See § 3306.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

judgment. The petitioner, while not claiming that there
was any defense to the note or any irregularity or mala

fides in the proceeding, alleged that the sale was void as
against her on the ground that § 6037 of the Code, as
applied to a case where the grantor in a security deed
conveys his interest in the land to a third person before
a suit is brought to reduce the secured debt to judgment,
is in conflict with the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it provides
that the person thus acquiring the interest of the grantor,

may be divested thereof through a proceeding to which
he is not a party, without notice or opportunity to be
heard and make defense. The petitioner prayed that the
sale be held null and void as against.her, and that she be

declared the equitable owner of the land, with the right
to redeem the legal title by payment of the note.

The petition was dismissed by the Superior Court, on
demurrer; and this judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, per curiam. 158 Ga. 876. The
case is here on a writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial
Code.
The case is in a narrow compass. That, under the
Georgia decisions, a sale made under a prior security deed
in conformity to the provisions of § 6037, divests a
purchaser from the grantor of all rights in the land is
conceded. The contention that this section is unconstitutional, as applied to such a purchaser, rests, in its last
analysis, upon the claim that he is entitled, as a matter
of right, in accordance with settled usage and established
principles of law, to notice of a proceeding to sell the land
under the prior security deed and opportunity to make
defense therein. We cannot sustain this contention.
Here the holder of the secured debt was also the holder
of the legal title to the property by which it was secured.
In such case at least, § 6037 authorizes the holder of the
secured debt, by following the procedure outlined by the

SCOTT v. PAISLEY.
632

635

Opinion of the Court.

statute, to bring the property to sale in satisfaction of the
debt. Its effect is no more than if it conferred upon the
holder of the secured debt a statutory power of sale,
which may be treated as equivalent, in so far as the constitutional question is concerned, to an express power of
sale in a mortgage or trust deed.
Plainly the right of one who purchases property subject to a security deed, with a statutory power of sale
which must be read into the deed, is no greater than that
of one who purchases property subject to a mortgage or
trust deed, with a contractual power of sale. The validity
of such a contractual power of sale is unquestionable. In
Bell Mining Co. v. Butte Bank, 156 U. S. 470, 477, this
court said: "There is nothing in the law of mortgages,
nor in the law that covers what are sometimes designated
as trust deeds in the nature of mortgages, which prevents
the conferring by the grantor or mortgagor in such instrument of the power to sell the premises described
therein upon default in payment of the debt secured by it,
and if the sale is conducted in accordance with the terms
of the power, the title to the premises granted by way
of security passes to the purchaser upon its consummation
by a conveyance." In the absence of a specific provision
to that effect, the holder of a mortgage or trust deed
with power of sale, is not required to give notice of the
exercise of the power to a subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer; and the validity of the sale is not affected
by the fact that such notice is not given. McIver v.
Smith, 118 N. C. 73, 75; Atkinson v. College, 54 W. Va.
32, 49; Grove v. Loan, Co., 17 N. Dak. 352, 358; Hardwicke v. Hamilton, 121 Mo. 465, 473; Ostrander v. Hart,
(N. Y.) 30 N. E. 504. And see Watkins v. Booth, 55
Colo. 91, 94; and Groff v. Morehouse, 51 N. Y. 503, 505.
In Hardwicke v. Hamilton,supra, 473, the court said that
" the law imposes no duty upon a person holding a prior
mortgage or deed of trust to notify one holding a similar

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Decree.

271 U.S.

subsequent or junior lien or incumbrance upon the same
property of his intention to sell the property under his
mortgage or deed of trust. All that is required of him is
to advertise and sell the property according to the terms
of the instrument, and that the sale be conducted in good
faith." And in Watkins v. Booth, supra, 94, the court
said that it was the duty of the subsequent lienor "to
keep advised as to proceedings in case of the former
trust deed."
So, a purchaser of land on which there is a prior security deed acquires his interest in the property subject
to the right of the holder of the secured debt to exercise
the statutory power of sale. There is no established principle of law which entitles such a purchaser to notice of
the exercise of this power. And § 6037 neither deprives
him of property without due process of law nor denies
him the equal protection of the laws.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MASSACHUSETTS v. NEW YORK ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

No. 14, Original. Decree entered June 7, 1926.
Final decree defining the rights of the States of New York and
Massachusetts respecting the land in controversy, and dismissing
the bill, with provisions as to costs.
For the opinion in the case, see ante, p. 65.

Announced by Mi. JusTiCE HOLMES.
This cause coming on to be heard on the bill of complaint, the answers of the several defendants, and upon
the pleadings and proofs as well as upon the report of
Wade H. Ellis, Esquire, the Special Master appointed by
this Court to take proofs and make report to this Court
in this cause, and the arguments of counsel thereupon

