136

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

The remaining portions of the decree must be eliminated. We think they were improvident and go materially beyond what the circumstances require. But
whether or not they announce correct conclusions of laW,
we do not decide. The matters to which they relate are
left open and subject to further and future original consideration by any proper tribunal. While within his
powers as the law then stood, the District Judge went
very far when he entirely disregarded the views of the
circuit judges who sat on the specially-constituted court.
The statute was materially changed by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938, and now causes
like this must be finally adjudicated by a court composed
of three judges. To such a court we think the questions
to which those portions of the decree relate ought to go
before we undertake finally to pass upon them.
The approved portion of the decree will protect the
Company against immediate danger of serious injury;
and if hereafter its rights are threatened by further unlawful interference application for relief may be made
to the proper specially-constituted district court.
With the indicated modifications the decree below is
affirmed. All costs will be charged against the appellants.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD concurs in the result.

ISELIN

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM TIE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 291.

Argued April 29, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

1. Offer by letter to buy airplane linen from the Government on
terms specified, including a warranty of quality, held not to have
been accepted by a letter, on behalf of the Government, not
acknowledging the other, differing in terms, and presumably based
on intervening negotiations not disclosed. P. 138.

ISELIN v. UNITED STATES.
136

Opinion of the Court.

2. An acceptance upon terms varying from those offered is a rejection of the offer. P. 139.
60 Ct. Cls. 255, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting appellants' claim, based on an alleged warranty of
quality in a sale of goods by the United States.
Mr. Dallas S. Townsend for appellants.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. W. Marvin Smith,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief
for the United States.
MR. CHIrF JUsTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellants, partners as William Iselin & Company,
sued the United States for $30,000 for breach of a warranty of quality in a sale to them by the United States of
airplane linen. On January 15, 1920, the United States,
through the Materials Disposal & Salvage Division of the
Office of the Director of Air Service, advertised for bids
for 168,400 yards of aircraft linen, to be submitted February 2, 1920. The bidders were to be notified February
5th of the yardage awarded, and were then to forward a
check for 10 per cent. of the purchase price, remainder
within thirty days. The advertisement also stated that
the materials would be sold "as is" at points of storage,
that inspection was invited, that specifications and quantities on hand were based upon best information available, but that no guaranty on behalf of the Government
was given.
The representative of the appellants at New York, on
February 2, 1920, after seeing the advertisement, sent the
following letter to the Salvage Division, office of the Director of Air Service, Washington:
" I herewith submit my firm offer for approximately
168,400 yards of 38-inch grade A natural brown Irish Airplane Linen. Specifications: Minimum threads, warp

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and filling, 90. Maximum threads, warp and filling, 105.
Minimum weight, 4.5 oz. per square yard. Average
length of pieces from 60 to 80 yards, at 93 cents per yard,
f. o. b. cars at present location. Said linen as per sample
submitted; goods to be firsts. This offer is for immediate acceptance on usual Government terms."
Under date of February 10th, there was sent to the
plaintiff's representative the following communication
from the New York office of the Salvage Division:
"This is to advise you that Washington has awarded
you 150,400 yards of 38" grade 'A' Airplane Linen at 93
cents per yard. This linen is listed on sheet No. 3955,
item 1-65,400 yards, and sheet No. 2879 item 6-85,000
yards.
"2. Inasmuch as we have your check for $13,987.20 to
cover 10% of the sale, it is requested that you send this
office Certified Check for $125,884.80 to cover the balance
due together with your shipping directions.
"3. This check should be drawn in favor of 'Disbursing Officer, Air Service,' marking envelope for the attention of the Materials Disposal & Salvage Division, 360
Madison Ave., N. Y. C.
"4. Attention is invited to the following rule of the Air
Service, which requires that payment be made promptly
and material removed within 30 days of award."
It does not appear, and it is not claimed, that there was
any acceptance of appellants bid of February 2nd otherwise than as embodied in the communication last above
quoted.
Upon resale of the linen, the appellants found that it
was not of the quality of "firsts," and brought this suit.
The linen delivered was of grade A, which term describes
a particular texture. The terms "first" and "seconds"
are terms of quality.
The only question in this case is whether the expression "Said linen as per sample submitted; goods to be
firsts," contained in the letter of February 2nd was ac-

ISELIN v. UNITED STATES.
136

Opinion of the Court.

cepted so as to bind the Government to a warranty that
the linen sold was to be of first quality.
We do not think that the letter of February 10th was
an acceptance of the offer of February 2nd. It does not
acknowledge its receipt. It does not purport to be an
answer to it. It differs from it in the yardage of the linen
mentioned by 18,000 yards. It contains no reference to
the quality of the linen. It refers to a check for 10 per
cent. of the price bid on 150,400 yards of linen, which
could not have been sent in the letter of Feburary 2nd,
for it was for a less amount. This shows, as indeed the
counsel for the appellants himself points out, that there
must have been some negotiations, or inquiries or communications between the appellants and the Government
after the letter of February 2nd before the exact amounts
of the linen and the deposit check could be fixed. The
contract is not found in the letter of February 2nd. It
is evidenced by the tender of the deposit check, by the letter of February 10th only, and by the payment of the
balance due on the contract price. It is reasonable to
infer that the letter of February 10th was a belated award
under the advertisement rather than an acceptance of the
letter of February 2nd.
It is well settled that a proposal to accept, or an acceptance, upon terms varying from those offered, is a rejection of the offer, and puts an end to the negotiation,
unless the party who made the original offer renews it, or
assents to the modification suggested. Beaumont v.
Prieto,249 U. S. 554; Minneapolis Railway v. Columbus
Rolling Mill, 119 U. S. 149, 151; National Bank v. Hall,
101 U. S. 43, 50; Carr v. Duvall, 14 Pet. 77, 82; Eliason
v. Henshaw, 4 Wheat. 225.
We must conclude that the Government never entered
into a warranty of the quality of the linen, and so that
no obligation arose from a breach. The judgment of the
Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

