636

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Decree.

271 U.S.

subsequent or junior lien or incumbrance upon the same
property of his intention to sell the property under his
mortgage or deed of trust. All that is required of him is
to advertise and sell the property according to the terms
of the instrument, and that the sale be conducted in good
faith." And in Watkins v. Booth, supra, 94, the court
said that it was the duty of the subsequent lienor "to
keep advised as to proceedings in case of the former
trust deed."
So, a purchaser of land on which there is a prior security deed acquires his interest in the property subject
to the right of the holder of the secured debt to exercise
the statutory power of sale. There is no established principle of law which entitles such a purchaser to notice of
the exercise of this power. And ยง 6037 neither deprives
him of property without due process of law nor denies
him the equal protection of the laws.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MASSACHUSETTS v. NEW YORK ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

No. 14, Original. Decree entered June 7, 1926.
Final decree defining the rights of the States of New York and
Massachusetts respecting the land in controversy, and dismissing
the bill, with provisions as to costs.
For the opinion in the case, see ante, p. 65.

Announced by Mi. JusTiCE HOLMES.
This cause coming on to be heard on the bill of complaint, the answers of the several defendants, and upon
the pleadings and proofs as well as upon the report of
Wade H. Ellis, Esquire, the Special Master appointed by
this Court to take proofs and make report to this Court
in this cause, and the arguments of counsel thereupon

MASSACHUSETTS v. NEW YORK.
636

Decree.

had; therefore for the purpose of carrying into effect the
conclusions of this Court as stated in its opinion filed
herein April 12, 1926,
IT IS NOW HERE ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECED, by
this Court, First: That in and by the agreement duly entered into between the Commissioners of the State of New
York and the Commissioners of the C6mmonwealth of
Massachusetts relating to the so-called western lands and
dated December 16th, 1786, which Agreement is called in
this case and generally known as the Treaty of Hartford
and which is recorded in the office of the Secretary of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Volume 1, Treaties and
Contracts, page 83 and is also duly recorded in the Office
of the Secretary of State of the State of New York, in
Liber 22 of Deeds at page 38, which Treaty of Hartford
is referred to in said Bill of Complaint and in the said
Answers thereto, the State of New York did not cede nor
grant unto the Commonwealth of Massachusetts any of
the land then under the water of Lake Ontario, and that
the right of premption of lands and territory granted to
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts by the State of New
York was not intended by the State of New York nor by
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to include any of
the bed of Lake Ontario as it then existed, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in and by the terms in said
Treaty did thereby cede and release to the State of New
York all right and title of said Commonwealth of Massachusetts in and to the bed of Lake Ontario as part of the
rights appertaining to the sovereignty of the State of New
York over the said territory.
Second: That the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in
and by its Legislative Act approved November 21st, 1788
in Chapter 23 of the Laws and Resolutions of the Session
of 1788-1789, did duly grant and convey to Oliver Phelps
and Nathaniel Gorham the lands and premises which are
known in this case and generally known as the Phelps and

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Decree.

271 U. S.

Gorham purchase, bounded by the north boundary line
of the State of Pennsylvania, bounded on the east by
the meridian line which formed the easterly boundary
line of the land, the right of preemption to which was
ceded to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts by the
Treaty of Hartford; bounded on the west by a line which
it was agreed a-Ad enacted as it approaches Lake Ontario
running northwardly should be "12 miles distant from
the most westward bounds of said Genesee River to the
shore of Ontario Lake" and the north boundary of which,
it was so agreed and enacted should run thence easterly
along the shores of said Lake to the meridian forming said
easterly boundary, and that it was the intention of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts and of said Oliver Phelps
and Nathaniel Gorham; that in and by the said grant,
there should be vested in said Oliver Phelps and Nathaniel
Gorham title in and to all of the land between the northern boundary of Pennsylvania and the waters of Lake Ontario between the eastern and the western boundary lines
of said grant, and that the expression used in said Legislative Act and grant "to the shore of Lake Ontario, thence
eastwardly along the shores of said lake," was intended by
the parties in said grant to mean to the edge of the water
of Lake Ontario, and thence eastwardly along the water
line of Lake Ontario, and that the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts did not intend to and did not retain unto
itself any land lying within said eastern and western
boundaries of said Phelps and Gorham purchase bordering on waters of Lake Ontario and called the shore thereof, and that the Plaintiff, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has no right, title and interest in or to any of the
real estate or premises described in the Bill of Complaint.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this Court that the Bill of Complaint herein be,
and the same hereby is, dismissed with costs to be paid by
the Complainant.

MASSACHUSETTS v. NEW YORK.
636

639

Decree.

It is further ordered by this Court that there be included as costs in this Court one-half of the cost of the
typewritten copy of the testimony furnished to the Special Master, and the whole of the clerk's costs in this
Court.
[Here followed further and concluding provisions, concerning the compensation and disbursements of the Special
Master.]

