456

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Appellants.

271 U. S.

remaining after lienholders are satisfied, must be adequately protected; and to each one of them there must be
given such opportunity as the circumstances permit to
secure the full enjoyment of this preference.
Question III is also answered in the affirmative, subject
to the following qualification. No offer is fair which does
not recognize the prior rights of creditors, as above pointed
out; but circumstances may justify an offer of different
amounts of the same grade of securities to both creditors
and stockholders. Whenever assessments are demanded,
they must be adjusted with the purpose of according to
the creditor his full right of priority against the corporate
assets, so far as possible in the existing circumstances.
HOME FURNITURE COMPANY ET AL. V. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 324. Argued and submitted May 6,1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made upon petition of two railroad companies, permitting the one to acquire control of the other by stock ownership and leases, with the object
of cordinating and improving their operation in connection with
another railroad system, is an order relating to transportation,
within the meaning of the Act of October 22, 1913; and therefore
a suit to set the order aside cannot be brought in a district where
neither of the petitioning companies resides. P. 459.
2 Fed. (2d) 765, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court sustaining
a plea for the dismissal of a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, upon the ground
that it was in the wrong venue.

Messrs. Joseph U. Sweeney and Edward C. Wade, Jr.,
for appellants, submitted.

HOME FURN. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

457

Opinion of the Court.

456

Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Blackburn
Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, and P. J.
Farrell for the United States and Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. Joseph P. Blair, with whom Messrs. William F.
Herrin,H. M. Garwood, and J. H. Tallichet were on the
brief, for Southern Pacific Company and El Paso &
Southwestern Railroad Company.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellants are residents of El Paso, Texas, and there
engage in the business of buying and selling furniture.
By a bill presented to the United States District Court
for the Western District of Texas, they sought annulment
of an Interstate Commerce Commission order, which permitted acquisition of control over the Southwestern System by the Southern Pacific Company.
They allegedThat the Southern Pacific Company is a corporation
under the laws of Kentucky, which operates railroads in
California, Arizona, New Mexico and other States.
"That defendant El Paso & Southwestern Railroad
Company is a corporation incorporated under the laws of
the State of Arizona and is authorized to and does operate railroads in the States of Arizona, New Mexico and
Texas; that said defendant is engaged in the transportation of passengers and property in interstate commerce
subject to the Interstate Commerce Act; that defendant
is part of what is known as the El Paso & Southwestern
Railway System, consisting of the following railroad
companies, viz: The El Paso & Southwestern Railroad
Company, the El Paso & Southwestern Railroad of Texas,
the Burro Mountain Railroad Company, the Arizona &
New Mexico Railway Company, the Dawson Railway

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

Company, the El Paso & Northeastern Railway Company,
the El Paso & Rock Island Railway Company, the Alamogordo & Sacramento Mountain Railway Company, the
El Paso & Northeastern Railroad Company, and the Tucson, Phoenix & Tide Water Railway Company, hereinafter, for convenience sake, referred to as the Southwestern System; that all of the issued and outstanding
capital stock and a portion of the outstanding bonds of
the companies comprising said System are owned directly
or indirectly by the El Paso & Southwestern Company,
a holding corporation of the State of New Jersey; that
of the railway companies comprising said system only
the defendant El Paso & Southwestern Railroad Company
is engaged in the transportation of passengers and property in interstate commerce, which said company, in addition to operating the lines of railway owned by it, operates under lease all of the existing railways of the remaining companies comprising said system."
That the Southern Pacific Company and the El Paso &
Southwestern Railroad Company, on July 1, 1924, petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission for an order
approving the former's proposal to acquire control of the
Southwestern System by stock ownership and through
leases.
That, on September 30, 1924, the Commission approved
the proposal.
That they will be injured, by the proposed control,
through loss of opportunity to route their goods over
either of two competing systems, and the depreciation of
service and increase of rates which will naturally result
from suppression of competition. The gravamen is that
transportation facilities, service and charges will be adversely affected by the union of the two systems under
one management.
Appellees denied jurisdiction of the court and asked
dismissal of the bill. They set up, by plea-

HOME FURN. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
456

459

Opinion of the Court.

"That the venue of the suit upon said alleged cause of
action does not lie in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Texas, but, on the contrary, said venue lies, if the suit is maintainable at all, in
the District Court of the United States for the District of
Arizona or for the District of Kentucky, as complainants
may elect to file their bill in either of said districts, for
the following reasons, to wit:
"Because it affirmatively appears from the face of complainants' Bill heretofore filed herein that Southern Pacific Company, a corporation of the State of Kentucky, having its domicile in said State of Kentucky, and El Paso
& Southwestern Railroad Company, a corporation of the
State of Arizona, having its domicile in the State of Arizona, were the parties upon whose petition the order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission sought to be reviewed and set aside in this proceeding was made and
because it further appears from the said bill of complainants that the said order relates to transportation and was
made upon the petition of the parties aforesaid."
This plea was sustained January 15, 1925, 2 Fed. (2d)
765, and the cause is here by direct appeal. Act October
22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220. Decision of the question at issue must turn upon the proper construction and
application of the following provision of that Act, pp. 219,
220-"The venue of any suit hereafter brought to enforce,
suspend, or set aside, in whole or in part, any order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission shall be in the judicial
district wherein is the residence of the party or any of the
parties upon whose petition the order was made, except
that where the order does not relate to transportation or
is not made upon the petition of any party the venue shall
be in the district where the matter complained of in the
petition before the commission arises, and except that
where the order does not relate either to transportation

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

or to a matter so complained of before the commission the
matter covered by the order shall be deemed to arise
in the district where one of the petitioners in court has
either its principal office or its principal operating office.
In case such transportation relates to a through shipment
the term 'destination' shall be construed as meaning
final destination of such shipment."
The language of this provision was not happily chosen,
but when consideration is given to the situation of the
complaining parties here, the gravamen of their bill and
the report of the Commission, we think it becomes sufficiently clear that its order has direct relation to transportation, within the meaning of the statute.
The Commission found:
"The lines of the Southwestern System are intermediate between the lines of the Southern Pacific, and the
lines of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway System, hereinafter called the Rock Island. The lines of
the three systems constitute one of the principal direct
routes between southern California and the Missouri
River and Chicago, and are included in the Southern
Pacific-Rock Island System in the grouping of railroads
under the tentative plan for consolidation of railroad
properties promulgated by us under date of August 3,
1921. Consolidation of Railroad Properties, 63 I. C. C.
455. Acquisition of control of the Southwestern System
by the Southern Pacific is in harmony with this plan.
It will result in direct physical connection between the
lines of the Southern Pacific and the Rock Island, will
assure the continuance of this route, and will increase
its competitive strength as compared with the routes of
the Santa Fe and Union Pacific. While the lines of the
Southern Pacific and Southwestern System west of El
Paso may be said to be parallel they serve different communities and industrial sections. The points at which
the two systems meet are important points of interchange

EX PARTE BUDER.
456

Syllabus.

of a large traffic to and from communities served by one
but not the other. Better co5rdination and more efficient
and economical operation will follow as to this traffic and
as to transcontinental traffic in connection with the Rock
Island, and relations to the traveling and shipping public
and to public authorities will be simplified and improved."
The challenged order was made upon a petition, and
neither party thereto resides within the Western District
of Texas. It related to transportation. Consequently,
the court below was without jurisdiction. See Skinner &
Eddy Corporationv. United States, 249 U. S. 557, 563.
Moreover, the bill alleged no probable direct legal injury
to appellants except such as might arise out of changed
conditions in respect of transportation to and from the
City of El Paso. Accordingly, they had no proper cause
of complaint unless the order had definite relation to
transportation. Hines, etc. v United States, 263 U. S.
143, 148.
The decree of the court below must be
Affirmed.

EX PARTE BUDER.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
IANDAIAUS.
-,

Original.

Motion submitted March 1, 1926.-Denied June 1, 1926.

1. This Court has power to issue a writ of mandamus to compel a
lower federal court to allow an appeal to this Court, but will deny
leave to file the petition when a right to such an appeal clearly

does not exist. P. 463.
2. Under Jud. Code, ยง 238, as amended by the Jurisdicitional Act of
February 13, 1925, a decree of the District Court is appealable
directly to this Court on constitutional grounds only when the
case arises under ยง 266 of the Code, as amended by the Jurisdic-

tional Act of 1925. P. 464.
3. Section 266 of the Judicial Code, as so amended, permits direct
appeals to this Court from decrees of injunction, permanent or

