OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

against the collector for his personal wrong. In the opinion it was said (pp. 293, 299):
"Tried by every test which has been judicially suggested for the determination of the question, this cannot
be considered to be a suit against the state. . . . His
[the plaintiff's] tender, as we have already seen, was
equivalent to payment so far as concerns the legality of
all subsequent steps by the collector to enforce payment
by distraint of his property. He has the right to say he
will not pay the amount a second time, even for the
privilege of recovering it back. And if he chooses to
stand upon a lawful payment once made, he asks no
remedy to recover back taxes illegally collected, but may
resist the exaction, and treat as a wrongdoer the officer
who seizes his property to enforce it."
Other cases well in point, although not relating to
taxes, are PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, 223 U. S.
605, 619; Johnson v. Lank ford, 245 U. S. 541.
The dismissal below for want of jurisdiction was error.
Decree reversed.
MR. JusTICE HOLMES did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA

ET AL.

ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208. Argued November 18, 19, 1925.-Decided June 1, 1926.

1. The Pueblo Indian tribes in New Mexico are dependent communities under the protective care of the United States, and their
lands, though held by title in fee simple, are subject to the legislation of Congress enacted in the exercise of the Government's
guardianship. P. 439.
2. The purpose of Congress to subject the lands of these Indians to
such legislation has been made certain in various ways, including
an act annulling and forbidding taxation of lands by the Territory

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA.

433

Statement of the Case.

432

of New Mexico and provision of a special attorney to represent the
Pueblo Indians and protect their interests. P. 440.
3. The Pueblos are "Indian tribes" within the meaning of Rev.
Stats, § 2116, (adopted in 1834,) providing that "no purchase,
grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or claim
thereto from any Indian nation or tribe of Indians, shall be of any

validity in law or equity, unless the same be made by treaty or
convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution," and within
the meaning of the Act of 1851, extending this provision, with
others "regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes,"
to "the Indian tribes" of New Mexico. P. 441.
4. Under the Spanish and Mexican law, Pueblo Indians, although
having full title to their lands, were regarded as in a state of
tutelage and could alienate their lands only under governmental
supervision. P. 442.
5. Under territorial laws, sanctioned by Congress, a Pueblo community in New Mexico is a juristic person with capacity to sue
and defend with respect to its lands. P. 442.
6. But judgments against a Pueblo tribe in New Mexico, in suits
brought by it to quiet title to its lands-one in a territorial court
concluded in the state courts after statehood, the other in the federal court,-did not bar the United States from afterwards maintaining a suit to quiet the title to the same lands against the same
defendants, on behalf of the Indians, where the United States was
not a party to the former litigation and the attorney therein representing the Indians did so without the United States' authority.
P. 443.
7. A state court of New Mexico has jurisdiction to enter a judgment
in an action by an Indian Pueblo against opposing claimants concerning title to land, which would be conclusive on the United
States if it authorized the bringing and prosecution of the suit.
P. 444.
8. The question whether such a judgment disregarded an official survey of a Spanish or Mexican grant confirmed by Congress to the
Indians, relates to the merits and not to the jurisdiction of the
state court. P. 444.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, upon an appeal from a decree of the District

Court dismissing a bill brought by the United States to
quiet the title to certain lands in the Indian Pueblo of
Laguna.
V542-26-

28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

271 U. S.

Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell
and Assistant Attorney General Parmenter were on the
brief, for the United States.
The United States possesses the power to control the
Pueblo Indians of New Mexico with respect to their
lands. United States v. Sondoval, 231 U. S. 28.
What was decided in the Santa Rosa Case, 249 U. S.
110, was that that Pueblo had capacity to institute and
maintain an action to protect its lands from unauthorized
encroachments of executive officers. The action which
the bill in that case asserted was threatened, was not an
exercise of guardianship, but of confiscation. Cf. United
States v. Mille Lac Chippewas, 229 U. S. 498.
The United States is suing to vindicate its policy with
respect to the Indians and to discharge its obligations to
them-a distinct governmental interest. As Congress
owes the Pueblo Indians the duty of protection, and of
safeguarding their rights, when it acts to discharge those
obligations it proceeds in its own right and to vindicate
its own policy. This interest is entirely distinct from
any property interest of the Indians for whom it acts, and
indeed a property or pecuniary interest in the United
States is not a prerequisite to give it capacity to sue.
Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413. We submit
that there is no greater need for protection of the Cherokees than there is for the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico,
and that what was said in the Heckman Case is equally
applicable to their situation. And the power of the Government to protect does not fall short of the need. Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S. 226.
That the Pueblo of Laguna has fee simple title does
not remove it from governmental supervision. Brader v.
James, 246 U. S. 88; United States v. Osage County, 251
U. S. 128. It is enough if there be an interest or concern
arising out of an obligation to those for whose benefit the

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA.
432

435

Argument for Defendants.

suits are brought. United States v. New Orleans Pac.
Ry. Co., 248 U. S. 507; Alaska Pacific Fisheries v. United
States, 248 U. S. 78; Cramer v. United States, 261 U. S.
219.
Since the United States was not a party to the previous
suits brought by the Pueblo of Laguna, it can not be
bound thereby, especially since the right which it seeks
to vindicate is entirely distinct from the property rights
of the Pueblo, the subject matter of the previous suits.
United States v. Moser, 266 U. S. 236; Bowling v. United
States, 233 U. S. 528; Privett v. United States, 256 U. S.
201; Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S. 226.
The answer to Question I disposes of Question II, unless the latter be considered independently of the former.
In that event, we concede that the state court did have
jurisdiction to enter the judgment specified, but do not
concede it to have a binding effect as to the United States.
Mr. Frank W. Clancy for defendants.
The former adjudications in the state court and in the
United States District Court bar the present suit. The
real question here to be considered, is as to the right of
the Pueblo of Laguna to bring a suit concerning its
claimed ownership of land. The answer to this is clearly
given by the opinion in Lane v. Santa Rosa, 249 U. S.
110. If the Pueblo has power to bring a suit it is absurd
to say that the decision of that suit is a nullity if the
United States is not a party, as is now contended by the
Government. If that were sound, a Pueblo, with its
right to bring a suit, declared unmistakably by this Court,
could gain nothing even if successful. Clearly, if the
Pueblo has power to sue, it must be bound by the result
as must be its adversary.
It is clear that the subject-matter of the -suits is the
same and the relief sought is the same, which is to quiet
title to the land in the Pueblo of Laguna. It is now

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendants.

271 U. S.

argued that, while the Pueblo had a right to bring its
suit, and its interest which entitled it to maintain the
two previous suits was its property interest derived from
the title by patent from the United States, yet the results
of the previous suits cannot bar the United States in the
present case because the interests of the United States
and of the Pueblo are different and distinct, and there
can be no privity between them. The distinction is difficult to understand; but it would seem that the contention
is that the interest of the Pueblo which justified the
bringing of its suits in its own name, was its claimed interest in the same land which is the subject matter of this,
the third suit, while the interest of the United States is
in the discharge of its assumed duty to protect the rights
of the Pueblo of Laguna, and that this interest is different from the interest of the Pueblo. As applied to this
case, this is a distinction without a difference, and is based
upon the mere words by which counsel undertake to state
their conception of the duty of the United States to the
Indians, and upon nothing else. The conceded fact remains that the state court had jurisdiction to enter its
judgment, but it is contended that the United States is
not affected by the judgment and now must be allowed to
re-litigate the same matters which were considered and
passed upon by the state court acting within its undoubted jurisdiction. No case can be found to which can
be better applied the doctrine of "interest republicae ut
sit finis litium."
The duty of the United States, if there is any, to the
Pueblo of Laguna, is to protect the claimed right of the
Pueblo to land in the Paguate Purchase, and its interest
is as to the Pueblo's right to that land, which is identical
with what was litigated by the Pueblo in the state court,
within its jurisdiction.
As to the question of the binding effect of the former
judgment on the right to prosecute the present case, there

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA.
432

Opinion of the Court.

are authorities which will be found interesting to say the
least. People v. Smith, 93 Cal. 490; People v. Beaudry,
27 Pac. 610; Faust v. Huntington, 15 N. E. 337; Lichty
v. Lewis, 63 Fed. 535; Featherson v. Turnpike Co., 24
N. Y. S. 603; Palmer v. Ins. Co., 30 N. Y. S. 1044;
Tausiede v. Jumel, 30 N. E. 1000; Carmody v. Hanick,
85Mo. App. 659; M'Mullen.v. Brown, 2 Hill Ch. 457.
It is submitted that the interest of the Pueblo of Laguna and the interest of the United States in the subject
matter of these suits, are identical, and the effort to distinguish between them, may properly, without discourtesy, be characterized as but little, if any, better than
camouflage.
This court has decided that it has no jurisdiction of
this controversy. Pueblo of Laguna v. Candelaria, 257
U. S.623.
It being clearly established by the decision in Lane v.
Santa Rosa, 249 U. S. 110, that the Pueblo has capacity
to sue, an adverse decision is conclusive as to all matters
adjudicated in such a suit or which might properly be
adjudicated therein.
MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In 1922 the United States brought a suit in the federal
district court for New Mexico against Jos6 Candelaria and
others to quiet in the Indian Pueblo of Laguna the title
to certain lands alleged to belong to the pueblo in virtue
of a grant from Spain, its recognition by Mexico and a
confirmation and patent by the United States. The suit
was brought on the theory that these Indians are wards
of the United States and that it therefore has authority
and is under a duty to protect them in the ownership and
enjoyment of their lands. The defendants were alleged to
be asserting a false claim to the lands and to be occupying

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and fencing the same to the exclusion of the Indians. In
their answer the defendants denied the wardship of the
United States and also set up in bar two decrees rendered
in prior suits brought against them by the pueblo to quiet
the title to the same lands. One suit was described as
begun in 1910 in the territorial court and transferred when
New Mexico became a State to the succeeding state court,
where on final hearing a decree was given for the defendants on the merits. The other was described as brought
in 1916 in the federal district court and resulting in a
decree of dismissal on the grounds that the complaint
disclosed that the matters presented "were res judicata
and that there was no federal question in the case." In
the replication the United States alleged that it was not
a party to either of the prior suits; that it neither authorized the bringing of them nor was represented by the
attorney who appeared for the pueblo; and therefore that
it was not bound by the decrees.
On the case thus presented the court held that the
decrees operated to bar the prosecution of the present suit
by the United States, and on that ground the bill was
dismissed. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which after outlining the case as just stated, has
certified to this Court the following questions:
1. Are Pueblo Indians in New Mexico in such status of
tutelage as to their lands in that State that the United
States, as such guardian, is not barred either by a judgment in a suit involving title to such lands begun in the
territorial court and passing to judgment after statehood
or by a judgment in a similar action in the United States
District Court for the District of New Mexico, where, in
each of said actions, the United States was not a party
nor was the attorney representing such Indians therein
authorized so to do by the United States?
2. Did the state court of New Mexico have jurisdiction
to enter a judgment which would be res judicata as to

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA.
432

439

Opinion of the Court.

the United States, in an action between Pueblo Indians
and opposed claimants concerning title to land, where the
result of that judgment would be to disregard a survey
made by the United States of a Spanish or Mexican grant
pursuant to an act of Congress confirming such grant to
said Pueblo Indians?
The status of the Pueblo Indians and their lands, and
the relation of the United States to both, were considered
in United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28. We there
said (pp. 45-47):
"Not only does the Constitution expressly authorize
Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, but
long continued legislative and executive usage and an
unbroken current of judicial decisions have attributed to
the United States as a superior and civilized nation the
power and the duty of exercising a fostering care and protection over all dependent Indian communities within its
borders, whether within its original territory or territory
subsequently acquired, and whether within or without the
limits of a State. . .. 'It is for that body [Congress]
and not for the courts, to determine when the true interests of the Indian require his release from such condition
of tutelage.'
"Of course, it is not meant by this that Congress may
bring a community or body of people within the range of
this power by arbitrarily calling them an Indian tribe, but
only that in respect of distinctly Indian communities the
questions whether, to what extent, and for what time they
shall be recognized and dealt with as dependent tribes
requiring the guardianship and protection of the United
States are to be determined by Congress and not by the
courts.
"As before indicated, by an uniform course of action
beginning as early as 1854 and-continued up to the present time, the legislative and executive branches of the
Government have regarded and treated the Pueblos of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

New Mexico as dependent communities entitled to its aid
and protection, like other Indian tribes, and, considering
their Indian lineage, isolated and communal life, primitive
customs and limited civilization, this assertion of guardianship over them cannot be said to be arbitrary but must
be regarded as both authorized and controlling."
And also (p. 48): "We are not unmindful that in
United States v. Joseph, 94 U. S. 614, there are some observations not in accord with what is here said of these
Indians, but as that case did not turn upon the power of
Congress over them or their property, but upon the interpretation and purpose of a statute not nearly so comprehensive as the legislation now before us, and as the observations there made respecting the Pueblos were evidently
based upon statements in the opinion of the territorial
court, then under review, which are at variance with
other recognized sources of information, now available,
and with the long continued action of the legislative and
executive departments, that case cannot be regarded as
holding that these Indians or their lands are beyond the
range of Congressional power under the Constitution."
While we recognized in that case that the Indians of
each pueblo, collectively as a community, have a fee
simple title to the lands of the pueblo (other than such
as are occupied under executive orders), we held that
their lands, like the tribal lands of other Indians owned
in fee under patents from the United States, are "subject
to the legislation of Congress enacted in the exercise of
the Government's guardianship" over Indian tribes and
their property.
The purpose of Congress to subject the Pueblo Indians
and their lands to that legislation, if not made certain
before the decision in the Joseph Case, was made so in
various ways thereafter. •Two manifestations of it are
significant. A decision of the territorial court in 1904
holding their lands taxable, 12 N. M. 139, was promptly

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA.
432

441

Opinion of the Court.

followed by a congressional enactment annulling the
taxes already levied and forbidding further levies, c. 1479,
33 Stat. 1069; and a decision of that court in 1907 construing the statute which prohibits the sale of liquor to
Indians and its introduction into the Indian country as
not including these Indians or their lands, 14 N. M. 1,
was shortly followed by an enactment declaring that the
statute should be construed as including both, c. 310, 36
Stat. 560. It also is of significance that in 1898 Congress
provided for the employment by the Secretary of the
Interior of a special attorney to represent the Pueblo
Indians and protect their interests, c. 545, 30 Stat. 594,
and that from that time to this a special attorney has
been so employed and has been paid out of appropriations
made by Congress for the purpose, c. 42, 42 Stat. 1194.
Many provisions have been enacted by Congresssome general and others special-to prevent the Government's Indian wards from improvidently disposing of
their lands and becoming homeless public charges. One
of these provisions, now embodied in section 2116 of the
Revised Statutes, declares: "No purchase, grant, lease,
or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or claim
thereto from any Indian nation or tribe of Indians, shall
be of any validity in law or equity, unless the same be
made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant to
the Constitution." This provision was originally adopted
in 1834, c. 161, sec. 12, 4 Stat. 730, and, with others "regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes,"
was extended over "the Indian tribes" of New Mexico in
1851, c. 14, see. 7, 9 Stat. 587.
While there is no express reference in the provision to
Pueblo Indians, we think it must be taken as including
them. They are plainly within its spirit and, in our opinion, fairly within its words, "any tribe of Indians." Although sedentary, industrious and disposed to peace, they
are Indians in race, customs and domestic government,

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

always have lived in isolated communities, and are a
simple, uninformed people, ill-prepared to cope with the
intelligence and greed of other races. It therefore is difficult to believe that Congress in 1851 was not intending
to protect them, but only the nomadic and savage Indians
then living in New Mexico. A more reasonable view is
that the term "Indian tribe" was used in the acts of
1834 and 1851 in the sense of "a body of Indians of the
same or a similar race, united in a community under one
leadership or government, and inhabiting a particular
though sometimes ill-defined territory." Montoya v.
United States, 180 U. S. 261, 266. In that sense the term
easily includes Pueblo Indians.
Under the Spanish law Pueblo Indians, although having full title to their lands, were regarded as in a state of
tutelage and could alienate their lands only under governmental supervision. See Chouteau v. Molony, 16 How.
203, 237. Text writers have differed about the situation
under the Mexican law; but in United States v. Pico,
5 Wall. 536, 540, this Court, speaking through Mr. Justice
Field, who was specially informed on the subject, expressly recognized that under the laws of Mexico the
government "extended a special guardianship" over
Indian pueblos and that a conveyance of pueblo lands
to be effective must be "under the supervision and with
the approval" of designated authorities. And this was
the ruling in Sunol v. Hepburn, 1 Cal. 254, 273, et seq.
Thus it appears that Congress in imposing a restriction
on the alienation of these lands, as we think it did, was
but continuing a policy which prior governments had
deemed essential to the protection of such Indians.
It was settled in Lane v. Pueblo of Santa Rosa, 249
U. S. 110, that under territorial laws enacted with congressional sanction each pueblo in New Mexico-meaning
the Indians comprising the community-became a juristic person and enabled to sue and defend in respect of

UNITED STATES v. CANDELARIA.
432

Opinion of the Court.

its lands. But in that case there was no occasion and no
attempt to determine whether or to what extent the
United States would be bound by the outcome of such a
litigation where it was not a party. That was a suit
brought by the Pueblo of Santa Rosa to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office from carrying out what was alleged to
be an unauthorized purpose and attempt to dispose of
the Pueblo's lands as public lands of the United States.
Arizona was formed from part of New Mexico and when
in that way the pueblo came to be in the new territory
it retained its juristic status. Beyond establishing that
status and recognizing that the wardship of the Indians
was not an obstacle to the suit the case is without bearing
here. In the opinion it was said: "The Indians are not
here seeking to establish any power or capacity in themselves to dispose of the lands, but only to prevent a threatened disposal by administrative officers in disregard of
their full ownership. Of their capacity to maintain such
a suit, we entertain no doubt. The existing wardship is
not an obstacle, as is shown by repeated decisions of this
Court, of which Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553
is an illustration."
With this explanation of the status of the Pueblo
Indians and their lands, and of the relation of the United
States to both, we come to answer the questions propounded in the certificate.
To the first question we answer that the United States
is not barred. Our reasons will be stated. The Indians
of the pueblo are wards of the United States and hold
their lands subject to the restriction that the same cannot
be alienated in any-wise without its consent. A judgment or decree which operates directly or indirectly to
transfer the lands from the Indians, where.the United
States has not authorized or appeared in the sit, infringes that restriction. The United States has an inter-

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

est in maintaining and enforcing the restriction which
cannot be affected by such a judgment or decree. This
Court has said in dealing with a like situation: "It necessarily follows that, as a transfer of the allotted lands
contrary to the inhibition of Congress would be a violation of the governmental rights of the United States
arising from its obligation to a dependent people, no
stipulations, contracts, or judgments rendered in suits to
which the Government is a stranger, can affect its interest. The authority of the United States to enforce the
restraint lawfully created cannot be impaired by any
action without its consent." Bowling and Miami Improvement Co. v. United States, 233 U. S. 528, 534. And
that ruling has been recognized and given effect in other
cases. Privett v. United States, 256 U. S. 201, 204; Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S. 226, 232.
But, as it appears that for many years the United States
has employed and paid a special attorney to represent the
Pueblo Indians and look after their interests, our answer
is made with the qualification that, if the decree was
rendered in a suit begun and prosecuted by the special
attorney so employed and paid, we think the United
States is as effectually concluded as if it were a party to
the suit. Souffront v. Compagnie des Sucreries, 217
U. S. 475, 486; Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1, 18; Claflin
v. Fletcher, 7 Fed. 851, 852; Maloy v. Duden, 86 Fed.
402, 404; James v. GermaniaIron Co., 107 Fed. 597, 613.
Coming to the second question, we eliminate so much
of it as refers to a possible disregard of a survey made by
the United States, for that would have no bearing on the
court's jurisdiction or the binding effect of the judgment
or decree, but would present only a question of whether
error was committed in the course of exercising jurisdiction. With that eliminated, our answer to the question
is that the state court had jurisdiction to entertain the
suit and proceed to judgment or decree. Whether the

KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 445
432

Syllabus.

outcome would be conclusive on the United States is
sufficiently shown by our answer to the first question.
Questionis answered as stated in this opinion,.

KANSAS CITY TERMINAL RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. CENTRAL UNION TRUST COMPANY
OF NEW YORK ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 265. Argued April 23, 1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.
1. Where the property of a railroad corporation, to be sold under
foreclosure, is so great as to render codperation between bondholders and stockholders essential in order to secure a bidder and
prevent undue sacrifice of their interests, they may enter into a
fair and open reorganization arrangement to that end. P. 453.
2. But such arrangements are invalid if they recognize and preserve
the interests of stockholders at the expense of the prior rights of
the secured or unsecured creditors of the corporation. Nor. Pac.
Ry. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482. Id.
3. A plan of reorganization, to bind the unsecured creditor, must
"give precedence to," i. e., recognize the superior importance of,
the creditor's claim over any interest of the stockholder in the
old company. P. 455.
4. Subject to the qualifications that the primary right of unsecured
creditors to the assets of the insolvent corporation, remaining
after lienholders are satisfied, must be adequately protected, and
that to each one of them must be given such opportunity as the
circumstances permit to secie the full enjoyment of this preference, a plan of reorganization which offers them securities of the
same grade as those offered the stockholders, but greater in
amount, will be fair, and bind the unsecured creditors, if, in the
opinion of the court, it tenders to such creditors all that could be
reasonably expected under all the existing circumstances. P. 455.
5. Where the same grade of securities is offered both to unsecured
creditors and to stockholders, the difference being that the stockholders are called upon to pay an assessment, or a relatively
greater assessment than that asked of creditors, it may never-

