50

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

contract which bars its recovery unless it sustains the
burden of proving duress.
The objection that the contract by which the parties
settled the controversy between them was without consideration is without weight. Savage Arms Corp. v. United
States, 266 U. S. 217.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the case.
ROBERTS & SCHAEFER COMPANY v. EMMERSON,
SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 210. Argued March 12, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. Quaere: Whether, as between its domestic corporations, a State
may not constitutionally measure their franchise taxes by the
amounts of their authorized capital stock without regard to the
amounts issued? Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, distinguished. P. 53.
2. A corporation is not in a position to raise this question under the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, if all of its
authorized capital stock has been issued. P. 54.
3. As applied to domestic corporations doing only intrastate business,
a state franchise tax measured by a fiat rate on authorized capital
stock, adopting the par value for par-value stock and $100 per
share for no-par stock, is not such a discrimination as infringes the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, either (1) as
between corporations whose authorized no-par shares may be of
like number but represent very different capital values, or (2) as
between corporations with par-value stock and corporations with
no-par value stock. Pp. 55, 57.
So held where the law permitted par value shares to be issued
only for money or property equivalent to the par value, but no-par
value stock for money or property of any value not less than $5
nor more than $100 per share. Ills. Rev. Stats. 1925, c. 32, as
amended by Ls. 1921, p. 365; 1923, p. 280.
4. The fact that a corporation issued no-par stock when the law
valued it at a lower figure for the purpose of measuring the cor-

ROBERTS & SCHAEFER CO. v. EMMERSON.
50

51

Opinion of the Court.

poration's franchise tax, did not give rise to a contractual oblig:tion preventing the State from adopting a higher valuation, increasing the tax. P. 58.
5. If the Illinois corporate franchise tax law may be deemed part
of a corporation's charter, it may nevertheless be amended under
the power reserved by § 146 of the Illinois General Corporation

Act. Id.
313 Ill. 137, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois
which affirmed a judgment dismissing the bill in a suit
by a corporation for a mandatory injunction to compel
the Illinois Secretary of State to accept a sum specified,
as the plaintiff's annual franchise tax.
Mr. Paul O'Donnell,with whom Mr. Charles W. Paltzer
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Bayard Lacey Catron, with whom Messrs. Oscar E.
Carlstramand Albert D. Rodenburg were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The plaintiff in error, a corporation organized under
the laws of Illinois, and doing business in that State,
filed its bill in the Circuit Court of Sangamon county,
Illinois, for a mandatory injunction to compel the defendant in error, as Secretary of State for Illinois, to accept the sum of $75.00 in full discharge of its liability for
an annual franchise tax for the year 1923, imposed by
§ 105 of the Illinois Corporation Act, and to enjoin the
defendant in error from collecting more than that amount.
The plaintiff corporation was originally organized with
an authorized capital stock of $100,000, divided into one
thousand shares of the par value of $100. In 1921, the
Illinois Corporation Act was amended so as to allow corporations to issue shares of no par value. Ill. Rev. Stats.,
(Cahill, 1925) c. 32, § 32, as amended by Act of June
11, 1921, Laws of 1921, p. 365. Shortly after the passage

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of this Act, the corporation, by amendment of its charter,
converted its outstanding stock into preferred stock, and
authorized and issued forthwith, 10,000 shares of common stock of no par value.
Section 105 of the Corporation Act then provided:
organized under
.
"Each corporation for profit .
the laws of this State or admitted to do business in this
State, and required by this Act to make an annual report,
shall pay an annual license fee or franchise tax to the
Secretary of State of five cents on each one hundred dollars of the proportion of its capital stock, authorized by its
charter in the office of the Secretary of State, represented
by business transacted and property located in this State.
The Secretary of State demanded of the plaintiff corporation, under this statute, the payment of five cents
on each share of no-par stock, on the assumption that for
the purpose of the tax, no-par shares were to be valued
at $100. The plaintiff took the position that there was
no statutory authority for the assessment of the tax on
that basis, and that, since its no-par value shares had
been issued as "fully paid up and non-assessable upon
the payment of five dollars for each share in cash or
property," it was liable to a tax only on the basis of that
valuation; and tendered the tax so computed to the
Secretary of State. In a mandamus proceeding brought
by the plaintiff corporation, the Supreme Court of Illinois
upheld this contention and ordered the Secretary of State
to accept the lesser sum in satisfaction of the tax. People
ex rel. Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 305 Ill. 348.
After this decision, the legislature of Illinois amended
§ 105 (Laws 1923, p. 280) by adding the sentence:
"In the event that the corporation has stock of no
par value, its shares, for the purpose of fixing such fee,
shall be considered to be of the par value of $100 per
share."

ROBERTS & SCHAEFER CO. v. EMMERSON.
50

53

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff's bill in the case before us attacks the
validity of the franchise tax imposed on it pursuant to
this amendment, on the ground that the amendment is
unconstitutional. The circuit court dismissed the bill for
want of equity: On appeal, the Supreme Court of Illinois affirmed the judgment (313 Ill. 137), holding that
the tax was lawfully assessed. The plaintiff comes here
on writ of error. Jud. Code § 237.
It is urged that the selection of authorized capital
stock as the basis for the franchise tax or license fee is
arbitrary and has no tendency to produce equality, and
results in hposing different rates of taxation on corporations having the same issued capital stock, holding the
same amount of property and doing the same amount
of business, whenever they have different amounts of
authorized capital stock; that the mere number of authorized no-par value shares, regardless of their value or the
amount of money or property for which they are or may
be issued, is not a reasonable basis for a franchise tax,
but is wholly arbitrary; that the provision of § 105
assigning an arbitrary valuation of $100 per share to nopar stock for the purpose of computing the tax in question,
results in a discrimination against corporations which
issue shares of no par value, and in favor of those which
issue them at a par value. Reliance is also placed on the
invalidity of the amendnent as impairing the obligation
of contract (Constitution, Art. 1, § 10) in that the shares
of the plaintiff were issued before the amendment of §
105, and at a time when, it is alleged, the law of Illinois
provided that, for the purpose of this tax, no-par stock
was to be valued at the amount for which it was actually
issued.
In support of the argument that authorized capital
stock is not a permissible basis for a franchise tax, the
plaintiff relies on Air-Way Electric Appliance Corp. v.
Day, 266 U. S. 71. That case dealt with a privilege tax,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

laid by Ohio on a foreign corporation engaged in interstate
and intrastate commerce in that and other States. It was
held that a tax on such a corporation for the privilege
of doing business in Ohio, where the tax was measured
by that proportion of its total authorized capital stock
which its business done and property owned in Ohio bore
to its total business done and property owned everywhere,
was invalid as an unconstitutional burden on interstate
commerce, and a denial of the equal protection of the
laws. While one factor in the computation of the tax
was properly the proportion of the corporation's business
done and property owned within the State, the other
factor was the amount of its authorized capital stock, only
a part of which had actually been issued. The authority
to issue its capital stock was a privilege conferred by
another State and bore no relation to any franchise
granted to it by the State of Ohio or to its business and
property within that State. When authorized capital stock
is taken as the basis of the tax, variations in the amount
of the tax are obtained, according as the corporation has
a large or small amount of unissued capital stock. This
was held, in the Air-Way Case, to be an unconstitutional
discrimination, since it resulted in a tax larger than the
tax imposed on other corporations with like privileges
and like business and property within the State, but with
a smaller capital authorized under the laws of the State
of their creation.
In the present case, the plaintiff corporation is organized and does all its business in Illinois. We cannot say
that a State may not impose a franchise tax on a domestic corporation, measured by its authorized capital stock.
See Kansas City Ry. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 232-3;
Kansas City v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111.
But the plaintiff is not in a position to raise this question. As this Court has often held, one who challenges
the validity of state taxation on the ground that it vio-

ROBERTS & SCHAEFER CO. v. EMI ERSON.
50

55

Opinion of the Court.

lates the equal protection clause, cannot rely on theoretical inequalities, or such as do not affect him, but must
show that he is himself affected unfavorably by the discrimination of which he complains. See Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, 552-3; Gast
Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55, 60;
Withnell v. Ruecking Constr. Co., 249 U. S. 63; Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113, 121.
The plaintiff cannot complain that the tax is measured
by authorized, instead of issued, capital stock, because
all of its authorized capital stock has been issued. Any
discrimination that exists operates, therefore, in plaintiff's favor.
It is argued that the tax imposed is a tax at a flat rate
per share on no-par value stock, regardless of its value,
so that different corporations are taxed at different
amounts although their no-par stock was issued for the
same total amount of capital; and that the tax is based
upon an unreasonable and discriminatory classification
in which no-par value stock is placed in one class and
taxed at an arbitrary valuation of $100 per share, while
par value stock is placed in another class and taxed at
the value at which it is authorized to be issued. Both
arguments leave out of account the nature of the tax
and the essential differences between the two classes of
stock.
The tax is imposed as a franchise tax upon a domestic
corporation doing business only within the State. Its
power to issue shares of both classes is derived from the
laws of Illinois. The amount which may be issued; the
manner of issue; the liability of holders of these shares
and all other incidents of them, are regulated by the law
of that State. The tax is not a property tax imposed
on shares of stock or on the assets of the corporation.
It is a tax on the corporate franchise, which includes
the privilege, whether exercised or not, of issuing

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and using when issued, a particular kind of stock known
as "no-par value stock." As the stock may, under the
statute, be issued for as much as $100 a share, if the
company so chooses, the statute fixes the maximum extent to which the privilege may be exercised as the basis
for computing the tax.
Neither this privilege nor the corresponding privilege
of issuing par value stock bears any necessary relation to
the value of the stock or the assets of the corporation;
and the tax is imposed whether or not the stock is issued
and without regard to the valu6 of the stock or of the
corporate property. We cannot say that the value of the
corporation's franchise may not be measured by the number of no-par shares which may be issued rather than
their value when issued. The only question with which
we need be concerned is whether there are such differences
between the two privileges to issue the two classes of
stock, as to constitute a proper basis for classification for
purposes of taxation, so that the amount of the tax in
the one case may be based on the issue price of the stock,
and in the other upon the maximum price at which it
may be issued, regardless of the price at which it actually
is issued.
That there are differences of practical importance
between the two classes of stock and the privileges of
issuing and using them is sufficiently evidenced by the
very general adoption of legislation authorizing the issue
of no-par value stock, and by the widespread practice of
issuing that type of corporate shares.
The nature of the more important of these differences
sufficiently appears from the provisions of the Illinois
statute as interpreted and applied in the opinion below
in the Supreme Court of Illinois. Par value stock may
be issued only for money or property equivalent to the
par value. No-par value stock may be issued for money
* or property of any amount or value provided it is not less

ROBERTS & SCHAEFER CO. v. EMMERSON.
50

57

Opinion of the Court.

than $5.00 nor more than $100 per share. From this it
follows that all the par value stock of an authorized class
must be issued, if issued at all, at a uniform value or price,
while no-par value stock may be issued from time to time
at different prices or values, although the holders of all
these shares are entitled to share equally in the distribution of profits of the corporation. The liability of stockholders of the two classes of stock for the debts of the
corporation may be different, and greater facility is perinitted in the issuance and marketing of no-par value
shares than in the case of stock having a par value.
These differences, both in the legal incidents and in the
practical uses of the two classes of stock, not only are a
basis for classification of them for purposes of taxation,
but make unavoidable certain differences in the method
of assessing this tax. Authorized capital stock cannot
well be used as the measure of a tax unless some arbitrary
value is assigned to the no-par shares; for they may be
issued from time to time at varying prices, and until
issued, they cannot have any value. To require the stock
to be issued at a value fixed in advance of its issue, and
to make that value the basis of the tax, would in effect
abolish no-par stock. Because of the essential differences
between the two kinds of stock, it is difficult to conceive
of any other method of assessing the tax which would save
the character of no-par value stock and not result in similar inequalities.
The inequalities complained of result from a classification which, being founded upon real differences, is not
unreasonable, and the discrimination which results from
it is not arbitrary or prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment. It is enough that the classification is reasonably
founded upon or related to some permissible policy of
taxation. Watson. v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122;
Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; American
Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Clement
National Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120, 135-7.

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

Only brief consideration need be given to the contention that the amendment of § 105 of the Illinois Corporation Act impairs the obligation of contract. That plaintiff's stock when issued was not subject to the tax computed at the rate of $100 per share, which was later
authorized by § 105 as amended, was decided in Roberts
& Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 305 Ill. 348. The fact that
the corporation issued its stock under statutes which were
later so interpreted can give rise to no inference that the
State contracted not to increase or otherwise modify the
tax. See Home Ins. Co. v. City Council, 93 U. S. 116;
Memphis Gas Co. v. Shelby County, 109 U. S.398; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379; Seaton
Hall College v. South Orange, 242 U. S. 100.
Even if the taxing statute be deemed to be a part of
its corporate charter, it was nevertheless subject to the
provisions of § 146 of the Illinois General Corporation
Act reserving to the legislature the power "to amend,
repeal or modify this act at pleasure."
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
Affirmcd.
READING COMPANY v. KOONS, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 213.

OF THE STATE

OF

Argued March 12, 15, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

Section 6 of the Employers' Liability Act, providing "That no
action shall be maintained under this Act unless commenced
within two years from the day the cause of action accrued," is to
be construed as allowing, in death cases, two years from the time
of death-not two years from the appointment of the administrator. P. 60.
281 Pa. 270, reversed.

