OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

work. The contract provided that the work should be
commenced on June 10, 1920, and by that time the contractor had its executive office force at the plant. The
contractor was able to begin work on June 13. The delay
resulted from the inability to get material issued to the
contractor. The actual amount expended for salary and
services to the persons kept waiting was $360. No complaint and no protest were made by the contractor at the
time and no claim was filed by the contractor until March
14, 1921. The holding of the Court of Claims was that
because it did not satisfactorily appear that the delay was
due wholly to the Government and in view of the absence
of a claim or protest for nine months thereafter, the claim
should be rejected. We concur in this.
Judgment affirmed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY ET
AL. v. NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
PENNSYLVANIA.

OF THE STATE

OF

No. 230. Argued April 13, 14, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.
1. The provision of the Transportation Act, 1920, ยง 208a, forbidding
reductions of rates during six months following termination of
federal control unless approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, was applicable to intrastate rates, was valid as so applied,
and included indirect reductions through reparation orders attempted by state authority. P. 125.
2. Whether a federal right was lost by failure to comply with state
procedure, is open to re-examination by this Court on review of a
state court's judgment. P. 126.
3. The state court sustained on appeal an order of a commission
granting reparation in clear violation of the Transportation Act.
Held that the railroad was entitled to relief in this Court on
review of the judgment, although the state court based it on the
ground that the railroad waived its right by not appealing from

NEW YORK CENTRAL v. N.Y. AND PA. CO. 125
124

Opinion of the Court.

an earlier order, in which the commission held the rate unreasonable and announced that, upon presentation of a petition with
supporting data, it would grant reparation. P. 126.
2S1 Pa. 257, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania which affirmed a judgment enforcing an
order of reparation granted by the Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania to the respondent against the
Railroad and based on alleged excess charges paid by the
respondent for the transportation of coal. Writ of error
dismissed and certiorari allowed.
Mr. Parker McCollester, with whom Messrs. Henry
Volf Bikl6 and FredericD. McKenney were on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Thomas Raeburn White for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMiEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit brought in a court of Pennsylvania to recover the amount of alleged excess charges paid by the
defendant in error for the carriage of coal in commerce
within the State, and ordered by the Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania to be repaid by way of reparation. A judgment on the order in favor of the defendant
in error was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. 281 Pa. 257. The charges in question were for
shipments between March 1, 1920, and September 1, 1920,
the six months following the termination of federal control of the railroads. The rates charged were those that
were in effect on February 29, 1920. By ยง 208(a) of the
Transportation Act, 1920, (February 28, 1920, c. 91; 41
Stat. 456, 464,) prior to September 1, 1920, no such rate
could be reduced unless the reduction was approved by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the six months

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

concerned being the period during which the United
States guaranteed certain income to the railroads by ยง 209.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has not approved
any reduction and therefore it is plain that the State
Commission had no authority to intermeddle with the
rates that it undertook to cut down. It is true that regulating rates and awarding reparation are different matters.
But the prohibition in the statute covers either method of
reducing the pay received by the roads. The language
of the statute and the reasons for the enactment too
clearly apply to intrastate as well as to interstate rates, to
admit debate. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Boone, 270
U. S. 466. Whether the rates were right, or were wrong as
the State Court thinks, they could be changed only in one
way.
It may be that some of the questions before us would
be proper matters for a writ of error, but as the rights
asserted under the statute of the United States are more
fully open upon a writ of certiorari we shall consider the
case upon the last mentioned writ.
The State Courts were of opinion that the plaintiffs in
error had waived their rights by their failure to appeal
from a decision on an earlier complaint to the State Commission in which that Commission held that a lower rate
was reasonable and stated that upon presentation of a
petition accompanied by the supporting data reparation
would be awarded for freight charges paid in excess of
the rates thus fixed. Whether the federal rights asserted
were lost in this way is open to examination here. Creswill v. Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246.
Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22. Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22, 24.
In our opinion the failure to appeal from the former
order is no bar. We do not undertake to review the decision of the Supreme Court as to state procedure, but if
the Railroads were too late to argue their case before that

VENNER v. MICH. CENT. R. R. CO.
124

Syllabus.

Court they are not too late to argue it here. There was
no order in the former hearing before the State Commission that the Railroads could have brought before us.
This is the first moment when they have had a chance to
raise what we regard as a perfectly clear point, as it is the
first moment when their rights have been infringed.
There now is an order which is in the teeth of the statute.
It would not be reasonable to hold that they are precluded
from getting the protection that this Court owes them, by
their having failed to go as far as they now learn that
they might have gone in a previous state proceeding
which did not infringe their rights and which could not
be brought here. "The judgment under review was the
only final judgment . . . from which plaintiff in error
could prosecute a writ of error, and until such final judgment the case could not have been brought here for review." Chesapeake & Ohio By. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S.
207, 214. Smith v. McCullough, 270 U. S. 456.
Writ of certiorarigranted.
Writ of error dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

VENNER v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 190. Argued January 28, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.
1. A suit against a railroad by a minority stockholder to enjoin the
company from carrying out an agreement for obtaining additional
equipment and issuing certificates therefor as permitted by an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission which the plaintiff assails

