500

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

YU CONG ENG

ET AL.

271 U. S.

v. TRINIDAD, COLLECTOR,
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 623. Argued April 12, 13, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands has discretionary
jurisdiction, under § 516, Philippine Code of Civil Procedure, to
determine the validity of a new penal statute seriously affecting
numerous persons and extensive property interests, by a writ of
prohibition against criminal proceedings under it in the Court of
First Instance, rather than await judgment in those proceedings
and determine the question on review, in the usual way. P. 507.
2. Act No. 2972 of the Philippine Legislature, approved February
21, 1921, making it a crime, punishable by fine and imprisonment,
for any person engaged in business for profit in the Islands to keep
his account books in any language other than English, Spanish, or
any local dialect, must be taken as absolutely prohibiting Chinese
merchants from keeping any accounts in their own language and
writing. P. 517.
3. This is made plain by the history as well as the language of the
enactment. P. 513.
4. The Act is not susceptible of a construction limiting its requirement to the keeping of such account books in English, Spanish, or
the Filipino dialects, as would be reasonably adapted to the needs of
the taxing officials in preventing and detecting evasions of the
local sales tax and other taxes, but leaving the Chinese merchant
free to keep books also in Chinese. P. 515.
5. The duty of a court to construe an act of legislation in harmony
with the fundamental law does not authorize the court to depart
from the plain terms and intention of a statute, and thus in effect
to make a new law. P. 518.
6. Especially is such a departure objectionable when the result is to
introduce uncertainty into the meaning of a highly penal statute.

Id.
7. The court may not in a criminal statute reduce its generally
inclusive terms by construction so as to limit its application to
that class of cases which it was within the power of the legislature
to enact, and thus save the statute from invalidity. P. 522.

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Argument for Petitioners.

S. On a question of the construction of the Philippine Code of Procedure, adopted by the United States Philippine Commission, this
Court, in reviewing a decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, may exercise its independent judgment. P. 522.
9. The application of American constitutional limitations to a Philippine statute dealing with the rights of persons living under the
government established there by the United States, is not a local
one, especially when the persons are the subject of another sovereignty with which the United States has made a treaty for
protection of their rights. P. 523.
10. The limitations in the Philippine Bill of Rights are to be enforced
in the light of the construction by this Court of such limitations
as recognized by it since the foundation of our Government.
P. 523.
11. In view of the history of the Islands, the large and important
mercantile interests of Chinese residing there, who are unacquainted
with other languages than their own, the above Act of the Legislature, in prohibiting them from maintaining a set of account books
in Chinese, and thus preventing them from keeping advised of their
business and directing its conduct, is not within the police power,
but is arbitrary and discriminatory and deprives them of liberty
and property without due process of law and denies them the equal
protection of the laws, in violation of the Philippine Bill of Rights.
P. 524.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands denying an original petition for a writ
of prohibition against officials in the Philippine Islands
to prevent enforcement by criminal proceedings of an
Act of the Legislature making it an offense to keep business account books in any language except English,
Spanish, or a Filipino dialect.
Mr. FredericR. Coudert, with whom Messrs. Allison D.
Gibbs and Mahlon B. Doing were on the brief, for petitioners.
Act No. 2972 is void as contrary to the prohibitions of
the Philippine Bill of Rights and the Fifth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution. Balzac v. Porto Rico, 258
U. S. 298; Serra v. Mortiga,204 U. S. 470; Tonawanda v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioners.

271 U. S.

Lyon, 181 U. S. 389; Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S.
100; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; The King v. Lau Kiu, 7 Haw. Rep.
489; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; Terraw v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Pierce v. Society of Sisters,
268 U. S. 510; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Adams v.
Tanner,244 U. S. 590; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217
U. S. 114; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Burns Baking
Co. v. Bryan, 264 U. S. 504; Penn. Coal Co. v. Mahon,
260 U. S. 393; Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312; Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60; Home Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278; In re Lee Sing, 43 Fed. 359;
In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98.
Even though the Act did not, as it obviously does, discriminate directly against the Chinese, nevertheless "the
purpose of an act must. be found in its natural operation
and effect." Truax v. Raich, supra, at p. 40. In Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, this Court pierced the veil
of ordinances couched in the most general terms and not
expressly discriminatory, and ascertained that the ordinances were in their administration directed so exclusively against a particular class of persons as to warrant
and require the conclusion, that, whatever may have been
the intent of the ordinances as adopted, they are applied
by the public authorities charged with their administration, and thus representing the State itself, with a mind
so unequal and oppressive as to amount to a practical
denial by the State of the equal protection of the laws.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623. Other cases where this
Court has looked back of the form of the statutes to find
illegal classifications are, Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S.
259; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219; Guinn v. United
States, 238 U. S. 347; Penn. Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S.
393. See Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 63.
The Act is also void because it denies to petitioners and
others similarly situated the rights, privileges and im-

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Argument for Respondents.

munities secured to them by the treaties between the
United States and China, which assure to Chinese nationals "most favored nation" treatment. Fulco v.
Schuylkill Stone Co., 169 Fed. 98.
This Court may determine the validity of the Act untrammeled by the construction adopted by the Philippine
Supreme Court. That construction is clearly erroneous
and wholly at variance with the plain import and language of the Act. PhilippineSugar, etc. Co. v. Philippine
Islands, 247 U. S. 385; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, supra; Scott
v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34. The legislative debates upon
this law demonstrate clearly that the keeping of all account books was intended to be prohibited, although the
law itself fails entirely to define "books of account." The
limitation attempted to be injected into this law by the
Philippine Supreme Court, restricting its operation to
indefinite and unnamed books for "taxation" purposes,
clearly violates the intention of the Act.
Mr. Paul Shipman Andrews, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Messrs. Gregory Hankin,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, Guillermo B.
Guevara, A. R. Stallings, Charles R. Brice, and Stanley
Suydam were on the brief, for respondents.
The interpretation of the Act by the Supreme Court
of the Philippines is controlling under the circumstances
of this case. The lower court's findings as to the purpose
of the Act, its history, and the mischief it was designed
to cure, will be adopted by this Court. De la Rama v.
De la Rama, 201 U. S. 303; Reavis v. Fianza,215 U. S.
16; Roura v. Philippine Islands, 218 U. S. 386. It was
proper for the lower court to interpret the Act with reference to its purpose and the mischief it was designed to
cure. Takao Ozawa v. United States, 260 U. S. 178. Petitioners object to this method of interpretation. But
it is submitted that under no theory of constructon are

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondents.

271 U. S.

the petitioners entitled to complain when the interpretation by the lower court involves not an extension of the
scope of the statute to cover actions or persons which
might not otherwise have been affected, but involves construction of the statute resulting in a narrowing of its
scope and a limiting of the type of books to which its
provisions were to be applicable. Gould v. Gould, 245
U. S. 151; United States v. Field, 255 U. S. 257. Indeed,
in this case it was not only within the discretion of the
court so to interpret the Act, but it was its duty to interpret it so as to confine it within constitutional limits.
Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm., 211 U. S. 407;
Federal Trade Comm. v. Lorillard Co., 264 U. S. 298; Hill
v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44.
The lower court was bound to interpret this Act in
accordance with existing law in the Philippine Islands.
The interpretation of a statute by the highest court of the
jurisdiction, whose legislature enacted it, is binding on
this Court when the effect of such interpretation is to
cure constitutional difficulties which otherwise might
have existed. PhilippineSugar Co. v. PhilippineIslands,
247 U. S. 385; Oceanic Steam Nay. Co. v. Stranahan,214
U. S. 320; 29 Harv. L. Rev. 582; Londoner v. Denver,
210 U. S. 373.
Act 2972 is not a deprivation of liberty or property
without due process of law. The phrase "due process"
takes its meaning with reference to the body of law of
the jurisdiction whose legislature enacted the statute
under consideration. It should be borne in mind that
the Fifth Amendment does not apply to the Philippine
Islands, being a limitation only on the federal Government. Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238;
Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172. It has been further held by this Court, in Dorr v. United States, 195
U. S. 138, that the Philippine Islands do not constitute an
incorporated territory and that the constitutional limita-

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Argument for Respondents.

tions affecting Congress do not apply to the Philippines
nor to its governing body, which may exercise all powers
delegated by the Congress. The Philippine Autonomy
Act, 39 Stat. 545, provides "that no law shall be enacted
in said Islands which shall deprive any persons of life,
liberty or property without due process of law or deny to
any person therein the equal protection of the laws." It
is true that this has been interpreted by this Court in
Serra v. Mortiga,204 U. S. 470, as extending to the Philippine Islands guarantees equivalent to the due process and
equal protection clauses of the federal Constitution. The
connotation of due process, however, when applied to
legislative acts, depends on the body of existing law in
the jurisdiction. Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How.
272; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172. The question
whether the Act offends against the due process clause of
the Philippine Bill of Rights, therefore, while it is to be
tested by substantially the same principles as have been
applied in similar cases in this country, must be measured not as petitioners contend by exactly the same considerations which have moved our courts in their decisions under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, but
rather with reference to the body of law in the Philippine
Islands. The Philippine Autonomy Act did not abrogate, but continued in effect the laws already in operation
at the time of its enactment.
Any injury or hardship caused by this Act is purely
incidental. The requirement of due process is not a limitation on an otherwise valid exercise of the power of taxation. Brushaber v. Union Pac. R. R., 240 U. S. 1;
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324.
Act 2972, as limited by the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, does not offend against the equal protection clause, either in language or in operation. Neither
the wisdom of the Act, nor the motives of the legislature,
undisclosed in its language or operation, are material

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

here. The requirement of equal protection forbids, not
classification, but only arbitrary classification. Act 2972
contains no classification beyond the inclusion of all
merchants and the specification of certain languages.
That an Act affecting all merchants in a given territory
does not constitute arbitrary classification is elementary;
that the choice of languages is not an arbitrary one likewise seems obvious. English and Spanish are the official
languages of the Islands. As to the native dialects, it is
surely not unreasonable or arbitrary for the Government
of the Philippine Islands to exert itself, in behalf of its
own subjects, to the small extent required to examine
their books in the native languages.
Act 2972 as limited by the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands is sufficiently definite and certain in
its requirements.
The treaty between the United States and China assuring the Chinese nationals "most favored nation"
treatment has no bearing on this case.
Act 2972 is a proper exercise of the taxing power and
of the police power.
MR. CHrEF JUsTcE TAFT

prepared the opinion of the

Court.'
This case comes here on a writ of certiorari to review a
decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
denying an original petition for prohibition against the
enforcement by criminal prosecution of Act No. 2972 of
the Philippine Legislature, known as the Chinese Bookkeeping Act, on the ground of its invalidity. The petitioner, Yu Cong Eng, was charged, by information in the
Court of First Instance of Manila, with its violation. He
was arrested, his books were seized, and the trial was about
to proceed when he and the other petitioner, Co Liam, on
'The opinion was announced by MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, the CHiF
JusTicE being absent.

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

their own behalf, and on behalf of all the other Chinese
merchants in the Philippines, filed the petition against
the Fiscal, or Prosecuting Attorney, of Manila, and the
Collector of Internal Revenue engaged in the prosecution,
and against the Judge presiding.
By the Code of Civil Procedure of the Philippine
Islands, § 516, the Philippine Supreme Court is granted
concurrent jurisdiction in prohibition with courts of first
instance over inferior tribunals or persons, and original
jurisdiction over courts of first instance, when such courts
are exercising functions without or in excess of their jurisdiction. It has been held by that court that the question
of the validity of a criminal statute must usually be raised
by a defendant in the trial court and be carried regularly
in review to the Supreme Court. Cadwallader-Gibson
Lumber Company v. Del Rosario, 26 Philippine Reports,
192. But in this case, where a new Act seriously affected
numerous persons and extensive property rights, and was
likely to cause a multiplicity of actions, the Supreme Court
exercised its discretion to bring the issue of the Act's validity promptly before it and decide it in the interest of
the orderly administration of justice. The court relied by
analogy upon the cases of Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; and Wilson v. New, 243
U. S. 332. Although objection to the jurisdiction was
raised by demurrer to the petition, this is now disclaimed
on behalf of the respondents, and both parties ask a decision on the merits. In view of broad powers in prohibition granted to that court under the Island Code, we
acquiesce in the desire of the parties.
Act No. 2972, the validity of which is attacked, was
passed by the Philippine Legislature, and approved February 21, 1921. It reads as follows:
"No. 2972. An act to provide in what languages account
books shall be kept, and to establish penalties for its
violation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Philippines in legislature assembled and by
the authority of the same:
"Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any person, company, partnership or corporation engaged in commerce,
industry or any other activity for the purpose of profit in
the Philippine Islands, in according with existing law, to
keep its account books in any language other than English,
Spanish, or any local dialect.
"Section 2. Any person violating the provisions of this
Act shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not
more than ten thousand pesos, or by imprisonment for not
more than two years, or both.
"Section 3. This Act shall take effect on November 1st,
Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-One."
This was amended as to its date by a subsequent act
and it did not take effect until January 1st, 1923. Various
efforts were made to repeal the Act or amend it, but they
were defeated.
The petition, after setting out the prosecution in the
court of first instance, and the text of the Act, avers that
the petitioner Yu Cong Eng is a Chinese merchant engaged in the wholesale lumber business in Manila; that
he neither reads, writes nor understands the English or
Spanish language or any local dialect; that he keeps the
books of account of his business in Chinese characters;
that by reason of his ignorance of the English and Spanish
languages and of all local dialects he is unable to keep his
books in any other language than his own; that even if
he should employ a bookkeeper capable of keeping his
books in the English or Spanish language, he would have
no means of personally revising or ascertaining the contents or correctness of the books thus kept; that the employment of such a bookkeeper, unless he should be a
linguist, would entail as a necessary consequence the employment of a translator or interpreter familiar with the

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

Chinese language and the language or dialect in which
such books might be kept, in order to enable the petitioner to ascertain by hearsay the contents thereof; that
he would be completely at the mercy of such employees,
who if dishonest might cheat and defraud him of the proceeds of his business, and involve him in criminal or civil
liability in its conduct; that under the provisions of the
Act he is prohibited from even keeping a duplicate set of
accounts in his own language, and would, in the event of
the enforcement of the law, be compelled to remain in
total ignorance of the status of his business; and that the
enforcement of the Act would drive the petitioner and
many other Chinese merchants in the Philippines, who
do sixty per cent. of the business of the Islands and who
are in like circumstance, out of business.
The petition avers that the other petitioner in this
case, Co Liam, is a Chinese person and conducts a small
general merchandise business in Manila, commonly
known in the Philippines as a Chinese tienda; that he
carries a stock of goods of about 10,000 pesos, or $5,000;
that his sales taxes amount to from 40 to 60 pesos per
quarter; that he neither reads, writes nor understands the
English or Spanish languages, or any local dialect; that he
keeps books of account of his small business in Chinese,
the only language known to him, without the assistance
of a bookkeeper; that he has been losing money for some
time in the operation of his business, but that even in
prosperous times his profits could never be sufficient to
justify the employment of a Filipino bookkeeper, and
that, without the opportunity to keep Chinese books, he
would be kept completely ignorant of the changing condition of his business, were he compelled to keep his books
in English, Spanish or a local dialect, and that the enforcement of the Act would drive him and all the small
merchants or tienda keepers in the Islands who are
Chinese out of business.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

The petitioners aver that the Act, if enforced, will deprive the petitioners, and the twelve thousand Chinese
merchants whom they represent, of their liberty and
property without due process of law, and deny them the
equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Philippine Autonomy Act of Congress of August 29, 1916, c.
416, see. 3, 39 Stat. 546.
An amendment to the petition set up the rights of the
petitioners under the treaty now in force between the
United States and China, alleging that under it the petitioners are entitled to the same rights, privileges and
immunities as the citizens and subjects of Great Britain
and Spain, and that the treaty has the force and effect of
a law of Congress, which this law violates.
An answer was filed by the Fiscal, which is a general
denial of the averments of the petition as to the effect of
the law. He avers that the law is valid and necessary
and is only the exercise of proper legislative power,
because the government of the Philippine Islands depends upon the taxes and imposts which it may collect
in order to carry out its functions; and the determination
of whether the mercantile operations of the merchants
are or are not subject to taxation, as well as the fixing
of its amount, can not and ought not to be left to the
mercy of those who are to bear it; that, due to the inability of the officials of the Internal Revenue to revise
and check up properly the correctness of the books of
account which the Chinese merchants keep in their own
language, the public treasury loses every year very large
sums.
Evidence was taken on the issues made. A majority
of the Supreme Court held that, if the Act were construed and enforced literally, it would probably be invalid, but, by giving it an interpretation different from
the usual meaning of the words employed, it could stand.
Two of the justices dissented, on the ground that the

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

court had exceeded its powers and by legislation made it
a different Act.
There are two tax laws from which a substantial part
of the revenue of the Islands is derived. There is a sales
tax of 1 /: per cent. on the gross sales of businesses and
occupations for which a quarterly return is required. Administrative Code, §§ 1453, etc., Act 3065. There is also
an income tax. The annual revenue accruing from the
sales tax is roughly ten million pesos, and that from the
income tax about two millions.
Another statute is the so-called Code of Commerce,
brought over from the Spanish Code, the 33d Article of
which provides that all merchants shall keep a book of
inventories and balances, a day book, a ledger, a copy
book of telegrams, letters, etc., and such other books as
may be required by special laws. Under the provisions
of that code and the internal revenue law, the collector of
internal revenue is authorized to require the keeping of
daily records of sales, and makes regulations prescribing
the manner in which the proper books, invoices and other
papers should be kept, and entries made therein, by the
persons subject to the sales tax. R. 1164, Act No. 2339,
§§ 5, 6; Administrative Code, section 1424(j).
Chinese merchants are said to have been in the Philippines even before the arrival of the Spaniards, in 1520.
The Chinese written language is an ancient language with
a literature and with characters quite different from those
used in European languages. There are many different
native dialects in the Philippines. Forty-three is said
to be the number; but there are less than a dozen of these
which may be regarded as important-the Tagalog, the
Visayan, with two distinct main dialects, the Ilocano, the
Bical, the Pampangan, the Ibanag, the Pangasananian
and the Moro. Perhaps from 7 to 10 per cent. of the
Filipinos speak Spanish. A great many (how large the
percentage one can not tell) of the younger people in the

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Islands speak English. It is a polyglot situation, and
presents many difficulties in government. Comparatively
few of the Chinese speak English or Spanish or the native
dialects with any facility at all, and less are able to write
or to read either. But, with capacity and persistence in
trade, by signs and by a patois they communicate with
the Filipinos and others with whom they do business,
making their calculations with the abacus, an instrument
for mechanical calculation, and keeping their books in
Chinese characters in ink, applied by a brush to strong
paper, securely bound. They have a scientific system
of double entry bookkeeping.
There are 85,000 merchants in the Philippines to whom
the bookkeeping law applies. Of these, 71,000 are Filipinos who may use their own dialects; 1,500 are Americans, or British or Spanish subjects; 500 are of other foreign nationalities, most of whom know the Spanish or
English language. The remainder, some 12,000 in number, are Chinese. The aggregate commercial business
transacted by these is about 60 per cent., of the total business done by all the merchants in the Islands. The total
amount of their sales in 1923 was more than 320 millions
of pesos, distributed among 3,335 wholesale merchants, of
whom 50 did a business of a million pesos each, 150 of
half a million each, 400 of one hundred thousand each,
and 2,735 of forty thousand each. There were 8,445 retail merchants whose annual incomes on the average
would not. exceed 500 pesos each. In 1913, certain revenue statistics were reported by the then collector of internal revenue to the Court of First Instance in the case
of Young v. Rafferty, 33 Philippine Reports, 556, in which
the validity of an order by the collector requiring the
keeping of certain books by tax payers in Spanish and
English was at issue. The figures given above are based
on this report. The report showed that Chinese merchants paid about 60 per cent. of the taxes; but this is

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

now in dispute and evidence was introduced by the present collector to show that the proportion of taxes paid by
them in 1918 and 1922 was much less, and that examination of the books of four hundred Chinese tax payers
showed a very considerable loss probably due to evasion
and fraud.
The evidence of the president of the largest company
in the Philippine Islands, an American who has been
twenty-one years in business in the Philippines, as to the
business activities of the Chinese, was accepted by the
court below as reliable. He says that the Chinese system
of distribution covers the Philippine Islands through the
medium of middlemen in the principal centers, and then
by the small Chinese storekeepers throughout the Islands,
extending even to the remotest barrios or small settlements. The Chinese are the principal distributing factors in the Philippines of imported goods and the principal
gatherers of goods for exportation in the same remote
places. He said that, if they were driven out of business,
there would be no other system of distribution available
throughout the Islands, for the reason that there are not
Filipino merchants sufficiently numerous with resources
and experience to provide a substitute.
The Chinese Consul General testified that not more
than eight Chinese merchants in the Islands can read or
write proficiently in any other language than Chinese,
and that the great majority of them could not comply
with the Act. The merchants' establishments are made
up of young Chinese persons who come from China, begin
at the beginning and are promoted from time to time to
become the head of the business. The books are always
kept in the Chinese language, and each Chinese establishment is completely separated from the native mode
of living.
Apparently there has always been some complaint in
respect of the avoidance of taxes by the Chinese, because

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of the difficulty of determining what their sales tax should
be. There has always been a sales tax in the Philippines. It is a method of taxation to which the people
are used. Dr. Pardo de Tavera, the Philippine Librarian and Historian, testified in this case that efforts to
enforce such a law as this in the Spanish times against the
Chinese, failed and became a dead letter. Governor General Harrison made a general recommendation looking to
a law requiring the Chinese to keep books in other than
Chinese language so that their business might be investigated, saying that, until it was done, taxes would be
evaded. Since the passage of the law in 1921, as already
said, its enforcement has been postponed. Governor
General Wood has sought to have the law repealed or
changed in such a way that exceptions might be made
to it, or that the books of the Chinese should be kept on
stamped paper with the pages registered, for the purpose of making it difficult for the Chinese tax payer to
change the records of his business. Protests from the
Chinese Government, from members of the Insular Committee of the House of Representatives, from Chambers
of Commerce in the United States and elsewhere, were
brought to the attention of the Philippine Legislature,
and the repeal or modification of the law came up for
discussion, but all proposed changes were defeated. The
great weight of the evidence sustains the view that the
enforcement by criminal punishment of an inhibition
against the keeping of any Chinese books of account by
Chinese merchants in the Islands would seriously embarrass all of them and would drive out of business a great
number.
Nor is there any doubt that the Act, as a fiscal measure,
was chiefly directed against the Chinese merchants. The
discussion over its repeal in the Philippine Legislature
leaves no doubt on this point. So far as the other merchants in the Islands are concerned, its results would be

17T
500

CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
Opinion of the Court.

negligible and would operate without especial burden on
other classes of foreign residents. The Supreme Court
in its opinion in this case refers to the Act as popularly
known as the Chinese Bookkeeping Act.
Evidence was introduced on behalf of the defendants
to show the difficulty of securing competent Chinese
bookkeepers who could act as inspectors of Chinese books
for the tax collecting authorities, and, while the failure
of the government to employ a sufficient number was
charged to the fact that sufficient salaries were not paid
to secure them, it is undoubtedly true that a lack of
proper and reliable Chinese accountants presents a real
difficulty in the examination of Chinese merchants' books.
The majority of the Philippine court, in its opinion,
after quoting a number of authorities showing the duty
of a court, in determining whether a law is unconstitutional or not, first to give every intendment "possible to
its validity, and second to reach a reasonable construction by which it may be preserved, said:
"We come to the last question suggested, a construction of Act No. 2972 which allows the court legally to
approve it.
"A literal application of the law would make it unlawful for any Chinese merchant to keep his account books
in any language other than English, Spanish or a local
dialect. The petitioners say the law is susceptible of
that interpretation. But such interpretation might, and
probably would, cause us to hold the law unconstitutional.
"A second interpretation is that the Chinese merchant,
while permitted to keep his books of account in Chinese,
must also keep another set of books in either English,
Spanish or a native dialect. The respondents claim the
law is susceptible of such construction. It occurs to us,
however, that this construction might prove as unsatis-

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

factory as the first. Fraud is possible in any language.
An approximation to governmental convenience and an
approximation to equality in taxation is the most which
may be expected.
"A third construction which is permissible in view of
the history of the legislation and the wording of the statute, is, that the law only intended to require the keeping
of such books as were necessary in order to facilitate
governmental inspection for tax purposes. It has not
escaped our notice that the law does not specify what
books shall be kept. It is stated by competent witnesses
that a cash book, a journal, and a ledger are indispensable
books of account for an efficient system of accounting,
and that, in the smaller shops, even simpler entries showing merely the daily records of sales and record of purchases of merchandise would be sufficient. The keeping of
records of sales, and possibly further records of purchases,
in English, Spanish or a native dialect, and the filling
out of the necessary forms would serve the purpose of
the Government while not being oppressive. Actually,
notations in English, Spanish or a dialect of all sales in
sales books, and of data in other specified forms are
insisted upon by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, although as appears from Exhibit 2, it is doubtful if all
Chinese merchants have complied with these regulations.
The faithful observance of such rules by the Chinese is
not far removed from the offer of coiperation oft made
for them by the petitioners of the 'translation of the
account books' oft mentioned and explained by the respondents.
"The law, in speaking of any person, company, partnership or corporation, makes use of the expression 'its
account books.' Does the phrase 'its account books'
mean that all the account books of the person, company,
partnership or corporation must be kept exclusively in
English, Spanish or any local dialect? The petitioners

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

argue that the law has this meaning. Or does the phrase
'its account books' mean that the persons, company,
partnership or corporation shall keep duplicate sets of
account books, one set in Chinese and the other a translation into English, Spanish or any local dialect? Counsel
for the respondents urge this construction of the law upon
the court. Or does the phrase 'its account books' mean
that the person, company, partnership or corporation
must keep such account books as are necessary for taxation purposes? This latter interpretation occurs to us as
a reasonable one and as best safeguarding the rights of
the accused."
The court in effect concludes that what the Legislature
meant to do was to require the keeping of such account
books in English, Spanish or the Filipino dialects as would
be reasonably adapted to the needs of the taxing officers
in preventing and detecting evasion of taxes, and that
this might be determined from the statutes and regulations then in force. What the court really does is to
change the law from one which, by its plain terms, forbids the Chinese merchants to keep their account books
in any language except English, Spanish or the Filipino
dialects, and thus forbids them to keep account books in
the Chinese, into a law requiring them to keep certain
undefined books in the permitted languages. This is to
change a penal prohibitive law to a mandatory law of
great indefiniteness, to conform to what the Court assumes was, or ought to have been, the purpose of the
Legislature, and which in the change would avoid a
conflict with constitutional restriction.
It would seem to us, from the history of the legislation
and the efforts for its repeal or amendment, that the
Philippine Legislature knew the meaning of the words it
used, and intended that the Act as passed should be prohibitory and should forbid the Chinese merchants from
keeping the account books of their business in Chinese.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Had the Legislature intended only what the Supreme
Court has construed it to mean, why should it not have
amended it accordingly? Apparently the Legislature
thought the danger to the revenue was in the secrecy of
the Chinese books, and additional books in the permitted
languages would not solve the difficulty.
We fully concede that it is the duty of a court in considering the validity of an act to give it such reasonable
construction as can be reached to bring it within the
fundamental law. But it is very clear that amendment
may not be substituted for construction, and that a court
may not exercise legislative functions to save the law from
conflict with constitutional limitation.
One of the strongest reasons for not making this law
a nose of wax to be changed from that which the plain
language imports, is the fact that it is a highly penal
statute authorizing sentence of one convicted under it to
a fine of not more than 10,000 pesos, or by imprisonment
for not more than two years, or both. If we change it
to meet the needs suggested by other laws and fiscal regulations and by the supposed general purpose of the legislation, we are creating by construction a vague requirement, and one objectionable in a criminal statute. We
are likely thus to trespass on the provision of the Bill of
Rights that the accused is entitled to demand the nature
and cause of the accusation against him; and to violate
the principle that a statute which requires the doing of
an act so indefinitely described that men must guess at
its meaning, violates due process of law. Connally v.
Construction Company, 269 U. S. 385; United States v.
Cohen Grocery Company, 255 U. S. 81; International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216; United States
v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 219.
The main objection to the construction given to the Act
by the court below is that, in making the Act indefinitely
mandatory instead of broadly prohibitory, it creates a

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

restriction upon its operation to make it valid that is not
in any way suggested by its language. In several cases
this Court has pointed out that such strained construction, in order to make a law conform to a constitutional
limitation, can not be sustained.
In United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, the question
for decision arose on a demurrer to an indictment against
inspectors of municipal election for refusing to receive and
count the vote of a colored man. The power of Congress
to forbid such an act was confined under the Fifteenth
Amendment to a refusal to receive such a vote from a
colored man on account of his race, color or previous condition of servitude, but the section under which the indictment was brought did not specifically confine the offense
to a refusal for such a reason or to such discrimination,
although in previous sections of the Act there was a general purpose disclosed in the Act to enforce the Fifteenth
Amendment. The demurrer was sustained on the ground
that the section was invalid.
Chief Justice Waite, in delivering the opinion of the
Court, said, at p. 221:
"We are, therefore, directly called upon to decide
whether a penal statute enacted by Congress, with its
limited powers, which is in general language broad enough
to cover wrongful acts without as well as within the constitutional jurisdiction, can be limited by judicial construction so as to make it operate only on that which
Congress may rightfully prohibit and punish. For this
purpose we must take these sections of the statute as they
are. We are not able to reject a part which is unconstitutional, and retain the remainder, because it is not possible to separate that which is unconstitutional, if there
be any such, from that which is not. The proposed effect
is not to be attained by striking out or disregarding words
that are in the section, but by inserting those that are
not now there. Each of the sections must stand as a

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

whole or fall altogether. The language is plain. There
is no room for construction, unless it be as to the effect
of the Constitution. The question then to be determined
is whether we can introduce words of limitation into a
penal statute so-as to make it specific, when, as expressed,
it is general only.
"It would certainly be dangerous if the legislature
could set a net large anough to catch all possible offenders,
and leave it to the courts to step inside and say who could
be rightfully detained, and who should be set at large.
This would, to some extent, substitute the judicial for
the legislative department of the government."
And again the Chief Justice said:
"To limit this statute in the manner now asked for
would be to make a new law, not to enforce the old one.
This is no part of our duty."
The same principle was laid down, and this language
approved by this Court, in the Trade Mark Cases, 100
U. S.82, in which, to save the validity of a general statute
providing for trade marks, the Court was asked to construe the statute to apply only to trade marks in interstate commerce. It was held this could not be done. Mr.
Justice, Miller, speaking for the Court, at p. 98, said:
"It has been suggested that if Congress has power to
regulate trade-marks used in commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, these -statutes shall be
held valid in that class of cases, if no further. To this
there are two objections: First, the indictments in these
cases do not show that the trade-marks which are wrongfully used were trade-marks used in that kind of commerce. Secondly, while it may be true that when one
part of a statute is valid and constitutional, and another
part is unconstitutional and void, the court may enforce
the valid part where they are distinctly separable so that
each can stand alone, it is not within the judicial province
to give to the words used by Congress a narrower meaning

YU CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

than they are manifestly intended to bear in order that
crimes may be punished which are not described in language that brings them within the constitutional power
of that body."
The case of Butts v. Merchantsand Miners Transportation Company, 230 U. S. 126, concerned the application
of the Civil Rights Act of March 1, 1875, to vessels of
the United States engaged in the coastwise trade. In the
Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, it was held that the Civil
Rights Act of 1875, to protect all citizens in their civil and
legal rights, and in accordance with the terms of which a
defendant was indicted for denying the privileges and
accommodations of a theater in a State to a person on
account of her color, was unconstitutional because power
to enact and enforce such legislation in a State was in
the state legislature only. The declaration in the Butts
Case was brought to recover penalties for violation of the
Act against a corporation engaged in the transportation of
passengers and freight between Boston, Mass., and Norfolk, Va., and the discrimination occurred on the high seas
and in the jurisdiction of the United States, and not within
any State. It was contended that the Federal Civil
Rights Act could, therefore, apply in such a case. The
Court pointed out the all-inclusive words of the Act of
Congress and held that they could not be cut down to
include only what was strictly within the federal jurisdiction. The Court said:
"Only by reason of the general words indicative of the
intended uniformity can it be said that there was a purpose to embrace American vessels upon the high seas, the
District of Columbia and the Territories. But how can
the manifest purpose to establish an uniform law for the
entire jurisdiction of the United States be converted into
a purpose to create a law for only a small fraction of that
jurisdiction? How can the use of the general terms denoting an intention to enact a law which should be appli-

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

cable alike in all places within that jurisdiction be said to
indicate a purpose to make a law which should be applicable to a minor part of that jurisdiction and inapplicable
to the major part? Besides, it is not to be forgotten
that the intended law is both penal and criminal." Citing the case of United States v. Reese, and the Trade
Mark Cases, supra, as well as United States v. Harris,
106 U. S. 629, 642; Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S.678, 685;
James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127, 140; United States v.
Ju Toy, 198 U. S.253, 262; Illinois CentralRailroad Co.
v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514, 529-530; Karem v. United
States, 121 Fed. 250, 259.
The effect of the authorities we have quoted is clear to
the point that we may not in a criminal statute reduce
its generally inclusive terms so as to limit its application
to only that class of cases which it was within the power
of the legislature to enact, and thus save the statute from
invalidity. What it is proposed to do here is much more
radical, for it is to ignore and hold for naught a plain
prohibition of the keeping of account books in Chinese
and insert in the act an affirmative requirement that account books, not definitely determined which are adapted
to the needs of the taxing officials, be kept in the permitted languages. This is quite beyond the judicial
power.
The suggestion has been made in argument that we
should accept the construction put upon a statute of the
Philippine Islands by their Supreme Court, as we would
the construction of a state court in passing upon the
federal constitutionality of a state statute. The analogy
is not complete. The Philippines are within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States Government, with complete power of legislation in Congress over them; and
when the interpretation of a Philippine statute comes
before us for review, we may, if there be need therefor,
re-examine it for ourselves as the court of last resort on

Y-U CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

such a question. It is very true that, with respect to
questions turning on questions of local law, or those properly affected by custom inherited from the centuries of
Spanish control, we defer much to the judgment of the
Philippine or Porto Rican courts. Cami v. Central Victoria,Ltd., 268 U. S. 469; Diaz v. Gonzales, 261 U. S. 102.
But on questions of statutory construction, as of the
Philippine Code of Procedure adopted by the United
States Philippine Commission, this Court may exercise
an independent judgment. In Philippine Sugar Co. v.
Philippine Islands, 247 U. S. 385, involving the effect of
§ 285 of that Code, this Court said, at p. 390:
"It is also urged that, since the construction of § 285
is a matter of purely local concern, we should not disturb
the decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands. This court is always disposed to accept the construction which the highest court of a territory or possession has placed upon a local statute. Phoenix Ry. Co.
v. L andis, 231 U. S. 578. But that disposition may not
be yielded to, where the lower court has clearly erred.
Carringtonv. United States, 208 U. S. 1."
The question of applying American constitutional limitations to a Philippine or Porto Rican statute dealing
with the rights of persons living under the government
established by the United States, is not a local one,
especially when the persons affected are subjects of
another sovereignty with wl~ich the United States has
made a treaty promising to make every effort to protect
their rights. The fundamental law we administer in the
Philippine bill of rights was a marked change from that
which prevailed in the Islands before we took them over,
and is to be enforced in the light of the construction by
this Court of such limitations as it has recognized them
since the foundation of our own government. In its
application here, we must determine for ourselves the
necessary meaning of a statute officially enacted in English, and its conformity with fundamental limitations.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

We can not give any other meaning to the Bookkeeping
Act than that which its plain language imports, making
it a crime for any one in the Philippine Islands engaged
in business to keep his account books in Chinese. This
brings us to the question whether the law thus construed
to mean what it says is invalid.
The Philippine Bill of Rights, already referred to, provides that:
"No law shall be enacted in said islands which shall
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law, or deny to any person therein the
equal protection of the laws."
In Serra v. Mortiga, 204 U. S. 470, at 474, this Court
said:
"It is settled that by virtue of the bill of rights enacted
by Congress for the Philippine Islands, 32 Stat. 691, 692,
that guarantees equivalent to the due process and equal
protection of the law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the twice in jeopardy clause of the Fifth Amendment, and the substantial guarantees of the Sixth Amendment, exclusive of the right to trial by jury, were extended
to the Philippine Islands. It is further settled that the
guarantees which Congress has extended to the Philippine Islands are to be interpreted as meaning what the
like provisions meant at the time when Congress made
them applicable to the Philippine Islands. Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S.100.
"For the purpose, therefore, of passing on the errors
assigned we must test the correctness of the action of the
court below by substantially the same criteria which we
would apply to a case arising in the United States and
controlled by the bill of rights expressed in the amendments to the Constitution of the United States."
In view of the history of the Islands and of the conditions there prevailing, we think the law to be invalid, because it deprives Chinese persons-situated as they are,

Y17 CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

with their extensive and important business long established-of their liberty and property without due process
of law, and denies them the equal protection of the laws.
Of course, the Philippine Govermnent may make every
reasonable requirement, of its taxpayers to keep proper
records of their business transactions in English, or Spanish, or Filipino dialect, by which an adequate measure of
what is due from them in meeting the cost of government
can be had. How detailed those records should be, we
need not now discuss, for it is not before us. But we are
clearly of opinion that it is not within the police power
of the Philippine Legislature, because it would be oppressive and arbitrary, to prohibit all Chinese merchants from
maintaining a set of books in the Chinese language, and
in the Chinese characters, and thus prevent them from
keeping advised of the status of their business and directing its conduct. As the petitioner Yu Cong Eng well
said in his examination, the Chinese books of those merchants who know only Chinese and do not know English
and Spanish, (and they constitute a very large majority
of all of them in the Islands,) are their eyes in respect of
their business. Without them, such merchants would be
a prey to all kinds of fraud and without possibility of
adopting any safe policy. It would greatly and disastrously curtail their liberty of action, and be oppressive
and damaging in the preservation of their property. We
agree with the Philippine Supreme Court in thinking that
the statute, construed as we think it must be construed,
is invalid.
In Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137, the Court said:
"To justify the State in thus interposing its authority
in behalf of the public, it must appear, first, that the interests of the public generally, as distinguished from those
of a particular class, require such interference; and, second, that the means are reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the purpose, and not unduly oppressive

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

upon individuals. The legislature may not, under the
guise of protecting the public interests, arbitrarily interfere with private business or impose unusual and unnecessary restrictions upon lawful occupations. In other
words, its determination as to what is a proper exercise of
its police powers is not final or conclusive, but is subject
to the supervision of the courts."
In Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 398, the Court said:
"The question in each case is whether the legislature
has adopted the statute in exercise of a reasonable discretion, or whether its action be a mere excuse for an unjust
discrimination, or the oppression, or spoliation of a particular class."
In the case of Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, this
Court considered the validity of state legislation making
it unlawful to teach a foreign language to children,
adopted on the theory that the State had the right to
protect children likely to become citizens from study of a
particular language, in which they might read and learn
doctrine inimical to the Constitution of the United States
and to the Nation, and forbidding the teachers of the language from pursuing their occupation on this account, and
held it invalid. The Court said:
"While this Court has not attempted to define with exactness the liberty thus guaranteed, the term has received
much consideration and some of the included things have
been definitely stated. Without doubt it denotes not
merely freedom from bodily restraint but also the right
of the individual to contract, to engage in any of the common occupations of life, to acquire useful knowledge, to
marry, establish a home and bring up children, to worship
God according to the dictates of his own conscience, and
generally to enjoy those privileges long recognized at common law as essential to the orderly pursuit of happiness
by free men. . . . The established doctrine is that this
liberty may not be interfered with under the guise of pro-

YLT CONG ENG v. TRINIDAD.
500

Opinion of the Court.

tecting the public interest, by legislative action which is
arbitrary or without reasonable relation to some purpose
within the competency of the State to effect. Determination by the legislature of what constitutes proper exercise
of police power is not final or conclusive but is subject to
supervision by the courts."
The same principle is laid down in Pierce v. Society of
Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, in Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33,
and in Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, in which this
Court has held legislative attempts arbitrarily and oppressively to interfere with the liberty of the individual
in the pursuit of lawful occupations to involve a lack of
due process.
In Adams v. Tanner,supra, an Act to restrict the maintenance of employment agencies, by forbidding the collection of fees from those seeking work, to avoid the extortion to which such workers were often subjected, was
held unconstitutional. The Court said, at p. 594:
"Because abuses may, and probably do, grow up in
connection with this business, is adequate reason for
hedging it about by proper regulations. But this is not
enough to justify destruction of one's right to follow a
distinctly useful calling in an upright way. Certainly
there is no profession, possibly no business, which does
not offer peculiar opportunities for reprehensible practices; and as to every one of them, no doubt, some can
be found quite ready earnestly to maintain that its suppression would be in the public interest. Skillfully directed agitation might also bring about apparent condemnation of any one of them by the public. Happily
for all, the fundamental guaranties of the Constitution
can not be freely submerged if and whenever some ostensible justification is advanced and the police power invoked."
In Truax v. Raich, supra., the people of the State of
Arizona adopted an Act, entitled "An Act to protect the

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

citizens of the United States in their employment against
non-citizens of the United States," and provided that an
employer of more than five workers at any one time in
that State should not employ less than eighty per cent.
qualified electors or native born citizens, and that any
employer who did so should be subject upon conviction
to the payment of a fine and to imprisonment. It was
held that such a law denied aliens an opportunity of
earning a livelihood and deprived them of their liberty
without due process of law, and denied them the equal
protection of the laws. As against the Chinese merchants
of the Philippines, we think the present law, which deprives them of something indispensable to the carrying
on of their business, and is obviously intended chiefly to
affect them as distinguished from the rest of the community, is a denial to them of the equal protection of
the laws.
We hold the law in question to be invalid.
Judgment reversed.
ALEJANDRINO v. QUEZON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPRE'ME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 309.

Submitted May 4, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. The Jurisdictional Act of September 6, 1916, repealed the provision of the Philippine Autonomy Act giving this Court jurisdiction to review by writ of error the final judgments of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in cases involving the Constitution, or any statute, treaty, title, or privilege of the United States
or where the value in controversy exceeds $25,000, and substituted
a review of such judgments by certiorari. P. 529.
2. The questions whether a member of the Philippine Senate appointed by the Governor General under the Autonomy Act, could
be suspended by the elected members, and whether, if their action

were invalid, the Supreme Court of the Islands, in this suit against

