228

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

plaintiff cannot be permitted on this review to change to
another which the defendant was not required to meet
below. Other objections to the contract theory are suggested but they need not be considered.
We conclude that the court should have instructed the
jury, as it was requested to do, that the defendant was
not liable for the injuries occurring during federal control.
Judgmnen t reversed.
GENERAL INVESTMENT COMPANY v. NEW YORK
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 274. Argued April 27, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. A bill by a minority stockholder against a railroad company
alleging domination by the defendant, through stock ownership, of
parallel and competing railroads engaged in interstate commerce,
charging continuous violations, therein, of the Sherman and Clayton
Acts, alleging resulting injury to plaintiff and other shareholders,
and praying an injunction, held a suit arising under the laws of the
United States and within the jurisdiction of the District Court.

P. 230.
2. The court again points out the difference between jurisdiction on
the one hand, and lack of merit or of capacity to sue, on the
other, as a ground for dismissing a suit. Id.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a suit for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Frederick A. Henry for appellant.
Mr. S. H. West for appellee.
MR. JuSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit in equity brought by a minority stockholder against the New York Central Railroad Company

GENERAL INV. CO. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R.
228

229

Opinion of the Court.

to enjoin it from dominating and controlling, through
stock ownership, certain other railroad companies. There
are various prayers in the bill, but all make for the attainment of the object just stated.
The suit was begun in the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio, June 20, 1924.
Federal jurisdiction was invoked on the grounds that the
parties are citizens of different States-the plaintiff a
Maine corporation and the defendant a corporation of
Ohio and States other than Maine-and that the suit is
one arising under the laws of the United Statesthere being also a showing that the value involved is
adequate.
Shortly described, the bill charges that the defendant
was organized pursuant to a consolidation agreement between the New York Central & Hudson River Railroad
Company, the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway
Company and nine companies subsidiary to them; that
the agreement was made in April, 1914, and carried into
effect the following December; that thereby the defendant, besides acquiring the railroad lines of the immediate
parties to the agreement, became invested with large
amounts of stock in other railroad companies, including
the Michigan Central and Big Four, and was thus enabled
to dominate and control them and their subsidiaries; that
these other companies have railroad lines which are
operated in both interstate and intrastate commerce, and
many of their lines are parallel and normally and potentially competing; that during the ten years since the
agreement became effective the defendant through its
ownership of stock in these other companies has dominated and controlled and is now dominating and controlling their properties and business; and that this stock
ownership, domination and control is in violation of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, of the Clayton Act. c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, and of the laws of Ohio and

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

other States, wherein the railroads lie, forbidding a common control, through stock ownership or otherwise, of
parallel or competing railroads.
The defendant moved to dismiss the bill on various
grounds, and the court after a hearing on the motion
entered a decree of dismissal. Afterwards and in due
time the court granted a certificate stating that the dismissal was for want of jurisdiction of the subject matter
and allowed a direct appeal to this Court under § 238 of
the Judicial Code, which at that time permitted such an
appeal where the jurisdiction of the District Court was
in issue, but required the jurisdictional question to be
certified and limited the review to the ruling on that
question.
In the bill, as we have shown, the plaintiff attempts
with much detail to set forth a continuing violation of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act and the Clayton Act, asserts that
this violation unless restrained will be injurious to the
plaintiff and other stockholders and prays for relief by
injunction. Such a suit is essentially one arising under
the laws of the United States, and, as the requisite value
is involved, is one of which the District Courts are given
jurisdiction. By jurisdiction we mean power to entertain
the suit, consider the merits and render a binding decision
thereon; and by merits we mean the various elements
which enter into or qualify the plaintiff's right to the
relief sought. There may be jurisdiction and yet an absence of merits (The Fair v. Kohier Die Co., 228 U. S.
22, 25; Geneva Furniture Co. v. Karpen, 238 U. S. 254,
258,) as where the plaintiff seeks preventive relief against
a threatened violation of law of which he has no right to
complain, either because it will not injure him or because
the right to invoke such relief is lodged exclusively in an
agency charged with the duty of representing the public
in the matter. Whether a plaintiff seeking such relief
has the requisite standing is a question going to the

GENERAL INV. CO. v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. 231
228

Opinion of the Court.

merits, and its determination is an exercise of jurisdiction. Ilihnois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28,
34; Venner v. Great Northern. Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 24, 34.
If it be resolved against him, the appropriate decree is a
dismissal for want of merits, not for want of jurisdiction.
A week or two before entering the decree of dismissal
the court considered the motion to dismiss in a carefully
prepared memorandum found in the record. What was
said in it shows that the court was then of opinion, first,
that in view of §§ 4 and 7 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act,
of §§ 7, 8, 11 and 16 of the Clayton Act, and § 5(2) of
the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by § 407 of
the Transportation Act, c. 91, 41 Stat. 480, the plaintiff,
as a private litigant, was without capacity or right to
maintain the bill in respect of the alleged restraint of
interstate commerce, because the right to maintain such
a bill against railroad carriers was lodged exclusively in
others who are charged with guarding the public interest;
and, secondly, that the interstate and intrastate business
of the carriers affected are so inextricably interwoven that
it would be impossible to award any relief reaching their
intrastate business without equally affecting their interstate business, and therefore to permit the plaintiff to
maintain the bill in respect of the alleged violation of
state laws would be indirectly permitting a private litigant to do what in effect is prohibited by federal law.
The questions considered in the memorandum pertain
to the merits, not to jurisdiction; and if the memorandum were definitive of the grounds on which the court
proceeded we should regard the bill as dismissed on the
merits. But as the decree was entered a week or two
later and the court expressly certified that the dismissal
was for want of jurisdiction of the subject matter, we
have given effect to the certificate and have examined the
question certified. Our conclusion is that the court had

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

271 U.S.

jurisdiction of the subject matter and therefore that the
decree of dismissal was put on an untenable ground.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

did not participate in the

consideration or decision of this case.
SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY v. ARMA ENGINEERING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROMJ: THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 239.

Argued April 15, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

In a suit in the District Court against a private party for infringements of a patent, alleged to have been committed, and to be
threatened, by manufacture of the patented articles for and their
sale to the United States, the question whether the plaintiff's remedy
is confined by the Act of July 1, 1918, to a suit against the United
States in the Court of Claims, goes to the merits, and is not a
ground for dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction. P. 234.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a. decree of the District Court in a patent
infringement suit, dimissing the bill for want of jurisdiction.

Messrs. D. Anthony Usina and Melville Church, with
whom Mr. Herbert H. Thompson was on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, with whom Messrs. Charles
Neave, W. Brown Morton, and R. Morton Adams were
on the brief, for appellee.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. HarryE. Knight
and Henry C. Workman, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, filed a brief as amici curiae, for the United
States.

