268

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

U. S. 214, 219; and that, accepting the rule that damages
are to be limited to actual loss, the award of the lower
court is to be regarded as an estimate of such loss. But,
in the case at bar, the court did not pursue that course.
It made no estimate of the loss suffered. It found merely
the increase in value of the work at the time it was performed and the increase in value of the material during
the period of the delay. Then it found and concluded,
as a matter of law, that the excess of the reasonable value
of the work at the time it was done over the amount paid
therefor, was recoverable as damages. This was error.
The judgment must be reversed. As there are no findings from which the amount of the loss can be determined,
the case is remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.

WESTERN PAPER MAKERS' CHEMICAL COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 312.

Argued May 4, 5, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. The determination by the Interstate Commerce Commission of the
question whether a rate is reasonable or discriminatory is conclusive if supported by substantial evidence, in the absence of any
irregularity in the proceeding or error in applying the rules of
law. P. 271.

2. The Commission is not hampered by mechanical rules governing
the weight or effect of evidence. The mere admission of matter
which under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceeding would be incompetent does not invalidate its order. P. 271.
3. The Commission has power to require the abandonment of through
routes which, under a revision of through rates on a commodity,
would violate the long-and-short-haul clause of ยง 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 272.
7 Fed. (2d) 164, affirmed.

WESTERN CHEM. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
268

269

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit to enjoin or modify orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing through rates
on rosin. See 7 Fe]. (2d) 164.
Mr. Harry C. Howard for appellants.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrell,with whom Mr. E. M. Reidy was on
the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JuSTICE BRANDEiS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit against .the United States and the Interstate
Commerce Commission was brought in the federal court
for western Michigan to enjoin in part, and to modify,
certain orders of the Commission, which established
through rates on rosin from Atlantic and Gulf ports to
Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids, Michigan. The proceedings before the Commission originated in tariffs filed
during 1923 by carriers operating in Southeast and Mississippi Valley territory. By these tariffs a comprehensive revision of rates on naval stores, including rosin,
from all such points of production was proposed. Shippers, including these plaintiffs, protested. The proposed
rates were suspended; and extensive hearings in which
the plaintiffs participated were held. An order was entered requiring cancellation of the filed tariffs. A new
schedule of rates, including those complained of by
plaintiffs, was finally authorized. Naval Stores from
Southern Producing Points to Various Destinations, 87
I. C. C. 740; 89 I. C. C. 634. Upon specific exceptions
filed by the plaintiffs to the Kalamazoo and Grand Rap-

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

ids rates as proposed in the report of the Examiner, the
Commission found that these rates were neither unreasonable nor unjustly discriminatory. Western Paper
Makers' Chemical Co. v. Director General, 91 I. C. C.
223. The new rates to those cities are higher than the
rates previously in effect. The Kalamazoo rates from
Gulf ports are higher than those to Chicago; the Grand
Rapids rates from Gulf ports are higher than those to
Milwaukee.
The case was heard in the District Court before three
judges upon application for an interlocutory injunction.
The plaintiffs claimed that the order was void in part,
because the evidence introduced before the Commission
did not justify the increased rates from Atlantic and
Gulf ports to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids; because the
establishment of rates from Gulf ports to these cities
higher than those enjoyed by competing manufacturers at
Chicago and Milwaukee was unjust discrimination against
Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids; and because the new
rates involved a violation of the long-and-short-haul
clause of ยง 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act. The court
found against the plaintiffs on each of their contentions
and denied the injunction. 7 Fed. (2d) 164. Upon submission of the case for final hearing a decree dismissing
the bill was entered on January 3, 1925. A direct appeal
to this Court was taken under the Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220. The record included all
the evidence introduced before the Commission. Pursuant to an order of this Court, made on a motion of the
plaintiffs for diminution of the record, counsel agreed
upon a short statement of the whole evidence sufficient
to enable this Court to consider whether there was any
evidence to support the findings of the Commission.
The objections as presented here in brief and argument
were addressed mainly to the soundness of the reasoning by which the Commission reached its conclusions,

WESTERN CHEM. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
268

271

Opinion of the Court.

It was urged that these are inconsistent with conclusions
reached by it in similar cases; that the findings are inconsistent with some views expressed in its reports in
this proceeding; that some evidence was improperly considered; and that inferences drawn from some of the evidence were unwarranted. These objections we have no
occasion to discuss. The determination whether a rate
is unreasonable or discriminatory is a question on which
the finding of the Commission is conclusive if supported
by substantial evidence, unless there was some irregularity in the proceeding or some error in the application
of the rules of law. Skinner & Eddy Corporation v.
UnitedStates, 249 U. S. 557, 562; New England Divisions
Case, 261 U. S. 184, 204. No such irregularity or error is
shown. In making its determinations the Commission is
not hampered by mechanical rules governing the weight
or effect of evidence. The mere admission of matter
which under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings would be deemed incompetent does not invalidate its order. United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry.
Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288. There was ample evidence to
support the finding that the joint through rates regarded
as entireties were reasonable and justified. Prior existing rates, whether locals or such proportionate rates from
a key point to points of destination as were made applicable to this particular class of traffic, or through rates
upon other commodities moving from similar points of
origin, are proper matters for consideration in establishing new through rates. To consider the weight of the
evidence is beyond our province.
Among the objections urged here was this: The rate
from New Orleans to Chicago was fixed at 37 cents; that
to Kalamazoo at 39. The rate from New Orleans to
Milwaukee was fixed at 39 cents; that to Grand Rapids at
40. One of the many routes from the southern ports to
Chicago theretofore open, was via Cincinnati and Kala-

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
271 U. S.

Syllabus.

mazoo; one of those to Milwaukee was via Cincinnati
and Grand Rapids. These routes had been rarely used.
If retained, they would have violated the long-and-shorthaul clause of ยง 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act unless
relief therefrom was granted by the Commission. See
United States v. Merchants, etc., Association, 242 U. S.
178. That relief it refused; and, to remove this obstacle
to the higher Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids rates, it
directed that these routes should be abandoned. The
plaintiffs insist that the Commission could not lawfully
close an existing route in order to avoid a fourth-section
violation. The authority exercised was clearly within the
broad discretion vested in the Commission. Compare
Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. Unite4 States, 257
U. S. 114.
Affirmed.
SUTHERLAND, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.

v. MAYER

ET AL.

MAYER v. SUTHERLAND, ALIEN PROPERTY CUS-

TODIAN,
REIS

ET AL.

ET AL.

v. MAYER ET

AL.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 232, 233, 234. Argued April 14, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. The declaration of war, April 6, 1917, immediately effected dissolution of partnerships then existing between citizens of this country
and citizens of Germany. P. 286.
2. During the war all intercourse, correspondence and traffic betweeD
citizens of the two countries which might advantage the enemy,
was absolutely forbidden. Id.
3. The purpose of this restriction is not arbitrarily and unnecessarily to tie the hands of the individuals concerned, but to preclude the possibility of aid or comfort, direct or indirect, to the

