HARTSVILLE MILL v. UNITED STATES.
40

43

Counsel for Appellant.

Nor did the statute deny to the plaintiff in error the
equal protection of the laws. A statute which places all
physicians in a single class, and prescribes a uniform
standard of professional attainment and conduct, as a
condition of the practice of their profession, and a reasonable procedure applicable to them as a class to insure conformity to that standard, does not deny the equal protection of the laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114;
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; Watson v. Maryland,
supra.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmed.

HARTSVILLE OIL MILL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 609.

Argued March 3, 4, 1926.--Decided April 12, 1926.

1. Jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to hear and decide a claim,
existing under Jud. Code, § 145, was not affected by a resolution
of the Senate referring to that court for consideration and report (Jud. Code, § 151) a bill for payment of the claim. P. 44.
2. The fact that a government contractor signed a settlement after
negotiations in which government officers threatened to break the
existing contract if the settlement were not accepted, does not of
itself support a legal inference that the settlement was procured by
duress. Freund v. United States, 260 U. S. 60, distinguished.
P. 48.
3. A threat to break a contract does not constitute duress in the
absence of evidence of some probable consequences of it to person
or property for which the remedy afforded by the courts would
be inadequate. P. 49.
4. Mutual promises of the parties are adequate consideration sustaining a compromise of a disputed contract. P. 50.
60 Ct. Cls. 712, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims.

Messrs. Christie Benet and Wade H. Ellis, with whom
Mr. Don F. Reed was on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, f925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

Mr. Paul Shipmen Andrews, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell
and Messrs. Arthur M. Loeb and Harold Horvitz, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICe STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
On February 5, 1923, a bill (S.4479) was introduced
in the Senate authorizing and directing the Secretary
of the Treasury to pay to two hundred and eighty-five
named persons, firms and corporations, including the appellant, "which entered into contracts with the United
States of America through the agency of the United
States Ordnance Department, which contracts were
cancelled by said Ordnance Department, the several sums
set opposite their names." By Senate Resolution of
March 3, 1923, the bill, with accompanying documents,
was referred to the Court of Claims for consideration and
report. Jud. Code, § 151. Appellant filed its petition in
the Court of Claims, referring to the Senate bill and resolution and setting up a claim upon a contract of September 26, 1918, for the sale of cotton linters to the Government. The Court of Claims held, upon the facts found,
that it had jurisdiction to render a judgment under the
provisions of chapter 7 of the Judicial Code; that the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover upon its claim, and
entered judgment dismissing the petition.
The case comes here on appeal. Jud. Code, § 242,
before its repeal by the Act of February 13, 1925.
The petition sets out a cause of action for failure of
the Government to perform its contract of September
26, 1918, and, by way of anticipation of a defense, alleges
that a later contract of December 31, 1918, between appellant and the Government, purporting to cancel the earlier
contract, was procured by duress and was without consideration. The jurisdiction to hear and determine the

HARTSVILLE MILL v. UNITED STATES.
43

45

Opinion of the Court.

claim is conferred by Jud. Code § 145, and was not enlarged or otherwise affected by the Senate resolution.
The petitioner, a South Carolina corporation, was engaged in the business of crushing cotton seed for the production of cotton seed oil, cotton seed meal and other
cotton seed products, including cotton linters, which are
the short fibres adhering to cotton seed after the removal
of the staple cotton by ginning. During the late war,
cotton linters were used extensively in the manufacture
of explosives. After the entry of the United States into
the war, appellant, with all others engaged in the production of cotton seed products, became subject to the
direction and control of the War Industries Board (Act
of May 20, 1918, c. 78, 40 Stat. 556), and of the United
States Food Administration (Act of August 10, 1917, c.
53, 40 Stat. 276), with respect to the production and
distribution of their product and the prices of both the
raw material purchased and the product sold by them.
This control was an essential feature of a plan to stabilize
price and stimulate production.
Appellant, by its contract, which was similar in form
and content to those of the other manufacturers named in
the Senate resolution, agreed to sell to the Government
its estimated product of cotton linters for the year ending July 31, 1918, approximately 2,250,000 pounds, at
4.67 cents per pound. The contract contained a clause
authorizing the Government to cancel it "in the event of
the termination of the present war" with the proviso
that the seller should continue to make deliveries for
thirty days after the effective date of cancellation and
that the Government should save the seller harmless from
actual loss resulting from the cancellation.
In November, 1918, after the armistice, negotiations
were begun between the Cotton Products Section of the
War Industries Board and a Committee representing
appellant and other manufacturers, for the adjustment

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and settlement of all obligations upon appellant's contract of September 26th and all similar contracts. In the
course of these negotiations, it was contended by the
representatives of the Government and denied by the
Committee that the termination of the war had occurred,
within the meaning of the cancellation clause. The War
Industries Board ceased to function on December 21,
1918, and these negotiations were continued on behalf
of the Government by representatives of the Ordnance
Department. On December 30, 1918, officers of this department notified the Committee that the Government
would settle its obligations upon these contracts only by
accepting the linters then on hand and inspected, about
270,000 bales, and would take only a part of the linters
produced between January 1 and July 31, 1919, not to
exceed 150,000 bales, the amount taken to be pro-rated
among the manufacturers. At the same time they notified the Committee that, unless this proposal was accepted
within one hour from the time it was made, the Government would refuse to perform its contracts and would
refuse to accept or pay for any linters either on hand
with the manufacturers or afterwards produced by them,
and that appellant and other manufacturers could seek
their remedy in the courts.
Within the hour, the Committee, although protesting
against the Government's interpretation of the contract
and the position taken by its representatives, notified
them that the manufacturers would accede to the proposed modification of their contracts. On the same day,
the Ordnance Department gave to appellant and other
manufacturers telegraphic notice of the cancellation of
their contracts, and on January 2, 1919, a form of contract, embodying the verbal agreement reached between
the officers of the Ordnance Department and the Committee, was submitted to the appellant and the other
manufacturers, accompanied by a copy of a letter of the

HARTSVILLE MILL v. UNITED STATES.
43

47

Opinion of the Court.

Ordnance Department stating that inters would not be
accepted by the Government from any producer who
refused to execute the contract. Appellant's counsel assisted in the preparation of this letter. The form contract, dated December 31, 1919, was signed by appellant;
it contained recitals of the cancellation of the earlier
contract of September 1918; that a dispute had arisen
as to whether the war had terminated and as to the
measure of damages provided by the cancellation clause
in the earlier contract, and stipulated that the new contract was in lieu of cancellation of the earlier contract
and a modification of it.
The findings of the Court of Claims establish appellant's right to recover under the earlier contract if it
was not mpdified by the later one. Appellant urges that
the later contract does not bar such recovery because
the coercive measures resorted to by officers of the Ordnance Department, to induce its execution, amount in law
to duress, rendering the second contract invalid and without force to modify the first. To support this position
appellant relies on the serious consequences which the
industry would have suffered if the Government had
wholly refused to perform its contracts. It asserts that
270,000 bales of linters already inspected by the Government were in the hands of manufacturers; that a million
tons of cotton seed, purchased at the uniform price of
$70 fixed by the Government, were on hand; that the
manufacturers had made commitments for the purchase
of 480,000 tons in the hands of farmers. It is contended
that the Government's refusal to carry out the contracts
would have resulted in the failure of the scheme for the
stabilization of the price of cotton seed and its products,
and in the collapse of the business structure which had
been reared upon the basis of the stabilized price, and
that great loss would have resulted to appellant and other
manufacturers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

A difficulty encountered by the appellant at the outset
is that this view is not supported by the findings made.
On its own theory of the case, appellant must prove the
probable injury which it would have suffered from the
threatened refusal of the Government to carry out its
contract, and that fear of that loss was the effective cause
of its executing the settlement contract. Any inference
that the business of manufacturing and distributing cotton seed products would have been disastrously affected,
would avail appellant nothing because it does not appear
what the consequences to its own business and finances
would have been.
The findings establish that on December 30, 1918, there
were in the hands of manufacturers 270,000 bales of linters; but it does not appear what proportion of them, if
any, were in the hands of appellant. There is no finding with respect to the amount of cotton seed or cotton
seed products in the hands of the manufacturers. There
is no finding with respect to the nature or extent of the
commitments of the manufacturers for the purchase of
seed, or as to the nature or extent of the loss which appellant would have suffered if on December 30, 1918, the
Government had refused to go forward with its contract;
or that the legal damages for such breach of contract
would not have been adequate to compensate for its loss.
There is no finding that appellant was induced to sign
the settlement contract by fear of the consequences of a
refusal to sign.
In applying to the facts of this case the principles which
control duress as a legal ground for avoidance of a contract, we are limited to such"conclusions of law as may be
drawn from the fact found by the court below, that the
appellant signed the settlement contract after negotiations in the course of which the threat was made that the
dovernment would disregard the admitted obligations of
its contracts unless those entitled to the performance of

HARTSVILLE MILL v. UNITED STATES.
43

49

Opinion of the Court.

them would yield to its demands. This threat was discreditable to the officers who made it and injurious to the
Government, whose high obligation to deal justly and
according to law, with those with whom it contracts,
might well have been their first concern. But a threat
to break a contract does not in itself constitute duress.
Before the coercive effect of the threatened action can be
inferred, there must be evidence of some probable consequences of it to person or property for which the remedy
afforded by the courts is inadequate. Sillimanr v. United
States, 101 U. S. 465; Rosenfeld v. Boston Mut. Life Ins.
Co., 222 Mass. 284; Hackley v. Headley, 45 Mich. 569;
Goebel v. Linn, 47 Mich. 489; Cable v. Foley, 45 Minn.
421; Wood v. Telephone Co., 223 Mo. 537; Secor v. Clark,
117 N. Y. 350; Doyle v. Rector, etc., Trinity Church,
133 N. Y. 372; Smithwick v. Whitley, 152 N. C. 369;
Earle v. Berry, 27 R. I. 221; and see Mason v. United
States, 17 Wall. 67; United States v. Child, 12 Wall. 232.
Freundv. United States, 260 U. S. 60; Hunt v. 'United
States, 257 U. S. 125; United States v. Smith, 256 U. S.
11, relied upon by appellant, present different considerations from those involved here. All were cases in which
Government contractors were called on to perform extra
services, the representatives of the Government taking the
position that the services demanded were stipulated for
by the contracts. In each it was held that the services
were not contemplated by the contract, and that the contractor did not assent to the Government's construction.
There was consequently no legal bar to the contractor's
recovering the fair value of the service rendered to the
Government, the Postmaster General having authority to
request the services and to pay for them. See also United
States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414; St. Louis, S. W. Ry. v.
United States, 262 U. S. 70, 76. Here the appellant is
confronted with the finding that it has executed a formal
9542'-26-----4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

contract which bars its recovery unless it sustains the
burden of proving duress.
The objection that the contract by which the parties
settled the controversy between them was without consideration is without weight. Savage Arms Corp. v. United
States, 266 U. S. 217.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the case.
ROBERTS & SCHAEFER COMPANY v. EMMERSON,
SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 210. Argued March 12, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. Quaere: Whether, as between its domestic corporations, a State
may not constitutionally measure their franchise taxes by the
amounts of their authorized capital stock without regard to the
amounts issued? Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, distinguished. P. 53.
2. A corporation is not in a position to raise this question under the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, if all of its
authorized capital stock has been issued. P. 54.
3. As applied to domestic corporations doing only intrastate business,
a state franchise tax measured by a fiat rate on authorized capital
stock, adopting the par value for par-value stock and $100 per
share for no-par stock, is not such a discrimination as infringes the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, either (1) as
between corporations whose authorized no-par shares may be of
like number but represent very different capital values, or (2) as
between corporations with par-value stock and corporations with
no-par value stock. Pp. 55, 57.
So held where the law permitted par value shares to be issued
only for money or property equivalent to the par value, but no-par
value stock for money or property of any value not less than $5
nor more than $100 per share. Ills. Rev. Stats. 1925, c. 32, as
amended by Ls. 1921, p. 365; 1923, p. 280.
4. The fact that a corporation issued no-par stock when the law
valued it at a lower figure for the purpose of measuring the cor-

