240

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

to them, except when inconsistent with some provision of
the federal control acts or an order of the President, and
forbade him to defend, in any suit against him as such
operator, upon the ground that he was an instrumentality or agency of the federal government. In the circumstances presented by this record, it is reasonable to
say that the statute confined his substantive rights to
those which a carrier would have had, and prohibits him,
as though he were an actual defendant in a suit, from
resisting the demands of others for equal distribution of
the insolvent's assets, under the commonly-applied rule,
upon the ground that he is an instrumentality of the federal government. To permit the claimed preference, we
think, would conflict with the spirit and broad purpose
of the statute. These become plain enough upon consideration of the just ends which Congress had in view
together with the recent policy, revealed by the Bankruptcy Act, in respect of priorities.
The cause is properly here on the writ of certiorari.
The appeal was improvidently allowed by the circuit
judge, and is dismissed.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
FENNER ET AL. v. BOYKIN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 308. Argued May 4, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
Enforcement of a state penal statute, even of one contrary to the
federal Constitution, may be interfered with by injunction orders
of a federal court only in extraordinary circumstances where the
danger of irreparable loss is both great and immediate. P. 243.
3 Fed. (2d) 674, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court refusing
preliminary injunction in a suit by Fenner and others

FENNER v. BOYKIN.
240

Argument for Appellants.

to restrain Boykin and Lowry, state officers, from enforcing a criminal law against dealings in agreements for
purchase or sale of cotton for future delivery.
Messrs. Arthur G. Powell and Thomas W. Hardwick,
with whom Messrs. John D. Little, Marion Smith, and
Max F. Goldstein were on the brief, for appellants.
The court had jurisdiction of the controversy. That a
federal court of equity has the power to enjoin a criminal
prosecution in the state court where business or property
rights are involved and that such a suit is not a suit
against a State is now well established. Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33;
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Louisville & Nashville
v. Railroad Conmission, 157 Fed. 944; Georgia Railroad
v. City of Atlanta, 118 Ga. 486; Atlanta v. Gate City
Gas Light Co., 71 Ga. 106; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195
U. S. 223; C. R. R. v. R. R. Comm. of Ala., 161 Fed. 925;
Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; Tucker v.
Williamson, 229 Fed. 201; Southern Express Co. v.
Ensley, 116 Fed. 760; Amer. School of Healing v. McNulty, 187 U. S. 94; Cutsinger v. Atlanta, 142 Ga. 555;
Satiage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Home Tel. Co. v. Los
Angeles, 227 U. S. 278.
If the statute is unconstitutional as a whole or in its
directly prohibitory provisions, the same authorities sustain the proposition that there is a duty to grant the injunction.
When the appellants, as citizens of other States, came
into the district court seeking relief by an injunction to
prevent the destruction of their business by local defendants, who were seeking to destroy it under color of a
statute which was either unconstitutional or did not
prohibit their business; and it was clearly shown that
failure to enjoin would result in at least temporarily dismantling (with great damage), if not permanently de-

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

stroying, that business, the judges should have granted
the temporary injunction.
See Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Louisville & Nashville v. R. R. Commission, 157 Fed. 944; Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197.
The jurisdiction of the federal court is not defeated or
impaired by the institution by one of the parties of subsequent proceedings, whether civil or criminal, involving the
same legal question in the state court. Prout v. Starr,
188 U. S. 537; C. R. R. v. Railroad Commission, 161 Fed.
972; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123. The bill having
been filed in the federal court before the indictments were
found in the state court, the federal court has the superior
right. Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Lake St. Elev. R.
Co., 177 U. S. 51; Foster-Eddy v. Baker, 192 Fed. 624;
United States ex rel. Butz v. Muscatine, 8 Wall, 575.
Mr. Hooper Alexander, with whom Mr. James W. Austin was on the brief, for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal is without merit, and the interlocutory
decree below must be affirmed.
By an Act approved August 20, 1906, "the Legislature
of Georgia declared unlawful certain agreements for the
purchase or sale, for future delivery, of designated commodities, and made participation therein a misdemeanor.
It also prohibited maintenance of an office where such
agreements are offered, and specified what should constitute prima facie evidence of guilty connection therewith.
Laws 1906, p. 95.
Appellees, Boykin and Lowry, are the Solicitor General
and Sheriff of Fulton County, Georgia, charged respectively with the general duty of prosecuting and arresting
offenders.

FENNER v. BOYKIN.
240

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequent tc the passage of the Act of 1906, appellants, citizens of States other than Georgia, established
in Fulton County a branch office, with the ordinary quotation board, where they solicited and received orders,
accompanied by margins, to purchase or sell cotton for
future delivery on the New York and New Orleans exchanges. They were threatened with arrest and prosecution for violating the Act of 1906. By a bill in the
United States District Court for the Northern District
of Georgia they challenged the validity of that statute,
upon the ground that it interfered with the free flow of
commerce between the States. They alleged that the
threatened action would deprive them of rights guaranteed by the federal Constitution, and asked that appellees be enjoined from proceeding therewith.
The District Court, three judges sitting, having heard
the matter, concluded that the statute condemned gambling transactions only, did not affect interstate coinmerce, and that the proposed proceedings against appellants would not deprive them of any right. The request
for preliminary injunction was accordingly refused, and
this appeal followed. 3 Fed. (2d) 674.
The trial court discovered no necessity for the relief
asked. The record discloses no adequate reason for a
different conclusion here. There was no abuse of discretion.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, and following cases
have established the doctrine that when absolutely necessary for protection of constitutional rights courts of the
United States have power to enjoin state officers from
instituting criminal actions. But this may not be done
except under extraordinary circumstances where the
danger of irreparable loss is both great and immediate.
Ordinarily, there should be no interference with such
officers; primarily, they are charged with the duty of
prosecuting offenders against the laws of the State and

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

must decide when and how this is to be done. The
accused should first set up and rely upon his defense in
the state courts, even though this involves a challenge
of the validity of some statute, unless it plainly appears
that this course would not afford adequate protection.
The Judicial Code provides ample opportunity for ultimate review here in respect of federal questions. An
intolerable condition would arise if, whenever about to
be charged with violating a state law, one were permitted
freely to contest its validity by an original proceeding in
some federal court. Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman,
266 U. S. 497, 500.
Afirmcd.
ALABAMA & VICKSBURG R.ILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. JACKSON & EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 244. Argued April 16, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. Judgment of a state court held reviewable by writ of error.
P. 247.
2. Since the enactment of the Transportation Act, 1920, the jurisdiction to determine whether a junction may be established between the main lines of two railroads, both engaged in interstate
as well as local commerce, is exclusively in the Interstate Commerce

Commission. P. 249.
136 Miss. 726, reversed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, which affirmed a dismissal of the
bill in a suit by the Alabama & Vicksburg Railway Company to enjoin proceedings in condemnation, instituted
by the Jackson & Eastern Railway Company to accomplish a connection between its main line and that of the
other company. See also 129 Miss. 437; 131 id. 857, 874.

