OCTOBER TERM, 1895
Syllabus.

are required to take an oath to support that Constitution, and
they are bound by it, atid the laws of the United States made
in pursuance thereof, hnd all treaties made under their authority, as the supreme law of the land, ' anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.'
If they fail therein, and withhold or deny rights, privileges, or
immunities secured by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, the party aggrieved may bring the case from the highest c*ourt of the State in which the question could be decided
to this court for final and conclusive determination."
Writ of error di8missed.

DICKSON v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 15. Submitted October 15, 1895.-Decided January 6, 1896.

In lay, 1885, P., having an opportunity to purchase ten acres of land near
Omaha, at a cost of $3600, payable $1250 in cash, the rest on credit,
wrote to D. that he could buy the tract for $4800, payable $2500 in cash,
the rest on credit, and asked him to join in the purchase. D. assented,
sent his $1250 to P., and joined in a mortgage for the balance of the purchase money. In October, 1885, P. wrote to D. that he had sold the ten
acres to B. for $6000, $3000 of which were in cash, and enclosed a cheque
for $1500, and a deed to B. to be executed by D. in which the consideration was expressed at $6000. This amount was subsequently clanged to
$10,000 without D.'s knowledge. On the day after receiving the deed, B.
reconveyed the property to P. The land was laid out into lots and streets
under direction of P., and some of the'lots were sold to bona fide purchasers. After the institution of this suit, the remainder was conveyed
by P. to one M., for a recited consideration of $19,425. In February,
1887, the deception practised by P. as to the price of the land, and as to
the change in the consideration of the deed to B. came to the knowledge
of D., who thereupon wrotd P., calling upon him to refund the overpayment in the purchase money, and to pay him one half of the increase in
the amount of the consideration for the deed to B. "P.made no payment,
and commenced a correspondence which lasted until D. became possessed of knowledge of the reconveyance by B. to P. This bill in equity
was then filed by D., praying for an accounting, and that he be decreed

DIOKSO1

v. PATTERSON.

585

Opinion of the Court.
entitled to all the benefits of the original'purchase, and that the deed to
B., the deed from B. to P., and the deed fromP. to N. be declared fraudulent; that P. be required to convey to D. §o much of the premises as
had not been conveyed to other parties for a valuable consideration;
that he account to plaintiff for the sums received from such sales, and
that he be restrained from selling other lots. The court below dismissed
the bill on the ground that D. had elected to retain what he had received
and to pursue his claim for moneys still due, and could not maintain a
suit to set the whole transactions aside. Held,
(1) That the plaintiff was entitled to a decree setting aside'and annulling the deed purporting to have been executed by P. to M., the
deed from B. to P., and the deed to B. from P. and D., leaving
the title to the premises in question where it was prior to the execution of the last named deed; such decree to be without prejudice to any valid rights acquired by parties who purchased in good
faith from P. while the fee was in him alone;
(2) That the cause should be referred to a commissioner for an accounting between D. and P. in respect of the sums paid by them, respectively, ou the original purchase; as evidenced by the deed of
1885, to P. and D.; D in such accounting to have credit for onehalf of all amounts received by P. on the sales by him of any of
the lots into which the ten acres were subdivided, and P. to have
credit for any sums paid by him in discharge of taxes or other
charges upon the property.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

lMr. WTeF8Z IY. 3forsman for appellant.
J6Icn L. Webster.and .Mr. HT.

.

pell
l

. EWarook for ap-

.
IffusTioE

A LAw delivered t.he opinion of the court.

Thiss Ait was brought to procure a decree rescinding certain
sales df~real estate-on the ground of fraud.
The ise made by the original and amended bill of ,the
appellant, who was plaintiff -below, is substantially as follows:
Plaintiff and defendant Patterson married sisters and had
been friends for a long time. The former had expressed a
wish to join the latter upon equal terns in the purchase of real
estate in or near Omaha, Nebraska, with a view to platting
the same-into lots as an addition to that city.

OCTOBER TERX, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Defendant accordingly wrote to plaintiff 6n May 18, 1885,
stating that he was about to purchase ten acres of land, and
that "this ten acres of land will cost $4800, $2500 cash. They
will make 48 lots worth $250 each. If you want to go in it
will cost you $1250 cash, balance to suit." The plaintiff having made further inquiries by letter, defendant answered that
the expenses of surveying, advertising and platting the property would be about $300, and the net profits at least $6000;
that they would probably not be called upon to make the
deferred payments; that he, defendant, bad realized large
profits from other like ventures; that other persons desired to
join him; and he urged plaintiff to do so.
Relying upon the above statements, plaintiff accepted the
proposition, and subsequently sent defendant Patterson the
sum of $1250 as his half of the cash payment. His wife joining him, he signed a mortgage for the balance of the purchase
money, dated June 10, 1885, the same to be executed also by
defendant and wife. This mortgage was sent to Dickson by
Patterson for execution.
On June 9, 1885, the premises were conveyed by deed to
plaintiff and Patterson, jointly, the consideration stated in it
being $4800. The deed was duly recorded.
Patterson caused the premises to be laid out in lots and
streets, the plat of which was recorded as "Patterson and
Dickson Place." After writing several letters to plaintiff,
speaking in the most encouraging terms of the probability of
realizing large returns from the venture, Patterson, on October 21, 1885, wrote to Dickson: "I have sold our ten acres
today for $6000, an advance of $1200. It did not turn out as
well as I expected. . . . This is a very handsome profit
for the length of time we have held it. He pays $3000 cash
and the other $700 inside of six months, and assumes the
mortgage and all taxes. It nets us a little over $500 each
profit.",
On October 30, 1885, Patterson enclosed his check for $1500
to plaintiff, correcting his statement as to net profits by the
statement that $224.18'was yet due and coming to the plain-'
tiff. He also enclosed a deed to one Otto Boehme, to be

DICKSON v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

signed by plaintiff and wife, in which the consideration was
expressed to be $6000. That deed was dated October 28,
1885, and was duly executed by plaintiff and, wife, but the
amount of the consideration as set forth in the deed was thereafter changed without plaintiff's knowledge to $10,000. On
the day after the conveyance to Boehme, the latter, without
plaintiff's knowledge, reconveyed the property to Patterson,
the consideration recited being $10,000. On February 23,
1886, Patterson vacated the plat made by him and plaintiff,
and replatted' the premises as "East Side Addition," of which
he sold several lots.
After the filing of the original bill, Patterson filed for rec-:
ord a deed dated June 4, 1887, conveying all the premises,
with the exception of eight lots, to one Isaac Martin, who was
made a party defendant in the amended 'bill. That deed purported to have been made in execution of an agreement with
Martin, he having failed to make payment pursuant to a prior
contract alleged to have been made on February 17, 1887.
Long after the transactions above T'eferred to, it became
known to Dickson -

and he so charged in his bill - that the

purchase price of the premises in question was not $4800 but
$3600 and the cash payment $150 and no more, all of which
•was paid by the plaintiff; that the conveyance to'Boehme and
reconveyance by him to Patterson were fraudulent, having
been made ivithout consideration, and executed in pursuancb
of the preconcerted design of the latter to vest the title in
himself.
Whereupon the plaintiff prayed that inasmuch, as he had
paid all the consideration for the .premises, and as the defendant Patterson had advanced no part thereof, he, the plaintiff,
was entitled to have all of the said premises and all the advantages arising from the said purchase. He further prayed that
inasmuch as the -deed to Boehme and the deed from Boehme
to Patterson were fraudulent and void, an accounting, be
directed of all sums received by Patterson in that behalf, and
also all sums received by plaintiff from -him, and that it be
ascertained what -sum,'if any, plaintiff should repay to himi
which he offered and stood ready to pay as soon as ascer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

talced; that it be decreed that the plaintiff was entitled to
have all the benefits of the original purchase; and that by the
deed made to plaintiff and Patterson, the latter became seized
in fee of an undivided half of the premises in trust for the
plaintif, and not otherwise. The bill further prayed that the
deed made by plaintiff and wife together with Patterson and
wife to Boehme, and as well as the deed made by Boehme to
Patterson, and the deed from Patterson to Martin, be declared
fraudulent and void; that it be decreed that Patterson convey
the premises to the plaintiff in fee, except such lots as had
been sold to other parties for a valuable consideration without
his knowledge; that Patterson account to the plaintiff for the
sums of money realized from such sales; and also that he be
restrained from selling any other lots, or receiving any money
on account of said sales, or .transferring any security therefor,
etc.
The bill was dismissed upon the ground that the plaintiff,
after acquiring knowledge of the fraud, elected to retain what
he had received from the sale of the land in question, and to
pursue his claim for moneys claimed to be still due; that the
fraud alleged having come to his knowledge, he was bound
promptly to make his election, and having elected to let the
sale stand, he could not thereafter maintain an action to set it
aside.
This ruling was based upon certain letters offered in evidence from which it appeared that Dickson first charged Patterson with fraud in 1886, and wrote him on February 27 of
that year, stating, among other things: "In your letter last
October you state you sold it for $6000,'and the deed called
for the same amount, but I notice the records, etc., call for
$10,000 - a slight differefice of $4000. This change seems to
have occurred after the paper left Kansas City. Then, too, I
object to the original cost of the land as stated in your letter last
May, viz., $4800, ($2500 cash and $2500 in note,) when I know
now that the land only cost $3600, or a difference of $1200, making my half interest cost $600 less than you state'l, which, taken
together with my half of the $4000 which you did not report,
would be something like $2600 which you are owing me. I

DICKSON v. PATTERSON.

589,

Opinion of the Court.

cannot say with youf 'thus far my feelings alone have been
affected,' but you have taken money from me by false representations, the knowledge of which fact has only lately come
to my hands. Now, I wish to know when you propose to pay
me the above amount due me." Patterson replied to this
letter on March 3, 1886, explaining that the amountof consideration in the deed had been changed at Boehme's request;
and as to the land being purchased originally for $3600 it was
not true. He added that he did not blame him for being
aroused over such a false report, but that he, Patterson, could
"explain all discrepancies in a manner that cannot be impeached, and when necessary can be proven up with living
testimony and plenty of it." Boehme, also, at the instance of
Patterson, wrote to -Dickson, under date of March 2, 1886,
stating that the consideration paid by him for the land was
$6000 and no more; that the amount expressed in the deed to
him was changed at his req'uest in order that he might the
more easily secure a large profit; and that he believed Patterson was honest and straight, and bore that reputation.
After some-further correspondence with a view to a settlement - Patterson insisting that a balance was due him from
plaintiff on account of a certain other.real, estate transaction
in Kansas City -Dickson, on Auigust 4, 1887, .filed his bill in
equity, praying a rescission of these sales and an accounting,
as hereinbefore set forth.
The bill having been dismissed, for the reasons above stated,
Dickson took an appeal to this court.
The evidence-fully sustained the allegations of fraud made
in the original and amended complaint. We cannot doubt
from the, record that after the land in question was purchased
and conveyed to the plaintiff and defendant Patterson, jointly,
the latter conceived the purpose of acquiring the title to the
whole of it. To that end he pretended to have made a sale
of it to Boehme, and induced the plaintiff not only to believethat it was a real sale at a named price, but to join in the
deed to Boehme. The day after the title was vested in
Boehme the latter reconveyed the property to Patterson.
According to the preponderance of evidence that transaction

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

was a sham, but not more so than the pretended sale and
conveyance to one Martin. That which purports to be a
deed to Martin, reciting a consideration of $19,425 in hand
paid, was in fact executed after the institution of this suit,
although dated and certified to have been acknowledged on
the 4th day of June, 1887. It would subserve no useful end
to set forth in this opinion all the facts and circumstances
bearing upon the issue of fraud. But we may remark that,
according to the evidence, some one assumed the name of
Martin long enough to go through the form of a purchase
from Patterson, after which he disappeared, his whereabouts
pending this suit being unknown, although his answer was
filed by direction of Patterson.
We content ourselves with saying that the proof makes it
clear that the pretended sales to Boehme and Martin were
in execution of a scheme devised by Patterson. to deprive
Dickson of his interest in these lands without his receiving
the full value of such interest, and thus to become himself the
sole owner.
This was substantially the view taken of the case by the
Circuit Court. The presiding judge not only expressed the
fear that the charges of fraud and misconduct were well
founded, but said that the testimony of the defendant Patterson was impeached by so many circumstances that it could
not be safely made the basis of judicial action. Assuming
the charges of fraud to have been proved, the court dismissed
the bill upon the ground that the plaintiff's letters, written in
1886, show that he, "with knowledge of the fraud, not only
retained what he had received from the sale, but elected to
let it stand and pursue his claim for the moneys still due him
thereon." Undoubtedly, it appears from these letters that
the plaintiff charged that Patterson had falsely represented
the original cost of the land (one-half of which Dickson was
to pay) to have been $4800, when it was only $3600, and that
the deed to Boehme, at the time it was executed by plaintiff
and his wife, recited the consideration to be $6000; (the
amount for which Patterson said he had sold the ten acres,)
and yet, when put on record, it recited $10,000 as the consid-

DICKSON v. PATTERSON.

"591"

Opinion of the Court.

eration. Upon the basis of $3600 as the price originally paid
for the lands by Patterson representing himself and the plaintiff, and $10,000 as the amount paid by Boehme,- the plaintiff
rightfully claimed a larger sum than had been paid to him
by Patterson. If this were the whole case there would be
force in the suggestion" that Dickson, with information of the
fraud practised upon him, had elected to affirm the sale. to
Boehme and- to- claim the additional sum. that he supposed
to be due him upon a proper accounting.
But there Are other considerations which preclude Patterson from insisting that Dickson made his election of remedies,
and must abide jy that election. During the correspondence
that took place between the parties in 1886 Dickson, so far
as the record shows, was not aware that the sale and conveyance to Boehme was merely fictitious, and in execution of
Patterson's*scheme to defraud him. Patterson assured him
that that sale was a real one, and there is no proof to show
that Dickson, at the time, knew or believed anything to the
contrary. If it was a real sale, Dickson, having joined in
the deed to Boehme, could not go behind it, unless he could
show that the latter did not purchase in good faith. But,
from what Patterson wrote to him, he had no reason to doubt
the validity of the sale to Boehme. Besides, Patterson, induced Boehme toinform Dickson byletter thAt the amount
paid was only..$6000, and that it was changed in the deed to
$10,000 at his, Boehme's, request, and that Patterson was an
honest man, with a good. reputation. All this was .well calcu-lated to make the impression upon Dickson that the only
relief he could have against Patterson was to obtain an
accounting, and a decree or judgment for. such additional
sum as was justly due him.
After the correspondence between the parties ended in the
latter part of the- year 1886, the plaintiff, as we-must assume
from the record, -scertained for the first time all the facts as
they are now disclosed,. and, without unreasonable delay, commenced the present suit. We should not be justified by the
record in saying that he had, for any considerable timb before
the bringing of this suit, such knowledge of all the circum-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

stances of this transaction as enabled him to know with certainty what his rights were, and to determine what course
should be taken to vindicate them. If, as the evidence shows,
the real facts were concealed from him by one from whom he
had reason to expect a frank disclosure of all the material circumstances as they occurred, he is not, for that reason -no
rights of innocent third parties having intervened-to be
denied the fullest relief to which according to the principles
of equity he is entitled.
The plaintiff, in his amended complaint, claims that he paid
the original consideration for these lands, and is entitled to a
conveyance of them upon his paying to the defendant Patterson such sum as, upon a proper accounting, he ought to pay,
Patterson being charged with such sums as he received on
account of the premises or the lots into which they were
divided by him.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff is not entitled to relief
to that extent. But he is entitled to a decree setting aside and
annulling the deed purporting to have been executed by Patterson to Martin, the deed from Boehme to Patterson, and
the deed to Boehme from Patterson and Dickson and their
wives, respectively, leaving the title to the premises in queswas prior to the execution of the last named
tion where itdeed; such decree to be without prejudice to any valid rights
acquired by parties who purchased in good faith from Patterson while the fee was in him alone. The cause should be
referred to a commissioner for an accounting between Dickson
and Patterson in respect of the sums paid by them, respectively, on the original purchase, as evidenced by the deed of
June 9, 1885, from Tukey and Keysor and their wives, respectively, to Patterson and Dickson; Dickson in such accounting
to have credit for one half of all amounts received by Patterson, on the sales by him of any of the lots into which the ten
acres were subdivided, and PAtterson to have credit for any
sums paid by him in discharge of taxes or other charges upon
the property.
The decree is re4ersed, and the cause remandedfor such fJurther proceedings as are not inconsistent with this opinion.

