OCTOBER TER-M, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

MISSOURI v. IOWA.
ORIGINAL.
No. 10. Oriinal. Submitted December 17, 1895. -Decided

February 8,1896.

At the request of the parties, this court, after deciding where is the true
and proper southern boundary line of the State of Iowa, appoints
a commission to find and remark the same with proper and durable
monuments.

THE State of Missouri, through its Attorney General, filed
in this court in vacation its bill, in which, after setting forth
the former proceedings had herein for the determination of
the boundary line between it and the State of Iowa, which
are reported in 6 How. 659, and 10 How. 1, it -was further
said:
"Complainant states that it is highly important to the
States of Iowa and Missouri that the - question of boundary
should be speedily and finally settled; that heretofore the
peace of the people of the States of Missouri and Iowa, especially in the county of Mercer, in the former, and the county
of Decatur, in the latter, have been seriously disturbed in consequence of frequent conflicts of jurisdiction arising from differences of opinion as to the location of the said state line
between said counties.
"Complainant further states that the State of Missouri has
no adequate relief at law, and, as the controversy herein involves questions of jurisdiction and sovereignty, it is respectfully prayed that the State of Iowa may be made a defendant
in this proceeding, and that she may be permitted to answer
the matters and things herein set forth, and upon a final, hearing that the northern boundary line of the State of Missouri, it
being the boundary line between the complainant and defendant, be by the order and decree of this court ascertained and
established; that the rights of possession, jurisdiction, and
sovereignty of the State of Missouri to all the territory south of
the line heretofore marked and run out by said J. C. Sullivan

MISSOURI v. IOWA.

•689

Statement of the Case.

in 1816, remarked by the commissioners heretofore named in
1850, and approved by the decree of the Supreme Court of the
United States rendered as aforesaid, be restored to said State
of Missouri, and that'said State of Missouri be quieted in her
title thereto, and that the defendant, The State of Iowa, be
forever enjoined and restrained from disturbing the said State
of Missofiri, her officers and her citizens, in the full enjoyment
and possession of the territory lying south of said line, and
that such other and further relief may b6 granted as the nature
of the case may require."
The State of Iowa; by its Attorney General, filed its answer, *denying some of the allegations in the bill, admitting
others, making further averments on its own part, and coitcluding:
"Said respondent, with the view to have.an ultimate and final
decision of the controversy, prays that this answer may also
be treated as a cross-bill, and joins in the prayer of said complainant that the said boundary line between said complainant
and respondent be, by the order and decree of-this court, ascertained and established, and to that end that a commission be
appointed, in such manner as to this court shall be deemed
proper, to retrace the line traced and marked by the commission of this court in 1850, and as set ,forth in the decree of this
.Stef
Iowa,
o
v.
court in the case of Sate of
as aforesaid, and that such retracing of such line thus found
be by such commissioners marked with fixed and enduring
monuments, and that the title of the State of Iowa in and to
dl iind or territory north of the line thus found -and marked
be forever quieted in the said respondent, and for such other
and further relief as equity and good conscience may require."
To this answer the State of Missouri filed replication as
follows:
"Complainant, for its reply to respondent's answer herein,
states that it is true, as heretofore alleged in complainant's
petition heretofore filed in this cause, that the officers of the
State of Iowa are exercising jurisdiction over territory lying
south of the boundary line between the States of Missouri and
Iowa.
VOL. MX---

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"Complainant, for further reply to respondent's answer
herein, states that it is necessary, in order that conflicts of
jurisdiction should be avoided between said States, that the
true boundary line, as heretofore established under a decree
of this court by Hendershott and Minor, in 1850, should be
reestablished and relocated, and to this end it is asked that
the court may enter a decree relocating and reestablishing
said line, and that such other and further orders may be made
herein as are necessary to effect the same."
The parties further stipulated, each by its Attorney General,
as follows:
"It is hereby agreed that the above entitled cause may be
submitted to the court on the petition, answer, and reply of the
parties hereto, and if to the court it seems proper that a commission of two civil engineers or surveyors may be appointed to
retrace the line established and decreed by the Supreme Cou'rt
of the United States in the case of The State qf fissouri v. The,
State of Iowa, one of such commissioners to be appointed by
the State of Missouri and one by the State of Iowa, and if the
parties are unable to agree that they may appoint a third, that
such commission shall proceed without unnecessary delay and
retrace the line as run and located by IHendershott and Minor
in 1850 between the 50th and 55th mile-posts on said line,
beginning and ending the survey at such points as may be
necessary to ascertain the true original line between said mileposts, and, having found said true line, to mark the same by
plain and enduring monuments and make report of their said
retracing and survey of said line to this court."
-Mr. )?. F BWalker, Attorney General of the State of Missouri, for the complainant.
-Mr. Milton 1?emley, Attorney General of the State of Iowa,
for the respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, on the 3d of February, 1896,
announced that the Court ordered the following decree to be
entered in the case.

MISSOURI v. IOWA.

691'

Opinion of the Court.

This cause coming on to be heard on the .original bill filed
herein by the State of Missouri against the State of Iowa, the
answer thereto by the State of Iowa, and the reply to said
answer by the State of Missouri, and the pleadings and stipulations filed herein by counsel for the respective parties having
been duly considered, and the decrees heretofore rendered by
this court on February 13, 1849, and on January 3, 1851, with
the report of commissioners forming part thereof, in a cause
then pending before this court between the said States of
Missouri and Iowa in regard to -the same boundary line now
in controversy having been examined:
It is, thereupon, this third day-of February, A.D. 1896,
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the true and proper
northern boundary line of the State of Missouri and the true
and proper southern boundary line of the State of Iowa is the
line run, located, marked, and defined by Hendersbott and
Minor, commissioners of this court, under the order and decree of this court, as set forth in their report annexed to said
decree of January,3, 1851. And it appearing .further to the
court that the proper boundary line between said States, run,
located, and established by Hendershott and Minor, as aforesaid, has, between the fiftieth and fifty-fifth mile-posts on the
same, become obliterated, and that the monuments originally
placed thereon have been destroyed, therefore it is further
ordered, adjudged, and decreed that James Harding of the,
State of Missouri, Peter Dey of the State of Iowa, and Dwight
0. Morgan of the State of Illinois, be and they are hereby
appointed commissioners to find and remark with proper and
durable monuments such portions of said line so run, marked
and located by Hendershott and Minor as have become obliterated, especially between the fiftieth and fifty-fifth mileposts on the same, and that they begin and end such survey
at such points along said line as will enable them to definitely
relocate and redesignate the same.
It is further ordered, that the clerk of this court at once
forward to the chief magistrate of each of said States and to
each of the commissioners designated by this decree a copy of
said decree duly authenticated, and that said commissioners

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

request the coperation and assistance of the state authorities
in the performance of the duties imposed upon them by this
decree, and proceed with all convenient speed to discharge
their duty in relocating and remarking such portions of said
line as have become obliterated, as herein directed, and make
their report thereof and of their proceedings in the premises
to this court on or before the first day of May, 1896, together
with a complete bill of costs and charges annexed.
And it is further ordered that, should either of said commissioners die or refuse to act or be unable to perform the
duties required by this decree, while the court is not in session,
the Chief Justice is hereby authorized and empowered to
appoint another commissioner to supply the vacancy, and he
is authorized to act on such information in the premises as
may be satisfactory to himself.
It is further ordered, that all costs of this proceeding, including not exceeding ten dollars per day for each commissioner, and the other costs incident to the marking and
establishment of this line, shall be paid by the States of MisSo ordred.
souri and Iowa equally.

