PIERCE v. UNITED ST.ATES.
'Counsel for Defendants in Error.

rule that the status, as, to citizenship,' of the 'individual stockholders is not a matter of allegation and proof? Has the
court retraced its steps, and Can state 'corporations be turned
out-of the Federal courts on a plea that one or more of the
stockholders is a citizen of the same State in which the litigation is pending?
MR.JUSTICE FIELD and MR: JUST0=c

BROWN concur in this

dissent.

PIERCE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR TE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 648. Submitted November 19, 1S95.-Decided

January 6, 1896.

When two counts in an indictment for, murder differ from each other only
in stating the manner in which the murder was committed, the question
whether the prosecuti6n shal.1 be compelled to elect inder which itwill
proceed is a matter within the'discretion of the trial court.
Certain testimony held not to prejndice the defendants, but rather tending
to bear in their favor, if at all material.
Confessions are not rendered inadmissible by the fact that the parties are
in custody, provided that they are not extorted byinducements br threats.

THE plaintiffs in error were indicted foi ,the murder on
January 15, 1895, in the Cherokee Nation in the Indian,
country, of one William Vandeveer, a white man and not
an Indian. There were two counts in the indictment. The
first charged the murder to have been committed with a gun,
and the second charged it to have been -committed " ,with a
certain blunt instrument." The jury found both defendants
guilty of murder as charged in the first ,count, and they were
accordingly both sentenced to death.

.

Submitted on the record, without appearance, by plaintiffs
in erro0r.
Mrt . As&98tant Attorney General Witney for defendants in
error submitted on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTicE BRoww delivered the opinion of the

court.

This case was submitted upon the brief of the Attorney
General, and upon the material parts of the record. Defendants did not appear at the hearing.
1. The first error assigned is to the refusal of the court to
compel the government to elect upon which count of the
indictment it would proceed. The two counts differ from
each other only in stating the manner in which the murder
was committed.. Testimony was introduced upon the trial
tending to show that deceased had been shot in the forehead,
and also hit on the head with a hammer. The question
whether the prosecution should be compelled to elect was a
matter purely within the discretion of the court. PoinMr v.
United States, 151 U. S. 396.
2. As no exceptions were taken to the charge of the court,
and but one to the admission of testimony, the bill of exceptions, which was very voluminous, was not printed in full; but
the charge of the court and the testimony of the defendants
were printed, as well as an abstract of the testimony of a single
witness, Andrew Brown, who testified that on Monday evening, January 19, he saw the two defendants with another man
close to his place; that they were travelling with a mule team
and a covered wagon, with a gray mare and colt following;
that before daylight next- morning he saw the same outfit,
except there was no third man with defendants; that he went
for his nearest neighbor, a Mr. West, and with him searched
the place where the defendants had camped, finding blood all
around; that Mr. West took up a blanket, and something
like a pint of blood ran out of it; he just dropped it and said:
":Brown, what kind of blood, is that ." The answer to this
was objected to, and the objection overruled, and an exception
taken. The witness answered: "I don't know what kind of
blood'it is; it is blood." He says: "Maybe they have killed
one of my hogs." I says: "We will see." This testimony
clearly did not tend to prejudice the defendants, and if it
were material at all, bore rather in their favor than against
them.

