OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

UNION MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
KIRO1HOFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLIIMOIS.
No. 182. Argued December 19,1895. -Decided

January 6, 1896.

The decree, to review which this writ of error was sued out, was not a final
decree, and this court cannot take jurisdiction.
The rule is well nigh universal that, if a case be remanded by an appellate
court to the court below for further judicial proceedings, in conformity
with the opinion of the appellate court, the decree is not final.

Tmis was a bill in equity originally filed by Elizabeth
Kirchoff, June 12, 1882, in the circuit court of Cook County,
Illinois; against the appellant, to enforce the specific performance of a certain agreement for the conveyance to her of two
lots of land in the city of Chicago. The prayer of the bill
was subsequently amended by the addition of a clause praying
that the plaintiff might be allowed to redeem the premises
according to the terms of said agreement.
The controversy between these parties has been the constant
subject of litigation since July, 1878, and in one form or another has been twice to the appellate court of Illinois, and
three times to the Supreme Court of the State. The facts are
somewhat complicated, but so far as necessary to the disposition of this case may be summarized as follows:
'On May 8, 1871, Julius Kirchoff, being engaged in the distillery business in Chicago, borrowed $60,000 of the Union
Mutual Life Insurance Company, and to secure the payment
thereof, executed, together with his wife Elizabeth, and her
mother Angela Diversey, a joint judgment note for $60,000,
and a trust deed covering certain real estate in Chicago
belonging to Kirchoff and his wife, and certain other property,
including a farm in Cook. County, owned by Mrs. Diversey.
The money received from the loan was put in the bank to the
credit of the firm of Kirchoff. Bros. & Co., which soon after
failed.

UNION MUTUAL LIFE INS. 00. ?. KIRCHOFF.

375

Statement of the Case.

In 1876, default having been made in the payment of interest and taxes, judgment was taken against :rs. Di'versey on
the note, after certain unsuccessful negotiations towards funding the indebtedness into a new loan at a lower rate of interest,
and on July 11, 1878, proceedings were commenced in the
Circuit Court of the United States to foreclose the trust deed.
The bill in addition sought to cure a misdescription of the
property belonging to Mrs. Diversey, who filed an answer
denying the right of the company to cure the misdescription,
and averring that the notes and mortgage were procured from
her by misrepresentation.
From this time the relation of the parties seems to have
remained unchanged until June, 1879, when an agreement
was reached by which the company released to Mrs. Diversey
its claim upon forty acres of the land belonging to -her, and
she executed to it a warranty deed for the remainder of the
premises. About the same time, Mrs. Kirchoff and her husband executed a quitclaim deed of all the property belonging
to them, and included in the mortgage. The deed from Mrs.
Diversey was immediately placed on record, but the deed from
the Kirchoffs was withheld by the agent &ndattorney of the
insurance company.
It was claimed by Mrs. Kirchoff that, during the negotiations which culminated in the execution of the above deeds,
it was agreed that the insurance company should reconvey, to
her two lots included in her deed, one of which was then
occupied as a homestead, the other cornering upon it, but
facing the other way; that the price at which the reconveyance
should take place was their valuation at a previous appraisement made by one Rees, viz., $7500 and $2500 respectively,
and that Mrs. Kirchoff was to execute in payment therefor
her notes for $10,000, extending over a period of ten years,
bearing interest at six per cent, and secured by a mortgage
upon the two lots. It seems there were certain intervening
claims on one of the lots, growing out of a sheriff's deed,
executed pursuant to a sale on a judgment against Mrs.
Kirchoff, rendered subsequently to the original trust deed, but
prior to the deed from Kirchoff and wife 'to the company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

which rendered necessary a further prosecution of the foreclosure proceedings, in order that the company might obtain
a good title to the premises, so as to convey a clear title to
Mis. Kirchoff and take from her a mortgage which would
be a first lien thereon. It is claimed that this matter was
explained to Mr. Kirchoff, her husband and agent, and he
was assuied that the prosecution of the foreclosure proceedings
would -not in any manner affect the agreement which had been
made, but that, as soon as the company got Z deed from the
master in chancery, it would carry out its part of the contract
by conveying to Mrs. Kirchoff the premises in question, and
would then take the mortgage from her. She alleged that,
relying upon this agreement, no defence was made to the foreclosure proceedings by her, and the same were prosecuted to
a decree, and the master's deed issued thereon to the insurance
company January 21, 1882. The object of the bill in this
case was to insist upon this right of redemption in accordance
with its terms.
The insurance company, on the other hand, contended. that
an inspection of the record showed that no such agreement
was ever concluded, and that the state court was bound by
the decree of the Federal court foreclosing the mortgage, and
had no jurisdiction to review it. It was not disputed that
propositions similar to the so called agreement were discussed
between the Kirchoffs and the agents of the insurance company, or that assurances were given by the latter of the probable willingness of the insurance company to sell the land on
the terms named; but it is claimed that when the insurance
company was advised of the proposition, it was instantly and
unequivocally declined, and this action of the company communicated to Mrs. Kirchoff in time to prevent any injury to
her from the quitclaim deed. That, after having been thus
fully advised, she elected to deliver the deed, and in that manner get the benefit of the release from her indebtedness.
A demurrer was filed to the bill which was overruled, when
defendant answered, denying the agreement for redemption
set forth in th e bill, and also setting u the statute of frauds
as a defence. The case coming on for a hearing upon pleadings

UNION MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. KIRCHOFF.

37

Opinion of the Court.

and proofs, the bill was dismissed for want of equity. An
appeal was taken to the state Supreme Court, which was dismissed upon the ground that the case should have gone to
the appellate court. 128 Illinois, 199. Whereupon the complainant sued out a writ of error from the appellate court of
the -firstdistrict of Illinois to the circuit court of Cook County,
and upon a hearing in the appellate court the decree of the
circuit court was reversed, with directions to enter a decree in
accordance with the opinion of the appellate court. 33 Illinois
App. 607. This opinion was not sent up with the record in
this case.* From the decree of the appellate court, the insurance company prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the State, which affirmed the decree to the appellate court.
133 Illinois, 368. To reverse that decision, this 'writ of error
was sued out.
-M'. E. Parmalee Prenticefor plaintiff in error. .Mr. Frank
L. Wean and Mr. J. E. Drummond were on his brief.
Mr. George R. Daley for defendant in error. Mr. Ira W
Buell and Mr. William S. Barbert were on his brief.
.]XR. JUsTiCE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
From the briefs of counsel and the reports of the case in theIllinois reports, we are informed that, upon the affirmance by
the Supreme Court of the decree of the appellate court, the
case was remanded to the circuit court of Cook County,
where an accounting was taken, and a decree entered in accordance with the opinion of the appellate - court. From that
decree the company is said to have appealed to the appellate
court of the first district, which affirmed the decree of the
circuit court. 51 Illinois App. 67. Whereupon the insurance company again appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State, which again affirmed the decision of the appellate court.
149 Illinois, 536. But as the writ of error from this court was
not taken to reverse that decree, but to reverse the first decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Supreme Court, affirming the decree of the appellate
court, we are concerned only with the questions arising upon
that decree, and more particularly with its finality. It will be
observed that it simply affirms the decree of the appellate
court, but upon reference to that decree, we find that it reverses the decree of the circuit court of Cook County, "with
directions to that court to enter an order and decree in conformity with the opinion filed herein." As this opinion was
not sent up with the record, we have no means of knowing
judicially what it was, though we are informed by the briefs'
of counsel that an accounting was ordered and taken in the
circuit court.
Obviously the decree, to review which this writ of error
was sued out, was not a final decree. The finality of decrees
is a subject which has been so much discussed in the decisions
of this court that it is useless to do more than to cite the cases
of Lodge v. Twell, 135 U. S. 232, and MoGourkey v. Toledo &
Ohio CentralRailway, 146 U. S. 536, wherein most of the prior
cases are reviewed.
This case is not one for nice distinctions, since the rule is
well nigh universal that, if the case be remanded by the
appellate court to the court below for further judicial proceedings, in conformity with the opinion of the appellate court,
the decree is not final. Especially is this the case when the
opinion, to which the new decree is required to conform, does
not appear. Brown v. Baxter, 146 U. S. 619; Houston v.
Moore, 3 Wheat. 433; Bostwic v. Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3;
Johnson v. Keith, 117 U. S. 199; Rice v. Sanger, 144 U. S.
197; Meagher v. Minnesota Thresher -Mfg. Co., 145 U. S. 608;
-Hume v. Bowie, 148 U. S. 245; Werner v. Charleston, 151
U. S. 360.
Dismissed.
The writ of error is, therefore,

