OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

is a somewhat exceptional one, and all that we decide is that,
Where the service is practically a continuous one, and the soldier's second discharge occurs at the place of his original enlistinent, he is not entitled to his commutation for travel and
subsistence to the place of his second enlistment.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
.Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to dismiss
the petition.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GARNETT v. AYERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KAN AS.
No. 446.

Submitted January 7, 1896.-Decided January 27, 1896.

The single fact that the statutes of Kansas regulating the assessment and
taxation of shares in national banks permit some debts to be deducted
from some moneyed capital, but not from that which is invested in the
shares of national banks, is not sufficient to show that the amount of
moneyed capital in the State of Kansas from which debts may be deducted,
as compared with the moneyed capital invested in shares of national
banks, is so large and substantial as to amount to an illegal discrimination against national bank shareholders, in violation of the provisions
of Rev. Stat. ยง 5219.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Kansas to
review a judgment of that court affirming the judgment of
the District Court of Anderson County, which was in favor
of the defendants, and for costs against plaintiff. The action
was brought to restrain the defendants from levying upon the
property of the plaintiff in error for the purpose of collecting
a warrant, issued for the collection of taxes upon the stockholders of the bank on the ground that certain deductions
claimed on the part of some of the stockholders from the
assessment upon their shares of stock were not allowed them,
as they claimed they should have been, under the statutes of
the United States.
The petition of the plaintiff in error stated the facts upon

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF, GARNETT v. AYERS.

661

Statement of the Case.
which it was alleged the cause of action arose, and the defendants voluntarily entered appearance in the cause, and there-,
upon an agreement was- signed by the parties to the action
setting forth the facts' upon which the case was to be tried.
The material portion of the agreement set forth that the plaintiff was a corporation organized under, the laws of the United'.
States, with its office at the city of Garnett, Anderson County,.
Kansas. The defendant Ayers was sheriff of the county of
Anderson during all the'time mentioned in the complaint, and
the defendant Hargrave during, such time was treasurer of
that county. The plaintiff was a national bank with a capi-.
tal stock of $75,000, divided into 7SO shares -of the par value
of $100 each; the actual value of such shares of stock was,
$100 per share on the first day of, March, 1890. On the day
last named certain stockholders, named in the statement, were
justly indebted and owed ingood faith the several sums of
money set opposite their respective names in plaintiff's petition. These debts were not owing to any;person,.compauy or
corporation as depositors in any bank or banking, association,
or any person or firm engaged in the business of bankipg in
Kansas or elsewhere, nor were they debts owing on,account.
of any of the things named in the Kansas statute herei ifter
alluded to. The stockholders owing such' debts duly complied
with the statutes of Kansas in asking to be allowed to *deduct
from the value of their stock the amount of the debts ivhich
they were justly owing in good faith, as above stated. This was
refused by the proper authorities, and an assessment was made
against the named stockholders of the plaintiff without allowing
any such deductions as claimed, and the taxes so levied on the
stock held by the stockholders amounted to the sum of about
$2000. The debts of the stockholders, were all of the kind and
character that could be deducted from. "credits" under the.
statutes of Kansas, and due and legal debnand was made to
have such debts deducted from the value of -thestock, which was
refused. The debts were justly due and owing on the first of
March, 1890, and no part of them had been deducted from the
"credits ' at any time or place during that year. The plaintiff paid the taxes assessed against its stockholders who did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

claim any deductions, and the only taxes remaining due were
those assessed against the named stockholders who claimed
deductions for their debts, as above stated. Other facts were
agreed upon which it is not necessary to mention for the purpose of discussing the question involved in this case.
Several statutes of the State of Kansas are set forth, the
first beinfg the one which permits an action of this kind to
be brought for the purpose of enjoining an illegal levy of
any taxi charge, or assessment. Section 6847, General Statutes of Kansas, (to be found in vol. 2 of those laws,) defines
the different terms used in the chapter on taxation. In this
section the term "credit" is defined as follows: "The term
' credit' when used in this act shall mean and include every
demand for money, labor, or other valuable thing, whether
due or to become due, but not secured by lien on real estate."
Section. 6851 of,the same General Statutes permits a deduction of debts from "credits." That part of the section bearing upon this subject is as follows:
"Debts owing in good faith by any person, company or
corporation may be deducted from the gross amount of credits
belonging to such person, company or corporation: Provided,
Such debts are not owing to any person, company or corporation as depositors in any bank or banking association, or with
any person or firm engaged in the business of banking in this
State or elsewhere; and the person, company or corporation
making out the statement of personal property to be given to
the assessor, claiming deductions herein provided for, shall
set forth both the amount and nature of the credits, and the
amount and nature of his debts sought to be deducted; but
no person, company or corporation shall be entitled to any
deduction on account of any bond, note or obligation given
to any mutual insurance company, or deferred payment, or
loan for a policy of life insurance, nor on account of any unpaid subscription to any religious, literary, scientific or benevolent institution or society: Provided,That in deducting debts
from credits no debt shall be deducted where said debt was
created by a loan on government bonds or other taxable securities."

FIRST NATION1&L BANK OF GARNETT v. AYERS.

g6

Statement of the Case.

Section 1, chapter 84, of the' Session Laws of Kansas for
1891 provides for the taxation of bank stock, and. is as
follows:
"SEcTIoN. 1. That section 6868 of the General Statites of
1889 be amended -as follows: Sec. 6868. Stockholdets in
banks and banking associations and loan and investment.
companies, organized under the laws of this State or the
United States, shall be assessed and taxed on the true value
of their shares of stock in, the city or township where such
banks, banking associations, loan or investment companies
are located; and the president, cashier or other managing
officer thereof shall, under oath, return to the assessor on demand a list of the names of the stockholders and amount
and value of stock held by each, together with the value of
any undivided profit or surplus; and said banks, banking
associations, lban or investment companies shall- pay the tax
assessed upon said st6ck and undivided profits or surplus, and
shall have a lien thereon until the same is satisfied: Provided,
That if from any causes the taxes levied upon the stock of any
banking association, loan or investment company shall not be
paid by said corporation, the property of the ifidividual stockholders shall be held liable therefor: Povided further, That
if any portion of the capital stock of any bank or banking association or loan or investment company shall be invested in
real estate, and said corporation shall hold a title in fee simple thereto, the assessed value of said, real estate shall be deducted from the original assessment of the paid-up capital
stock of said cbrporation, and said real estate shall be assessed as other lands or lots: And provided further, That
banking stock or loan and investment company stock or capital shall not be assessed at any higher rate than other property: And provided further, That the provisions of this act
shall apply to all mutual, fire and life insurance companies or
associations having assets, accumulations, money or credits, and
doing business under the laws of -this State: And provided
further, That such assets, money, and credits, held and -under
the control of such mutual fire and life insurance companies or
assopiations,,shall be subject to assessment and taxation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

These are the only sections of the Kansas statute that the
plaintiff in error claims have any bearing upon this case, and
counsel for plaintiff in error states that the only really important question herein is the right of stockholders of a national
bank to treat their stock therein as a credit from which chey
may be allowed to deduct the debts which they are owing in
good faith.
Upon the above agreed statement of facts the court, after
due consideration, found generally for the defendants, and
entered judgment in their favor for the costs of this action
against the plaintiff, to which finding and judgment of the
court plaintiff at the time duly excepted. The plaintiff also
filed its motion for a new trial, which motion was by the
court overruled, and duly excepted to by plaintiff. The summons in error issued from the Supreme Court of Kansas was
duly served, and the record removed into that court for review,
where, after argument, the judgment of the court below was
affirmed with costs. 53 Kansas, 463, upon the opinion in
Dutton v. Bank &o., 53 Kansas, 440. The plaintiff thereupon
sued out a writ of error from this court, directed to the Supreme Court of Kansas, and the record is now here for review.
. r. J. W. Gleed for plaintiff in error.
_Mr. Abraham Bergen and Mr. C. T. RiohardsoWn for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTIOE PECIKAM,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the decision of the Supreme Court of Kansas, section
6847, General Statutes of that State, defining the word
"credit " as used in the chapter providing for the assessment
and collection of taxes, was held not to include shares of stock
in a national or state bank, and the owners of such shares
were held to have no right under that statute to deduct from
the assessed value of their shares the amount of their debts.
This court is bound by the interpretation ,given to the Kansas
statute by the Supreme Court of that State, Peope v. Weaver,

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GARNETT v. AYERS.,

665

Opinion of the Court.

100 U. S. 539,' 54:1, and the only question that remains to be
decided by us is whether, under that construction, the statute
is in conflict with section 5219 of the IRevised Statutes of the
United States, which provides as follows: "Nothing .herein
shall prevent all the shares in any association from being
included in the valuation of the personal property of the owner
or holder of such shares in assessing taxes imposed by authority of the State within which the association is located, but
the legislature of each State may determine and direct the
manner and place of taxing all the shares of national banking
associations located within the State, subject only to the tworestrictions, that the taxation shall not be at a greater Tato
than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of such State, and that the shares of
any national banking association owned by non-residents of
any State shall be taxed in the city or town where the'bank
is located, and not elsewhere. Nothing herein .shall be construed to exempt the real property of associations from either.
state, county or municipal taxes to the same extent, according to its value, as other real property is'taxed."
The plaintiff in error claimed that an illegal discrimination
was made against the holders. of national bank stock, because
the statute of the State of Kansas permits certain kinds of
debts owing in good faith by any pbrson, company or corporation to be deducted from the gross amount of cr-dits belonging to sucbperson, company or corporation -in listing their
property for taxation, while owners of shares of stock in
national banks are not allowed to deduct their inaebtedness
from the value of their shares of stock, and for -that reason
the plaintiff says that the Kansas statute is in conflict with
the above' cited section 5219 of the statutes of the United
States. It will be seen that the term "credit," when used in
the Kansas statute, is defined by that statute to mean and
include every demand for money, labor or other valuable
thing, whether due or to become due, but not secured by a
lien on real estate; and.it is only from such credits, so defined,
that the class of debts named in. the statute and owing in
good faith by any person, company dr corporation may be

OCTOBER TERMt, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

deducted. There is no proof in the case as to the proportion
which credits, from which such debts may be deducted, bear
to the whole amount of the credits owned in the State, nor is
there any proof as to what proportion the entire credits owned
in the State bear to other moneyed capital owned therein.
Debts owing to any person, company or corporation as depositors in any bank or banking association, or with any person or
firm engaged in the business of banking in Kansas or elsewhere, cannot be deducted; and no person, company or
corporation is entitled to any deduction on account of any
bond, note or obligation given to any mutual insurance company, or deferred payment or loan for a policy of life insurance; nor on account of any unpaid subscriptions to any
religious, literary, scientific or benevolent institution or society;
nor can any debt be deducted from credits where the debt
was created by a loan on government bonds or other taxable
securities. (Section 6851, General Statutes of Kansas.)
It is thus seen that there is a very large and important class
of what is termed moneyed capital from which no deductions
are permitted on account of debts. The statute treats shares
of stock in a national bank upon a perfect equality and in the
same way as shares of stock in a state bank tor the purpose
of assessment and taxation.
In .ferccntile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, it was
held that the main purpose of Congress in fixing limits to
taxation on investments in shares of national banks was to
render it impossible for a State in levying such a tax to create
and fostel! an unequal and unfriendly competition by favoring
state institutions or individuals carrying on a similar business
and operations and investments of a like character. Mr. Justice Matthews, in delivering the opinion of the court in the
above cited case, gave an exhaustive review of the cases
which had been decided in this court up to that time, under
this section of the United States statute, and it is evident
from the opinion and decision of the court in that case that
the.intent of the United States statute was to prevent an unjust discrimination against the moneyed capital invested in
shares of national banks, by rendering it "impossible for the

FIRST NATIONAt BANK OF GARNETT v. AYERS.

667

Opinion of the Court.

State in levying a t~x on such shares to-create and foster an
unequal and unfriendly competition by favoring institutions
or individuals carrying on a similar business and operations
and investments of a'like character." .Atercantile'Bank case,
suj ra, 155.
From the record in this case it is wholly impossible to determine that there is any discrimination against the holders
of national bank stock. In order to come to a decision in
favor of the plaintiff in error it would be necessary for this
.court to take what counsel for plaintiff calls judicial notice
what is claimed to be a fact, viz.,- that the amount of
moneyed capital in the State of Kansas from which debts
may be deducted, as compared with the moneyed capital invested. in shares of national banks, fas so large and substantial as to amount to an illegal discrimination against national
bank shareholders. This we cannot do. There is no proof
whatever upon the subject. The state court has itself determined from its own knowledge that the credits from which
debts may be deducted do not constitute a large or even
material part of the moneyed capital of the State, and, on
the contrary, that court says that debts secured by liens on
real estate, money invested in corporate stocks of all kinds
and descriptions, including railroad, banking, insurance, loan
and trust companies, and all the multifarious forms of
moneyed securities, moneys on deposit subject to call, and
other forms of invested capital, constitute the great bulk of
the moneyed capital in that State, and from all such moneyed
capital no deduction for debts is allowed.
As the record appears there is no fact of which the court
can take judicial notice. The relative proportions in which
the moneyed capital of the State of Kansas is invested in the
various kinds of securities to be therein found, this court cannot judicially know.- When p roof shall be made regarding
that matter, it may then be determined intelligently whether,
within the case of The Mercantile Banik, supra, there has
been a real discrimination against the holders of national
bank shares and hence a violation of the above' cited act of
Congress., The single fact that the statute of Kansas per-

-of

