OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to,make use of them, agreed by their adoption to pay for the
value of the use of such machines under patents that might
be applied for and granted in the future.
We are clearly of opinion that the case is covered by our
former decisions, and that the judgment of the court below
must be
Affirmwd.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. POOL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMfE COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No.21.

Argued January 15,16, 1895.-Decided January 6,1896.

In an action against a railroad company brought by one of its employ~s to
recover damages for injuries inflicted while on duty, where the evidence
is conflicting it is the province of the jury to pass upon the questions of
negligence; but where the facts are undisputed or clearly preponderant,
they are questions of law, for the court
In this case, after a review of the undisputed facts, it is held that there can
be no doubt that the injury which formed the ground for this action was
the result of the inexcusable negligence of the company's servant.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.

Mr..Maxwelt Evaris for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.
Samuel Shellabagqer, (with whom was -Mr. JeremiaA
-M.Wilson on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR.JusTiE

WmTRE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The action was brought below to recover damages-from the
defendant. (plaintiff in error here) upon the ground that it had
negligently, on September 12, 1888, caused an injury, which
resulted in the death of Pool, the plaintiff's intestate. The
cause was tried by a jury. At the close of the evidence for
the plaintiff, defendant- moved for a nonsuit on the grounds
(1) that no negligence had been shown on its part; (2) that
the evidence established contributory negligence on the part

SOUTHERN" PACIFIC COMPANY

. POOL.

489

Opinion of the Court.

of the deceased. These motions were overruled, and exceptions
reserved. The defendant thereupon rested. Exceptions were
also taken to the action of the court as to the following: (a)
an instruction of the court that if the jury found that Pool,
the deceased, was a car repairer and in a different line of service from that of the negligent servant (if any such there was),
and Pool's death was caused thereby, then defendant was
liable; (b) to an instruction that the trainmen or yardmen
of the defendant company were not fellow-servants of the
deceased, who was a car repairer; (o) to the action of the
court in submitting to the jury for their determination as
a fact, whether Pool, the deceased, was a fellow-servant with
the switchman Kilpatrick, by whose negligence it was claimed
the injury resulted; and (d) to an instruction that, in ascertaining the quantum of damages, the jury should consider the
number of the family left by the deceased, and the ages of
his children.
Before the case went to the jury the defendant renewed its
request for a peremptory instruction in its favor, which, being
refused, exception was taken. The court in its geneial charge
to the jury, gave as the law of the case what is usually denominated the "departmental theory" of the law of fellow-servant,
that is to say, it substantially instructed that the criterion by
which they were to determine whether the relation of fellowservant existed, was by ascertaining whether the servants
were employed in the same department of service, and if not
so employed, they were not fellow-servants. Two questions
were submitted by the court to the jury to be answered by
them. They were: First, "What of the employs of the
defendant, if any, were negligent in the discharge of their
duty, and by which the deceased was injured?" Second,
"Did the deceased use such care and precaution to avoid the
injury as a prudent man, in the exercise of due diligence,
should have used? " The jury returned a verdict in favor
of the plaintiff, answering the first question, "Kilpatrick,"
Yes." After a denial of a -motion for new
and the second, "1
trial, an appeal was taken to the Supreme Qourt of the Territory, in which court the judgment was affirmed. The grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

upon which this affirmance was based were that there had
been no negligence on the part of the deceased, and that the
switchman Kilpatrick was not a fellow-servant with the car
repairer, because they were employed in different departments
of service. One of the judges dissented on the ground that
the deceased had been guilty of contributory negligence.
7 Utah, 803. The case was then brought by error here.
The questions Which the record presents are: First, was the
accident which caused the death of Pool the result of his own
negligence, hence giving rise to no cause of action on behalf
of his representatives? Second, and if the accident was occasioned by the negligence of Kilpatrick, the switchman, can
the representatives of the deceased recover damages resulting
from such fact? or to put the proposition in another form,
Were Pool and Kilpatrick fellow-servants? We will primarily consider the first of the foregoing enquiries, because it is
manifest if the injury was brought about by the negligence
of Pool, the question of fellow-servant becomes wholly immaterial.
TWas the accident caused by the negligence of Pool?
To answer this question involves an analysis of the evidence,
(which the record fully sets out,) not for the purpose of weighing the testimony, or of ascertaining the preponderating balance thereof, but in order to arrive at the undoubted proof,
from which the legal consequence, negligence, resilts. There
can be no doubt where evidence is conflicting that it is the
province of the jury to determine, from such evidence, the
proof which constitutes negligence. There is also no doubt,
where the facts are undisputed or clearly preponderant, that
the question of negligence is one of law. Union,Pacgfc Railway Company v. McDonald, 152 U. S. 262, 283. The rule is
thus announced in that case: "Upon the question of negligence . .

.

the court may withdraw a case from the jury alto-

gether, and direct a verdict for the plaintiff or the defendant,
as the one or the other may be proper, where the evidence is
undisputed, or is of such conclusive character that the court,
in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, would be compelled to set aside a verdict returned'in opposition to it. Del-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COIMPAIY v. POOL.
Opinion of the Court.

aware, aokawanna &c. Railroad v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469,
472, and authorities there cited; Elliott v. Chicago, fAilwaukee
& St. Paul Railway, 150 U. S. 245; Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 24:1."
The undisputed facts which the record here shows are as
follows: Pool, the deceased, at the time he received the injury, was in the employ of the company as a car repairer, and
had been so employed in its shops at Ogden City, Utah, for
three or more years prior to his death. His duty was not
only to do repair work. on cars which were brought into the
shop for that purpose, but also on cars outside of the shops and
standing on the railway track. On the day the accident occurred, about half an hour before the usual hour for quitting
their work, Pool and another car repairer, named Fowers,
were ordered by the foreman of the car shops to repair the
'last car of a train of eighteen or twenty cars due to leave in a
short time for the West. The train was standing on one of the
six or seven tracks composing a railway yard, and on these
various tracks there was a frequent moving to and fro of trains
and a constant switching of cars backward and forward.
The work to be done consisted in attaching what was called
a carrying strap (made of iron and used to hold up what was
known as a Miller hook) underneath the platform, about level
with the main front of the car, in advance of and outside the
wheels. In addition to this work, which Pool and Fowerg
were sent to do, Rice, who was also a car repairer working in
the shop but doing a higher grade of work, was sent from the
shop to "adjust the air on the train." These three employ~s
found that in order to do the work of repairing the strap.
required the moving of the car a short distance from the others
in the train, and this was accordingly done by the three, Pool,
Fowers, and Rice. The work "on the air," which Rice was
to do, could not be executed until the repairs to be made by
Pool and Fowers had been completed and the car had. been
recoupled to the train. The end of the car which required
repair faced north towards the train from which it had just
been detached, and Pool and Fowers went under the car in
order to do the work assigned them, Pool on the west and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiniom of the Court.

Fowers on the ebst side of the track. Rice waited in the
neighborhood of the car on the east side thereof, so that when
they had finished their work the car might be recoipled, thus
enabling him to do the duty assigned him of "adjusting the
air." The two men in going under the car placed no flag or
other signal to warn of their presence there, and thereby protect themselves from the peril to which they were necessarily
subjected. Their reason for not taking this precaution is
stated in the testimony of Fowers:
"Q. Mr. Fowers, couldn't you and Mr. Pool have put up a
red flag out there that would have notified- put up a red
flag or some other flag that would have notified the engineer
of danger?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Why didn't you put up a flag?
"A. Because it was too big a work.
"Q. Because it was too much work?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. You thought it would take only a few minutes before
you got through?
"A. Yes, sir. We also knew that we had a man stationed
there to watch for us, and considered ourselves safe.
"Q. Who was the man you had stationed there to watch
for you?
"A. Mr. Rice - Mr. George Rice.

"Q. And you considered you were all right with Mr. Rice
to watch for you?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Who was Mr. Rice?
"A. He was a car laborer from the shop.
"Q. Was he one of your car repairers?
"A. Yes, sir."
Shortly after the men went under the car a switch engine
with a caboose and car moved from a ttack called the "caboose
track" towards a switch connecting with the track on which
the car was being repaired, and backed down for the purpose
of coupling the caboose to the south end of this car, such end
being the opposite one to that which was being repaired,

SOUTHERN PACIC COMPANY.Y v. POOL.

443

Opinion of the Court.

The two men under the car could not be seen by the engineer or by those on the backwardly moving caboose. As the
engine and caboose came back. slowly toward the car, both
the men under it heard the noise caused by its movement.
However, owing to a curve in the' track, Fowers, who was on
the east side of the car, could not see the engine and caboose
approaching, but, hearing them, spoke to Pool, and said, "I believe they are coming in here." Pool, who was on the west side,
leaned back and saw the switch engine and caboose coming
down upon them. As he did so, a switchman by the name of
Taylor, who was on the west side, was visible to and in hailing
distance of Pool. The movement of Pool is thus related by
Fowers: "From his position he could lean back this way and
could see the cars, see the engine and caboose coming from the
south to couple on. He says, ' Yes, they are coming in here.'"
Thereupon Pool made a movement to get from under the car,
but did not entirely do'so.- Fowers jumped out on the east side.
As he did so he spoke to Rice, who was standing near at hand,
and told him to stop the switch engine from backing, and to say
that men were under the car repairing, and not to strike or
couple to it, as it could not go out until repairs were finished.
Rice walked to the south end of the car, and as the caboose
slowly backed down, called out, when it was about twenty or
thirty feet away, to Kilpatrick, a switchman, who was standing on the west side of the caboose, not to make the coupling
as men were at work under the car. The caboose continued
to slowly back towards the car, and when it arrived within
about six feet stopped for a brief moment. Kilpatrick, on its
so stopping, at once gave the signal to the engineer to back
down, which signal was obeyed, the caboose striking the car
with considerable force. ,In the meanwhile, either on the
going forward of Rice or on the stoppage -of the caboose,
Fowers returned quickly to his work,, as did also Pool. As
the former stepped under the car, being uneasy lest the
caboose should couple, he looked out and caught sight of a
portion 'ofKilpatriok's body, and saw his arm wave the signal
to back down. He' cried out to Pool and threw himself from
"under-the car, and was' thus saved. Pool was not so alert, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

was caught between the car on which he was working and the
one in front thereof, receiving a mortal injury. Whilst it is
certain that Rice gave a warning call to Kilpatrick, and told
him that the men were under the car and not to couple the
caboose to it, there is no evidence whatever that Kilpatrick
heard and understood the purport of what Rice said to him
when he called to him; there is no proof that he conveyed
any signal to Rice which could have produced upon Rice's mind,
or upon the mind of any one, the impression that he understood
that the men were under th car. There is no proof that Kilpatrick, after the warning given by Rice, transmitted any
signal to the engineer to stop the train, and, therefore, there is
no proof that the stop which the caboose made in its backward
movement was the result of any communication, by signal or
otherwise, between Kilpatrick and the engineer; nor, indeed,
is there any proof that the stop was the result of anything
but the caution of the engineer in backing down, under the
impression that he had backed far enough to make the coupling which it was his purpose to make.
These being the undisputed facts, there can be no doubt
that the fatal injiiry which Pool received was the result of his
own inexcusable negligence. He went under the car which
was standing on the track with a train in front of it, and with
a certainty that a caboose was to be attached to the rear, without putting out a flag or other signal warning of his being
under the car in order to protect himself from the peril which
was obvious and of which he must have been aware, having
been for a period of three years engaged in doing work of
a lke nature. This original act of negligence was continued
by his subsequent conduct. As the caboose backed slowly
down it was both heard and seen by him in ample time to
have enabled him to get from under the car. There was also
abundant opportunity for him to step out and give warning to
the engineer in charge of the switch engine, and to Taylor the
switchman, who was on the west side of the moving car, thus
insuring absolute safety. He did neither. Nor can these acts
of negligence be legally excused by conceding that Pool's conduct, whether of commission or of omission, was caused by

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COTPANY .v. POOL.

445

Opinion of the Court.

the reliance placed by him on the warning which he expected
would be given by Rice, the car repairer, who remained on the
side of the track. Either Rice was the agent of Pool or of the
corporation. If he was the agent of the former, of course
Pool cannot recover for an injury suffered by him in consequence of the negligence of his own agent. If Rice, in giving
the warning, was the servant of the corporation, his negligence
gave rise to no cause of action on behalf of Pool, since in any
and every view of the law of fellow-servant, Rice and Pool
were such servants. The negligence of Pool, established by
the undisputed testimony, was not denied by the court below,
but was treated as immaterial, in consequence of what the
court considered to be proof of neglect on the part of Kilpatrick, the switchman. Such neglect on hlis part was treated
as having been the proximate and, therefore, sole legal cause
of the accident. This coriclusion is thus stated in the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the Territory:
"Nor can there be any questioi made but that Kilpatrick
heard the signal from Rice to stop the engine, and that he
acted upon such signal and did stop the engine about six feet
from the car in question, under which the deceased was working at the time. The signal was understood by the switchman
Kilpatrick, and obeyed by him. The verbal communication
to Kilpatrick to stop the engine was a notice and warning as
certain, positive, and safe as if there had been a red flag signal
used in such case. In any event, Kilpatrick received it, understood it, and replied to it, and complied with it -at the time,
and he would have done no more had there been a red flag
signal placed by the car."
We have already said that the record, which contains all
the testimony, discloses no proof whatever either that Ilpatrick understood the call of Rice, that he gave any indication to Rice of his so understafiding, or that, in consequence
of Rice's warning, he signalled the stoppage of the engine, or
that he did any of the things which the court below concluded the undisputed proof established that he did do. The
case then, on this question, resolves itself to this, that we find
no proof whatever of facts which the court below considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to be undisputedly established. The only testimony which
refers to what took place at the time the warning was given
by Rice is that of Rice and Fowers, Kilpatrick not having
been examined. The following excerpts from the testimony
of Rice contain every word said by him which can in any
way throw light on the subject:
"Q. What, if any, conversation did you have with Mr.
Kilpatrick?
"A. I had no conversation with Mr. Taylor, if that is his
name; I do not know him. There were two switchmen; I
didn't know the- names. I had no conversation with Mr.
Taylor. I had no conversation any further than to tell Mr.
Kilpatrick not to come up to'touch the cars, there were men
working under the car.
"Q. How far was he from you at that time.?
"A. Well, it was twenty or thirty feet at the time I told
him this.
"Q. Where was he at that time?
"A. He was on the west of the caboose.
"Q. Now, then, you told him that; what did you see, if
anything, him do?
"A. Well, I saw him do nothing more until the engine and
caboose-stopped within six feet of this freight car that they
were working on, when it stopped still; the next signal was
Mr. Kilpatrick gave a motion.
"Q. What was that?
"A. For it to come back, and it came back with great
force; and at that time I heard Mr. Fowers holler ' Pull up!'
I run back to where Mr. Fowers was. He was at the other
end of the car where he was at work previous to my going up
and notifying him not to come down, and I saw Mr. Pool in
. .
between the cars, and we yelled for help.
"Q. How long after you told Mr. Kilpatrick that there
were men under the cars was it that you saw Mr. Kilpatrick
go and make the signal?
"A. How?
"Q. How long after you told Mr. Kilpatrick that there
were men under the car?

SOUTHERN PAOIFIC CONPANY v. POOL.
Opinion of the Court.

"A. How long after that? oh, it was very short.
"Q. And then what, if anything, did the engineer, on the
car, on the engine that he was working, do in response to that
signal; what did the engineer do with his engine in response
to that?
"A. Why, he backed up.
"Q. How did he back up?
"A. He came back with great force to this car."
This testimony, it is apparent, does not even tend to show
that the switchman Kilpatrick understood the warning given
by Rice, or that he acted upon it by transmitting a signal to
the engineer to stop the train, and then signalled to continue.
The mere presence of Rice, if owing to the noise of the moving
train or from other reasons his warning either did not reach or
was misunderstood by Kilpatrick, was not sufficient to convey
the fact that men were working under the car, and therefore
it should not-be coupled. Riqe was an air adjuster. His work
could hot be done without the coupling of the car. His mere
presence, therefore, if his voice was not heard and his words
understood, would have naturally suggested that he desired
the coupling to be done in order that his work might be accomplished. Nor can it be considered, witholit any evidence
tending to that end, that Kilpatrick understood the warning,
knew the men were under the car, signalled to stop the backward movement of the caboose, and then suddenly, without
any change in the situation, give the signal to back up. Such
conduct on his part would have been murder, and is certainly
hot to be presumed without proof, on bare suspicion. The
testimony of Fowers, full excerpts therefrom being in the
margin, whilst more contradictory than that of Rice, likewise
fails to show that Kilpatrick actually understood Rice or acted
on the warning by him given.1
1 Air. Rice was standing outside of the car, and I says to him, says I,
You go and stop him, and don't let them hit this car at all, and told him that
It could not get out on the train until it was repaired. Of course, they
could not make up the train until that car was repaired, and says I, Don't
let them hit the car at all, and we will have it done in five minutes. Says
he, All right; and stepped down to the 9ther end of the car, and I saw him

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

An examination of this testimony at once demonstrates that
the only matter therein which seemingly tends to show that
Kilpatrick understood Rice is the statement of Fowers, that he
heard -Kilpatrickmake some reply, although the witness could
not give the nature of the reply. But the question is, not
whether Kilpatrick heard the voice of Rice, but whether he
understood his meaning; therefore the mere fact that the witness testifies some reply was made, without giving the reply,
signal for the engineer to stop, making the"regular signal with his arms to
them coming up."
" Q. What, if anything, did he say at that time ?
"A. He didn't say anything at that time- he stood and signalled. I was
standing right at the end of the car, still looking down, and saw Mr. Pool
leaning back over the rail this way - about in that position - looking back at
the engine coming. They came up very slow within about six feet of the car
that he was working under, and then came to a stop. I heard Mr. Rice tell
somebody not to hit the car; that they were working there. As soon as I
heard him say that I just went right to work, and jumped right under the
car again with Mr. Pool, and he turned his attention right to the work,
and we went to work again. I felt a little uneasy myself, thinking they
might try to couple the caboose on to the car that we were working under.
They can do that very easily sometimes, you know, without moving it. So
I leaned over the rail - I was kind of on my knees - and I turned my head,
and leaned over the rail to the east, and looked right out, and there I saw
one of the yardmen giving a signal to back up. I could see the motion of
his arm and part of his body, and says I, Look out, Joe, they are right on
us; and threw myself head first out over the rail."
On cross-examination lie said
"Q. Did you advise those switchmen to notify the engineer you were in
there ?
"A. No, sir; I told Mr. Rice to tell the switchmen that we were in there
repairing a car.
-Q. And you relied on the switchman to attend to notifying the engineer?
You expected him to notify the engineer?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. To protect you both -Mr. Pool was in the same condition or position, did he expect that, too?
"A. Sir?
"Q. Mr. Pool and yourself both relied on the switchman to notify the
engineer, and you thought the switchman would attend to it?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. That he would notify them. 'Could the engineer see you from where
he was, out on the engine? Could he see you were in there with the caboose
and car between you? .

SOUTHERN PACIFIC, COMPANY ,v. POOL.

449

Opinion of the Court.

in no way shows that Rice's warning was comprehended. Indeed, the entire context of the testimony shows that Fowers
himself was uncertain whether the warning given by Rice was
received and understood by Kilpatrick, for when asked in the
first instance, whether Kilpatrick in giving the signal to .back
.did so after he had been warned by Rice, answered, "Well,
I suppose," a mere conjecture; and again, when asked if the
engineer had stopped the 6ngine in consequence of a signal
',A. No,sir."
After stating the presence of Rice beside the car, he was asked:
"Q. And you requested him to notify the engineer?
"A. Yes, sir. Understand, of course, that they could not use the air
on that train until we had done these repairs, because they could not make
the coupling with the rest; they were waiting for these repairs.
"Q. Sir?
"A. They were waiting for these repairs.
"Q. While he was standing there you just requested him to notify the
engineer not to back back?
"A. Not the engineer but the switchman.
"Q, Not the engineer, but the switchman, not to back back the engine?
"A. Yes, sir..
"Q. You don't know whether he notified them or not?
"A. I heard him tell them not to hit the car, and that was satisfactory
to me.
"Q. You supposed it would not be struck?
"A. I supposed it would not be struck; yes, sir.
"Q. Did you see the switchman yourself?
"A. I saw one of them-a part of one of them- I could see his arm
and part of his body.,
"Q. Well, was it the switchman that Mr. Rice spoke to that beckoned
the engine to back back?
"A. Yes, sir; I heird Mr. Rice talking to that switchman, and I suppose it was that switchman.
"Q. Well, what switchman was that; who was it?
"A. I think it was Ben. Kilpatrick; I would not be positive which one
it -was.
"Q. But do you think it was Ben. Kilpatrick who signalled the engineer
to back back?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. And struck this car?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. And he did that after he had been warned by Mr. Rice?
"A. Well, I suppose
"Q. Well, after you heard Mr. Rice tell him?
voL. c=-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

from Kilpatrick, his reply was, "Yes, sir; it must have been,"
a mere opinion. On cross-examination, in answering a question asking, "Who then signalled the engineer not to back
back?" Fowers answered, "Yes, sir." But the whole context of his testimony shows that the word "not" in the question was misunderstood by the witness, for he was testifying
solely as to the signal given to back after he (the witness)
was under the car. Indeed, this is the only signal which
Fowers testifies he saw given by Kilpatrick. To construe this
question and answer as relating to a presumed signal not to
back given by Kilpatrick to the engineer in consequence of
Rice's warning, would contradict the whole of Fowers' testimony, since it clearly shows that no such signal was seen by
him, and that the only signal which he noticed was the one
given to make the coupling which led to the death of Pool.
"A.

Yes, sir.

"Q. He done that after he had been told by Mr. Rice not to hit the car?
"A.

Yes, sir.

"Q. Who then signalled the engineer not to back back?
"A.

Yes, sir.

"Q. It was the switchman?
"A.

It was the switchman, yes, sir .
..
I think -ou got back under the car, as I understand you, and cornmenced to flx this bolt?
"A. Not until they come to a stop.
"Q. Not until they cdme to a stop?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Well, after they came to a stop, did you know that there was any
signal, and who was it made the signal to back back farther?
CcA. At the time that I saw the signal I was under the car, but leaning
out over the rail, and I saw the signal for to back up; that was after they
had stopped, and after I had got under the car again, and at that time I
leaned over and saw, I think it was, Kilpatrick, giving a signal to back up.
" Q. You saw Kilpatrick give a signal to back up, and immediately after
that signal they backed up and you sprung out?
$' A. Yes, sir.
IIQ. And that is the time that Pool was caught?
"A. Yes, sir."
On his redirect examination he said:
"Q. Where were you when you saw Rice communicate, do you know,
to Kilpatrick?
" A. I was standing at the north end of this car.

"Q.

SOUTHER1

PACIFIC COMPANY v. POOL.
Opinion of the Court.

Finding no proof, whatever, that the switchman actually
understood the warning given by iRice and. acted upon it,
there is nothing in the record to support the conclusion below
that, as the warning was actually given -and understood,
Pool was thereby relieved from the legal consequence of his
negligence in having gone under the car without placing the
usual and customary signal, of having remained there in the
presence of an impending danger, and, when there was ample
opportunity to avoid it, of having failed himself to give a
warning as the car moved down, which the proof shows he
could have done, thus rendering his position absolutely safe.
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded with
directions to grant a new trial.
"Q.

Standing there?
Yes, sir.
," Q. Where was Kilpatrick; on which side of the train?
"A. He was right in front of the caboose, I think.
t. Q. Where was that caboose from where you were?
"A. Well, it might have been twenty feet at that time.
"Q. I understand you to say it was about twenty feet to where Kilpatrick was?
"A. Yes, sir,;, when Mr. Rice spoke to him.
"Q. Did you see Kilpatrick when he spoke to him?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Well, did he hear him; are you able to say that he heard him?
"A., Well, I heard Mr. Kilpatrick make some reply, but I don't know
what it was.
"Q. He replied, did he, when Rice spoke?.
" A. Yes, sir.
"Q. This was the time the engine was standing still?
"A. No, sir; she was moving then, and came up within about six feet
and then stopped. She was stopped at the time"Q. I know; but after Rice spoke to Kilpatrick the engineer stopped
the engine.
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Was that in response to signal from Kilpatrick?
"A. Yes, sir; it must have been.
"Q. What did Kilpatrick (of course meaning Rice) say when he communicated to Kilpatrick; did he refer to your being under-the car?
"A. I would not be right positive as to that. He told him not to hit the
car, and I think he said we were working there."
"A.

