OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ELDRIDGE v. TREZEVANT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 62. Submitted October

1,

1895. -Decided

January 6, 1896.

In Louisiana the constitution and laws of the State, as interpreted by Its
highest court, permit the taking, without compensation, of land for the
construction of a public levee on the Mississippi River, on the ground that
the State has, under French laws existing before its transfer to the United
States, a servitude on such lands for such a purpose; and they subject a
citizen of another State owning such land therein, the title to which was
derived from the United States, to the operation of the state law as so
interpreted. Held, that there was no error in this so long as the citizen
of another State receives the same measure of right as that awarded to
citizens of Louisiana in regard to their property similarly situated.
The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution do -not
override public rights, existing in the form of servitudes or easements,
which are held by the courts of a State to be valid under its Constitution
and laws.

WILLIAM B. Eldridge, a citizen of the State of Mississippi,
filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Louisiana a bill of complaint against Henry B. Richardson, Chief of the Board of Engineers of the State of Louisiana, and Peter J. Trezevant, citizens of Louisiana, whereby he
sought to have the defendants enjoined from the construction
of a certain public levee through a plantation belonging to
the complainant, and situated in Carroll township, State of
Louisiana.
An answer was filed admitting that the State Board.of Engineers had projected and laid out a public levee through the
complainant's plantation, and that a contract to construct said
levee had been awarded to Peter J. Trezevant, but claiming
that such proceedings were in pursuance of an act of the general assembly of the State of Louisiana, approved February
14, 1879,' and were therefore lawful.
The case was heard upon the issues presented by the bill
and answer, supplemented with an admission that none of the

ELDRIDGE v. TREZEVANT.
Argument for Appellant.

acts complained of in the bill were wanton, malicious, or
arbitrary.
On June 20, 1891, a decree was rendered adjudging the
sufficiency of the answer and dismissing the lill, from which
decree an appeal was taken to this court.
.A. Wade R1.Young for appellant.
Article 156 of the constitution of Louisiana, adopted July
23, 1879, provides that private property 9hall not be taken nor
damaged for public purposes without just and adequate compensation being first paid.
In construing this prohibition in Ruqch v. iNew Orleans, 43
La. Ann. 275, the state Supreme Court said that the city was
authorized to take the plaintiff's property, to the extent the
same might be required for public use, in the enlargement of the
public roadway immediately in front of it, in virtue of the right
of appropriation vested in it by the police power of the State.
The right of appropriation, which is recognized in the code,
was held to be coexistent, with the right of expropriation,
as provided for in Rev. Civil Code. All of those provisions
prefxisted in the constitution, with the 155th and 156th articles
of which the right of appropriation is said to conflidt. This,
of itself, the court said, leads to the supposition of their entire
compatibility. But the two principles are of well recognized
and ancient origin,- one being an exercise of the police
power, any loss sustained thereby entitling the injured party
to no recompense, the same being damnum alsque iSuria;
the other being the exercise of the right of eminent domain,
the damages entailed being compensable. Bass v. State, 34
La. Ann. 494:; Chaffe v. Trezevant, 38 La. Ann. 746.
In ordinary cases this interpretation would be binding on
this court,, but in determining whether the laws of a State are
in conflict with the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution,
this court must decide for itself, and if the decision requires a
construction of state constitutions and laws, it is not necessarily
governed by previous decisions of the state courts. Yick&burg c&e. Railroad v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665.
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

The prohibition against the taking of private property for
public use is to be found in the Federal Constitution, and in
the constitutions of most, if not all of the States, and has re-

ceived a uniform interpretation, which has become a part of
the jurisprudence of the country.
It was alluded to by this court in Pu pelly v. Green Bay
Company, 13 Wall. 166, as a provision of constitutional law
always understood to have been adopted for protection and
security to the rights of the individual as against the government, and which has received the commendation of jurists,
statesmen,- and commentators as placing the just principles of
the common law on that subject beyond the power of ordinary
legislation to change or control them, and this court quoted
the language of Dayton, J., in Sinnikson v. Johnson, 2 Harrison, (5 N. J. Law,) 129, "that this power to take private
property reaches back of all constitutional provisions; and it
seems to have been a settled principle of universal law that
the right to compensation is an incident to the exercise of that
power; that the one is inseparably connected with the other;
that they may be said to exist, not as separate and distinct
principles, but as part of one and the same principle."
The state court seems to have appreciated this difficulty, and
to have disposed of it by giving the thing another name, and
justifying the taking as an exercise of the police pbwer, entirely compatible with the right of expropriation, and provided by the statute for the making and repairing of levees,
roads, and other public or common works.
It becomes necessary, then, to inquire into the origin and
history of the servitude. The article was taken from articles
649, 650, of the Code Napoleon: "Servitudes established by
law have for object the public or communal utility, or the
utility of private persons. Those established for the public
or communal utility have for object the towpaths along the
navigable or floatable rivers, the construction or repairing of
roads and other public or communal works. All that concerns
this kind of servitude is determined by laws or particular
regulations."
The laws which formerly regulated this servitude have been

PLDRIDGE v. TREZEVANT.
Argument for Appellant.

long repealed, as the necessity therefor ceased to exist, and
nothing remains of the legislation except the principle embodied in the article of the Code. But the principle of indemnity for damn'age so inflicted was early recognized by
legislation, which, though local in its character, was a legislative recognition of the right to full compensation, and an
abandonment of the principle of servitude, and received the
support of the courts. Zenor v. Concordia. Parish, 7 La.
Ann. 150; Dubose v. Levee Commissioners, 11 La. Ann. 165;
.fithof v. Carollton, 12 La. Ann. 185 ; Inge v. Police Jury,
14 La. Ann. 117.
After the war the former laws were repealed, and a new
and different system adopted, by which the State undertook
the duty of making and repairing levees. Police Jury v.
Tardos, 22 La. Ann. 58; Suurgi v. Matthews, 24 La. Ann. 613.
The constitution of 1868, article 110, contained the same provision that "vested rights should not be divested, unless for
purposes of public utility and for adequate compensation
made."
-The case of Bass v. &ate, 34 La. Ann. 494, arose and was
decided under that constitution, and the court held that
private property could be taken for public use, in the exercise
of the general police powers of the State, without making
compensation therefor. In 1879 the people adopted a new
constitution, and in that appears for the first time the provision in the words of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, and of so many of the States, that
"private property shall not be taken for public purposes
without just compensation."
This provision had at that time been construed by this court
and by the courts of many of the States, and it had come to be
understood that the exercise of the police power, as distinguished from the right of eminent domain, was a matter of
public law, rather than a matter of legislative or judicial discretion. The constitution of Mississippi contained the provision that private property shall not be taken for public use
without just compensation being first made. In the case of
Penrice v. Wallis, 37 Mississippi, 172, the same argument-was

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

used, that the Levee Commissioners could take private prop-

erty for the purpose of making public levees, without compensation. The court said: "In cases of public emergencies,
such as the calamities of fire, flood, war, pestilence, and famine,
private property may be taken and applied to public use
without just compensation being made therefor, upon the
principle of imperative necessity for the public protection; but
in order to justify such appropriation, the necessity must be
apparently present, and the apprehended danger must be so
imminent and impending, as not to admit of the delay
incident to legal proceedings for the condemnation of the
property."
The constitution of Wisconsin provided that "the property
of no person shall be taken for public use without just compensation therefor." In construing this provision in Pumyelly v. Green Bay Co., supra, this court said: "We are not
unaware of the numerous cases in the state courts in which
the doctrine has been successfully invoked, that for a consequential injury to the property of the individual arising from
the prosecution of improvements of roads, streets, rivers, and
other highways for the public good, there is no redress; and
we do not deny that the principle is a sound one in its proper
application, to many injuries to property so originating. And
when, in the exercise of our duties here, we shall be called
upon to construe other state constitutions, we shall not be unmindlful of the weight due to the decisions of the courts of
those States. But we are of opinion that the decisions referred to have gone to the uttermost limit of sound judicial
construction in favor of this principle, and, in some cases, beyond it, and that it remains true that where real estate is actually invaded by superinduced additions of water, earth, sand,
or other material, or by having any artificial structure placed
on it, so as to effectually destroy or impair its usefulness, it is
a taking, within the meaning of the Constitution, and that
this proposition is not in conflict with the weight of judicial
authority in this country, and certainly not without sound
principle."
It would naturally appear that the framers of the Louisiana

EIIDRIDGE v. TREZEVANT.
Argument for Appellant.

constitution of 1879, in adopting the provision in words which
had received a settled construction, adopted the existing interpretationf rather than one founded on a principle of the Spanish and French laws, which had been in part abandoned for
the parish of Concordia as early as 1829, and altogether abandoned for the parish of Tensas in 1848, and which is in conflict with the spirit of our institutions.
Moreover, although it is not directly at issue in this cause,
the court can take judicial notice of the fact that the public
levees of the State, on the shores of the Mississippi River, are
now a part of a system of public works undertaken by the
United States for the improvement bf the navigation of the
river, and- incidentally in codperation with the State, for*
the proteotion of the country from overflow, by confining the
waters of the river, and that such levees, whether made by
the United States or by the State, are parts of one and the
same system, and are planned and executed for both purposes.
The judges of the United States Circuit Court, in. Hollingsworth v. Parishof Tensas, I'eWQds, 280, considered that the
exercise of the police power" 61.the State, and the right of
eminent domain, were questions of general jurisprudence, and
not of local law, and held that according to the principles of
general. jurisprudence, private property could not be taken or
damaged for public use without compensation, either by authority of the police powers of the State, or under the right
of eminent domaint.
This opinion remained the law of the Federal court until
the decree in this case, but the state court adhered to its
doctrine that property can be taken, damaged, and destroyed
without compensation, for the purpose, of making and repairing public levees, in the exercise of the police power.
If any doubt could ever have existed that the distinction
between the police power and the right of eminent domain is
a question, of general jurisprudence,. and not of local law,-such
doubt has been solved by the prohibition of the Fourteenth
Amendment, that no State shall deprive any person of property
without due process of law. The words "due process of law,"
as used in the Federal constitution, do not. mean the law and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

jurisprudence of the State by which the wrong is worked.
That construction would render the restriction absolutely
nugatory, and turn this part of the constitution into mere
nonsense. The people would say to the States, you shall not
deprive any person of property without due process of law,
but you shall be the judges of what is due process of law; in
other words, you shall not do the wrong unless you choose to
do it. Due process of law in each particular case means such
an exertion of the power of government as the settled maxims
of law permit and sanction, and under such safeguards for the
protection of individual rights as those maxims prescribe for
the class of cases to which the one in question belongs.
It was in recognition of this principle that, in Head v.
Amoskeag Jfan facturing Co., 113 U. S. 9, this court said
that, by providing for an assessment of full compensation to
the owners of lands flowed, it avoids the difficulty which arose
in the case of Pumpelly v. 6reen Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166.
Being a constitutional exercise of legislative power, and providing a suitable remedy, by trial in the regular course of justice, to recover compensation for the injury to the land of the
plaintiff in error, it has not deprived him of his property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
To determine under what circumstances property can be
taken in the exercise of the police power, as distinguished
from the right of eminent domain, this court does not look
to the jurisprudence of the State, but to the settled maxims
,of law, always understood to have been adopted for protection and security to the rights of the individual as against
the government. The maxim, "Sic Wtere tuo ut alienum non
iwdas," is that which lies at the foundation of the power, and
it is distinct from the right of eminent domain.
These police powers rest upon the maxim " salus populi est
suprema lex." This powbr to restrain a private injurious use
of property is very different from the 'right of eminent domain. It is not taking private property from the owner, but
a salutary restraint on the noxious use by the owner contrary
to the maxim "Sic utere tuo t alienum non Zadas."

ELDRIDGE 0. TREZEVAINT.
Argument for Appellant.

The prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendinent is directed
to the States, and if the State, by its legislature, or by its
courts, or other agency, can evade the prohibition by deciding for itself that such imperative necessity exists, and there
is to be no appeal from its decision, the restriction would be
rendered nugatory, and this part of the Constitution turned
into mere nonsense.
Whether such imperative necessity exists as to justify the
State in taking, damaging, and destroying private property for
public purposes without compensation, in the exercise of the
police power, is a question of Federal law, depending upon the
facts of each case, which this court must determine for itself,
and without regard to the decisions of the courts of the State.
It would be no answer to the complaint that the State was
depriving a person of life, liberty, or property, to say that the
State has decided that a condition of things exists to justify
such violation of the prohibition, or has decided that it has
not deprived the person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law.
As said by the court in Penricev. WVrallis, ubi sup., the answer
does not present such a plea. It does not pretend to set up
such overwhelming necessity, in the face of the facts stated
in the bill.
The only contention of the defendants, admitting all the
facts stated in the bill, is that plairitiff holds his property subject to a servitude imposed by the laws of Louisiana, and that
the construction of public levees is a matter within the police
power of the State.
If such be the law of Louisiana, that the lands of plaintiff,
being adjacent to the Mississippi River, are subject to a servitude or easement, in the exercise of which the State can take,
damage, and destroy his property for the purpo.e of making
and repairing levees, roads, and other public or common works,
without compensation, such a law is repugnant to and in conflict with the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States, unless it be pleaded and
shown that there exists such imperative necessity as to justify
the exercise of the police power of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellant.

The restriction imposed by the Federal constitution upon
the power of the State to deprive persons of life, liberty, or
property, cannot be subordinated to the customs of France
and of Spain, embodied in the statute laws of the State, nor
can thp Constitution of the United States be so interpreted
that the State can decide for itself in each case what constitutes depriving a person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law, and such decision be binding on the courts
of the United States.
Unless the statutes relied on by defendants provide a suitable remedy, by trial in the regular course of justice, to recover
compensation for the injury, they are null and void, and the
defendants were made trespassers, without warrant or authority of law.
If, on the other hand, the general provision, embodied in
article 156 of the state constitution, and in article 497 of the
civil code, provide a suitable remedy, by trial in the regular
course of justice, to recover compensation for the injury to
plaintiff's property, the compensation should have been first
paid, and the defendants were proceeding to take, damage,
and destroy the property of the plaiftiff, in violation of the
constitution and laws of the State.
In either case the plaintiff had a plain right to the equitable
remedy by injunction, and the more so, because he would have
had no remedy at all against the State, for the torts of its
officers and agents..
The District Judge, with too much regard for the public
interest, and too little regard for private right, allowed the
defendants to proceed to construct the levee, by an ex parte
order, upon their furnishing bond and security in the sum of
only four thousand dollars.
This was manifest error, as just and equitable compensation
had not been first made, and the plaintiff is left without a
remedy, except by an action at law on the bond, and a personal action against the defendants for the balance.
It is therefore respectfully submitted that the judgment
appealed from should be reversed, and the injunction reinstated, and the right of plaintiff to recover his compensation

ELDRIDGE v. TREZEVANT.
Opinion of thei Court.

for the injury by an action on the bond, and by a personal
action against the defendants, be recognized and reserved, and
the cause remanded for further proceedings.
Mr. X. J. Cunningham, Attorney General- of the State of
M..Ailler for appellees.
LTuisiana, and .r. T7.
MR.

JUSTICE

Swnts, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By an act of the general assembly of the State of Louisiana,
approved February 14, 1879, there was created a board of state
engineers, whose duty it was to make a survey of the watercourses, public works, and levees of- the State. They were to
report to the governor of the State the improvements which
they should deem necessary, and the construction .of such
levees as were of prime importance to the State at large and
were beyond the means of the parochial. authorities. They
were also, in said report, to furnish estimates and specifications of work necessary to be done. It ivas thereupon made
the duty of the governor to advertise for proposals to make
such improvements and construct such levees as were recommended, and to award the contracts to the lowest responsible
bidder, under proper and sufficient bonds for the faithful performance of their contracts; and upon completion of said
works it' was made the duty of the board of engineers to
examine and measure the work and to certify to its correctness; and, upon approval by the. governor, the auditor 'of
public accounts of the State was to draw his warrant therefor,
payable out of the general engineer fund, or such fund as
should be provided by law.
In the exercise of the powers thus conferred, the board of
engineers reported to the governor that it was necessary to
construct a levee across complainant's plantation; that such
levee was of prime importance to the State at large; would
have to be of large size; that the river front was a dangerous
and constantly caving bank, and that necessarily the levee
had to be located some distance from the river; and -they

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

furnished estimates and specifications of the work necessary
to be. done. Subsequently, after advertising for proposals, the
governor awarded the contract for constructing the levees
proposed to the defendant, Peter J. Trezevant, as the lowest
responsible bidder, who was, at the time of filing of the bill,
proceeding with the work.
The plaintiff expressly admits, in his bill, that, although the
constitution of the State of Louisiana contains a provision
that private property shall not be taken or damaged without
adequate and just compensation being first paid, the laws of
the State, as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State,
provide no remedy for cases of proceedings under the levee
laws, and that the Supreme Court of the State has decided
that such taking, damage, and destruction of property for the
purpose of building a public levee is an exercise of the police
power of the State, and damnum absque inju'ia.because the

State has a right of servitude or easement over the lands on
the shores of navigable rivers for the making and repairing
of levees, roads, and other public works. But he contends
that, as he cannot sue the State for compensation, and as an
action at law, if such would lie, would not furnish that just
and adequate compensation first paid, contemplated by the
provision of the state constitution, he has a right, as a citizen
-of another State, to invoke, in the Circuit Court of the United
States, the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, which provides that no
State shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of its laws.
The concession distinctly made by the complainant, in his
bill, that the state courts refuse to'kecognize that owners of
lands abutting on the Mississippi River and the bayous running
to and from the same, where levees are necessary-to confine
the waters and to protect the inhabitants against inundation,
are entitled, when a public levee is located upon such lands,
to invoke -the application of that provision of the state constitution which provides that "private property shall not be taken
nor damaged for public use without just and adequate corn-

ELDRIDGE v. TREZEVAINT.
Opinion of the Court.

pensation first paid," and repeated in the brief filed on his
behalf in this court, relieves us from-an extended examination
of the origin and history of the state enactments, constitutional and legislative, and of the decisions of the state cburts
on this subject.
It is important, however, to observe the ground upon which
the state legislative and judicial authorities base their action.
That ground is found in the doctrine existing in the Territory
of Louisiana. before its purchase by the United States and continuing to this time, that lands abutting on the rivers and
bayous are subject to a servitude in favor of the public,
whereby such portions thereof as are necessary for the purpose
of making and repairing public levees may be taken, in pursuance of law, without cpmpensation. This doctrine is said to
have been derived from- the Code Napoleon, whose 649th and
650th articles were as follows:
"Servitudes established by -law have for object the public
or communal utility, or the utility of private persons. Those
established for the public or communal utility have for object
the towpaths along the navigable or floatable rivers, the construction or repairing of roads and other public or communal
works. Ail that concerns this kind of servitude is determined
by laws or particular regulations."
But whether the servitude in question was derived from
French or Spanish sources, or from local and natural causeg,
we need not inquire, because it is explicitly asserted in the
Civil Code of Iquisiana, article 661, in the following terms:
"Servitudes imposed for the public or common utility relate
to the space which is to be left for public use by the adjacent
proprietors, on the shores of -navigable rivers, and for the making and repairing of levees, roads, and other public or'common
1649 -Les servitudes 6tablies par la lol out-pour objet l'utilit6 publique
on communale, ou l'utilit6 des particuliers. 650 - Celies 6tablies pour l'utiitm publique on communale ont pour objet
le marchepied le long des rivi~res navigables ou flottables, la construction
ou r6paration des chemins et autres ouvrages publics ou communaux.
Tout ce qui concerne cette esp~ce de servitude, est d6termin6 par des lois
ou des rbgleinents particulers.- -

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

works. All that relates to this kind of servitude is determined
by laws or particular regulations."
In the case of Zenor v. PaisA of Concordia,7 La. Ann. 150,

where the legislature had enacted that the police jury of a parish exposed to inundation should have plenary power to locate
and construct levees, and where such police jury, in pursuance
of these powers, had placed and built a levee on the lands of
the complainant, greatly to his detriment, it was held that the
enactment was valid, and that no liability for damages was
caused by a bonaft.de proceeding under it. The court said:
"In this State, so much exposed to ruinous inundations, the
public have the undoubted right, on the shores of the Mississippi River, to the use of the space of ground necessary for the
making and repairing of the public levees and roads. C. 0.
Art. 661. It was the condition of the ancient grants of land
on the Mississippi River, and sufficient depth was always given
to each tract, to prevent the exercise of the public rights from
proving ruinous to the individual.
"Speculation and other motives have, .in later times, caused
the division and sale of some tracts, and entries of others,
with large fronts and little depth, in opposition to the general
policy of the country. Thus, in the present case, the plaintiff
has scarcely any depth, with a large front, in a deep bend,
with a caving bank. The policy of the country and the laws
of the land, made for the general s;fety, cannot yield to cases
of individual hardship. Those ivho purchase and own the
front on the Mississippi River gain ll that is made by alluvion,
and lose all that is carried away by abrasion. And those who
choose to purchase tacks with little depth, in caving bends,
expose themselves, knoivingly, to total -loss, and must suffer
the consequences when they occur. They suffer damnum
absque injuria."
In Dubose v. Levee Commissioners, 11 La. A-an. 165, the

plaintiff sued for damages occasioned to his land by the acts of
the commissioners in changing the line of the public levee, but
the court, citing the provisions of the code, article 661, held
that "the law concerning the expropriation of private property for public use does not apply to such lands upon the

EITl

IDGE v. TREZEVANT.
Opinion of the Court.

banks of navigable rivers as may be found necessary for leveepurposes. The quantity of land to. be taken for such purposes
presents a question of policy or administration to be decided
by the local authorities, whose decisions should not be revised
by this tribunal, except for the most cogent reasons, and
where there has been manifest oppression or injustice."
In the case of Bass v. State of Louisiana,34 La. Ann. 494,
the Supreme Court again held that an owner of land abutting
on the Mississippi River could not recover for damages inflicted upon his property by the State Board of Engineers
and contractors in locating and constructing a public levee,
but put the immunity of the State mainly upon the proposition that such public works are done in the exercise of the
police power; and did not advert to the doctrine of servitude,
upon which the previous decision had placed such immunity.
But we do not understand that the Supreme Court of the
State intended thereby to repudiate the doctrine of a servitude,
explicitly declared in the code, and recognized, through a long
period,,by many decisions. If, to approve the judgment in
that case, it were necessary to hold that the State and its
agents can take private property, wherever situated, and apply it to any public purpose, and escape from the duty of compensation by terming such action an exercise of the police
power, it is difficult to see how such a conclusion could be
reached by the courts of a State in whose constitution is to
be found a provision that private property shall not be taken
for public use without just and adequate compensation first
made.- But, as we have said, it is not necessary to so read the
decision in question, nor to .consider whether, even in such a
case, a remedy could be found in any provision of the Federal
Constitution.
Tth , we think, clearly appears by the later case of .Ruch
v. New Oreans;43 La. Ann. 275, where the Supreme Court
reviewed the law and the cases, and again put the immunity
of the city from liability for damages occasioned to the front
of the plaintiff's property by a public work upon the long
established doctrine of a servitude, and declared that "the
riparian owner enjoys his property sub mode; i.e. subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the right of the public to reserve space enough for levees,
public works, and the like; that over this space the front
proprietor never acquires complete dominion. It never passes
free of this reservation to a purchaser."
With the admission that, under the state constitution and
laws, as construed by the highest court of the State, the plaintiff below was not entitled to the remedies he sought, we are
requested to hold that he can obtain relief by invoking, in a
Circuit Court of the United States, the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
which declares that no State shall deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law, nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is that, as it is
admitted that he owns the land in fee through title derived by
patent from the United States, without reservation, whatever
may have been the conditions of the ancient grants, no such
condition attaches to his ownership, and the lands, although
bordering on a navigable stream, are as much within the protection of the constitutional principle awarding compensation
as other property. In other words, the claim is that the servitude, under which are held lands whose titles are derived by
grant from Spain or France, or from the State, does not attach
to lands whose titles are derived from the United States.
Previous decisions of this court furiish a ready answer to
this contention.
In Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S.324, 337, where the dispute
was as to the nature of the title to the river front and as
to new ground formed by filling in upon the bed of the river,
and where some conflict was shown to exist between the common law rules as to such ownership and those asserted by the
State of Iowa in her legislation and the decisions of her courts,
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, said:
"It is generally conceded that the riparian title attaches
to subsequent accretions to the land affected by the gradual
and imperceptible operation of natural causes. But whether
it attaches to land reclaimed by artificial means from the bed
of the river, or to sudden accretions produced by unusual

ELDRIDGE v. TREZEVANT.
Opinion of the Court.

floods, is a quesion which each State decidesfor itself.

The confusion of navigable with tide water, found in the monuments of the common law, long prevailed in this country,
notwithstanding the broad differences existing between the
extent and topography of the British island and that of the
American continent. It had the influence for two generations
of excluding the admiralty jurisdiction from our great rivers
and inland seas; and, under the like influence, it laid the
foundation in many States of doctrines with regard to the
ownership of the soil in navigable waters above tide water
at variance with sound principles of public policy. Whether,
as rules of property, it would now be safe -to change these
doctrines where they have been applied, as before, remarked,
is for the several States themselves to determine: If they
choose to resign to the riparian proprietor rights which properly belong to them in the sovereign capacity, it is not for
others to raise objections."
In Packer v. Bird,13-7 U. S. 661, 669, where a similar question arose, and where it was claimed that the fact that the
title was derived by a: grant from the United States afforded
a reason for decision, Mr. Justice Field stated the question as
follows :
"The courts of the United States will construe the grants of
the general government without reference to the rules of construction adopted by the States for their grants; but whatever
incidents of rights attach to the ownership of property conveyed by the government will be determined by the States,
subject to the condition that their rules do notimpair the
efficacy of the grants or the use and enjoyment of the property by the grantee. As an incident of such ownership the
right of the riparian owner, where. the waters are above the
influence of the tide, will be limited according to the law of
the State, either to low or high water mark, or will extend to
the middle of the stream."
The language of Barney v. .feokuk was cited with approval,
and the conclusion reached was that the la* of the State, as
construed by its Supreme Court, was decisive of the controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The question was again presented in H/ardin v. Jordan,140
U. S. 372, 384, and, after a review of the cases, Mr. Justice

Bradley stated the conclusion as follows:
"We do not think it necessary to discuss this point further.
In our judgment, the grants of the government for lands
bounded on streams and other waters, without any reservation
or restriction of terms, are to be construed as to their effect
according to the law of the State in which the lands lie."
In Shively v. Bdwlby, 152 U. S. 1, 58, this court had to deal
with a conflict as to the title in certain lands below high water
mark in the Columbia River in the State of Oregon, between
parties claiming respectively under the United States and under
the State of Oregon. The entire subject was thoroughly examined, involving a review of all the cases, both state and
Federal, and one of the conclusions reached was thus stated
by Mr. Justice Gray:
"Grants by Congress of portions of the public lands within
a territory to settlers thereon, though, bordering on or bounded
by navigable waters, convey, of their own force, no title or
right below high water mark, and do not impair the title and
dominion of the future State when created; but leave the question of the use of the shores by the owners of uplands to the
sovereign control of each State, subject only to the rights
vested by the Constitution of the United States."
These decisions not only dispose of the proposition that lands,
situated within a State, but whose title is derived from the
United States, are entitled to be exempted from local -regulations admitted to be applicable to lands held by grant from
the State, but also of the other proposition that the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment extend to and override public
rights, existing in the form of servitudes or easements, held by
the courts of a State to be valid under the constitution and
laws of such State.
The subject-matter of such rights and regulations falls
within the control of the States, and the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States are satisfied if, in cases like the present one, the state
law,with its benefits and its obligations, is impartially adminis-

