'686

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

allegation therein contained upon this subject is not very clear,
It might possibly be regarded as sufficiently alleged in an
argumentative kind of way, but it certainly is not as plainly
.alleged as it ought to be. The petition, however, can be
easily amended on application to the court below before
further proceedings are taken.
This, we think, completes the review of the material questions presented by the record. The first and important question in regard to whether the proposed use is public or not,
having been determined in favor of the United States, we are
not disposed to take any very technical view of the other
questions which might 5e subject to amendment or to further
proof upon the hearing below.
The judgment of the Circuit C'ourt in each case must be reversed, and the record remitted to that court with directions
to grant a new triaZ in each.

SIOUX CITY AND ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
PETITION FOR REHEARING.
Received December 17, 1895. -Decided

January 13, 189G.

The court adheres to its opinion and decision in this case, 159 U. S. 349,
and corrects an error in statement in it, which does not, in any degree,
affect the conclusions which were there reached..

THE case is stated in the opinion,
-M'. J. H. Swan and AMr. George B. Young for petitioners.
MR. JuSTIOE HALAN delivered the opinion of the court.
In the opinion of this court, 159 U. S. 349, 367, it was said:
"Upon examination of the certified list of lands, based on the

SIOUX CITY & ST. PAUL R'D v. UNITED STATES,

687

Opinion of the Court.

diagram originallyfurnished by the railroadcompany to the
Secretary of-the Interior and transmitted. by the General Land
Office to the local land office on the 26th of August, 1867, it
is found that the actual area of the odd-numbered sections
within the place limits of the Sioux City road, excluding oddnumbered sections within the conflicting place limits of the
two roads, contained only 247,476.85 acres; and the actual
area within the cofilflicting place limits of the two roads, according to the same diagram, was 70,705.29 acres." This was
not strictly cbrrect. The diagram referred to was prepared
in the Department of the Interior, but it was based on the
original survey made and furnished by the railroad company.
Other sentences in the same connection are subject to the like
criticism. But this inaccuracy of statement does not 'affect in
any degree the grounds upon which the court reached the conclusion that the diagrain of 1867 should not control, and that
the measurement and diagram of 1887 should be taken as the
basis for determining the area of the odd-numbered sections
within. place limits.
None of the other matters mentioned in the petition for a
rehearing require special notice. The views therein presented
were fully considered" by the court before the original opinion
was filed. The point now pressed by counsel as to errors
in the matter of addition is immaterial, even if it be well
taken; for whatever the excess in the quantity of land received
by the railroad company, the result, in the present case, will
be the same as stated in the opinion, namely, that the railroad
company is not entitled to any of the lands here in dispute,
whatever may be the aggregate quantity of acres.
The application for rehearing is
Denied.

