OCTOBER TERM, 1895. "
Statement of the Case.

of the Supreme Court of the State of Washington, and its
judgment is hereby
Affirmed.

JERSEY CITY AN]D BERGEN RAILROAD COMPANY v. MORGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 9T. Submitted December 2, 1895. -Decided December 23, 1895.

In an action brought in a state court against a railroad company for ejecting the plaintiff from a car, the defence was that a silver coin, offered by
him in payment of his fare, was so abraded as to be no longer legal
tender. The Supreme Court of the State, after referring to the Congressional legislation on the subject, held that, "so long as a genuine
silver coin is worn only by natural abrasion, is not appreciably diminished in weight, and retains the appearance of a coin duly issued from
the mint, it is a legal tender for its original value." The railroad company, although denying the plaintiff's claim, set up no right under any
statute of the United States in reference to the effect of the reduction in
weight of silver coin by natural abrasion. Judgment being given for
plaintiff, the railroad company sued out a writ of error for its review.
Held, that this court was without jurisdiction.

THIs wa. an action of trespass brought by James E. Morgan
agaihst the Jersey City and Bergen Railroad Company in
the Circuit Court of Hudson County, New Jersey, to recover
damages for his ejection from a street car of the company by
the conductor thereof. The defendant pleaded the general
issue and a special plea of mollitur manus imposuit in defence

of possession, to which plaintiff filed a replication de injuria.
Issues were joined accordingly. There was verdict and judgment for plaintiff, which was affirmed on error by the Supreme
Court, 52 N. J. Law, 60; that judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Errors and Appeals for the reasons given by the court
below, Id. 558; the record remitted to the Supreme Court;
and this writ of 'error allowed.
The facts were that the company was running a horse car
railroad in certain streets of Jersey City; that plaintiff and his

JERSEY CITY & BERGEN RAILROAD v. MORGAN. 289
Stateinent of the Case.

wife entered one of the. cars, and, after riding a short distance,
plaintiff handed to the conductor a ten cent piece, which was
the requisite amount for two fares,' but the conductor refused
to receive the coin because it was worn smooth. Plaintiff
protested, paid his wife's fare of five cents, and, on refusal to
pay for himself with any other money than the dime he had
offered, was ejected from the car. Thereupon this action
was brought. The foregoing facts were proven, and, as
stated by the Supreme Court, the coin was shown to the
jury, and it did not appear in the evidence to have been so
worn that it was light in weight or not distinguishable as a
genuine dime; nor was it defaced, cut, or mutilated, but 6nly
made smooth by constant and long continued handling while
being circulated as part.of the national currency. At the
close of the evidence, defendant's counsel asked the court "to
direct the jury to bring in a verdict for defendant on the
ground that the coin was not a current coin, one that was not
mutilated, a perfect coin, one that is worth its face value."
The trial judge remarked: "It is not mutilated' in the ordinary sense. Mutilation implies the taking away- of some
part. It is not mutilated in the ordinary, sense of the term;
a portion of it is gone only by use, by currency, and that
happens to any coin after it has passed through numerous
hands. Row soon after use, such use as the goveriment
intends-how soon does the coin cease to be coin? I have
looked into the statutes and am unable to find any limitation
upon the legal tender character of silver coin; there is an
express limitation on the gold coin, and that is when its circulation has resulted in the. loss of one-half of one per cent
of its standard weight for 20 years of circulation. But
that limitation does not extend to silver coin, and the
provision of the statutes-is that silver coin shall be lawful
tender 'so long as it re mains lawful money of the country;"
and overruled the motion to direct the verdict for the defendant, who excepted. The judge charged the jury, among
other things, as follows: "The first question to decide is
whether the plaintiff tendered his lawful fare. He tendered
this ten cent piece, a genuine and recognizable coin of the
VOL. CLx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

United States, and that was his lawful fare, provided you
believe that the coin is in the condition in which it was when
issued from the mint, except as it has been changed by proper
use. If there has been no other abrasion, no other wearing
away, no other defacement of that coin, except such as it has
received in passing from hand to hand, then it is still, .under
the laws of the country, a good ten cent piece, and was the
fare of the plaintiff. If you think it has been otherwise
changed, wilfully changed, by being rubbed or in any other
way, why, then, it has ceased to be a lawful coin of the country; it has ceased to be lawful tender. This distinction rests
upon the idea that the government issues this coin for circulation, and if the government does not choose to put any
limit upon the circulation it shall receive it continues to be
legal tender just as long as it is circulating and receiving only
such injury as circulation gives. "'Every piece of money that
passes through our hands is to some extent abraded thereby,
and the government knows and expects that its coin will be
abraded, will be worn, and will be in that way defaced, and
the government does not withdraw coin that is only defaced
in that way ; it is still a legal tender. But if anybody chooses
to resort to any other means of defacement, then the governmrent does not any longer sanction that coin. But so long as
it is only defaced by lawful use, this coin remains good current coin and lawful tender for all debts. Now if you believe
that is the character of this ten cent piece, then this plaintiff
lawfully tendered his fare. If you do not believe it is of that
sort, then plaintiff did not lawfully tender his fare."
To this portion of the charge defendant excepted.
The following are sections of the Revised Statutes:
"SEc. 3505. Any gold coins of the United States, if reduced in weight by natural abrasion not more than one-half
of one per centum below the standard weight prescribed by
law, after a circulation of twenty years, as shown by the date
of coinage, and at a ratable proportion for any period less
than twenty years, shall be received at their nominal value by
the United States Treasury and its offices, under such regula-_
tions as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe for the

JERSEY CITY & BERGEN RAILROAD v. MIORGAN. 291,
Statement of the Case.

protection of the government against, fraudulent abrasion or
other practices."
"SEc. 3511-.- The gold coins of the United States shall be a
one dollar piece, which, at the standard weight of twenty-five
and eight tenths grains, shall be the unit of value; a quarter
eagle, or two and a half dollar piece; a three dollar piece; 'a
half eagle, or five dollar piece; an eagle, or ten dollar piece;
and a double-eagle, or twenty dollar piece. And the standard
weight of the gold dollar shall -be twenty-five and eight tenths
grains; of the quarter eagle, or two and a half dollar piece,
sixty-four and a half grains; of the three dollar piece, seventyseven and four tenths grains; of the half eagle, or five dollar
piece, one hundred and twenty-nine grains; of the eagle, or ten
dollar piece,:two hundred and fifty-eight grains of the double
eagle, or twenty dollar piece, five hundred and sixteen grains."
[Section 3513 enumerates the dime or ten cent piece among
the silver coins of the United States.]
"SEc. 3585. The gold coins of the United States shall 'be a
legal tender in all payments at their nominal value when not
below the standard weight and limit of tolerance, provided by
law for the single piece, and, when reduced in weight below
such standard and tplerance, shall be a legal tender at valuation in proportion to their actual weight.'
"S1.1
c3586. The silver coins of the United States shall be
a legal tender at their nominal value for any amount not exceedingfive dollars in. any one payment."
The first and third sections of the act of June 9, 1879,,c. 12,
21 Stat. 7,are as follows:
"That the holder of any of' the silver coins of the United
States of smaller denominations than one dollar, may, on presentation of the same in sums of twenty dollars, or any multiple thereof, at the office of the Treasurer or any assistant
treasurer of the United States, receive therefor lawful money
of the-United States."
"S~o. 3. That the present silver coins of the United States
of smaller denominations than one 'dollar shall hereafter be a
legal ,tender in all sums not exceeding ten dollars in full payment of all dues, public and private."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr.A. Q. Garretson,for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas J. .enneety for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIoE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of New Jersey, after referring to the
legislation of Congress above quoted, said: "This particularity in the limitation and allowance as to gold coin, is not
found in the case of natural abrasion in silver coin. This
difference is very noticeable and important in a question of
statutory construction and legislative intention. It seems by
these statutes, that so long as a genuine silver coin is worn
only by natural abrasion, is not appreciably diminished in
weight, and retains the appearance of a coin duly issued from
the mint, it is a legal tender for its original value. United
States v. Lissner, 12 Fed. Rep. 840." The instructions of
the trial court were, therefore, sustained and the judgment
affirmed.
By section 709. of the Revised Statutes at final judgment or
decree in any suit in the highest court of a State in which a
decision could be had, may, be reexamined and reversed or
affirmed in this court upon a writ of error, where, among
other things, "any title, right, privilege, -or immunity is
claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of,
or. commission held, or authority exercised under, the .United
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege,
or immunity specially set up or claimed, by either party, under
such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority."
Neither in defendant's pleadings, nor in the motion to direct
the jury to find for defendant, nor in the objection and exception to the instructions, was any such right specially set up or
claimed. The claim which defendant now states it relied on
is that the coin in question was not legal tender under the
laws of the United States. This, however, is only a denial of
the claim by plaintiff that the coin was such, and as, upon the
facts determined by the verdict, the state courts so adjudged,

