KIRBY v. TALLMADGE.
Statement of the Case.

KIRBY v. TALLMADGE.
APPEA

FROM THiE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMSIA..
No. 96. Argued December 6, 1895.-Decided Januery 6,1896.

When one party to an action has in his exclusive possession a knowledge of
facts which would tend, if disclosed, to throw light upon the transactions
which form the subject of controversy, his failure to offer them in evidence may afford presumptions against him.
Where land is used for the purpose of a home, and is jointly occupied by
husband and wife, neither of whom has title by record, a person proposing to purchase is bound to make some inquiry as to their title.
The possession of real estate in the District of Columbia, under apparent
claim of ownership, is notice. to purchasers of the interest the person In
possession has in the fee, whether legal or equitable in its nature, and of
all facts which the proposed purchaser might have learned by due inquiry.
This principle applies with peculiar cogency to a case like the present, where
the slightest inquiry would have revealed the facts, and where the purchaser deliberately turned his back upon every source of information;
and a purchase made under such circumstances does not clothe the vendee with the rights of a bonafide purchaser without notice.

THIS was a bill in equity filed by Maria E. Tallmadge
against the appellants, to set aside and remove, as a cloud upon
her title, a deed made by the appellants lichard H. Miller,
Elizabeth Houchens, and Ella A. Goudy, claiming to be heirs
at law of one John L. Miller, deceased, dated August 30, 1888,
and purporting to convey to the appellant Kirby the property
therein described. The bill further prayed for the cancellation of a trust deed executed by the appellant Kirby and his
wife to the defendants Willoughby and Williamson, and for
an injunction against all the defendants except Kirby, restraining them from negotiating certain notes given by Kirby
for the purchase of said lots, etc.
The facts disclosed by the testimony show that, in 1882,
Mrs. Tallmadge, the appellee, purchased of one Bates, for a
home, lots Nos. 77 and 78, in square 239, in the city of Washington, with the improvements thereon, for the sum of ten
thousand dollars, five thousand of which were paid in cash, the
residue to be paid in five instalments of one thousand dollars

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

each. Instead of taking the title to the property in herself,
she furnished the money to John L. Miller, a friend of the
family, who paid the $5000 cash, with the money thus furnished, and at her request took the title in his own name, and
executed notes for the deferred payments, which he secured
by a deed of trust upon the property. Subsequently, and in
June, 1883, Miller also purchased with the funds of Mrs. Tallmadge the adjoining lot No. 76, taking title in his own name,
and executing a deed of trust for the deferred payments,
amounting to $1266.
Mrs. Tallmadge took immediate possession of the premises,
and had occupied them as her own from that day to the time
the bill was filed, paying taxes, improvements, and interest on
incumbrances, reducing the principal $2266, and holding open
and notorious possession under her claim of title.
Mr. Miller, who claimed no title or right to the premises in
himself, on December 27, 1883, by a deed signed by himself
and wife, conveyed the legal title to Mrs. Tallmadge, but this
deed, through inadvertence or otherwise, was not recorded
until October 4, 1888. Mr. Miller died in February, 1888,
and by his will, which was dated December 1, 1880, devised
his estate to his widow.
On June 16, 1888, defendants Miller, Houchens, and Goudy,
collateral heirs of John L. Miller, who had made a contract
with the defendants Willoughby and Williamson to give them
one quarter of whatever they could get for them out of the
estate of Miller, filed a bill in the Supreme Court.of the District against the widow and executor of Miller, the holders of
the notes given by him, and the trustees in one of the deeds
of trust, praying for a partition or sale of the property, the
admeasurement of the widow's dower, and for a charge upon
the personal estate of Miller for the unpaid purchase money
of the property.
To this bill the widow of John L. Miller made answer that
her husband never had any interest in the property in question; that the title was taken in his name for Mrs. Tallmadge;
and that long before his death he had by deed duly conveyed
it to her, and that neither she nor his estate had or had ever

KIRBY v. TALLMADGE.
Counsel for Parties.

had any interest in the property. In August, 1888, the pendency of this suit coming to the knowledge of Mrs. Tallmadge,
she sent the original deed from Miller to her, then unrecorded,
by Mr. Tallmadge to Willoughby and Williamson, solicitors
for Miller's heirs, who examined and made minutes from it.
On August 30, 1888, Houchens, Goudy, and Miller, who
had filed the bill for partition, executed a deed conveying the
property to the appellant Kirby, subject to the dower rights
of Mrs. Miller, for a consideration of $12,000, $3000 of which
were said to have been paid in cash and $9000 by notes secured
by a mortgage or trust -deed upon the property, to Willoughby
and Williamson as trustees. Kirby thereupon claimed the
property as an innocent purchaser without notice of the prior
deed. He at once gave .notice to Mr. Talhmadge that he
-would demand rent for the property at the rate of $1000 per
annum.
On receipt of, this notice Mrs. Tallmadge filed this bill to
cancel and set aside the deed and deed of trust. Answers
were filed by the defendants and testimony taken by the
plaintiff, tending to show the facts alleged fn her bill.
Neither of the appellants took proof, nor did they or either
of them offer themselves as witnesses, but stood upon their
answers.
Upon final hearing, the court. below, in special term, rendered a decree in accordance with the prayer of the bill, setting aside the deed and deed of trust as fraudulent and void,
from which decree defendants appealed to the General Term,
which affirmed the decree of the court below, and further
directed that Miller, on the demand of Kirby, return to him
the $3000 which Kirby claimed to have paid, and which Miller
admitted to have received.
From this decree defendants appealed to this court.
Mr. John T. Morgan for all the appellants.
Mr. W. Willoug7by for hitself and Elizabeth M. Houchens,
appellants. Mr. L. qabell Williamson was on his brief as
counsel for himself, Ellen A. Goudy, and Richard H. Miller.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John C. Fay for appellee.
MR.

JUSTIo

BnowN, after stating the ease, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The controversy in this case arises from the fact that the
deed from John L. Miller to Mrs. Tallmadge, which was
given December 27, 1883, was not put upon record until October 4, 1888. In the meantime, and in February, 1888, Miller,
-in whose name the property had been taken for the benefit of
Mrs. Tallmadge, died; and on August 30, 1888, Houchens,
Goudy, and Richard Henry Miller, collateral heirs of John L.
Miller, executed a deed of the property, subject to the dower
rights of Miller's widow, to defendant Kirby for an expressed
consideration of $12,000, of which $3000 are said to have been
paid down in cash, and $9000 in notes, payable to Willoughby
and Williamson. Kirby now claims to be an innocent purchaser of the property, without notice of the prior deed from
John L. Miller to Mrs. Tallmadge.
There are several circumstances in this case which tend to
arouse a suspicion that Kirby's purchase of the property was
not made in good faith. Within three months after the probate of the will of John L. Miller, his collateral heirs, liouchens, Goudy, and Richard H. Miller, who had made a contract
with Willoughby and Williamson to give them one quarter of
whatever they could get for them out of the estate of Miller,
filed a bill for the partition of real estate, and to set off the
widow's dower. His widow, Lola, answered, admitted that
her husband did not purchase the lands described in the bill,
and alleged that he had conveyed them away in his lifetime.
Mrs. Tallmadge, hearing of this suit, instead of appearing
formally therein, submitted her deed from Miller to the solicitors for the complainants in the partition suit, who did not
amend their bill or make her a party, but apparently allowed.
the suit to drop; inasmuch as the complainants, being heirs of John L. Miller, took only his actual interest in the land,
of which, owing to his deed to Mrs. Tallmadge in his lifetime,
nothing remained at his death. Shortly thereafter, the com-

KIRBY

. TALLKMADGE.

Opinion of the Court.

plainants in that suit, who must have been well aware that
they had no title to the property, executed a deed to Kirby
of all their interest in the land for a consideration of $12,000,
subject to the dower right of Mrs. Miller, the debts of John L.
Miller, and so much of the notes of $5000 as were unpaid,
after applying his personal estate. Kirby alleges in his answer that he examined the premises twice and approached
the house, but never seems to have entered it, and apparently
took up with the first proposition made to him to buy it, without any of the bargaining that usually precedes the consummation of a sale of property of that value. While he avers
in his answer, and Miller admits, the payment of $3000 in
cash, defendants introduced no testimony whatever in support
of their case, but relied solely-upon their answers. As they
had it in their power to explain the suspicious circumstances
connected with the transaction, we regard their failure to do
so as a proper subject of comment. "All evidence," said Lord
Mansfield in Blatcl v. Archer, (Cowper, 63, 65,) "is to be
weighed according to the proof which it was in the power of
one side to have produced and in the power of the other side
to have contradicted." It would certainly have been much
more satisfactory if the defendants, who must have been acquainted with all the facts and circumstances attending this
somewhat singular transaction, had gone upon the stand and
given their version of the facts. .U.DonougA v. O'-Yiel, 113
Mass. 92; 6otnmo.wealtk v. W-ebster, 5 Cush. 295, 316. It is
said by Mr. Starkie, in his work on Evidence, vol. 1, p. 54:
"The conduct of the party in omitting to produce that evidence in elucidation of the subject-matter in dispute, which
is within his power, and which rests peculiarly within his
own knowledge, frequently affords occasion for presumptions
against him, since it raises strong suspicion-that such evidence,
if adduced, would operate to his prejudice."
But the decisive answer to the case of boacs fide purchase
made by the defendant Kirby is, that Mrs. Tallmadge had,
ever since the original purchase of the land by Miller in 1882,
been in the open, notorious, and continued possession of the
property, occupying it as a home. The :}awN is perfectly well

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

settled, both in England and in this country, except perhaps
in some, of the New England States, that such possession,
under apparent claim of ownership, is notice to purchasers of
whatever interest the person actually in possession has in the
fee, whether such interest be legal or equitable in its nature,
and of all facts which the proposed purchaser might have
learned by due inquiry. 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Juris. § 614;
Wade on Notice, § 273. The same principle was adopted
by this court in Landes v. Brandt, 10 How. 348, 375, in
which it was held that "open and notorious occupation and
adverse holding by the first purchaser, when the second deed
is taken, is in itself sufficient to warrant a jury or court in
finding that the purchaser had evidence before him of a character to put him on inquiry as to what title the possession
was held under; and that he, the subsequent purchaser, was
bound by that title, aside from all other evidence of such possession and holding." The principle has been steadily adhered to in subsequent decisions. Lea v. Polk County Copper
Co., 21 How. 493, 498; Hughes v. United States, 4 Wall. 232,
236; .Noyes v. Hall, 07 U. S.34; XoeLean. v. C1aOpp, 141 U. S.
429, 436; Simmons Creek (Cal Co. v. Doran,142 U. S. 417.
Defendants' reply to this proposition is that the occupancy
in this case, being that of a husband and wife, is by law referable to the husband alone as the head of the family; that
the purchaser was not bound by any notice, except su6h as
arose from the possession of the husband, and that, as he had
no title to the property, Kirby was not bound to ascertain
whether other members of the family had title or not. There
are undoubtedly cases holding that occupation by some other
person than the one holding the unrecorded deed, is no notice
of title in such third person, and that the apparent possession of premises by the head of a family is no notice of a
title in a mere boarder, lodger, or subordinate member of
such family, or of a secret agreement between the head of a
family and another person. As was said by this court in
Townsend v. Little, 109 U. S.504, 511: "Where possession is
relied upon as giving constructive notice it must be open and
unambiguous, and not liable to be misunderstood or miscon-

KIRBY v. TALMADGE.
Opinion of the Court.

strued. It must be sufficiently distinct and unequivocal, so
as. to put the purchaser on his 'guard." In this case one
James Townsend bought and took possession of a public
house in Salt Lake City, and lived in it with his lawful wife
and a plural or polygamous wife, the latter, who was the
appellant, taking an active part in conducting the business of
the hotel. He subsequently ceased to maintain relations with
the appellant as his polygamous wife, but, being desirous of
having the benefit of her services, both concealed this fact.
He made a secret agreement with her that if she would thus
remain, she should have a half interest in the property. He
•afterwards acquired his legal title to the -property without a
disclosure of the secret agreement. His interest therein having subsequently passed -into the hands of innocent third
parties for value without notice of appellant's claim under
the secret agreement, it was held that the joint occupation of
the premises by herself and Townsend, under the circumstances, was not a constructive notice of her claim, and that
she had no rights in the premises as against a bona fide purchaser without notice. There were evidently two substantial
reasons why appellant's possession was not notice of her
rights. First, James Townsend took the legal title to himself'
in 1873 and held it until 1878, when the purchase was made;
and, second, his agreement with the appellant was not one
with his lawful but his polygamous wife, and was also a
secret one. The case is obviously not one of a joint occupation by a husband and his lawful wife, neither of them having
any title thereto.
In the case of Thomas v. Kennedy, 24 Iowa, 397, it was
held that, where real estate is ostensibly as much in the possession of the husband as the wife, there is no such actual
possession by the wife as will impart notice of an equitable
interest possessed by her in the land, to a purchaser at execution sale under ajudgment against her husband, in whom the
legal title apparently'was at the time of t6e rendition of the
judgment. This case is also a:mere application of the rule
that, if there be any title to the land in one who is in possession of it, the possession will be referred to that title, or, as
VOL,

=I -25

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

said in 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Juris. § 616: "Where a title under
which the occupant holds has been put on record, and his
possession is consistent with what thus appears of record, it
shall not be a constructive notice of any additional or different title or interest to a purchaser who has relied upon the
record, but has had no actual notice beyond what is thereby
disclosed." That the court did not intend to hold that a joint
occupation by a husband and wife is in no case notide of more
than the occupation of the husband, is evident from the subsequent case of the iowa Loan & Trust Co. v. Zing, 58 Iowa,
598, in which the court said: "It cannot, we think, be
doubted that possession of real property by a husband and
wife together, will impart notice of the wife's equities as
against all persons other than those claiming under the husband, their possession being regarded as joint by reason of the
family relation." In this case the occupation was by a husband and wife, and it was held that such possession was notice'
of a title in the wife to a life estate in the property as against
the holder of a mortgage given by a son, who was a member
of the family as a boarder, lodging a part of the tinme in his
mother's house, and a part of the time elsewhere- the legal
title being in the son.
In the case of Lindley v. Jartindale,78 Iowa, 379, the title
to the lands was in a son of the plaintiff, who resided on a
portion of them, while plaintiff and her husband resided on
another portion. The lands had for a long time been cared
for either by the husband or the son, and it was held that one
who, upon being told that the title was in the son, took a
mortgage from him to secure a loan, which was used for the
most part to pay off prior incumbrances placed on the land by
the son, was not charged with the alleged equities of plaintiff
by reason of her claimed possession of the land, the court
holding that her possession was not such as the law requires
to impart notice. The case is not entirely reconcilable with
the last.
In Harrisv. -lcIntyre, 118 Illinois, 275, a widow furnished
her bachelor brother money with which to buy a farm for
their joint use, the title to be taken to each in proportion to

KIRBY v. TALLUIADGE.
Opinion of the Court.

the sums advanced by them, respectively. He, however,
took a conveyance of the entire estate to himself, and
they both moved upon the place, he managing the land, and
she attending to the household duties. The deed was recorded,
and he borrowed money, mortgaged the land to secure the
loan, and appeared to the world as the owner for a period of
over ten years, during which time the sister took no steps to
have her equitable. rights enforced or asserted. It was held
that her possession, under such circumstances, was not-such as
would charge a subsequent purchaser from her brother with
notice of her equitable rights. Here, too, the record title was
strictly consistent with the possession.
In .Rankinv. Coar, 46 N -J. Eq. 566, 572, a widow, who
occupied part of a house in which she was entitled to dower,
while her son, the sole heir at law, occupied the rest of the
house, released her dower therein to her son by deed duly recorded. It was held that her continued occupation thereafter
would- not give notice to one who took a mortgage from the
son, of a title in her td a part of the house occupied by her,
acquired byan unrecorded deed to her from her son contemporaneous with her release of dower. "Possession," said the
court, "to give notice or to make inquiry a duty,* must be
open, notorious, and unequivocal. There must be such an
occupation of the premises as a man of ordinary prudence,
treating for the acquisition of some interest therein, would
observe, and, observing would perceive to be inconsistent with
the right of him with whom he was treating, and so be led
to inquiry."
So in .A wood v. Bearss, 47 Mich. 72, the title to property
upon the record appeared to be in the wife. Her husband's
previous occupation had been under her ownership, and in
right of the mari.al relation, and nothing had transpired to
suggest that she had made the property over to him. She
had, however, given him a deed which was not put upon
record. It was held that his continuance in possession was
no notice of this deed, since it was obviously consistent with
the previous title in herself.
Indeed, there can be no doubt whatever of the. proposition

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that, where the land is occupied by two persons, as for
instance, by husband and wife, and there is a recorded title in
one of them, such joint occupation is not notice of an unrecorded title in the other. In such case, the purchaser finding
title in one, would be thrown off his guard with respect to the
title of the other. The rule is universal that if the possession
be consistent with the record title, it is no notice of an unrecorded title. But, where the land is used for the purpose of
a home, and is jointly occupied by husband and wife, neither
of whom has title by record, we think that in view of the
frequency with which homestead property is taken in the
name of the wife, the proposed purchaser is bound to make
some inquiry as to their title.
The case of Phielan v. Br.ady, 119 N. Y. 587, is an instance
of this. In this case a suit was brought to foreclose a mortgage upon certain premises, given by one Murphy, who held
an apparently perfect record title to the property. It appeared, however, that before the execution of the mortgage,
Murphy had conveyed the premises to one Margaret Brady,
who was in possession, and with her husband occupied two
rooms in the building on the premises. She also kept a liquor
store in a part thereof. The other rooms she leased to various
tenants, claiming to be the owner and collecting the rents.
Her deed was not recorded until after the giving of the mortgage. It was held that her actual possession under her deed,
although unrecorded and its existence unknown to plaintiff,
was sufficient notice to him of her rights to defeat any claim
under the mortgage. This case goes much farther than is
necessary to justify the court in holding that Mrs. Tallmadge's
possession was notice in the case under consideration, as the
actual occupation of the wife was only of two rooms in a tenement house containing forty-three apartments.
If there be any force at all in the general rule that the possession of another than the grantor, puts the purchaser upon
inquiry as to the nature of such possession, it applies with
peculiar cogency to a case like the present, where the slightest inquiry, either of the husband or wife, would have revealed
the actual facts. Instead of making such inquiry, Kirby turns

