FOLSOM v. UIITED STATES
Statement of the Case.

FOLSOM v. UNITED STATES.CERTIFICATrE

FROM

THB3

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

FORTH

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No.550.

Argued and submitted November 19, 1895. -Decided

December 2,1895.

Circuit Courts of Appeals have no jurisdiction over the judgments of territorial courts in capital cases, and in cases of infamous crimet.
This construction of the statute is imperative from its language, and Is not
affected by the fact that convictions for minor offences are reviewable on
a second appeal, while convictions for capital and infamous crimes are.
not so reviewable.

THIS was a certificate from the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which, omitting the formal
parts, reads as follows:
" First. At a regular term of the District Court of the
Second Judicial District of the Territory of New Mexico,
sitting for the trial of causes arising under the Constitution
and laws of the. United States, held at Albuquerque, in said.
district, the plaintiff in error, Stephen M. Folsom, was, on
the 15th day of March, 1894, indicted by the grand jury in
said court for making certain false entries in violation of the
-provisions of section 5209 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States.
"Second. He Was thereafter arraigned. He pleaded not
guilty. He was tried by the said District Court and a jury,
was found guilty of making certain of the false entries charged
in said indictments in violation of the provisions of section
5209, and was thereafter, on the 14th day .of April, 1894,
ordered and adjudged by the said court to be confined at
hard labor in the territorial penitentiary at Santa F6, lNew
Mexico, for the term and period of five years upon each of
the seven separate and distinct offences as laid and charged
in the fourteen counts of the indictments upon which'the
jury had theretofore returned a verdict of guilty; and it was
further ordered and adjudged by the said court that said term

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

upon each of the said offences should run concurrently each
with the others, and that the defendant pay the costs to be
taxed, and that execution issue therefor.
"Third. The said Stephen M. Folsom then appealed from
said judgment to the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexicb, and his case upon said appeal was heard and tried
by the said Supreme Court August 27, 28, and 29, 1894:; was
oji the latter day submitted to and taken under advisement
by .-aid court, which, on September 4, 1894, adjudged that
the judgment of the District Court of the Second Judicial
DiStrict aforesaid be affirmed, and that said Folsom be confined in the. New Mexico penitentiary at Santa F6, New
Mexico, for the full term of five years, pursuant to the said
judgment of the District Court.
"Fourth. On the 9th day of November, 1894, a writ of
error was duly issued out of the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals .for the Eighth Judicial Circuit to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of New Mexico, commanding the said
court to send the records and proceedings and the judgment
in said case between the United States of America, plaintiff
and appellee, and Stephen M. Folsom, defendant and appellant
in said Supreme Court, with all things concerning the same,
to this Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, together with said writ, so that the same should be filed in
the office of the clerk of this court on or before the first day
of January, 1895, to the end that, the records and proceedings
aforesaid being inspected, the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the. Eighth Circuit might"cause further to be done
therein to correct the error of which the said Folsom had complained what of right and according to the law and custom
of the United States should be done, and pursuant to that
writ the cleik of the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico made due return and transmitted to this court a true
copy of the record, bill of exceptions, assignment of errors,
and of all proceedings in said case before January 1, 1895,
and the said case is now pending in this court.
"Fifth. January 7, 1895, the United States of America
filed a motion to dismiss the writ of error, on the ground

FOLSOM v. UNITED STATES.

123

Opinion of the Court.
that this Circuit Court of Appeals has no jurisdiction to hear
and determine the issue raised thereby or to review the said
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico, and the said motion has been argued and submitted.
to this court for decision.
"Sixth. The errors in the judgment and proceedings of the
"Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico which are
assigned by Stephen Mv.Folsom, the plaintiff in error, in his
complaint, upon which the said writ of error was issued from
this court, are such that if upon due consideration upon the
merits they should be 'sustained the judgment of the said
Supreme Court ought to be reversed.
" And the said United States Circuit Court of Appeals' further certifies that, to the end that it may properly decide this
and other questions arising in this case which are 'duly presented by exceptions and assignments of error properly taken
and filed, the said court, desires the instruction of the Supreme
Court of the United States upon the following question:
"Has the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Judicial Circuit any jurisdiction to hear and determine
the issue presented by said Writ of error, and to review the
judgment and proceedings of the Supreme Court of the Territory of New ]exico?"
_MT. Charls A. Willard for plaintiff in error.
.ield and -Mr. 1F?.

.Mr.Neil B.

Cancy were with him on the brief.

g.r. Solicitor 0eneral submitted on his brief.
kn.
CHmEF JUsTIE FULtLE,
the opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered

The offence 'denounced by section 5209 of the Revised
Statutes is Ipunishable' by imprisonment not less than five
nor more than ten years, and is therefore an infamous crime.
In 9e Claassen, 140 U. S. 200, and cases cited.
The 'question then is vheth'er the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth CircUit 7has jurisdiction of a writ 6f error to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

review the judgment and proceedings of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of New Mexico in the instance of a conviction of an infamous crime.
By section five of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, it was provided that appeals or writs of error
might be taken from the District Courts or from the Circuit
Courts direct to the Supreme Court in six classes of cases, one
of which classes was "cases 6f conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime;" and by section six, that the Circuit
Courts of Appeals should exercise appellate jurisdiction to
review by appeal or writ of error final judgments of the District Courts and the Circuit Courts "ih all cases other than
those provided for in the preceding section of this act, unless
otherwise provided by law. And the judgments or decrees
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases in
which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens of
the United States or citizens of 'differeht States; also in all
cases arising under the patent laws, the revenue laws or under
the criminal laws, and in admiralty cases."
In harmony with previous legislation, 25 Stat. '784, c. 323;
26 Stat. 81, c. 182, ยง 42, section thirteen of the act of March 3,
1891, provides: "Appeals and writs of error may be taken and
prosecuted from the decisions of the United States Court in the
Indian Territory to the Supreme Court of the United States,
or to the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Eighth Circuit, in the
same manner and'under the same regulations as from the Circuit or District Courts of the United States under this act."
Obviously this section was designed to give a review of the
decisions of the court of original jurisdiction by an appellate
tribunal, and the same reason would not obtain in respect of
cases where such review could already be had; nevertheless
section fifteen was added, although Congress.did not see fit in
relation to appeals or writs of error from and to the Supreme
Courts of the several Territories to make the same provision
thereby as that in section thirteen, except so far as the Circuit
Courts of Appeals were concerned, and as to them only "in
cases in which their judgments were made final by the act.

FOLSOM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Section fifteen is as follows: "That the Circuit Court of
Appeals in cases in which the judgments of the Circuit Courts
of Appeals are made final by this act shall have the same
appellate jurisdiction, by writ of error or appeal, to review
the judgments, orders, and decrees of the Supreme Courts of
the sevral Territories as by this act they may have to review
the jucigmnents, orders, and decrees of the District Courts and
Circuit Courts; and for that purpose the several. Territories
shall, by orders of the Supreme Court, to be made from time
to time, be assigned to particular circuits."
By section -702 of the Revised Statutes and the act of March
3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443, the final judgments and decrees
of the Supreme Courts of the Territories where the matter in
dispute exclusive of costs exceeded the sum of five thousand
dollars, might be reviewed, reversed, or affirmed in this court
upon a writ of error or appeal in the same manner and under
the same regulations as the final judgments or decrees of a
Circuit Court.
In Skute v. eyser, 149 IT. S. 64:9, which was a case not falling within either of the classes in which the judgments of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals were made final by the act of March
3,1891, we held that as there was no provision by the fifteenth
section of that act for appeals or writs of error except to the
Circuit Courts of Appeals in cases in which their judgments
were made final, and no express repeal of. the provisions of
the prior acts regulating appeals or writs of error from the
Supreme Courts of the Territories in other cases, that an appeal or writ of error lay to this court from the judgments or
decrees of those courts in such other cases.
In Aztec Mining Compoany v. Ripley, 10 U. S. App. 383,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit held that
it hiad no jurisdiction under the fifteenth section, because the
case at bar did not come within any one of the classes of cases
wherein the judgments of that court were declared to be final,
and its judgment dismissing the Writ of error on that ground
was affirmed by this court, while it was at the same time
pointed out that as the value of the matter in dispute did not
reach five thousand dollars, we could not take jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the particular case. Aztec Mining Company v. Ripley, 151
U. S. 179.
It was urged that 'Congress could not have intended that
such cases should be brought to this court by reason of the
discrimination in the fifteenth section, but we were constrained
to the conclusion reached in view of all the legislation on the
subject, and the specific language of the section which we
were not at liberty to disregard.
The result was rendered inevitable, in our opinion, by the
restriction, of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
to cases in which their judgments were made final by the act,
and the same rule seems applicable in the disposal of the question under consideration.
By the sixth section the Circuit Courts of Appeals are vested
with appellate jurisdiction "to review by appeal or by writ
of error final decisions in the District Courts and the existing
Circuit Courts in all cases other than those provided for in
the preceding section of this act, unless otherwise provided
by law," and their judgments are made final in, among others,
cases arising under the criminal laws.
By the preceding section, appeals or writs of error may be
taken from the District Courts or the existing Circuit Courts
directly to this court "in cases of conviction of a capital or
otherwise infamous crime."
The criminal cases in which the judgments of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals are made final by section six do not embrace, therefore, capital cases or cases of infamous crimes.
The fifteenth section confers appellate jurisdiction on the
Circuit Courts of Appeals to review the judgments of the
Supreme Courts of the Territories, but it is in terms the same
appellate jurisdiction as conferred by the sixth section in respect of the judgments of District and Circuit Courts, and this
being so, is limited to those cases in which, if decided by the
District and Circuit Courts, the judgments of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals would be final.
Sections 5 and 6 relate to appellate jurisdiction over the
judgments and decrees of District and Circuit Courts; section
13 gives the same appellate jurisdiction over the decisions of

FOLSOM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States court in the Indian Territory distributed in
accordance with sections 5 and 6; section 15 gives the same
appellate jurisdiction over the territorial courts, but confines
it to the Courts of Appeals and to particular cases as specified
in section 6. The grant of jurisdiction is not general but
specific and limited, and we see- no escape from the conclusion
that it is not conferred on the Circuit Courts of Appeals over
territorial judgments in capital cases and cases of infamous
crimes.
It is said that this involves the absurdity that convictions
for minor offences are reviewable on a second appeal,,while
convictions for capital and infamous crimes are not.' Doubtless in some cases where the language of a statute leads to.an
absurdity, hardship, or injustice, presumably not intended, a
construction may be put upon it modifying the' meaning of
the words so as to carry out the real intention, but where the
intention is plain it is the duty of the court to expound the
statute as it stands. As far as Congress went in conferring
this right to a second appeal, the intention is clear and the
language used unambiguous. The objection really is that
Congress should have gone farther and given by this act a
second review in this court in cases of .convictions of capital
and infamous crimes in the Territories.
It may be that there was an oversight in that particular.
but if there were, we certainly cannot sfipply it by construing
the fifteenth section as carrying appellate jurisdiction'over
such cases to the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and so enlarging
that jurisdiction into something other and different from "the
same appellate jurisdiction" as is exercised in reviewing the
judgments of, District and Circuit Courts under section 6 of
the act.
We answer the question in the negative, and it will be
So certipld.

