BALLEW v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

4. We do not think the bill is open to the charge of multifariousness. While the tenth paragraph sets out a verbal
agreement to convey an interest in land, and the prayer is for
the payment of a certain amount of money, the discrepancy is
explained by. tthe fact that, in view of the trust deed to White,
a decree for a half interest in the land will fail to satisfy
plaintiff's claim, and that his lien is claimed to extend not
merely to the half interest but to the whole property, to
satisfy her promise to convey to him a'moiety of its unencumbered value. Of course, nothing that is here said can
affect the rights of White.
The decree of the court below is therefore
Reversed and the case remanded with directi ns to overrule
the demurrer and for further proceedings i' conformity
with this oJinion.

BALLEW v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE OIROIT COURT OF

TH5 UNITED

STATES

EOk TE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 541T.Argued October 28, 1895.-Decided December 16,'1895.

A certificate by the Commissioner of Pensions that an accompanying paper
"is truly copied from the original in the office of the Commissioner of
Pensions," taken together with a certificate signed by the Secretary of the
Interior and under the seal of that Department, certifying to the official
character of the Commissioner of Pensions, is a substantial compliance
with the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 882, and authorizes the.paper so certified to be admitted in evidence.
For the committing of the offence under Rev. Stat. § 4786, (as amended by
the act of July 4, 188-, c. 181, § 4, 23 Stat. 98, 101,) of wrongfully withholding from a pensioner the whole, or any part of the pension due him,
an actual withholding of the money before it reaches the hands of the
pensioner is essential; and it is not enough that it is fraudulently obtained from him, after it had reached his hands; and 'that act does not
forbid or pinush the act of obtaining the money from the pensioner by a
false or fraudulent pretence.
'Ageneral verdict of guilty, where the indictment charges the commission
of two crimes, imports'of necessity a conviction as to each; and if it

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
appears that there was error as to one and no error as to the other, the
judgment below may be reversed here as to the first, and the cause
remanded to that court with instructions to enter judgment upon the
second count.

ATr the October term, 1893, of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Georgia, an indictment
was found against the plaintiff in error, embracing two counts,
the first charging him with wrongfully withholding from a
pensioner of the United States, one Lucy Burrell, part of a
pension allowed and due her, and the second accusing him of
demanding and receiving, as agent, a greater compensation
for services in prosecuting the claim for pension than is
provided by the title of the Revised Statutes pertaining to
pensions.
The offences charged in the indictment are made punishable
by the final paragraph of Rev. Stat. § 4786, as amended by
the pension appropriation act of July 4, 1884, c. 181, § 4, 23
Stat. 98, 101.
On the trial of the case there was conflict in the testimony
in many particulars as to the offence charged in the first
count. The evidence tended to show that the check, issued
for the payment of the pensioner, was received by the accused,
a pension agent; that he went with the pensioner to a bank;
that there in the presence of an officer of the bank the check
was endorsed, and was presented to the paying teller, by whom
the amount was paid over to or "put in the hat" of the pensioner - who was shown to be an illiterate negro woman;
that, either by the suggestion of the bank officer or of the
accused, the money was deposited in the bank for account of
the pensioner, a deposit slip being issued therefor. The proof,
moreover, was that immediately after this deposit the pensioner
went to an office in the vicinity, where a check for $1887.34,
one-half of the amount of the pension check, was drawn by
her, she making her mark, this check being payable to the
order of Hurley Ballew, a son of the accused, by whom it was
immediately collected. There was conflict as to whether the
accused participated in the fraud by which the drawing of the
check was brought about, or whether the amount enured to

BA LLEW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

his benefit. The pensioner testified that she supposed the
check was drawn for twenty-five dollars in favor of her son,
while the drawee of the check, Hurley Ballew, testified that
it was given him in payment for an insignificant service rendered in connection with the piocuring of testimony during
the prosecution of the claim for the pension. There was testimony on the second count tending to support the same,
although as to this count there was also a conflict in the
evidence.
During the course of the trial a page from the records of the
Pension Office, showing the issue of the pension to the pensioner named in the indictment, was offered and admitted in
evidence over the objection of the accused, to which action of
the court exception was duly reserved.
One J. B. Chamhlee was examined as a- witness for the
defendant, and exception was reserved to the exclusion of
testimony given on his redirect examination. At the, close of
the evidence the following instruction was requested by counsel for the accused, which was refused and exception noted.
"When a pension check is delivered to a pensioner, and she
takes the sanie to a bank and has it cashed, and then deposits
the said fund in a banc and takes a deposit slip therefor, the
fund -loses its. nature and character as pension money, and
the ordinary relation of debtor and creditor exists between the
pensiofer and the bank, and if thereafter, by any device or in
any Way whatever, the pension attorney obtains a' draft from
her and draws it out of her general account, he cannotbe convicted of withholding under section 5485 of the Revised Stat -,
utes, and it would be your duty to acquit him on that count, if
these be the facts as to that branch of the case."
The giving of the following as part of the charge of the
court was also excepted to by defendant:
"Now, the defence here is that the amount of the check
received from Mr. Rule, the pension agent, really went. into
the possession of the pensioner in this case,'and the contention fon the government is that under the facts of the case
the money really did not go into her possession in contemplation of law, and they also contend that the attorney, the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

fendant in this case, could not withhold the money or any
part of it by getting the check, which is in evidence here, for
eighteen hundred and odd dollars.
"Upon that branch of the case I instruct you thus: If you
believe that the receipt. of the pension check under all the
circumstances connected with it, and the possession of the
pension check by the defendant in this case, and the taking
of the check to the bank and his accompanying the pensioner
to the bank, the turning of the check into cash and the payment of money to her, the physical possession placed in her
by putting the money in her hat, the deposit of the money in
the bank, and the taking of the pensioner to the office of the
defendant and the drawing of the check for eighteen hundred
dollars; if you believe that this was all one transaction arranged and designed by the defendant in this case for the purpose of getting into his possession eighteen hundred dollars
of the money which the pensioner received; that it was a
scheme designed by him, one continuous transaction, for that
purpose, and that he was a party to it and was the beneficiary
of the money received, then that would be in law a withholding
of the money under this statute, and the defendant would be
guilty, and it would be your duty to convict him;, but it
would be necessary for you to believe that. The other rule
which I gave you is true and 'exists in law, that is, that the
money can be paid by their attorney to the pensioner, and
thereafter there might be a transaction between them which,
of course, would be entirely legal and honest, by which the
cash could pass from the pensioner to the attorney, but that
would depend on the character of the transaction. The jury
will see the facts, and I state it to you again, that if all these
facts or series of facts are one continuous transaction designed
by the defendant and arranged by him, as contended by the
government, for the purpose of getting into his possession
eighteen hundred and odd dollars of the money of the pensioner, and that he did receive it or was the beneficiary of the
receipt of it, then that would be withholding in the meaning
of the statute. Now, the facts in this case are for the jury
to determine. The check signed by the pensioner, which

BALJEW

. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

seems to be made to Hurley Ballew and endorsed by him, is
in evidence and you will have that out With you."
The court instructed the jury that if they -considered the
defendant guilty on. one count and innocent on the other,
they should so find; and if they -found him guilty on both
counts, that they should return a general verdict of guilty.
This last was the verdict returned. After an ineffectual effort
for a new trial, the case was brought here on error.
Mr. W. 0. GZenn, (with whom was Mr. Dandd W. RBuntree on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Mi'. As8istant Attorney General Whitney 'for defendant, in
error.
MR. JusTIOE WHrrE, after stating the case, delivered .the

opinion of the court.
The assignments of error address themselves to four rulings
of the court, the one admitting in evidence the 'pension certificate" and the other excluding certain testimony, and two to
the refusal to give the instruction requested, as well as to the
error alleged in the instruction given.
The ground of objection relied upon as to the record from
the Pension Office is that the copy was improperly authenticated, because the certificate signed by the acting Secretary of
the Interior, anld under the seal of the department, referred
only to the official character of the Commissioner of Pensions,
and the faith and credit to which his attestations were entitled,
and Rev. Stat. '882 is cited in support of the contention.
That section feads as follows:
"Copies of any books, records, papers, or documents in any
of the Executive Departments, authenticated under the' seals
of such Departments, respectively, shall be admitted in evidence equally with the originals thereof."

-

.Byreference to the -transcript in question in 'the' record, we
find that the certificate of the acting Secretary of the Interior
was preceded by a certifi'ate signed "Win. Lochren, Commissioner of Pensions," certifying that "the accompanying page,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

numbered 1, is truly copied from the original in the office of
the Commissioner of Pensions." The records of the Pension
Office constitute part of the records of the Department of
the Interior, of which Executive Department the Pension
Office is but a constituent. We think that the certificates
in question, taken together, were a substantial compliance
with the statute.
The exception taken to the ruling out of certain answers
made by Chamblee, one of defendant's witnesses, on his redirect examination, results from the following facts: The
witness upon his examination in chief testified solely with reference to the circumstances connected with the giving by the
pensioner of the check of $1887.34, which formed the basis of
the charge of withholding covered by the first count in the
indictment. The cross examination was confined to the same
subject. At the close of the cross examination the witness
stated that he had been asked by a special examiner of pensions, who was investigating the matter, what he knew about
the consideration of the check in question. The witness
further said that A. W. Ballew came and asked him if he'had
been interviewed by the examiner, to which inquiry of Ballew
the witness stated he had answered yes, and had informed
Ballew that the examiner had questioned him about the
eighteen hundred dollar check, and that he told him that he
thought the check had been given for a house and lot. The
witness next stated that Mr. Ballew then told him that the
pensioner had given the check to Hurley Ballew.
Upon redirect examination he testified as follows:
"Q. In that conversation with A. W. Ballew, the defendant here, what did he say was the basis of that money given
to Hurley Ballew ?
"A. What did A. W. Ballew say he done as a matter of
inducement to her?
"Q. Yes.
"A. I don't know anything, only that he prosecuted this
pension claim, and as to what he had to do with Hurley I
don't know that he ever said anything. I think he told me
he got his fee from the pension department as attorney.

BALLEW v. UNITED'STATES.
,Opinion of the Court.

"Q. That is all he ever got?

"A. That is all he got, I think he told me.
"Q. That he got his fee from the pension department?
" A. That is all he ever got."
Objection being interposed by the district attorney to proof
of Ballew's declarations, the objection was sustained and the
testimony excluded from the consideration of the jury.
The ground upon which counsel for plaintiff in error rests
his claim of admissibility is that when a confession is put in
evidence, by the prosecution, it is the right of the accused to
demand that all of the conversation in which the alleged confession was made should be received. We are unable to reach
the conclusion that Ballew's mere statement to a witness, that
the pensioner had given his son the check, was a-confession,
or in the nature of a confession. It had no tendency to establish his guilt or to operate to his prejudice, and confessions
are only admitted as being statements against the interest of
the party by whom they are claimed to have been made., But
the refxamination of the witness was not directed to the ascertainment of what other statements' had been made in the
conversation upon the subject about which he had testified on
his cross-examination, to wit, the check to Hurley Ballew, but
to the drawing out of new matter, not connected with the
subject to which the cross-examination related. This was
clearly improper. 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,, § 467, and cases
cited. See, also, cases cited in note a to Ibid. 15th ed. § 201,
and People v. Beach, 87 N. Y. 508, 512.
The statute upon which the first .count is based reads as
follows :
"Any agent or attorney or other person instrumental in
prosecuting any claim for pension -or bounty land, who shall
directly or indirectly -contract for, demand, or receive, or retain any greater conmpensation for his services or instrumelitality' in prosecuting a claim for pension or bounty land than
is herein provided, or,for payment thereof at any other time
or in any other manner than is herein provided, or who shall
wrongfully withhold from a~pensioner or claimant the whole
or any part of the pension or claim allowed and due such penVOL. CL-Is

OCTO]fER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sioner or claimant, or the land warrant issued to any such
claimant, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall for every such offence be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, or imprisonment at hard labor not
exceeding two years, or both, in the discretion of the court."
The refusal of the court to give the charge asked, and the
charge by it given, proceeded upon the theory that although
pension money was actually paid over to the pensioner and
by her deposited in bank, the obtaining thereafter of such
money from the pensioner constituted a withholding under
the statute just quoted. The word " withholding" has a
definite signification, and we think contemplates, as used in
the statute under consideration, not the fraudulent obtaining of money from a pensioner, but the withholding of the
money before it reaches the hands of the pensioner and passes
under his dominion and absolute control. The context of
the statute supports this view, for its penalty is imposed for
the wrongful withholding of the whole or any part of the
pension claim allowed and due such pensioner, and not for
a wrongful obtaining of the same. The fact that the offence
of withholding is limited to any agent or attorney or other
person instrumental in prosecuting any claim for pension demonstrates that Congress intended to legislate merely against
the wrongful withholding by certain individuals, who, by
reason of their relation to the pensioner and his claim, might
lawfully obtain possession of the same from the government,
and upon whom rested the duty of paying it over to the pensioner. If withholding had been considered as applicable to
the retaining of pension money obtained from the pensioner
by false pretences, the limitation as to particular persons would
not have been enacted. Indeed, to construe the word "withholding" as relating to money received from a pensioner, not
only reads the word "due " out of the statute, but also leads
to the inevitable conclusion that Congress, whilst intending to
make it an offence to obtain from a pensioner pension money
by false pretences, has yet confined the offence to particular
individuals, and permitted all others to commit with impunity
-the prime it was intended to punish. It also follows if the

BAFtLEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

statute be construed as embracing money obtained from a
pensioner by false pretence, that the act forbids withholding
money thus obtained, but does not forbid or punish the act of
obtaining the.money by, a false or fraudulent pretence. These
reasons make it clear that the purpose of the statute in punishing a withholding by certain persons standing in a fiduciary
relation to the pensioner is consistent only with -the theory
that Congress was legislating to prevent an embezzlement of
pension money, not a larceny thereof from the pensioner or
the obtaining of the same from him by false pretences. This
construction of the statute is further supported by reference to
the act of March 3, 1873, c. 234, 17 Stat. 566, in §,31 (p. 575)
of which is contained the original provision making it an
offence to withhold pension money. In juxtaposition to that
section, in section 32, was the following:
"Any person acting as attorney to receive and receipt for
money for and in behalf of any person entitled to a pensioni
shall, before receiving said money, take and subscribe an oath,
to be filed with the pension agent, and by him to be transmitted, with the vouchers nQw required by law, to the proper
accounting officer of the treasury that he has no interest in
said money by any pledge, mortgage, sale, assignment, or transfer, and that he does not know or believe that the same has
been so disposed of to any person."
The portion of section 32, above quoted, was subsequently
embodied in section 4745 of the Revised Statutes.
The signification which we affix to the word "withholding"
is also shown to be the one intended by Congress, by the previous portion of the paragraph of the act of 1884-, which not
only makes it an offence to directly or indirectly contract for,
demand, or receive, or retain any greater compensation for
services, or for instrumentality in prosecuting a pension claim
than allowed by the act, but specifically inhibits the obtaining
of paymdnt thereof "at any other time or in any other manner" than as provided in. the act, thus making it clear that
where it was intended to punish the offence of receiving an
illegal fee as well after the payment of the pension to the
pensioner as before the receipt by him of the money, the in'-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tention was unequivocally conveyed: The clause "payment
thereof at any other time or in any other manner than is
herein provided" was not contained in the act of 1873, nor in
section 5485 of the Revised Statutes, but was first embodied
in the act of 1884, whereas the provision as to withholding
of a pension has always been confined to the withholding of
a pension "due" the pensioner. In the very next sentence
of the act of 1873, following the designation of the offence
of withholding, there is a provision affixing a penalty to the
offence of embezzlement of pension money by a guardian from
his ward. This latter offence is now embodied in Revised
Statutes, sectbn 4783, which reads as follows:
"Every guardian having the charge and custody of the
pension of his ward who embezzles the same in violation of
his trust, or fraudulently converts the same to his own use,
shall be punished by fine not exceeding two thousand dollars
or imprisonment at hard labor for a term not exceeding five
years, or both."
It may be remarked, in passing, that it would be as reasonable to argue that one who had fully accounted as guardian
and paid over to his ward the balance due, when the ward
had attained his or her majority, could be prosecuted under
section 4783, if, after such accounting and payment, he fraudulently obtained money from his former ward which might
from the proof appear to be a portion of the balance so paid
on the accounting, as to contend that when a pension, allowed
and due from the government, had been paid to the pensioner,
it continued to be "due," in any money transaction between
the pensioner or his former agent or attorney.
The instruction given by the trial court that there was a
withholding under the statute if the transaction in this case
was a continuous scheme designed by the accused for the
purpose of getting into his possession a portion of the pension
money, made his guilt or innocence depend, not alone upon
whether there was a withholding in the statutory sense of
the word, but on whether there was a scheme to defraud. It
was tantamount to instructing the jury that they should convict even though they were satisfied that the money had not

BALLEW v. 1UIITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

been withheld, if they believed that before payment over a
scheme to defraud had arisen which was carried out after the
pensioner had received the amount of the pension, and after
it had been by her deposited in bank, and had created between
her and the bank the legal relation of debtor and creditor.
Scammon v. Himball, 92 U. S. 362, 369-370; Florence -Mining
Co. v. Brown, 124 U. S. 385, 391. Of course, if the indictment
had been so framed as to bring the facts, which it alleged constituted a withholding, within the reach of the first clause of
the statute, which forbids the taking of illegal compensation,
the instruction given by the court'would have been sound. In
that case, the taking of the money is made criminal, whether
done before payment to, the pensioner, at the time of such'
payment, or at any other time; withholding, on the contrary,
is confined to money due, which, in no sense, embraces that
which has been actually paid over to a pensioner and has
passed under his complete control. However much pension
money, even when 'taken into the possession, of a pensioner,
may retain its identity for, certain purposes, we do not think,
for the reasons just stated, that this instruction, given was
sound in law. The elementary ,rule is that penal statutes
must be strictly construed, and it is essential that the crime
punished must be plainly and unmistakably within the statute.
United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 278. It follows, therefore,
that the instruction asked was wrongfully refused and the
instruction given was. erroneous, and that there,was error in
the conviction as to the first count in the indictment.
The verdict was a general verdict. That in a case such as
this a general, verdict' is proper and imports of necessity a
conviction as to both crimes, is settled,, Claassen-v. United
States, 142 U. S. 140, 146. It follows, then, that though there
was error as to the conviction of one of the offences charged,
there was no error in the\conviction upon the other. The
question, therefore, arises whether error as to one only of the
counts must lead to reversal of the conviction on that count
alone or to like reversal as to the cpunt where no error exists;
-inother words, whether, after reversing the judgment, which
was on both counts, we can annul the verdict upon the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

count alone, and leave the verdict to stand as to the second
count unaffected by the reversal.
It was held in England that at common law a reviewing
court upon a writ of error i n a criminal case had not the power,
upon a reversal, to enter a.proper judgment or to remand the
cause for that purpose. In 'e Frederick, 149 U. S. 70, 74,
citing Rex v. Bourne, 7 Ad. & El. 58. This conclusion rested
upon the theory that a court of error was confined exclusively
to the determination whether error existed, and if it found
that it did, its duty was to reverse and discharge the prisoner.
In Holloway v. Queen, 17 Q. B. 317, 328, it was held that since
the passage of the act of 11 & 12 Vict. c. 78, § 5,the English
courts possessed ample power upon the reversal of a judgment
to remand the case for a proper judgment. The act referred
to provided as follows:
"That whenever any writ of error shall be brought upon
any judgment on any indictment, information, presentment, or
inquisition in any criminal case, and the court of error shall
reverse the judgment, it shall be competent for such court of
error either to pronounce the proper judgment or to remit the
record to the court -below, in order that such court may pronounce the proper judgment upon such indictment, information, presentment, or inquisition."
In order to save all doubt on the subject, so also in the
several States statutes have been adopted expressly conferring
upon reviewing courts authority upon reversal to remand the
cause to the lower court with such directions for further proceedings as would promote substantial justice.
The statutes in reference to the power of Federal appellate
tribunals have from the beginning dealt with the subject.
By the judiciary act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73,
85, it was provided in § 24 "that when a judgment or decree
shall be reversed in a Circuit Court, such court shall proceed
to render such judgment or pass such decree as the District
Court should have rendered or.passed, and the Supreme Court
shall do the same on reversals therein, except where the reversal is in favor of the plaintiff or petitioner in the original
suit, and the damages to be assessed, or matter to be decreed,

BALLEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

are uncertain, in which 'case they shall remand -the cause for
a final decision."
By § 25 of the same act, this court was given power on writs
of error to the state courts to reexamine, reverse, or affirm
their final judgments "in the same manner and under, the
same regulations, and the writ shall have the same effect as if
the judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or
passed in a Circuit Court, and the prbceeding upon the reversal shall also be the same, except that"the Supreme Court,
instead of remanding the cause for a final. decision,
may, at their discretion, if the cause shall have been once remanded before, proceed to a final decision of the same, and
award execution."
Tinder the power thus conferred it has never been questioned
that this court possessed authority upon reversal -for error of a
final judgment to award a new trial. The recognition of this
right involves necessarily a denial of the principle upon whicli
the case of Rex v. Bourne proceeded. As we have seen, the
postulate upon which that case rested was the'absence of
power to render such judgment or order as the ends bf justice
might require, because of the want of authority to do anything else but determine the existence of, the error complained of. It is clear that by section 24 of the judiciary
act of 1789, power was conferred upon the Circuit Courts when
reviewing the judgments or decrees of District Courts to 'render
such judgment or pass such decree as the District Courtshould
have rendered or passed, and that ubon this court was conferred the same power. True, at the time the judiciary act
was passed no jurisdiction to review final judgments in crimi.
nal-cases was vested in Circuit Courts or in this court, except
in cases of error to courts of last resort of a State, but as the
power on writs of error to state courts embraced criminal
cases, it could not have been contemplated that the general
grant of authority on such writs to render the judgment required by the justice of the case was restricted to civil cases
alone. The subsequent statutes add cogency to the view that
this was not contemplated.
'
The second section of the act of June 1, 1872, d.. 255, 17.

-OCTOBER

TERM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 196, provided that the appellate court (referring to this
court and Circuit Courts) may affirm, modify, or reverse the
judgment, decree, or order brought before it for review, or
may direct such judgment, decree, or order to be rendered, or
such further proceedings to be had by the inferior court as
the justice of the case may require.
The subsequent embodiment of the provision just quoted in
section 701 of the Revised Statutes makes clear the fact that
Congress in conferring the power to review on error did not
intend that the power, on reversal, to make such order as was
called for by the nature of the error found to exist, should be
limited to civil cases. Section 701 reads as follows:
"The Supreme Court may affirm, modify, or reverse any
judgment, decree, or order of a Circuit Court, or District
Court acting as a Circuit Court, or of a District Court in
prize causes, lawfully brought before it for review, or may
direct such judgment, decree, or order to be rendered, or
such further proceedings to be had by the inferior court as
the justice of the case may require."
The rednactment of the provisions as to writs of error to
the highest court of a State, contained in § 709 of the Revised Statutes, manifests the purpose to continue in force
the power in such cases to render the judgment required by
the ends of justice. The language of the statute is that on
such writs the judgment of the state court "May be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the
Supreme Court upon a writ of crror. The writ shall have
the same effect as if the judgment or decree complained of
had been rendered or passed in a court of the United States.
"The Supreme Court may reverse, modify, or affirm the
judgment or decree of such state court, and may, at their
discretion, award execution, or remand the same to the
court from which it was removed by the writ."
By the act of March 3, 1879, c. 176, 20 Stat. 354, jurisdiction was conferred in certain criminal cases upon Circuit
Courts to review judgments of the District Courts, and it
was provided in § 3 that "in case of an affirmance of the
judgment of the District Court, the Circuit Court shall pro-

BALILEW v. UNITED- STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ceed to pronounce final sentence and to award execution
thereon; but if such judgment shall be reversed, the Circuit Court may proceed with the trial of said cause de novo
or remand the same to the District Court for further proceedings."
The act of February 6, 1889, c. 113, 25 Stat. 655, which
gave jurisdiction to this court by writ of error in all capital
cases; tried before any court of the United States, provided
that the final judgment of such court against the respondent,
upon the application of the respondent, should be reexamined,
reversed, or affirmed, upon writ of error under such rules and
regulation as this court might prescribe. And the act further
declared (§ 6):
"When any such judgment shall be either reversed or
affirmed the cause shall be remanded to the court from
whence it came for further proceedings in accordance with
the decision of the Supreme Court, and the court to which
such cause is so remanded shall have powei to cause such
judgment of the Supreme Court to be carried into execution."
By the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, jurisdiction was conferred upon this court "in cases of conviction
of a capital or otherwise infamous crime;" and jurisdiction
was conferred in other criminal cases upon the Circuit Courts
of Appeal established by that act.
With reference to the newly established courts in section 11
of the act it was provided as follows:
"And all provisions of law now in force regulating the
methods and system of review through -appeals or writs of
error shall regulate .the methods and system of appeals and
writs of error provided for in this act in respect of the Circuit Courts of Appeals, including all provisions for bonds or
other securities to be required and taken on such appeals and
writs of error."
It thus conclusively appears that the authority of this court
to reverse, and remand with directions to render such proper
judgment as the case might require, upon writs of error in
criminal cases, to state courts and to the Circuit Courts in
capital cases, was confessedly conferred by express statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

provisions, and that a like power was conferred upon the Circuit Courts of Appeals and Circuit Courts in cases where they
exercised jurisdiction by error in criminal cases over the District Court.
From this and from a review of the legislation on the subject of the powers conferred upon this court as a reviewing
court, it follows as a necessary conclusion that general authority was given to it on writ of error to take such action as the
ends of justice, not only in civil but in criminal cases, might
require. To contend otherwise presupposes that Congress had
conferred this power upon this court on writs of error to state
courts, on writs of error to the Circuit Courts in capital cases,
and had also conferred like power upon Circuit Courts and
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and yet had denied it to this
court in a class of criminal cases where jurisdiction was conferred by writ of error under the act of 1891. To so conclude
would work out an absurdity, and would destroy the unity of
the Federal judicial system. The contrary conclusion finds
support only in the contention that because in each concession
of jurisdiction, by writ of error, there was not a re~xpression
of the general method by which such writ should be exercised,
therefore the grant of power was divested of its efficacy. But
this is fully answered by the entire history of the legislation
which demonstrates that the general grant of power to render
a proper judgment on writs of error was evidently not reiterated in express terms when new subjects-matter of jurisdiction were vested in this court, because such authority was
deemed to be already adequately provided by the general
statutes on the subject. For this reason, in speaking of the
act of 1891, this court said, in Hudson v. Parker,156 U. S.
277, 282: "As to the methods and system of review, through
appeals or writs of error, including the citations, supersedeas,
and bond or other security, in cases, either civil or criminal,
brought to this court from the Circuit Court or the District
Court, Congress made no provision in this act, evidently considering those matters to be covered and regulated by the
provisions of earlier statutes forming parts of one system."
In In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242, 262, we held that an error

