1'AWS v. VICTORIA COPPER MINING CO.

303

Syllabus.

brought before the state courts and overruled, we perceive no
reason for declining to be bound by their view of the effect of
the state constitution; and if the matter had not been called
to their attention, it does not appear why that should not have
been, or should not now be, done.
In any view, we cannot hold, on this petition, that petitioner
has been denied due process of law or that protection- of 'the
laws accorded to all others similarly situated.
The Circuit-Court was right in declining by writ of habeas
corpus to obstruct the ordinary administration of the criminal
laws of New Jersey .through the tribunals of that State, (In re
Wood; 140 U. S. 278, 289,) and its order is
Affirmed.

HAWS v. VICTORIA COPPER M=I{

G COMPANY.

.APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 66. Argued November 15, 18, 1695. -Decided

December 23, 1895.

On an appeal from a judgment of a territorlal court, this court is limited
to determining whether the facts -found are sufficient to sustain the
judgnient rendered, and to reviewing the' rulings of the court on the
admission or rejection of testimony, when exceptions thereto have been
duly taken.
This case comes within the general rule that the allowance* or refusal of a
- new trial rests in the sound discretion of the court to which the application is addressed.
The decree and complaint, taken together, fully. descibe, and furnish ample
means for identification of the property to which the defendant in error
was adjudged to be entitled.
The contention that the complaint did not aver a discovery of a vein or
lode prior to the location, under which'the plaintiffs in error claim is
wholly without merit.
Likewise is the contention without merit that the discovery under which
the defendant in error claims was of only one vein.
Possession alone is adequate against a mere intruder or trespasser, without
even color of title, and especially so against one who has taken possession by force and violence.
Sundry exceptions as to the rulings of the court upon the admissibility
of testimony considered, and held to be immaterial, or unfounded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. FrederioD. _HJKenney for appellant. .Xr6. S. F. Phillis, Xfr. Charles B'. Toll, and Mr. D. V. Burns were on his
brief.
Mr. Charea H. Armes and ffr. Arthur H. Brney for
appellee. Mr. C. C. Dey was on their brief.
MR. JUSTI E WHrTE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Victoria Copper Mining Company, a corporation created under the laws of the State of Illinois, brought its action
to recover possession of two mining claims known as the
"Antietam lode" and the "Copper the Ace lode." The
mines thus designated were fully and specifically described in
the complaint, which averred that the defendant had by force
and violence ousted the complainants from the property. In
addition to the averments essential to justify a jhdgment for
possession, the complaint contained allegations deemed to be
sufficient to authorize the granting of an injunction, which
was prayed for, restraining the defendant from taking, or
shipping, or selling ore extracted, or to be extracted, from
the mines in controversy. The prayer of the complaint was
for possession, and twenty-five thousand dollars damages, the
value of ore averred to have been previously unlawfully taken
by the defendants. The defendants jointly answered, specifically denying each allegation of the complaint, and by crosscomplaint, Edward W. Keith, Samuel R. Whitall, William
V. R. Whitall and Michael Smith alleged that they were the
owners in fee of the mines, subject to the paramount title of
the United States, and they prayed that their title be quieted.
The averments of the cross-bill were traversed by specific
denials. Upon these issues, a jury havinig first been waived,
the case -was tried by the court, which found the following
facts, which findings were tantamount to concluding that the
averments of the bill of complaint had been proven:
"Findings of fact.
"First. That Lewis R. Dyer, the locator of the two mining
claims described in the complaint herein, called respectively

HAWS v. VICTOIRIA COPPER MINING 00.

305

Opinion of the Court.

Antietam lode' and 'Copper the Ace lode,' and situated in
Uintah County, Territory of Utah, at and prior to the time of
locating the same discovered and appropriated a mineral vein
"I.
or lode of rock in place.
"1Second. That at the time of the discovery of said vein or
lode and the location of said mining claims the land included
within the boundaries of said mining claims was public mineral land, wholly unoccupied and unclaimed.
"Third. That after -the discovery of said vein or lode or
mineral-bearing rock in place, to wit, on the 17th day of September, 1887, said'Lewis -R. Dyer, being a citizen of the
United States, located the two mining claims described in
the complaint herein by writing on a tree standing at, or in
close proximity to, the place or places of discovery of said
vein or lode the two notices of location, one for each of said
claims.
"Fourth. That said notices each described the respective
claims by reference to said tree, also respectively described
the boundaries of each claim by courses and distances from
said tree; that each of said notices contained the name of the
locator anld date of location; that said tree was ca sufficient
natural object by whicli'said claims and each of them could
be identified.

I

"Fifth. That soon after t6e writing of said notices of location and during the month of September, 1887, said Dyer
marked sufficiently on theg&round the boundaries of said mining claims and each of them by 'setting suitable stakes or
posts at the corners of each of said claims; also at the centre
of the respective side lines of each of said claims; also by
writing on the stakes to identify them with reference to the
respective claims, and securing said stakes by stones piled
around them.
"Sixth. That thereafter, on the 13th day of February,
1888, said Dyer caused a copy of said location notices and
each of them to be recorded in the office of the county recorder of said county of Uintah; that there was not at that
time, or at the time of locating said'claims, any mining district recorder; -thatsaid mining claims wer6 situated in what
vOL-. cLx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

had been known as the ' Carbonate mining district;' that the
rules and regulations of said mining district had long prior to
the said 17th day of September, 1887, fallen into disuse, and
were not then, or for a long time prior thereto had not been,
in force and effect.
"Seventh. That the plaintiff is a corporation, duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Illinois, and
was so organized on the 15th day of May, 1888.
"Eighth. That on the 4th day of May, 1888, said Lewis R.
Dyer duly transferred an equal undivided one half of said
mining claims, and each of them, to Edward A. Ferguson and
August Bohn, Jr., and that thereafter, to wit, on the 28th day
of May, 1888, said Lewis iR. Dyer, Edward A. Ferguson, and
August Bohn, Jr., duly transferred and conveyed said mining
claims and each of them to the plaintiff company.
"Ninth. That since said 17th day of September, 1887, until
the 10th day of June, 1889, said Dyer and his grantee, the
plaintiff herein, continuously worked upon and improved said
mining cl6aims, and each of them, and actually possessed the
same, and have expended in said work and improvements upward of the sum of $7000; that said mining claims are contiguous to each other, and were worked jointly and in common;
that the-work done and improvements made on said claims
were such as did develop said claims and each of them, and
that for each of the calendar years of 1887, 1888, and 1889
more than one hundred dollars' worth of work was actually
done on each of said claims by said Dyer and his grantee, the
plaintiff herein.
"Tenth. That on Sunday night, the 9th day of June, 1889,
while said plaintiff was in actual possession of said claims and
working the same, by its agents and employ~s, the defendant
William Haws went upon the ground of said mining claims
with two men and wrongfully took possession of the same, and
the working upon the same, prepared to hold such possession
by force, and did wrongfully keep the plaintiff and its employ~s from thereafter working on said mining claims, and
wrongfully excluded them therefrom, and that said William
Haws and Heber Timothy and their grantees, the other de-

HAWS v. VICTORIA COPPER

INIIING CO.

307:

Opinion of the Court.

fendants therein, have ever since wrongfully excluded .the
plaintiff from the possession of said mining claims.
"1Eleventh. That prior to the said 9th day of June, 1889,
said William Haws was an employ6 of the plaintiff and its
grantors working on said mining claims ; that said Haws so
worked from the 11th day of February, 1888, until the 13th
day of August, 1888, and from October 24, 1888, to December
21, 1888, and again resumed work-in the month of March,
1889, and continued to work for plaintiff up to and including
the 1st day of June, 1889, when he voluntarily left the employ
of plaintiff ;.
that while at work for plaintiff in the year of
1888 said Haws formed the secret intention of taking possession of said mines and mining claims.
"Twelfth. That on or about the 7th day of June, 1889, said
Haws procured the defendant Heber Timothy to join and
assist him in making a location of the ground described in the
complaint herein, which was then being actually possessed and
worked by plaintiff, and on that day said Haws and Timothy,
without right of entry on the ground; set- sufficient stakes to
mark the boundaries of the two claims, which they called
' Scottish Chief' and ' Ontario mine' lode mining claims; >at
they also posted on a stake placed near the place of discovery
of plaintiff's aforesaid claims location notice for each of said
claims ; that the location notice of said ' Scottish Chief' lode
was signed by said Heber Timothy and William Haws, and
recited that the location was a ' relocation' of the I Antietam'
lode; that the said location notice of the ' Ontario mine lode'
was signed by said William Haws, and recited that the location
was a ' relocation ' of the ' Copper the Ace.'
I
'
"Thirteenth. That on the 4th day of June, 1889, a mining
district was organized including within its boundaries the
ground heretofore described called the Carbonate district;
that said 'Scottish Chief' and ' Ontario mine location notices
were recorded on the 11th day of June, 1889, in the records
of said ' Carbonate mining district.'
" Fourteenth. That on or about the 12th day bf-September,
1889, while holding possession of said mining claims of plaintiff aforesaid, under the wrongful entry of said Haws afore.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

said, aided by said Timothy, with the consent of said Haws
and at his instigation, and for the purpose of omitting the
name of said Haws from the location notices, in anticipation
of proceedings being taken by plaintiff to regain possession of
its said mining claims, set a discovery stake within the limits
and boundaries of plaintiff's said mining locations and not far
distant from the place of discovery of plaintiff's said mining
claims, and then and there placed two notices of locations
signed by said Heber Timothy, claiming to locate two mining
claims under the respective names of Valao and Copper King,
and set sufficient stakes and marks to describe and designate
the boundaries of said mining locations and each of them.
"Fifteenth. That said Haws was to have and own by
agreement made with said Timothy all of said Copper King.
and one-half of said Valao ; that said- claims include substantially the same, ground included in and covered by plaintiff's
aforesaid claims.
"Sixteenth. That on the 9th day of August, 1890, said
William Haws, by an instrument in writing, conveyed to the
defendant Heber Timothy his interest in the Scottish Chief and
Ontario mine mining claims aforesaid, and that on the same
day said Timothy conveyed to the defendant Michael E. Smith
the aforesaid Scottish Chief and Ontario described in said
deed as relocated September 12, 1889, as the Copper King and
Yalao lode claims, and that on the 11th day of August, 1890,
said defendant Smith, by an instrument in writing, conveyed
to the defendants Samuel R.Whitail, William V. R. Whitall,
Edward Keith, and Frank A. Keith an undivided one-half
interest in said Valao and Copper King.claims.
"Seventeenth. That on or about the 29th day of August,
1890, plaintiff had its aforesaid mining claims surveyed and
stakes reset that sufficiently marked the boundaries of said
claims and each of them and the place of discovery; that at
the place of discovery plaintiff caused to be posted, on the
29th day of August, 1890, an addendum notice to each of the
original notices of location, which said addendum notices were
duly signed by the secretary of plaintiff company and dated,
and respectively described the claims by metes and bounds as

HAWS v. VICTORIA COPPER

=flING CO.

309

Opinion of the Court.

ascertained by actual survey, and also by reference to the
p-ermanent workings of the claims; that said notices were
recorded in the office of the county recorder of said county of
Uintah on the 29th day of August, 1890.
"Eighteenth. That the description of said claims as given
in said addendum notices is the same description as given in
the complaint of the plaintiff herein; also that the official survey for patent of said mining claims of plaintiff was made in
exact accordance with said description and the boundary stakes
of said claims.
"Nineteenth. That in the months of August and September, 1890, and prior to the commencement of this action, the
defendants wrongfully extracted and carried away 25 tons of
ore taken from plaintiff's said mining claims and sold all but
7 tons thereof for the, net sum of $1897.57, except as to the
cost of hauling and extracting, amounting to $34.00 per ton."
From these findings the court deduced the following conclusions of law:
"1. That the plaintiff was at the time of the commencement of this action and still is the owner of and entitled to the
possession of the mining claims particularly and specifically
described in the complaint of the plaintiff herein and called
respectively ' Antietam lode' and ' Copper theAce lode' mining
claims, which said mining claims and each of them were at
the time of the commencement of this action and have ever
since continued to be and now still are valid mining claims,
embracing the premises described in the complaint herein,
subject only to the paramount title of the United States.
"2. That the defendants or any of them or any person
claiming under them have no title or interest in said premises
whatsoever and had none at the time of the commencement
of this action.
"3. That said plaintiff is entitled to a judgment or a decree
against said defendants for the possession of the 'Antietam
lode' and 'Copper the Ace lode' mining claims and premises
embraced therein, as described in said complaint, and confirming its title to the same, and that the defendants have no
right, title, or interest in said premises or any part thereof or

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in the ores extracted therefrom; also that plaintiff is entitled
to the 7 tons of ore removed by the defendants and not disposed of, and also for $1047.57 damages, and also for the
costs of this action; also enjoining the said defendants and
each of them, their servants, agents, and employ~s, and every
one acting under them or any of them, from extracting or
removing ore therefrom."
Upon these findings and conclusions a judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff, that it "recover from the defendants William Haws, Heber Timothy, Edward W. Keith,
Frank H. Keith, Samuel R. Whitall, William V. R. Whitall,
and Michael E. Smith, the possession of the Antietam lode
and Copper the Ace lode mining claims, situated in the Carbonate mining district, in the county of Uintah, Territory of
Utah, and the premises embraced therein and each and every
part thereof, the same being specifically described in the complaint of the complainant herein, and confirming the title to
said plaintiff in and to the same." There was also judgment
for damages and costs in the sum of $1692.17, and a decree
for an injunction restraining the defendants from extracting
or removing ore from the mines.
On December 3, 1890, the defendants filed their notice of
intention to apply for a new trial on the following grounds:.
"1. Irregularities in the proceedings of the court and an
abuse of discretion in the court by which defendants were
prevented from having a fair trial.
"2. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the findings and
decision.
"3. Newly discovered evidence material to defendants and
which could not with reasonable diligence have been discovered and produced at the trial.
"4. That the findings are against law.
"5. Errors in law occurring at the trial and excepted to by
defendants."
On the day this notice was given the court extended the
time for filing the "specifications of particulars in which the
evidence is insufficient to support the indings and the affidavits as to the newly discovered evidence." When this period

HAWS v. VICTORIA COPPER MMING CO.

311

Opinion of. the Court.

elapsed the defendants presented their specifications of particulars, (which was required by the Utah law, Stringfellow v.
Cain, 99 _U. S. 610, 613,) complaining only of the insufficiency
of the evidence to support the findings numbered 3, 4, 5, .6,
10, 12, 14, 17, and 19. The affidavits relied on as to the newly
discovered evidence, for the purpose of obtaining a new trial,
were also filed. In support of the complaint as to the insufliciency of the evidence to sustain the findings specially objected
to on that ground, there was filed an excerpt from the testimony, the certificate appended thereto reciting: "The foregoing, together with Exhibits C and D and the map Exhibit 3;
is the substance of all the evidence tending to support the
findings which are pointed out in defendant's specification of
errors as not supported by the evidence and the substance of
all the evidence pertaining to or illustrating defendant's assignments of error." Previously to the filing of this statement of
the proof which related solely to the controverted findings,
the defendant presented his "assignment as to errors of law
occurring at the time of the trial, and duly excepted to by the
defendants." The errors thus assigned were eleven in number, and all referred to the rulings of the court, in the progress
of the trial, rejecting or admitting testimony. On the 13th
of February, 1891, the application for a new trial was overruled, the order to that end reciting: "Said motion is heard
upon the records and statements, and upon affidavits filed by
the defendants in support of their motion." An appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, where the judgment was affirmed. 7 Utah, 515. The opinion of the court
announced that the findings of the court below were sustained
by the proof, and that, as these findings were supported by
"competent, relevant, and material. evidence," without reference to the action of the court admitting or rejecting testimony, it was unnecessary to determine whether error had
been committed in such respect, since, if. it had been, it was
not reversible because not prejudicial. Subsequently, there
was filed in the Supreme Court an assignment of errors, alleging that -the court Had erroneously affirmed the judgment
below, When it' should have re'versed the same because of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

errors committed by the trial court in admitting incompetent
testimohy. The matters referred to in the assignment thus
filed in the Supreme Court are identical with those which were
embraced in the assignment which had been made below on
the application for a new trial, except that the eleventh alleged
error assigned upon the appeal to the territorial appellate court
is omitted. from the later assignment. Thereafter a paper
was filed in the Supreme Court of the Territory beginning as
follows:
"This is to certify that on the trial of this cause in the
trial court the following rulings of the court on the rejection
and admission of evidence were made, all of which were
excepted to by defendants and assigned by them as error on
appeal in this court, to wit."
This was followed by a brief excerpt from the proceedings
had before the trial court, purporting to show exactly what
occurred when the rulings rejecting or admitting testimony
were made. All the facts which are stated in this paper are
also in the record in connection with the specification of errors
presented and the assignment of errors made in the trial court
on the appeal taken to the Supreme Court. Appended to the
paper is the following certificate:
"The above statement embraces part of the testimony of
the witnesses named, but not all, nor does it contain the testimony of other witnesses sworn in the case, but" is correct so
far as it goes, except showing the corrections and explanations
appearing.
J'&Es A. MNup, Judge.
"October 12, 1891.
C. S. ZANHI .J:
The defendants below prosecute this appeal from the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
Under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat. 27, our jurisdiction on appeal from the judgment of a territorial Supreme
Court is limited to determining whether the facts found are
sufficient to sustain the judgment rendered, and to reviewing
the rulings of the court on the admission or rejection of testi-

HAWS v. VICTORIA COPPER MINING CO.

313

Opinion of the Court.

mony,when exceptions have been duly taken to such rulings.
We cannot, therefore, enter into an investigation of the preponderance of proof, but confine ourselves to the findings and
their sufficiency to support the legal conclusions which the
court below has rested on them. Stringfellow v. Cain, 99
U. S. 610, 613; Idaho & Oregon Land Improvement Co. v.
Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509; Mammoth .Mining Co. v. Salt Lake
lMachine Co., 151 U. S. 447. The statement of facts contemplated by the statute is one to be made.by the Supreme Court.
from whose judgment the appeal is taken.. But where that
court affirms the findings of the trial court, being thus adopted
by the Supreme Court of the Territory, they subserve the
purpose of a finding of fact. on the appeal to this court.
Stringfellow v. Cain, ubi supra. Guided by this rule, we
will examine the errors pressed upon our attention, considering first in order those which are general in their nature, and,
second, those which it is claimed result from the action of the
trial court, in rejecting or admitting testimony.
1. The contention that the trial court did not consider the
affidavits as to the newly discovered evidence presented for
the purpose of obtaining a new trial, is fully answered by the
order refusing the new trial, which recites: "That it was
heard upon the record and statement and upon the affidavits
filed by the defendants in support of their motion." This
takes the case entirely out of the principle announced in
.Mattoxv. United States, 146 U. S.140. That case involved
a refusal to exercise discretion, whilst the contention here
amounts to the assertion of a right to control a discretion
when it has been lawfully exerted.
2. A further claim of error is that the findings are insufficient to support the judgment, because the Utah statute, 2
Comp. Law, § 3241, requires that "in an action for the recovery of real property, it must be described in the complaint
with such certainty as to enable an officer, upon execution, to
identify it;" and that the mines in dispute are designated in
the findings solely by reference to the descriptions contained
in the complaint, which it is asserted does not sufficiently
identify the premises to enable an officer to execute a writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.Opinion of the Court.

possession. If this proposition was supported by the record,
the necessary result would be that the judgment of the court
below operates upon no property which can be identified;
hence the defendant, and not plaintiffs in error, would be
prejudiced thereby, and would be the only party entitled to
complain. But the findings. amply support the reference
made in the judgment to the premises sued for, to wit, the
"Antietam lode and Copper the Ace lode mining claims,
situated in the Carbonate mining district, in the county of
Uintah, Territory of Utah, and premises embraced therein, and
each- and every part thereof, the same being specifically
described in the complaint herein." It is not doubtful that
the decree and complaint taken together fully describe and
furnish ample Aieans for identification of the property to
which defendant in error was adjudged to be entitled.
3. It was also urged, for the first time, upon the argument
at bar, that as the United States Statutes, Rev. Stat. § 2320,
.provide that no location of a mining claim shall be made until
the discovery of a vein or lode within the limits of the mine
located, the complaint was fatally defective in not averring
such a discovery prior to Dyer's alleged location, and that
there was an entire absence of evidence to justify the -trial
judge in concluding as he did in his first finding that Dyer,
"at and prior to the time of locating the claims, disc6vered
and appropriated a mineral vein or lode of rock in place."
The contention that the complaint did not aver discovery-is
without merit. No demurrer was filed and, so far as the
record discloses, no objection was made to the admissibility
of proof of discovery on the ground that it was not alleged,
nor was error in this particular assigned in the lower court
or in the Supreme Court of the Territory or in the record as
required by law. We might well dismiss the assertion that
there was no evidence which justified the trial judge in stating in his first proposition of fact that there had been a discovery, with the answer that it amounts merely to a contention
that the evidence did not justify the finding. The record,
however, demonstrates the unsoundness of the contention.
Under the law of Utah, those against whom the judgment

HAWS 'V. VICTORIA COPPER MINING CO.

-315

Opinion of the Court.

was rendered in the trial court were obliged, on motion for a
new trial, to specify what particular findings of fact were
objected to as unsupported by the evidence. In obedience to
this requirement, the defendant specified the findings which
he charged were not borne out by the proof, and in so doing
made no complaint as to the first finding which contains the
matter now asserted here to have no support whatever in the
proof. The practice in addition required the trial court to
certify to the Supreme Court of the Territory only "so much
of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the particular
errors or grounds specified and no more," (Stringfellow v.
Cain, ubi su}ra,) and such is the certificate annexed to the
extra6ts from the evidence which made up the record taken
to the Supreme Court of 'the Territory. It therefore follows
that the defendants below, after failing in the trial court to
object to the first finding as unsupported by the evidence,
and thereby securing the omission from the record of all the
testimony supporting such finding, now seek to avail themselves of the absence of, the proof which they have caused to
be omitted from the record.
4. It is contended that the findings do not justify the decree because, on their face it appears that the discovery by
Dyer was merely of one vein, and as the claims located under
this discovery were two in number and three thousand feet
in length, they were void because in excess of the quantity
allowed by law. Rev. Stat: § 2320.
Pretermitting the question whether this contention is not
in reality a mere assertion that the findings are not supported
by the evidence, it is without merit. Obviously, if the legal
proposition upon which it depends be well founded, as to
which we express no opinion, it is equally applicable to the
mining claims asserted by the plaintiff in error.. The findings
conclusively establish that the Haws and, Timothy pretended
locations, upon which the whole case, as to the plaintiffs in
error, rests, were -placed upon practically the salve, ground
covered-by the mining claims of the defendant, in error; indeed, the finding is that they (the Raws' claims) were mere
relocations of the existing mines, and, therefore, equal to them

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in length. It follows that if there was an excess of quantity
as to the claims asserted, on the one hand, a like excess necessarily existed in the claims relied upon on the other. True
the location by Haws was made not only in his own name,
but in the name of Timothy, thereby, on the face of such
location, implying that there was not one location of three
thousand feet but two locations of fifteen hundred feet each,
by different persons. The findings, however, completely
dispel this situation, for they conclusively determine that
Timothy was a mere instrumentality forHaws in the execution of his wrongful purposes, and hence that the two mines,
which were apparently located in the name of Haws and
Timothy, were in reality each located by Haiws himself. But
the findings go further than this; they absolutely preclude
the possibility of a discovery or valid location by Haws or his
confederate Timothy. The facts on this subject established
by the findings are briefly these: Haws, an employ6 of the
defendant in error, while engaged in such employment in
working the mines by it located and of which it was in the
actual possession, conceived the secret intention of taking
possession of the property of his employers for his own benefit. In execution of this illegal purpose he procured the
assistance of Timothy in making a so-called location on the
ground which was then occupied by his employer and upon
which he (Haws) was working as its servant. That they set
stakes and posted notices so as to cover the claims already discovered and which he knew were being worked at the time
these stakes were placed and notices posted, and that shortly
after this wrongful driving of stakes, Haws, in the night time,
ousted the defendant in error from the possession which it
enjoyed, and the illegal dispossession thus accomplished was
thereafter maintained by force. The elementary rule is that
one must recover on the strength of his own and not on the
weakness of the title of his adversary, but this principle is
subject to the qualification that possession alone is adequate
as against a mere intruder or trespasser without even color of
title, and especially so against one who has taken possession
by force and violence. This exception is based upon the

HAWS v. VIOTORIA COPPER MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

most obvious conception of justice and good conscience. It
proceeds upon the theory that a mere intruder and trespasser
cannot make his wrongdoing successful by asserting a flaw in
the title of the one against whom the wrong has been by him
committed. In Ciristy v. Scott, 14 How. 282, 292, this court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Curtis, said:
"A mere intruder cannot enter on a person actually seized,
and eject him, and then question his title, or set up an outstanding title in another. The maxim that the plaintiff must
recover on the strength.of his own title, and not on the weakness of the defendant's, is applicable to all actions for the
recovery of property. But if the plaintiff had actual prior
possession of the land, this is strong enough to enable him to
recover it from a mere trespasser, who entered without any
title. He may do so by a writ of entry, where that remedy is
still practised, Jacktsonv. Boston & Worcester .Railroad,1 Cush.
575, or by an ejectment, Allen v. Rivington, 2 Saund. 111;
.Doe v. Bead, 8 East. 356; Doe v. Dyeball, 1 Moody & M.
346; Jackson v. Hazen, 2 Johns. 438; Whitney v. Wright, 15
Wend. 171, or he may maintain trespass, Catteri v. Cowper,
4 Taunt. 548; Graham v. Peat,1 East. 246."
So also, in Burt v. Panjaud,99 U. S. 180, 182, it was said,
Mr. Justice Miller expressing the opinion of the court, that in
ejectment, or trespass quare clausumfregit,actual possession of
the land by the plaintiff, or his receipt of rent therefor prior
to his eviction,is prima facie evidence of title, on which he
can recover against a mere trespasser. The same principle
was enforced in Campbell v. Rankin, 99 U. S. 261, 262, and
application of it to various conditions of fact is shown in
Atherton v. Fowler, 96 U. S. 513; Belke v. Meagher, 104 U. S.
279, 287; Glacier Mining Co. v. Willis, 127 U. S. 471, 481.
There remains only.to consider the errors which are asserted
to have arisen from rulings of the trial court, admitting or
rejecting testimony.
(a) The objections to the admissibility of the copies of
Dyer's notice of location become wholly immaterial, in view
of the findings on the subject of the actual location made by
Dyer. The sixth finding establishes that there was not at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

time the copies were left for record any mining district recorder, and that the rules and regulations of what had been
known as the "Carbonate mining district," in which -aid
claim was situated, had long prior to Dyer's location fallen
into disuse, and were not then, and for a long time prior
thereto had not been, in force and effect. In such event there
was no statutory requirement that notices should be recorded.
Rev. Stat. § 2324; North Nfoonday .MiningCo.v. Orient -Mining Co., 1 Fed. Rep. 522, 533. Moreover, the acts of Dyer,
enumerated in the fourth finding, constituted a sufficient
location by him of the two claims, as against subsequent locators, irrespective of the posting of notices. iRev. Stat. § 2324
merely required that the locations shall be distinctly marked
on the ground, so that their boundaries can be readily traced.
Book v. Justice X ining Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 106, 109, 112, et seq.,
and authorities cited, page 113.
(b) The testimony of McLaughlin, tending to show knowledge by Haws of Dyer's location, that he recognized it, also
becomes immaterial, in view of the findings establishing the
nature and extent of such location. The same reason is applicable to the objection made to the testimony of Doneher.
(c)It is contended that the District Court erred in permitting two witnesses to testify as to the conversation had with
Haws relative to his intention to take possession of the mines
operated by the plaintiff. This evidence tended to support
certain allegations contained in the second cause of action set
out in the complaint, and appears material to such allegations;
and was doubtless accepted as evidence in support of the fact,
stated at the close of the eleventh finding of -the trial judge,
"that while at work for the plaintiff in the year 1888, said
Haws formed a secret intention of taking possession of the
mines and mining claims of plaintiff." There was no attack
upon the sufficiency of the proof to sustain this finding; moreover, the testimony of Haws as contained in the record admits
that he, formed the intention to take possession under the
suggestion that he considered that he had the right to make a
relocation.
(d) Lastly, it is contended thatthe District Court erred in

