OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

These conclusions determine both questions certified for our
decision, and, accordingly, the first question is answered in
the affirmative, and the second in the negative. So answerd.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE FIELD, and MR
JUSTICE

iARLAN

dissented.

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF ALABAMA.
No. 719. Submitted November 20, 1895.-Decided December 23, 1895.
A count in an indictment which charges that the accused, "being then and
there an assistant, clerk, or employ6 in or connected with the business or
operations of the United States post office in the city of Mobile, in the
State of Alabama, did embezzle the sum of sixteen hundred and
fifty-two and 54 dollars, money of the United States, of the value of
sixteen hundred and fifty-two and V- dollars, the said money being
the personal property of the United States," is defective in that it does
not further allege that such sum came into his possession in that
capacity.
The count having been demurred- to, and the demurrer having been overruled, the objection to it is not covered by Rev. Stat. ยง 1025, and is not
curedby verdict.
Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person
to whom it has been entrusted, or into whose hands it has lawfully
come ; and it differs from larceny in the fact that the original taking of
the property was lawful, or with the consent of the owner, while, In
larceny, the felonious intent must have existed at the time of the taking.

PLAI'rIFF in error, late assistant pbstmaster of the city of
Mobile, was indicted and convicted of embezzling certain
moneys of the United States to the amount of $1652.59.
There were four counts in the indictment, to one of which
a demurrer was sustained, and upon two others defendant was
acquitted. The fourth count, upon which he was convicted,
charged that "the said George S. Moore, being then and there
an assistant, clerk, or employ6 in or connected with the busi-

.MOORE

. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

ness or operations of the United States post office in the city of
Mobile, in the State of Alabama, did embezzle the sum of sixteen hundred and fifty-two and -% dollars ($1652.59), money
of the United States, of the value of sixteen hundred and
fifty-two and -% dollars ($1652.59), the said money being the
personal property of the United States."
Moore, having been sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor,
sued out this writ of error.
IX. -M.D. Wicbrkham and .Mr. W. H..MclntosA for plaintiff in error.

.Mt. A8&Want Attorne General ni
error.
Mm. Jusno.

,

/tney
for defendants in
I

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Defendant was indicted under the first section of the act of
March 3,1815, "to punish certain larcenies, and the receivers
of stolen goods," 18 Stat. 479, which enacts "that any person
who shall embezzle, steal, or purloin any money, property,
record, voucher, or valuable thing whatever, of the moneys,
goods, chattels, records, or property of the United States, shall
be deemed guilty of felony," etc.
I The principal assignment of. error is to the action of the
court in overruling a demurrer to the, fourth count of the
indictment, which charges, in the words of the statute, that
"the said George S. Moore, being then and there an assistant,
clerk, or employ6 in or connected with the business or operations of the United States post office in the cityof Mobile, in
the State of Alabama, did embezzle the sum of
money of the United States, of the value of

.

.

. the

said money being.the personal property of the United States."
Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property
by a person to whom such property has been entrusted, or
into whose hands it has lawfully come.' It differs from larceny
in the fact thpt.the original taking of the property vas lawful,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

or with the consent of the owner, while in larceny the felonious intent must have existed at the time of the taking.
It is objected to the indictment in this case that there is no
direct allegation that defendant was an assistant, clerk, or
employ6 in or connected with the business or operations of the
post office at Mobile; that the money of the United States is
not identified or described, and that there is no allegation
that it came into the possession of the defendant by virtue of
his employment.
The act in question has never been interpreted by this
court, nor has our attention been called to any case where it
has received a construction in this particular, except that of
MeCann v. United States, 2 Wyoming, 274, decided in the territorial Supreme Court of Wyoming, in which the allegation was
that " I cCann, . . . at and within the district aforesaid,
twenty thousand pounds of sugar . . . of the goods, chattels, and property of the United States of America, then and
there being found, then and there feloniously and fraudulently
did embezzle, steal, and purloin," etc. This allegation was
held to be defective, in charging a mere legal conclusion,
"leaving it impossible to determine whether the offence was
committed, and the conclusion correct." It was said that the
indictment for this offence must set forth the actual fiduciary
relation and its breach; that the indictment did not identify
the offence on the record; and did not secure the accused in
his right'to plead a former acquittal or conviction to a second
prosecution for the offence. It was held that the words "to
embezzle" were equivalent to the words "to commit embezzlement,"'and that a count in the words of the statute was not
sufficient; that "all the ingredients of fact that are elemental
to the definition must be alleged, so as to bring the defendant
precisely and clearly within the statute; if that can be done
by simply following the words of the statute, that will do; if
not, other allegations must be used." The general principle
here alluded to has been applied by this court in several cases.
United States v. Carl, 105 U. S. 611; United States v. Cook,
17 Wall. 168; UnitedStates v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.
In the case of United States v. NVorthway, 120 U. S. 327,

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the word "embezzle " was recognized as having a settled
technical meaning of its own, like the words "steal, take, and
carry away," as used to define the offence of larceny. In
this case the allegation was that the defendant "as such president and agent" (of a national bank) "then and there had
and received in and into-his possession certain of moneys and
funds of said banking association

.

.

.

and then and there

being in possession of the said" defendant "as such -president
and agent aforesaid, he, the said" defendant, "then and there
.

.

.

wrongly, unlawfully,,and with intent to injure and de-

fraud said banking association, did embezzle and convert to his
. . . own use." In respect to this it was said to be quite
clear that the allegation' was sufficient, as IT distinctly alleged
that the moneys and ifunds charged to have been embezzled
were at the time in the possession of the defendant as- president and agent. "This necessarily means," said the court,
1,that they had come into his possession in his official character,
so that he held them in trust for the use and benefit of the
association. In respect to those funds, the charge against him
is that he embezzled them by converting them to his own use.
This we think fully and accurately describes the offence of
embezzlement under the act by an officer and agent of the
association."
In the case of Glaassen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140, an
allegation similar in substance and effect was also held to, be
sufficient. The indictment, said the court, "avers that the
defendant was president of a*national banking association;
that by virtue of his office he received and- took into his
possession certain bonds, (fully described,) the property of the
association; and that, with intent to injure and defraud the
association, he embezzled the bonds and converted them to his
own use. On principle and precedent, no further averment
was requisite to a complete and sufficient description of the
crime charged."
* The casbs reported from the Eng'lish courts, and from the
courts of the several States, have usually arisen under statutes
limiting the offence to certain officers, clerks, agents, or servants of individuals or corporations, and the rulings that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court:

agency or fiduciary relation must be averred, as well as the
fact that the money embezzled had come into the possession
of the prisoner in that capacity, are, not wholly applicable to
a statute which extends to every person, regardless of his employment, or of the fact that the money had come into his
possession by virtue of any office or fiduciary relation he
happened to occupy. These cases undoubtedly hold, with
great uniformity, that the relationship must be averred in the
exact terms of the statute; that the property embezzled must
be identified with great particularity; and that it must also
be averred to have come into the possession of the prisoner by'
virtue of his fiduciary relation to the owner of the property.
Thus in Commonwealth v. Smart, 6 Gray, 15, it was held
that an indictment which averred that the defendant "was
entrusted" by the owner "with certain property, the same
being the subject of larceny," (describing it,) "and to deliver
the same to" the owner "on demand," and afterwards "refused
to deliver said property to said" owner, "and feloniously did
embezzle and fraudulently convert to his own use, the same
then and there being demanded of him by said" owner, was
fatally defective, by reason of omitting to state the purpose
for which the defendant was entrusted with the property, or
what property he fraudulently converted to his own use. So
in People v. Allen, 5 Denio, 76, under a statute limiting the
offence to clerks and servants, it was held that a count charging the defendant with having collected and received certain
money as the agent of an individual was defective.
On the other hand, in .owenthal v. State, 32 Alabama, 589,
an indictment charging in the form prescribed by the code
that the defendant, being agent or clerk of another, "embezzled, or fraudulently converted to his own use, money to
about the amount of eighteen hundred dollars ($1800) . .
which came into his possession by virtue of his employment,"
was sufficient. See also People v. [Tomlinson, 66 California,
344; Commonwealth v. Hussey, 111 Mass. 432. It was held,
however, in State v. Stimson, 4 Zabr. (24 N. J. Law) 9, that
it was not sufficient to describe the offence in the words of
the statute, and that there should be some description either

MOORE v. UNITED STATES,
Opinion of the Court.

of the number or denomination of the coins and of the notes,
and also an averment of the value of the notes.
Indeed, the rulings in this class of cases became in some
instances so strict, that statutes were passed in several of the
States defining what should be necessary and sufficient in
indictments for embezzlement. Thus, in the criminal code of
Illinois, it is declared to be sufficient.to allege, generally, in
the indictment, an embezzlement, fraudulent conversion or
taking, with intent to-,embezzle and convert funds of any
person, bank, corporation, company, or copartnership, to a
certain value or amount, without specifying any particulars of
such embezzlement. tUnder this statute, it was held proper
for the court to permit all the evidence of what the defendant
did by reason of his confidential relations with the banking
firm whose clerk he was, to go to the jury, and if the jury
found, from the whole evidence, any funds or credits for
money had been embezzled or fraudulently converted to his
own use by defendant, it was sufficient to maintain the charge
of embezzlement. "The view taken by the defence," said
the court, "of this statute is too narrow and technical to be
adopted. It has a broader meaning, and when correctly read,
it will embrace all wrongful conduct by confidential clerks,
agents, or servants, and leave no opportunity for escape from
just punishment on mere; technical objections not affecting
the guilt or innocence of the party accused." Ker v. Peale,
110 Illinois, 627, 647.
-The ordinary form of an indictment for larceny is that J. S.,
late of, etc., at, etc., in the county aforesaid, (specifying the
property,) of the goods and chattels of one J. N.. "feloniously
did steal, take, and carry away." In other words, the whole
gist of the indictment lies in the allegation that the defendant
stole, took, and carried away specified goods belonging to.
the person named.- The indictment under consideration is
founded upon a statute to punish larcenies of government
property. It applies to "any person," and uses the words
"embezzle, steal, or purloin" in the same connection, and as
applicable to the same persons and to the same property.
There can be no doubt that a count charging the prisoner
voL. cnx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

with stealing or purloining certain described goods, the property of the United States, would be sufficient, without further specification of the offence; but whether an indictment
charging in such general terms that the prisoner " embezzled "
the property of the government, (identifying it,) would be
sufficient, we do not undertake to determine; although we
think the rules of good pleading would suggest, even if they
did not absolutely require, that the indictment should set forth
the manner or capacity in which the defendant became possessed of the property.
For another reason, however, we think the indictment in
this case is insufficient. If the words charging the defendant
with being an employ6 of the post office be material, then it
is clear, under the cases above cited, that it should be averred
that the money embezzled came into his possession by virtue
of such employment. Unless this be so, the allegation of employment is meaningless and might even be misleading, since
the defendant might be held for property repeived in a wholly
'different capacity - such, for instance, as a simple bailee of
the government. In the absence of a statutory regulation
the authorities upon this subject are practically uniform.
Wharton's Crim. Law, ยง 1942; Rex v. Snowey, 4 Car. & P.
390; Commonwealth v. Simpson, 9 Met. 138; People v. Sherman, 10 Wend. 298; _?ex v. Prince, 2 Car. & P. 517; Rex v.
Thorley, 1 Mood. C. 0. 343; Rex v. Bakewell, Russ. & Ry. 35.
On'the other hand, if these words be rejected as surplusage
and mere descriptio per.sone, then the property embezzled
should be identified with particularity, the general rule in the
absence of a statute being that an averment of the embezzlement of a certain amount in dollars and cents is insufficient.
.Rem v. Furneaux,Russ. & Ry. 335; -Rex v. Flower, 5 B. &
C. 736; Commonwealth v. Sawtelle, 11 Cush. 142; People v.
Bogart, 36 California, 245; People v. Cox, 40 California, 275;
Barton v. State, 29 Arkansas, 68; State v. Thompson, 42
Arkansas, 517; State v. Ward, 48 Arkansas, 36.
There are undoubtedly cases which hold that, where the
crime consists, not in the embezzlement of a single definite
quantity of coin or bills, but in a failure to account for a num-

MOORE v.. UNITED STATES,
Opinion of the Court.

ber of small sums received -a series of petty and continuous,
peculations - where it would be manifestly impossible, probably for the defendant himself, but much more for the prose-,
cution, to tell of what the money embezzled consisted, an
allegation of a particular amount is sufficient. These cases,
however, are confined to public officers, or to the officers of
corporations, and where the embezzlement-consists-of a single
amount of property, the general rule above stated still holds
good. The leading case upon this point is that of People v.
A reKinney, 10 Michigan, 54, 89.

In this case the treasurer

of the State of Michigan was charged with the embezzlement
of four thousand dollars belonging to the State. It was-held
that, as the treasurer had by law the entire custody and management of the public ifioney, with authority to receive such
descriptions of funds as he chose, the public could-exercise no
control or constant supervision over him, and that it would be
wholly impracticable to trace or identify-the particular pieces
of money or bills received by him, and hence, that the -allegation of a certain amount was sufficient. This case has been
followed by several others, and may be said to apply to all
instances where it would be impracticable to set forth or
identify the particular character of the property embezzled.
State v. .unch, 22 Minnesota, 67; State v. Ring, 29 Minnesota, 78; State v.Smith, 13 Kansas, 274, 294; State v. Carrick,
16 Nevada, 120; United -States v. Bornemann, 36 Fed. Rep.
257. In some jurisdictions, however, notably in England, California, Louisiana, and Massachsiietts, the difficulty has been
entirely remedied by statute. Greaves' Grim. Law, 156; Rex
v. Grove, 1 oody Or. Gas. 447; Commonwealtlk v.Butterick,
100 Mass. 1; C0ommonwealtA v. Bennett, 118 Mass. 443; Peop~le
v. .Treadwell, 69 California, 226; State v. Thompson, 32 La.
Ann. 796.
If, theh, the indictment in this case had'chai.ged that the
defendant, being, then' and -there assistant, clerk, or employ6
in.or-connected with the business or operations of the United
States post office ii the city of Mobile, embezzled-the sum
stated, and had further alleged that siich sum came ifit6'*lhis

possession in that capacity,, we should, Lav, held the indict-

