WASHINGTON & IDAHO RAILROAD v. OSBORN.

108

Statement of the Case.

Territory, brought an action at lawagainst the Oceur d'Alene
Railway and Navigation Company in the District Court of the
Territory, which action was, after the admission of Idaho as
a State, transferred to and tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States. The result of that action was a final judgment in favor of the defendant company, and this judgment,
having 'been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, was there affirmed, and the judgment of the
latter court has at the present term been by this court affirmed.
See Washington and Idaho Railroad Co. v. Camur d'Alene
Railway and Navigation Co. and NYorthern Paific Railroad
Co., 160 U. S. 77.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Ajrme.
Idaho is accordingly

WASHINGTON AND IDAHO RAILROAD COMPANY
OSBORN.
APPEALFRO4

M THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDAHO.
No. 5. Argued Noyember 18, 14,1895.-Decided December 2, 1895.

A railroad company whose road is laid out so as, under the provisions of
the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 482, entitled "An act grauting to railroads the right of way through the public lands of the United States," to
cross a part of such public unsurveyed domain, cannot take part thereof
in the actual possession and occupation of a settler, who is entitled to claim
a predmption right thereto when the proper time shall come, and who has
made improvements on the land so occupied by him, without making
proper compensation therefor as may be provided by law.

THE Washington and Idaho Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Washington Territory, on
September 18, 1888, fied a bill of complaint in the District
Court of the First Judicial District of the.Territory of Idaho
against S. V. William, Osborn, asserting a right to construct
and maintain a railroad across lands in-possession of the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

fendant. The cause was put at issue by answer and replication, and the court made the following findings of facts:
"First. That on the 5th day of July, 1886, the plaintiff
became a duly organized corporation under the laws of Washington Territory for the purpose of constructing, equipping,
operating, and maintaining a railroad from the town of Farmington, in Washington Territory, by the most practical route
in a generally northern direction to a point at or near Spokane
Falls, in said Territory, and by junction with said line near
the forks of Hangman Creek, in said Territory, in a generally
northeasterly direction across the Oceur d'Alene Indian reservation to a point near the mouth of the St. Joseph River, on
Cceur d'Alene Lake; thence in a northerly direction along
the east side of the Cceur d'Alene Lake to the Cceur d'Alene
River; thence in a generally easterly direction to the Coeur
d'Alene mission; thence in a southeasterly direction to the
valley of the South Fork of the Oceur d'Alene River, via the
town of Milo, to Wardner, Idaho Territory; and that afterwards, to wit, on the 8th day of November, 1886, by amended
articles of incorporation, the plaintiff became a corporation
organized to construct a like railroad from said town of Milo,
following the South Fork of the Coeur d'Alene River, to the
town of Mullen, and that the premises in controversy herein
are situated in the valley of the said South Fork and between
said towns of Milo and Mullen.
"Second. That each and all the allegations contained in
the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth subdivisions Qf plaintiff's complaint are true.
"Third. That the defendant is a native-born citizen of the
United States, over the age of twenty-one years, and has never
had the benefit of the predmption or homestead laws of the
United States, and is in all respects qualified in law to initiate
proceedings to obtain title to one hundred and sixty acres of the
agricultural lands belonging to the United States, and that
the lands and premises hereinafter described, and every part
thereof, are a part of the unsurveyed public lands of the
United States and agricultural in character, not reserved from
sale, and subject to settlement under the laws of the United

States.

WA.SBINGTOlT & iDA-HO IA..ItOAD

,.

OSBORL.

105

Statement of the Case.
"Fourth. That in the year 1885, one Seth- McFarren and
one Samuel Norman settled upon, the premises hereinafter
described, who in that year erected a house and other buildings thereon, marked off the corners of the same, and partly
fenced the same on its exterior boundaries as defined by their
corner stakes, and that said McFarren and Norman resided
constantly upon said premises, living in the dwelling-house
aforesaid, and constantly engaged in improving said -premises,
-until the 18th day of March, 1886, at which date, by a deed of
conveyance, in consideration of the sum of two thousand dollars, they conveyed the said premises and all the improvements
thereon to the defendant, and that the defendant at the time
of said purchase caused the said premises to be surveyed by a
surveyor and erected new corner posts at each corner thereof,
and caused such posts to be plainly marked, so as to indicate
the corners of said premises, and with. the name of said Osborn
as the claimant, and that after said purchase the defendant
filed in the office of the county recorder of Shoshone County,
Idaho, his declaration to hold said premises under the preemption law, under the possessory land act of said Territory,
and that said premises contain less than one hundred and sixty
acres, and are described.as follows, to wit.
"Fifth., That during all the time since the 18th day of
March, 1886, the defendant has resided upon said premises and
still resides-thereon, making the same his home, and has made
improvements thereon to the value of eight thousand dollars,
consisting of a hotel, barn, stables, ice-house, cellar, fences,
clearing and cultivating 60 acres. of the land, etc., and that
prior to the making of any survey for a railroad by plaintiff
over the same in the year 1886 the defendant enclosed all of said
premises by a substantial fence, excepting a portion of the line
on the south side thereof where the base of the mountain and
the fallen timber made a natural barrier sufficient to turn
stock, and with the exception of a few places on the north
line of said premises where the steep bank of the river formed
a natural barrier sufficient to turn stock, and that at the time
said defendant settled thereon he intended and ever since has
intended and now intends to obtain title to said premises under

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the preemption laws of the United States as soon as the same
shall be surveyed by the government, and that the defendant
is not the proprietor of 320 acres of land in any Statd or
Territory, and did not quit or abandon a residence on his own
land to reside upon the public lands in this Territory, and that
the defendant has not settled upon or improved the said
premises to sell the same on speculation, but in good faith to
appropriate the same to his own exclusive use, and that he
has not directly nor indirectly made any agreement or contract in any way or manner with any person whatsoever by
which the title which he may receive from the government
shall inure in whole or in part to the benefit of any person except himself."
The conclusions of law found by the court were, in substance,
that Osborn, the defendant, was, and all times since the 18th
day of -March, 1886, had been the owner of, as against all
persons except the United States, and in possession of the
land in dispute; that the title and right of possession of
defendant in and to said premises were prior and paramount
to the right of way of the plaintiff over the same; and that
the defendant was entitled to a judgment. A judgment dismissing the bill was entered on October 4, 1888, and this
judgment was, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Idaho on March 19, 1889, affirmed.
.Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., and .Afr. Samuel Shellalarger,(with
whom were Mr.J.F. -Dillon, Mrb. T. T. Cotton, and. Mr. J.
.M. Wilson on the brief,) for appellant.
Ar.A. B. Browne, (with whom was Mr. A. fT. Britton on
the brief,) for appellee.
MR.

JUSTIcE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case is before us on appeal from a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Idaho affirming a decree
of the District Court of that Territory, which decree dismissed

WASHINGTO1N & IDAHO RAIROADv. OSBORN.

107

Opinion of the Court.

a bill of complaint brought by the Washington and Idaho
Railroad Company against, William Osborn.
The railroad company was organized under the laws of the
Territory of Washington, and was constructing its. road from
a point in that Territory, ,by,a route through the Territory of.
Idaho, to the town of Missoula in the Territory of Montana.
In constructing its road through the Territory of Idaho the
plaintiff c6mpany encountered, in Shoshone County, a-tract of'
land in possession of Osborn, across which the company desired
to run the line of its road. Osborn refusing to grant permission,
the-railroad company instituted, under the'laws of the Territory of Idaho, proceedings in- condemnation to condemn a
right of way for its railroad over and through the land of
Osborn. Under these proceedings, damages Were assessed in
favor of Osborn in the sum of $6670. The railroad company
then filed its bill, alleging that prior to the commencement of
said proceedings for condemnation the company did notknow
nor could obtain sufficient information .to advise, it of the
nature and character of Osborn's title, and that, from the
testimony in those proceedings, the company was advised and
believed that Osborn had no title or right to the possession of
the premises and right of way sought to be condemned, and
that in equity and good conscience it should not be compelled
to pay Osborn any compensation for said right of way.
Conceding, but not deciding, that it was competent for'the
railroad company to -abandon its condemnation proceedings,
and to challenge the defendant's title by a bill -in equity, we
shall now consider the merits of .the case as -disclosed in the
findings of facts.
The plaintiff's side of the controversy is substantially this:
The Washington and Idaho Railroad Company, as a corporation of the Territory of Washington, having filed with the
Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation
and due proofs of its organization under the same, was entitled, under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, entitled "An
act granting to railroads the right of way through the public
lands of the United States," 18 Stat. 482, to a right of way
through the public lands of the United States to the extent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiuion of the Court.

one hundred feet on each side of the central line of its road;
and as the trial court found that the land claimed by Osborn
was a part of the unsurveyed public domain of the United
States, and that Osborn had never filed or entered the said
land in any United States land office under any existing law
of the United States, the company claims that it is within the
doctrine of the many decisions of this court, which hold that
a party, by mere settlement upon the lands of the United
States, although with a declared intention to obtain a title to
the same under the preemption laws, does not thereby acquire
such a vested interest in the premises as to deprive Congress
of the power to divest it by a grant to another party. Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; The Yosemite Valley case, 15
Wall. 77; Buxton v. raver, 130 U. S. 232.
- In brief, the plaintiff claims that, having been incorporated
and organized under a law of the Territory of Washington,
and having complied with the provisions of the act of March
3, 1875, the company became vested with a right of way
through the public lands of the United States, subject only to
the exception contained in the fifth section of said act, wherein
it is enacted that the act shall not alpply "to any lands within
the limits of any military park or Indian reservation, or other
lands specially reserved from sale," and within which exception the defendant's claim does not come.
It is claimed on the side of the defendant that while it is
true that his rights, arising out of mere prior possession and
cultivation of public lands, cannot prevent Congress from conferring these very lands on other parties by a grant, yet that
Congress has not, in the present case, so conferred these lands
on the plaintiff company, but has, on the contrary, recognized
and preserved the defendant's rights by the provisions of the
third section- of the act of March 3, 1875.
In the case of Buxton v. Traver, 130 U. S. 232, 235, this
court said: "A settlement upon the public lands in advance
of the public surveys is allowed to parties who in good faith
intend, when the surveys are made and returned to the local
land office, to apply for their purchase. If, within a specified
time after the surveys, and the return of the township plat,

WASHINGTON & IDAHO RAILROAD v.. OSBORN.

109

Opinion of the Court.

the settler takes certain steps, that is, files a declaratory statement, such as is required when the surveys have preceded settlement, and performs certain other acts prescribed by law, he
acquires for the first time a right of pregmption to the land.
. . . lHe has been permitted by the government to occupy
a certain portion of the public lands, and therefore is not a
trespasser, on his statement that when the property is open
to sale he intends to take the steps prescribed by law to
purchase it; in which case he is to have the preference over
others in purchasing, that is, the right to predmpt it. The
United States make no promise to sell him the land, nor do
they enter into any contract with him upon the subject. They
simply say to him, if you wish to settle upon a portion of the
public lands, and purchase the title, you can occupy any unsurveyed lands which are vacant and have not been reserved
from sale; and, when the public surveys are made and returned, the land not having been in the meantimie withdrawn
from sale, you can acquire, by pursuing certain steps, the right
to purchase them."
It must, therefore,, be conceded that Osborn did not, by
maintaining possession for several years and putting valuable
improvements thereon, preclude the government from dealing
with the lands as its own, and from conferring, them on another party by a subsequent grant.
On the other hand, it would not be easy to suppose that
Congress would, in authorizing railroad companies to traverse
the public lands, intend thereby to give them a right to run
the lines of their roads at pleasure, regardless of the rights of
settlers.
Accordingly, when we examine the act of March 3, 18-75,
upon which the plaintiff rests its claim of right to appropriate
to its use, without compensation, the land and improvements of Osborn, we find, in the third section, an express
That
provision saving the rights of settlers in possession.
section is in the following terms: "That the legislature of
the proper Territory may provide for the manner in which
private lands and possessory claims on the lands.of the United
States may be condemned, and where such provision shall

