OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

the Canal Fund,, except as provided in its constitution and
laws. It could not legally have become a party to any arrangement or agreement involving t~e use, without interest,
of the moneys of the Canal Fund that had been set apart for
the ultimate payment of the canal debt.
We are of opinion that the claim of the State for money
paid on account of interest to the commissioners of the Canal
Fund, is not one against the United States for interest as such,
but is a claim for costs, charges, and expenses properly incurred
and paid by the State in aid of the General Government, and
is embraced by the act of Congress declaring that the States
would be indemnified by the General Government for moneys
so expended.
As the State was entitled to a larger sum than $91,320.84,
the judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded with

directionsfor further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

NALLE v. YOUNG.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIROUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED) STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 17. Submitted October 15, 1895. -Decided

January 20, 1896.

In 1868, Y., a citizen of Louisiana, being then married, mortgaged his interest in certain real estate in that State to E. H., his wife joining in the
mortgage. In 1870 the father of Mrs. Y. died, leaving a policy of insurance in her favor. Y. collected this sum and converted it to his own
use and the use of the community. In 1876, by a transaction between Y.
and the residuary legatee of E. H., who was also indebted to Y., her said
indebtedness was discharged, and Y.'s interest in that mortgage was assigned to Mrs. Y. in replacement of her paraphernal moneys and property, so secured and converted by her husband. In 1881 Mrs. Y. became
entitled to a further sum, on the final settlement of her father's estate,
which was in like manner received by Y., and converted to his own use
and that of the community. In 1881, on the petition of Mrs. Y., filed in
1881 in a suit against her husband for a dissolution of the community
and a separation of property, a decree to that effect was made by the

TALILE v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.
state court, and it was further adjudged and decreed that Y. was Indebted to Mrs. Y. in the sums so received by him from her father's. es-!
tate, with recognitiqn of mortgage on the property described, and the
property be sold to satisfy said judgment and costs. In 1882, in order
to enable Y. to borrow from N. & Co., Mrs. Y. executed a mandate and
power of attorney, authorizing the caieelling,and erasure of the mortgage to E. H. What was done under that power was afterwards claimed
by Y. and, by Mrs. Y. not to amount to such cancellation, and by
N. & Co. to be efective. A mortgage to N. & Co. was then executed by
Y., and the inscription of Mrs. Y.'s mortgage Was then renewed. In 1883
N. & Co. commenced proceedings to foreclose their mortgage, (Mrs. Y."
not being made a party to the suit,) and obtained a decree of foreclosure
in 1886. The property wa' duly appraised according to the law of Louisiana, and at the sale no sufficient bid was made. It was then advertised
for sale on a credit'of twelve-months. In 1887, Y. notified the marshal
that Mrs. Y. had an incumbrance on the property prior to th6 mortgage
to N. & Co., (stating the amount of it,) and that a sale for less than that
amount would be invalid. Notwithstanding this notice; a sale was made
for a less sum. This sale was. attacked by Y. and Mrs. Y. by various
proceedings set forth in the opinion of the court, which resulted in a
decree setting aside the sale, and adjudging that the attempted renunciation by Mrs. Y. of her special mortgage waS invalid, and that that mortgage should be recognized as the first mortgage on the property, superior
.inrank to the mortgage of N. & Co. . H d,
(1) That Mrs. Y. must stand upon her legal mortgage, resulting from the
receipt of her paraphernal property, and recoghized by the judgment of 1881, decreeing a separation of property; or upon a judiclil
mortgage arising from that judgment; or on the contract between
herself and the residuary legatee of B. H.;
(2) That if her mortgage be held to be legal or judicial, its existence
was not a bar to the confirmation of a sale for an amount'insufftcient to satisfy it, and that it could no" rank the special conventional mortgage of N. & Co.;
(8) That by.the transaction between the residuary legatee of B. H. and
Mrs. Y., the respective debtg.were discharged by agreement and
compensated :each other, and when the principal obligation was
thus discharged, the mortgage fell with it, and-would not be revived, although the indebtedness were reacknowledged;
(4) That the decree below should be reversed.

EDwARD INalle"& Co., composed of Edward Nalle and Walter C. Flower, doing business in. the .city of New Orleans,
filed their-petition in the district court -for the ninth district
of Louisiana, holding sessions in and for the parish of Tensas,
on May 30, 1883, against Wade R. Young, to foreclose a
mortgage executed on June 2' 1882, to secure Young's note
VOL. =ix-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

for $1632.61, payable December 1, 1882, on his interest in
certain real estate in that parish, known as the St. Peter plantation. The petition alleged "that said Wade R. Young
resides permanently out of the State of Louisiana and is not
represented in this. State," and prayed for the appointment of
a curator ad hoc. The appointment of a curator was made
and citation served upon him. On June 25, 1883, Wade R.
Young filed his answer to the petition, wherein he described
himself as "a resident and citizen of the State of Mississippi,"
and on the same day filed his petition for the removal of the
cause accompanied by a removal bond; and June 28, the district court entered an order transferring the case to the United
States Circuit Court for the Western District of Louisiana,
which was done accordingly. Plaintiffs thereupon prayed in
that court that their petition be allowed to stand as a bill in
equity, and October 12, 1883, the defendant Young filed his
answer thereto, admitting the execution of the note and mortgage, but alleging in substance that he had been compelled to
pay usurious interest; that the account current between the
parties was composed of excessive and objectionable charges;
that plaintiffs failed to carry out their agreement and understanding with him; and that upon a proper taking of accounts
there was nothing or but little due.
In addition to his answer, to which a replication was filed,
defendant made a reconventional demand, on which, upon a
trial thereof, judgment passed against him. November 11,
1884, the cause was revived as to the heirs of Edward Nalle,
who had deceased, and they entered their appearance March

24,1885.
Proofs were taken, and the cause was referred to a master
to state an account who made a report of the amount due to
Nalle & Co., less a specified credit. The cause coming on
to be 'heard on the pleadings and proofs and oral testimony
then adduced, a decree was entered November 6, 1886, "that
plaintiff's mortgage on the property described in the act of
mortgage annexed to the bill of complaint herein, viz.: [here
follows description] the said interest of Wade R. Young in
the above lands having been ascertained by a survey made by

NALLE 'v. YOUNG:
Statement of the Case.

John Johnson, surveyor, on the 15th of March, 1879, be and
the same is hereby, recognized, and ordered to be enforced to
satisfy the sum of one thousand six hufidred and thirty-two
dollars, with 8 per cent per annum interest thereon from
the 1st day of December, 1882, until paid; subject to the credit
aforesaid, and also for the payment of the attorney's fees stiulated by said act of mortgage, being 5 per cent on said amoudnt,
and the costs of this suit, to be taxed."
An execution was thereupon issued, and the mortgaged
premises seized and sold by the marshal, July 30r, 1887, to
Mrs.
Mary Nalle, wife of Eustis F. Golson.
October
i2, 1887, Mrs..B. F. Young, wife of
Wade R.
Young, on motion of her husband as her solicitor, was allowed
to file "her bill and intervening petition, by her husband and
next friend," against Nalle & Co., in which she averred that
she was married to Wade R. Young in October, 1865, and
resided with him continually in the State of Louisiana until
the month of February, 1876 ; that in the year 1870 her
father died in the parish of Catahoula, Louisiana, and left her
a policy of insurance on his life for the sum of $5000, which
was collected by her-husband for her and by him converted to
his own use and to the use of the community existing between
them; that her father also left a large estate, consisting of
property, real and personal, which was sold at probate sale in
1881, and her interest therein, amounting to $2500, adjudicated
to her husband for"his own sole use, benefit .and advantage,
and for that of the community existing between them; and
that her husband had so received the paraphernal moneys and
property of complainant in the sum of $7500, which had been
converted by him to his own use and that of the community,
and was now legally-due complainant by her husband.
The petition further alleged that by an act of mortgage in
1868 by Margaret A. Young, William C. Young, and Wade
R. Young, as joint owners, St. Peter plantation was mortgaged to Miss Eliza H. Young, to secure their joint and
several note for $11,250, with interest at eight per cent from
January 1, 1867; and averred that in the year 1876, by a
transaction between her husband and ,Mrs. S. J. Metcalfe, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

sole surviving residuary legatee of Miss Eliza H. Young, and
complainant, an. undivided four ninths of that note and mortgage, being the individual indebtedness of her husband thereon,
was assigned to her by Mrs. Metcalfe by express warranty; that
a new note was then made and delivered to her and accepted
by her in replacement of her paraphernal moneys and property, so secured and converted by her husband. It was further
averred that in 1881 complainant brought suit against her
husband for a dissolution of the community and a separation
of property in the ninth district court in the parish of Tensas,
and obtained judgment therein on the -

day of -

for said

sum of $7500 and interest, with a recognition of her mortgage
on the property described and a decree dissolving the community of acquets and gains between them; that in 1882, her
husband desiring to execute a mortgage on the property in
favor of Nalle & Co. to secure advances of money and supplies to enable him to carry on certain planting operations, at
the request of Nalle & Co., applied to complainant to renounce
her prior right of mortgage in favor of 1{alle & Co., by
authorizing the cancelling and erasure of the inscription of
the mortgage transferred to her by Mrs. Metcalfe, so as to
give Kalle & Co. the first mortgage; that Nalle & Co. refused
to make any advances until given priority of rank; that for
that purpose complainant executed a mandate and power of
attorney authorizing the cancelling and erasure of her mortgage, and "upon such authority the said mortgage was
attempted to be cancelled;" that the mortgage to Kalle &
Co. was then executed by her husband; and that the inscription of her mortgage was then renewed. Petitioner then
alleged that at the October term, 1886, a decree was rendered
at the suit of Nalle & Co. against her husband for the foreclosure of their mortgage, the amount of indebtedness fixed,
and the sale of the property ordered.; that final process was
issued in execution of that decree, and in obedience thereto
the marshal advertised the property for sale for cash on Satur(lay, July 2, 1887; that on that day the property was appraised according to the requirements of the Louisiana law,
and offered to the highest bidder for cash at not less than two-

INATE v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

thirds of the appraised value, which had been placed at the
sum of $6000, and, no bid having been made, was advertised
for sale on a credit of twelve months; that on July 30, 1887,
her husband, as defendant, served notice and protest on the
marshal of the prior 'incumbrance in favor of complainant
for $7500 and interest, and that any sale for a price less than
the amount of such prior incumbrance w6uld be invalid; that
notwithstanding the notice and protest the- marshal, acting
under the direction of Nalle & Co.'s solicitor, accepted the
bid of one of them for $2000. Complainant charged that her
attempted renunciation of her rights authorizing the erasure
of her mortgage was of no effect under the laws of Louisiana,
and set forth the grounds on which that charge was based;
that her mortgage was the first incumbrance and superior to
the mortgage in favor of Nalle & Co.; that no sale could be
made to a purchaser for less than the amount of such mortgage; and that the attempted sale was absolutely null and
void. It was further averred that Nalle & Co. pretended to
have paid the taxes on the mortgaged property for the years
1882, 1883, 1884, 1885, and 1886, amounting to the sum of
$624.60, and to have become subrogated by such payments to
the privilege of mortgage existing in favor of the State and
parish, and claimed a priority of lien on the mortgaged premises in consequence of such payment and subrogation; that no
such taxes were legally due on the mortgaged property; and
that Nalle & Co. .and Mrs. Mary Kalle acquired no right by
such payment and attempted subrogation. The petition then
charged that the revenue acts of Louisiana, for 1880, 1882,
1884, and 1886, in pursuance of which these taxes were levied,
were unconstitutional and void as repugnant to the state constitution. It was further alleged that notwithstanding complainant had a first and prior incumbrance for $7500 and
interest, Nalle & Go. did not make complainant a party to the
foreclosure proceedings, according to the practice of the Circuit
Court as a court of equity, and had caused the proceedings to
be brought in disregard of complainant's rights, and had
endeavored to have the mortgaged property sold and adjudicated to one of themselves for a low price, 3te.; that if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

renunciation of complainant was invalid as charged, no valid
sale could be made for a price not exceeding the amount of
the prior mortgage, and the attempted sale would be null and
void; that if the renunciation for any reason not known to
the complainant was valid and binding, complainant was
entitled to redeem by paying the amount of the prior incumbrances, if any such there might be; and that for the purpose
of securing equitable protection, it had become necessary for
complainant to intervene in the foreclosure suit, and to oppose
the confirmation of the sale in order that a reference might
be made to determine the priority of liens and adjust all conflicting claims.
Petitioner therefore prayed to be allowed to file this intervention _pro interesse 8uo, and that Nalle & Co. (that is,
Flower and the heirs of Nalle) be summoned to answer by
writ of subpcena served on their solicitor; that the sale of the
mortgaged premises by the marshal on July 30, 1887, be not
confirmed but be set aside; that a reference be made to have
the priority of liens determined and all conflicting claims adjusted; that a valid title be assured to the purchaser, and a
sale made for the best interests of all concerned; that the
attempted renunciation of her mortgage in favor of 1Nalle &
Co. be declared null and void, and her mortgage recognized
as the first and superior incumbiance on thie property; that
the revenue acts of Louisiana for 1880, 1882, 1884, and 1886
be declared unconstitutional, null and void; that the taxes
levied in pursuance thereof be declared of no effect, and for
general relief. This intervention was not sworn to, and was
signed "Wade R. Young, solicitor." On the 24:th of October,
1887, Mrs. Young and her husband prayed to amend their
original petition by alleging that although Young removed
with his family from Louisiana to Mississippi in 1876, he did
not at that time establish a residence in Mississippi, and that
it was not until January, 1883, that he abandoned finally his
intention to return to Louisiana, renounced his residence and
citizenship there, and declared himself a citizen of Mississippi
with the intention of remaining permadiently.
The copy attached to the intervening petition showed an

KALILE v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

act of mortgage, March 18, 1868, by Wade R. Young,
William C. Young, and Margaret A. Young, of the parish of
Tensas, to Miss Eliza H. Young, to secure their certain promissory note for $11,250, payable with interest at eight per
cent one year after date, on the property in question, being
part of Lake St. Peter's plantation, with a confession of judgment; Mrs. B. F Liddell, wife of Wade R. Young, and Mrs.
Willie T. Evans, wife of William C. Young, ratifying .said act
of mortgage, and renouncing all their rights in the property
therein mortgaged, upon due examination separate and apart
from their husbands; and an acceptance by Eliza H. Young.
Upon the record of this mortgage in the parish of Tensas
appeared the cancellation of five ninths thereof, being the indebtedness of W. 0. Young, one of the mortgagors, and special legatee for M. A. Young, deceased, leaving four ninths of
the indebtedness of Wade R. Young for himself and as special legatee for M. A. Young, deceased, still unpaid; also the
cancellation and erasure of the mortgage to the extent of the
remaining four ninths on the 5th of June, 1882, under a power
of attorney signed by Wade IR.Young and his wife, Mrs. B. F.
Young, whereby Charles Young of the parish of "Tensas was
constituted and appointed attorney in fact with full and complete power in the name of Mrs. Young to cause the act of
mortgage to be cancelled and erased. This power of attorney
was executed June 1, 1882, in the presence of two witnesses,.
who signed the act with the parties, as did also the notary.
The cancellation and power of attorney were duly certified as
correct copies of the original as the same appeared on ifle and
of record in the office of the clerk of the ninth district court of
Tensas parish.
The act of transfer from Mrs. Metcalfe to Mrs. Young was
dated December 2, 1876, and stated that Mrs. Metcalfe, residing in the parish of Catahoula; Wade R. Young of the parish
of Concordia; and Mrs. B. F. Liddell, wife of Wade R. Young,
"herein represented by her special attorney and attorney in
fact, Volney M. Liddell, with a procuration hereto annexed,"
personally appeared before the notary and declared that
whereas Mrs. Metcalfe, as sole surviving residuary legatee of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Miss Eliza H. Young, was the holder and owner of the note of
Wade R. Young, William C. Young,- and Margaret A. Young
for the sum of $11,250, secured by act of mortgage; and
whereas Mrs. Metcalfe was indebted to Wade R. Young for
certain sums of money; and whereas Wade R. Young was
indebted to his wife, Mrs. B. F. Liddell, for $7500, the dotal
and paraphernal property of his wife, received by him, and
converted to his own use, for the repayment of which his wife
had a legal mortgage on the interest of her husband in his
father's estate; therefore Mrs. Metcalfe transferred and assigned to Mrs. Young four ninths interest in said promissory
note and mortgage, being the portion thereof due by Wade R.
Young, and bearing on this interest in the St. Peter plantation,
and warranted the validity thereof ; and Wade IR.Young declared that in consideration of the transfer and warranty by
Mrs. Metcalfe, he thereby acknowledged the receipt of the
four ninths interest of the note and mortgage, and granted to
Mrs. Metcalfe an acquittance pro tant6 of the sums due by
her to him; and Mrs. Young declared that she accepted the
transfer and assignment of said four ninths interest, and, in
consideration thereof, and of the warranty by Mrs. Metcalfe
of the validity of the note and mortgage, joined her husband
"in so far as the mortgage accorded to her by law to secure
the repayment of her paraphernal funds may bear upon the
interest of her said husband in the succession of his deceased
father, in giving to the said Mrs. S. J. Metcalfe an acquittance
and release _pro tank of the sum due by her." This was
signed by Wade R. Young, V. M. Liddell, attorney; S. J.
Metcalfe, two witnesses, and the notary public, and a certificate was attached by the recorder of Catahoula parish that
the foregoing was a true and correct copy of the original act
of transfer and agreement on file in his office and recorded in
its records December 6, 1876. There was also a certificate,
under date of October 18, 1887, of the clerk of the ninth district court of Tensas parish that the foregoing was a true and
correct copy of the copy of the act of transfer and agreement,
"as the same now appear on file in my office and of record
there." The copy of the judgment of Mrs. Young against
her husband was as follows:

NALLE v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

9th District Cour, Parish of Tensas.
"Mrs. Bethias.3
F. Liddell
) No. 3050.
N
husband.
Wade R. Young, her
"In this case a regular trial was had after issue joined, and
the law and the evidence being in favor of the plaintiff and
against the defendant, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that there be judgment of separation, dissolving the community of acquets and gains between the plaintiff, Mrs.
Bethia F. Liddell, and the defendant, Wade R. Young, and
that the said plaintiff do have and recover judgment against
the defendant for the sum of $7500, seven thousand five hundred dollars, with a recognition of her mortgage on the property described in the petition, and that the same be sold to
satisfy
judgment and costs.
"Thussaiddone,
read, and signed in open court this 9th day
of July, 1881.
WADE H. HOUGH,
"Judge 9th District."
This was certified to by the clerk of the ninth district
court as "a true and correct copy of original judgment rendered in suit of ' Bethia F. Liddell vs. Wade R.Young, her
husband,' as the same appears on file and of record in my
office in mortgage book '0,' page 64:9 et seg., on June 5,
1882."
On the same day the intervening petition was filed, Young
filed what was entitled an "opposition to confirmation of
sale," in which it was alleged that plaintiffs had attempted
to proceed according to the practice of the courts of Louisiana, and in doing so had violated the rules and practice prescribed in the conduct of equity cases in the Circuit Court;
that there was a want of parties; that there existed a prior
incumbrance on the property fully equal to or exceeding its
value, and that by the laws of Louisiana no valid sale of the
property could be made for a price not exceeding the amount
of such -prior incumbrance. He then set forth the mortgage
of 1868 in favor of Miss Eliza H. Young, to secure the $11,250
note; the transaction between Mrs. Metcalfe, his wife and him-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
, Statement of the Case.

self of 186; the judgment of 1881 in favor of his wife for
$7500; the renunciation by his wife of her prior right of mortgage in favor of Nalle & Co.; and the execution of the mortgage to Nalle & Co. to secure the payment of his note for
$1632.61, with interest at eight per cent until paid; and
charged the renunciation to have been invalid. The rendition of decree in favor of Nalle & Co. against defendant for
the foreclosure of their mortgage; the issue of final process
in execution of the decree, and the proceedings and sale
thereunder, were rehearsed at length, as in the intervening
petition; and it was averred that his wife's mortgage was a
first incumbrance, and that no sale or adjudication could be
made to a purchaser for less than the amount of the mortgage. It was further alleged that the marshal in the second
advertisement of the property for sale on twelve months'
credit required the purchaser out of the price to deduct and
pay in cash an amount for printing, marshal's fees, and clerk's
fees, as well as taxes due on the property, and that much the
largest amount required to be paid was claimed by Kalle &
Co., or one of them, for taxes alleged to have been paid by
them or him on the property, the legality of which was contested by defendant and by his wife; that this requirement
was an oppressive and unjust act towards the mortgagor, and
deterred a purchaser with whom defendant had arranged to
buy; and other irregularities were set forth. As to the claim
of the-payment of taxes for the years 1882, 1883, 1884, and
1885, and as to the taxes pretended to be due for -the year
1886, the payment of which the marshal -made a condition
precedent to the accepting of any bid, no taxes were due
and no necessity existed for the payment thereof, and that
Kalle & Co. acquired no rights by such payment and subrogation, and thereupon the grounds on which the illegality
was charged were given at considerable length. Defendant prayed that the sale .be not confirmed and be set aside;
that his wife be made or allowed to become a party to the
suit; that a reference be made to a master to settle the priority of liens; that the renunciation of his wife be declared invalid, and her mortgage for $7500 and interest be decreed the

l

EA'L
v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

first lien on the property and prior in rank to 1Nalle. & Co.;
that the revenue acts of Louisiana for the years 1880, 1882,
1884, and 1886 be decreed unconstitutional, null, and void,
and the inscription of the mortgage to secure the taxes be
erased as a cloud, and for general relief. And he further
prayed that, if it be determined that the sale was a valid
sale, he might be allowed to redeem by.paying to complainants the.amount of the debt, interest, and- costs, and such
other sums as might be found to be legally due.
Defendant also filed what he styled a cross-bill against the
marshal, Mrs. Mary Kalle, and her husband Golson, and Nalle
& Co., alleging the sale of the property by the marshal and
the acceptance of the bid of Mrs. MAry Nalle, notwithstanding a written protest by defendant against the acceptance of
any bid not exceeding $7500, the amount of the prior incumbrance; that the marshal attempted to transfer the possession
of the property to INalle & Co., or Mrs. Mary Nalle for them,
by giving complainants' solicitor an order to take such possession; and that the marshal and Mrs. Mary Nalle were now
seeking to evict defendant- from the possession of his property,
and were trespassing ,thereon, all of which was without color
of right; that the marshal had no power to pass the title to
Mrs. N alle until the oppositions to the sale had been tried and
determined and the sale confirmed, and that, even if he had,
the sale was absolutely null and void because the amount of
the bid did not exceed the amount of the prior special mortgage; and prayed for an injunction, whereupon a restraining
order was issued, and subsequently a writ of injunction.
Nalle & Co. demurred to the petition of intervention, and
moved to dismiss the opposition and dissolve the injunction..
The motion was'denied and the demurrer overruled. Thereupon Nalle & Co.answered the intervening petition of Mrs.
Young and the cross-bill and opposition to confirmation of
sale of Wade R. Young, alleging that Mrs. Young was, at the
time of the erasure and cancellation of her alleged mortgage,
to wit, June 1, 1882, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, and
as such sui juris in every respect, having, under the laws of
said State, full capacity as a feme sole to make any contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

whatever; denying that Wade R. Young moved his family
to the State of Mississippi in 1876 with the intention of retaining, or that he did retain, either an actual or constructive
domicil in the State of Louisiana; averring that the alleged
agreement between 'Mrs. B. F. Young and Mrs. Metcalfe and
Wade R. Young, under date of December, 1876, was null and
void for reasons given; and that Mrs. Young and Wade R.
Young were in equity and good conscience estopped from
setting up her alleged mortgage. Wade R. Young and his
wife filed a replication to the answer of Nalle & Co. and
others "to the cross-bill and intervening petition."
The case came on to be heard "upon the cross-bill and
opposition to the confirmation of the sale and the intervening
petition" and the various papers heretofore referred to were
offered in evidence as well as sundry depositions, and "generally everything of record in the suit." On June 9, 1890, the
court entered a decree, whereby it was "ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that the sale of the mortgaged property made
by the marshal, in pursuance and execution of the foreclosure
decree, be set aside, cancelled, and avoided. And it is further
ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the attempted renunciation by the intervening petitioner, Mrs. Bethia F. Young, of
her special mortgage on the property, was and is invalid and
of no effect, and that said mortgage be recognized as the first
mortgage on the property, superior in rank to the mortgage
of the plaintiffs, E. Nalle & Co., and entitled to be paid by
preference. And it is further ordered that the plaintiffs, E.
Nalle & Co., pay the costs of the sale and-of these proceedings."
From this decree Nalle & Co. and Mrs. Mary Golson, as
purchaser, appealed to this court.
21r. Ghrles J Joatnerfor appellants.
Mr. Wade R?. Y-oung for himself and Mrs. Young, defendants in error.

MI. CHEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

WAIiLE v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

The proceedings in the state court were ordinary and not
executory, and in the Circuit Court the petition stood as a bill
in equity to foreclose a mortgage. The decree of November
6, 1886, was a final decree, and the execution may be regarded
as the equivalent of a direction to a master or commissioner
to make sale in the enforcement thereof. Under the civil code
and code of practice of Louisiana judicial sales are cqnducted
by the sheriff or other public officer in the manner minutely
described, and adjudicated to the purchaser, who thereupon
becomes the owner of the article adjudged. Civil Code, Art.
2601 to Art. 2621; Code of Prac. 663 et sey. But in an equity
foreclosure in a Circuit Court, while the requirements of the
'state law should be complied with and the forms of proceeding
pursued as nearly as practicable, it is proper for the officer who
makes the sale to make a report or return to the court for confirmation. Resitance to such confirmation may be made, under
circumstances, and this sometimes results in the setting aside
of the sale and an order for a resale. But the scope of these
pleadings was much wider. To the confirmation of the sale the
defendant, indeed, interposed objections, waiving any formal
report for confirmation, but they were not passed upon by the
Circuit Court independently of defendant's alleged cross-bill
and the petition of Mrs. Young in intervention and these papers
may all be considered together, as they were by the Circuit
Court, and so treated they constituted in effect an independent
suit brought by Young and his wife to set aside the sale and
have the alleged mortgage of the wife declared the prior incumbrance and enforced; or for redemption.
The objections in respect of alleged irregularities in the
conduct of the sale, or the invalidity of certain taxes and the
requirement of their payment, need not be considered, as they
are not sustained by the record, and mere informalities or irregularities in a judicial sale in Louisiana do not constitute a
sufficient ground for setting it aside. Stoc eyer v. Tobi, 139
U. S. 176.
The principal objection.to the sale was the insufficiency of
the bid at which the property was disposed of, and that objection will be first examined.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Under Articles 679, 683, and 684 of the code of practice of
Louisiana, when there exists a special conventional mortgage
or privilege on the property put up for sale, the property is
sold subject thereto, and the purchaser pays to the officer so
much of the price as exceeds "the amount of the privileges
and special mortgages to which such property is subject;"
and, in case of sale on twelve months' credit, if there exist
on the property any privileges or special mortgage, in favor
of other persons than the judgment creditor, and who are
preferred to him, the purchaser is entitled to retain in his
hands out of the price the amount required to satisfy the
privileged debts and special hypothecations to which the
property sold was subject, but is bound to give his obligation
for the surplus of the purchase money, if there be any, and
subscribe his obligation at twelve months' credit, with security; but if the price offered is not sufficient to discharge the
privileges and mortgages existing on the property, having a
preference over -the judgment creditor, there shall be no adjudication, and other property, if there be any, shall be seized.
If, therefore, the mortgage claimed by Mrs. Young was conventional or special, and had been properly recorded and not
legally renounced, and it was prior to that of Nalle & Co., no
sale of the mortgaged property could be made under the junior
incumbrance of the latter, unless the price bid was sufficient
to discharge the prior lien. But if the prior mortgage was
legal or judicial, this requirement did not apply, and the
property passed to the purchaser subject to the payment of
the prior lien. Alford v. .Montejo, 28 La. Ann. 593; Godchux v. Dicarry'sSuccession, 34 La. Ann. 579.
The Circuit Court held that the mortgage asserted by Mrs.
Young was a special mortgage, which took precedence over
that of Nalle & Co.; that her renunciation was void, and, the
price bid not being sufficient to discharge this prior special
mortgage, that the sale could not be confirmed and must be
set aside.
By the civil code, the partnership or community of acquets
and gains exists between husband and wife by operation of
law, unless otherwise stipulated in the contract. The separate

NALLE v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

property of the wife is that which she "brings into the marriage, or acquires during the marriage by inheritance or by
donation made to her particularly," and "is divided into
dotal and extra dotal. Dotal, property is that which the wife
brings to the husband to assist him in bearing the expenses of
the marriage establishment. Extra dotal property, otherwise
called paraphernal property, is that which forms no part of
the dowry." Fleias v. Richardson, No. 2, 14:7 U. S. 550.
553; Arts. 2332, 2399, 2334, 2335.
By Article 2337, "by dowry is meant the effects which the
wife -brings to the husband to support the expenses of the
marriage."
Article 2383 declares: "All property, which is not declared
to be brought in marriage, by the wife, or to be given to her
in consideration of the marriage or to belong to her at the
time of the marriage, is paraphernal."
Mrs. Young claimed an indebtedness on the part of her
husband to her, arising from his having received the proceeds of a life insurance policy on the life of her father iM
her favor for $5000, and the additional sum of $2500, being
an amount which came to her from her father's estate, and
was received by him. This was paraphernal property. The
wife has a legal. mortgage on the property of her husband,
"for the restitution or reimbursement of her paraphernal
property." Art. 3319. "Conventional mortgage is that which
depends on covenants. Legal mortgage is that which is created by operation of law. Judicial mortgage is that which
results from judgments." Art. 3287. A legal mortgage results. by operation of law, and "no legal mortgage shall
exist, except in the cases determined by the present code."
Arts. 3311, 3312.
Art. 2376 declares that the wife has a legal mortgage on
the property of her husband for the restitution of her dowry
as well as for the replacement of her dotal effects; and by
Art. 2379 it is provided that, during the marriage, the husband may, with the consent of his wife, "be authorized by
the judge, with the advice of five of the nearest relations of
the wife, or friends, for want of relations, to mortgage, spe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

cially for the preservation of his wife's rights, the immovables
which he shall designate; and then, the surplus of his property shall be free from any legal mortgage in favor of his
wife;" while Art. 2390 is as follows: "The wife may alienate her paraphernal property with the authorization of her
husband, or in case of refusal or absence of .the husband,
with the authorization of the judge; but should it be proved
that the husband has received the amount of the paraphernal
property thus alienated by his wife, or otherwise disposed of
the same for his individual interest, the wife shall have a
legal mortgage on all the property of her husband for the
reimbursing of the same. The husband may release the mass
of his property from this legal mortgage, by executing a special mortgage in the manner required in the preceding section, for dotal effects." Thus it appears that a legal mortgage
on all the husband's property exists until a special mortgage
is executed according to the foregoing provisions, and the law
does not contemplate a legal and a special mortgage existing
at the same time. And the legal mortgage of the wife to
affect third persons must be recorded in the office of mortgages for the parish where the property lies. Arts. 3342 to
3349.
Mrs. Young must either stand upon her legal mortgage
resulting from the receipt of her paraphernal property, and
recognized by the judgment of July 9, 1881, decreeing a separation of property, or a judicial mortgage arising from that
judgment, or on the contract between herself and Mrs. Metcalfe, by which Mrs. Metcalfe purported to transfer to her an
indebtedness due by Wade R. Young, secured on the property
in controversy. If her mortgage be legal or judicial, its existence would not be a bar to the confirmation of a sale for
an amount insufficient to satisfy it; and, moreover, it could
not rank the special conventional mortgage of Nalle & Co.,
because it was not recorded until subsequently.
It is, indeed, insisted that it was altogether invalid under
Art. 2428: "The separation of property, although decreed by
a court of justice, is null, if it has not been executed by the
payment of the rights and claims of the wife, made to appear

NALLE v. YOUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

by an authentic act, as far as the estate of the husband can
meet them, or at least by a bona fide non-interrupted suit to
obtain payment." Chaffee v. Sheen, 34 La. Ann. 684, 690;
Nachman v. Ze Blanc, 28 La. Ann. 345, 346; Bertie v. Walker,
1 Rob. (La.) 431, 432. But this becomes immaterial, as whatever rights, if any, might be claimed under it, it could have
no effect as against Nalle & Co. for want of record.
According to Arts. 3345 and 3349, all mortgages, whether
conventional, legal or judicial, are required to be recorded as
provided, and the preservation of the legal mortgage or privilege in favor of a married woman depends on the record of
the evidence of her mortgage or privilege in the mortgage
book of the parish where the property is situated; and that
evidence, if not by written instrument, must consist of "a
written statement, under oath, made by the married woman,
or her husband, or any other person having knowledge of the
facts, setting. forth the amount due to the wife, and detailing
all the facts and circumstances on which her claim is based."
There was no.such evidence as last named here, and no such
inscription until after the mortgage to lalle & Co. had been
*given and registered. , Lovell v. Cragin, 136 U. S. 130, 14:9.
The transaction between Mrs. M etcalfe, Young, and is.
Young appears- to have been that Mrs. Metcalfe being indebted to Young, and Young indebted to Mrs. Metcalfe, the respective debts were discharged by agreement and compensated
each other, but that it was agreed that Young's indebtedness
to Mrs. Metcalfe should be kept alive for .the benefit of Mrs.
Young, upon the consideration on Mrs. Young's part of the
release of her paraphernal claims against.her husband. Conpensation bad, however, taken place and the two debts were
reciprocally extinguished. Arts. 2130y.2207, 2208.
This was the necessary effect by operation of law, and when
the principal obligation was discharged the mortgage fell with
it and would not be revived though the indebtedness were reacknowledged in favor of another. Smith v. MG Waters, 22
La. Ann. 431, 432; Davidson v. Carroll, 20 La. Ann. 199;
•Schinkel v. Hanewinkel, 19 La. Ann. 260.
Again, contracts between husbaind and wife are forbidden
VOL. CLX-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in Louisiana except as specified. Contracts of sale between
them "can take place only in the three following cases:
1. When one of the spouses makes a transfer of property to
the other, who is judicially separated from him or her, in payment of his or her rights. 2. When the transfer made by the
husband to his wife, even though not separated, as a legitimate
cause, as the replacing of her dotal or other effects alienated.
3. When the wife makes a transfer of property to her husband, in payment of a sum promised to him as a dowry."
Arts. 1790, 2446 ; Carrollv. Cockerham, 38 La. Ann. 813, 824.
This transaction was an attempt to extinguish the wife's
general mortgage by the transfer of the special mortgage of
a third party, satisfied by the act as between the immediate
parties thereto, and if it could be done at all, it could only be
when taking place in accordance with Articles 2379 and 2390,
and recorded as required by Article 3345 ; and, as already seen,
these articles were not complied with.
But were this otherwise, the judgment of 1881 did not
recognize her alleged special mortgage, which recognition was
evidently not prayed for, and recognized only her legal mortgage in complete disregard of her special mortgage if she had
had any.
The rendition of judgment for all her paraphernal claims
without any recognition of a special conventional mortgage
to secure them would seem to have concluded the fact that
none such then existed, or at least furnishes such persuasive
proof thereof as must be controlling on this record. .NYicolson
v. Citizens' Bank, 27 La. Ann. 369.
Conceding, then, that the renunciation by Mrs. Young in
favor of Nalle & Co. was ineffectual, her legal or judicial mortgage, if outstanding, was nevertheless subordinate to their
mortgage and not entitled to precedence. In the jurisprudence of Louisiana, and under the statutes of that State, the
right of redemption from a decree in foreclosure does not obtain. If a prior mortgage exists, the prior mortgagee is not
a necessary party, and purchasers take subject to the prior lien.
If there be a subsequent mortgage, the prior mortgage containing the vact de non alienando as Nalle & Co.'s mortgage

