WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. C(EUR D'AL.ENE R'Y. 77
Syllabus.

attached to the proof was a matter for the jury, but it was
clearly 'rebuttal testimony, and its admissibility as such is
covered by the ruling in -Moore v. United States, ubi s pra.
The four errors assigned as to the charge of the court do
not complain of the charge intrinsically but are based upon
the assumption that, although correct, it was misleading and
tended to cause the jury to disregard the testimony offered by
the defendant to establish an alibi. But the charge in substance instructed the jury to consider all the evidence and all
the circumstances of the case, and if a reasonable doubt existed
to acquit. If the accused wished specific charges as to the
weight in law to be attached to testimony introduced to
establish an alibi, it was his privilege to request the court to
give them. No such request was made, and, therefoe, the
assignments of error are without merit. Texas & Paci Fc
Railway v. 'Folk, 151 U. S. 73, 78.

WASHINGTON & IDAHO RAILROAD COMPANY -v.
C(EUIR D'ALENE RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 585. Argued November 1, 14, 1895.-Decided December 2, 1895.

An action commenced May 27, 1889, in the District Court of the Territory
of Idaho, before the admission of Idaho as a State, by a corporation
organized under the laws of Washington Territory against a corporation organized under the laws of Montana Territory, and against a railroad company organized under the laws of the United States, upon
which latter company service had been made and filed, was, after the
admission of Idaho as a State, removable to the Circuit Court of the
United States for that circuit both upon the ground of diversity
of citizenship of the territorial corporations, and upon the ground that
the railroad company was incorporated under a law of the United States;

and, so far as the latter ground of removal is concerned, it is not affected
by the fact that the railroad company afterwards ceased to take an
active part in the case, as the jurisdictional question must be determined
by the record at the time of the transfer.
The provision in the act of March 8, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, granting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
right of way through the public lands of the United States to any railroad duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory, which
shall have filed with the Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles
of incorporation and due proofs of its organization under the same,
llainly means that no corporation can acquire a right of way upon a
line not described in its charter, or articles of incorporation.
When a court of law is construing an instrument, whether a public law or
a private contract, it is legitimate, if two constructions are fairly possible, to adopt that one which equity would favor.

Ow:May 15, 1889, the Washington and Idaho Railroad Company, describing itself as a corporation duly organized under
the laws of Washington Territory, brought an action of ejectment in the District Court of the First Judicial District of
the Territory of Idaho against the Cceur d'Alene Railway and
Navigation Company, as a corporation duly organized under
the laws of Montana Territory and the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, as a corporation duly organized under
the laws of the United States. The complainant alleged that,
on the 10th day of July, 1887, the plaintiff was lawfully possessed, as owner in fee simple, of a certain tract of land situated in Shoshone County, Idaho Territory, being the right of
way of plaintiff's railroad, consisting of a strip of land two
hundred feet in width and about four thousand feet in length;
that the defendant, the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, on the 1st -day of August, 1887, entered into
possession of the demanded premises, and ousted and ejected
the plaintiff therefrom; that the defendant, the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, claimed to be in possession of said
premises as a tenant of the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, and was actually in the possession of said
premises at the time of the institution of the suit; that the
value of the rents, issues, and profits 6f the said premises while
the plaintiff was excluded therefrom is five thousand dollars;
that the plaintiff was still the owner in fee simple and entitled to the possession of said premises; and plaintiff demanded
judgment against the said defendants for the possession of the
demanded premises, and for the sum of six thousand dollars
as damages.
A writ of summons against the defendants was sued out

WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. C(EUR D'ATENE RIY.

79

Statement of the Case.

and, on the 27th day of May, 1889, was returned as .served on
the-said defendants, by the'delivery of a copy thereof to their
authorized agent. On May 31, 1889, the separate answer, of
the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigaton Company was filed,
denying the plaintiff's title,' and claiming that defendant had,
in good faith, and without any knowledge that the plaintiff
claimed any interest therein,- entered into possession of the
described laud and, i the belief that it was the owner thereof,
had constructed thereon its railroad and its depot, at an expense exceeding seven thousand, dollars;, that the plaintiff
knew that the defendant was 'constructing its railroad and
depot as aforesaid,, and permitted the same to be done without malng any claim to said premises, wherefore defendant
claimed judgment that the plaintiff should take nothing by
the action; that the plaintiff ' should be declared to be
estopped from claiming title, to said premises; and that the
defendant should have such other and further relief as should
be just and equitable.
On the 3d day of July, 1890, by virtue of an act of Congress
of that date, the said Territory o f Idaho became a.State; and
on August 27, 1890, the defendants filed a petition inthe-District Court of thelFirst Judicial District of the State of Idalifi,
praying for the removal of said case to the Circuit Court of
the United States Ninth Circuit, in and for the District of
Idaho; and the case was s6 proceeded in that, on December 6,
1892, a final judgment was entered, adjudging that the plaintiff, the Washington and Idaho Railroad Company, should
take nothing by -the action, and that the defendant, the Cceur
d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, -should have judgment against the said plaintiff for its costs.
. The trial.in-the Circuit Court wasby the court,. a jury having been waived by both parties. The court made the following findings of facts:
"First. That on the 6th day of JSily, 1886, the defendant,
the Coeur d'Alene Railway and :Navigation Company, filed
its articles of incorporation in the office of the secretary of
the Territory (now State) of Montana, and also filed in the
office of the county clerk and recorder of the county of. Lewis

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and Clarke, in said Territory, a certified copy of its said articles of incorporation, which articles of incorporation are, in
words and figures, following, to wit:
t8:
"'Territory of Montana,
County of Lewis and Clarke, I
"' We, Daniel C. Corbin, Samuel T. Hauser, Anton H. Holter, of the city of Helena, in the county of Lewis and Clarke,
Territory of Montana; Stephen S. Glidden, of Spokane Falls,
Washington Territory; James F. Wardner, of Wardner, in
the Territory of Idaho; James Monaghan, of Coeur d'Alene,
Idaho Territory; and Alfred M. Esler, of said Helena, Montana,
do by these presents, pursuant to and in conformity with article
3 of chapter 15 of the Revised Statutes of Montana, entitled
"railroad corporations," and all acts supplemental thereto or
amendatory thereof, associate ourselves together and form a
corporation for the purpose of locating, constructing, maintaining, and operating railroads in the Territories of Montana and
Idaho, and to that end we do hereby certify as follows:
"'First. The name of such corporation by which it shall
be known shall be "The Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company."
"'ISecond. The termini of said railroad are to be located
in the county of Missoula, Territory of Montana, and in the
counties of Kootenai and Shoshone, in the Territory of Idaho,
and, if said corporation shall so determine, termini may also
be located in the county of lNez Perces, in said Territory of
Idaho; said railroad shall pass through said counties of Missoula, Kootenai, and Shoshone, and if said corporation shall
so determine, then said railroad shall also pass through said
county of Nez Perces, and the general route of said railroad
shall be as follows: Commencing at or near the town of
Thompson's Falls, in said county of Missoula, or at some convenient point between said Thompson's Falls and the western
boundary line of said Territory of Montana; thence running
westerly or southwesterly to that certain tributary of Cceur
d'Alene River known as the South Fork; thence down the
South Fork and Cceur d'Alene River to Old Mission, connecting with steamboats or- other- water craft, to be owned and

WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. CCEUR D'ALENE R'Y.

81

Statement of the Case.

operated by' said corporation, said steamboats or other craft.
to ply between said Old Mission and the town of Coeur d'Alene;
and, if said corporation shall so determine, then said railroad
shall again commence at said town of Cceur d'Alene, and run
northwesterly to Rathdrum, in said county of Kootenai, or
such point on the line of the Northern Pacific railroad between Rathdrum and the western boundary of Idaho Territory
as said corporation may hereafter determine, with the right
.and privilege, if said corporation shall see proper, to run a
branch or extension of said road in a southerly direction from
said Shoshone County to the said county of Nez Perces; said
steamboats or other water craft between .thepoints in that behalf
above specified, to be used in connection with and as constituting a part of said railroad.
S Thrd. The amount of capital stock necessary to construct such roads, including said connections, is five hundred
thousand dollars, divided into five thousand shares of one hun
dred dollars each.
"'Fourth. The principal place of business of said corporation in the Territory of Montana shall be at Helena, in the
county of Lewis and Clarke, and principal place of business of
said corporation in the Territory of Idaho shall, until otherwise fixed by the board of directors of said corporation, be at
Cceur d'Alene, in the said county of Kootenai.'
"Second. That the line of route of -the railroad of the said
Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, as described
in said article of incorporation, passes over and includes the
ground in controversy in this action.
"Third. That on the 20th day of July, 1.886, the defendant,
the Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, filed in
the office of the Secretary of the Interior, at Washington,
D. C., a certified copy of its said articles of incorporation, and
proofs of its organization under the laws of the Territory
(now State) of Montana, °which certified copy of articles of
-incorporation and proofs of organization, were duly approved
on that day by the honorable Secretary of the Interior.
"Fourth. That in the summer and fall of 1886 the deVOL. CLX-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

fendant, the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company,
constructed its railroad over said line of route as described in
said articles of incorporation, from the said Old Mission up
the main Cceur d'Alene River to the town of Kingston, and
thence up the South Fork of the Oceur d'Alene River to the
town of Wardner Junction, a distance of about fourteen miles;
and that in the month of October, 1886, the said defendant,
the Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, for the
purpose of extending its line of railroad, caused a survey to be
made for its-said line of railroad from said Wardner Junction,
-up the said fork of the Oceur d'Alene River, over the line
described in its said articles of incorporation, through the
towns of Wallace and Mullen, and marked the centre line of
said road upon the ground by planting stakes at each station at
one hundred feet, and at such other points as there were
angles in the line, so that the line of route of said road could
be readily traced upon the ground, and that the said surveying
and marking of said line was completed on the 31st day of
October, 1886. That in making said survey the engineers of
said Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company ran
three lines through said town of Wallace, called lines 'A,'
' B, and 'C,' said lines ' A' and ' B ' both being on the south
side of the South Fork of the Cour d'Alene River, and the said
line 'C ' being on the north side of said river, and being the
line upon which the railroad of the Cour d'Alene Railway
and Navigation Company was afterwards constructed, and
upon the ground now in controversy in this action. That in
the month October, 1886, and about one week after the commencement of the said survey by the engineers of the said Cceur
d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, W. H. Burrage,
an en gineer, with a party of assistaiits claiming to be acting
for the plaintiff, commenced surveying a line of route for a
railroad from near the town of Wardner, up the South Fork
of the Cour d'Alene River, to- the said town of Mullen, and
that, in making said survey, the said Burrage and the party
assisting him were several days and several miles behind the
engineers surveying for the defendant, the Cour d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company; and that in surveying their

WASIL & IDAHO R'D v. CCEUR D'IA

NE RIY.

8&

Statement of the Case.

line through the town of Wallace, said Barrage surveyed the
same on the north side of said river and over the ground in controversy; and that said Burrage and party also marked their
line in a similar manner to what the engineers of-the Occeur
d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company had done, and that
said Burrage and party completed their survey on the 5th day
of November, 1886, and that said portion of said line run by
said Barrage over the ground in controversy was run on the
28th day of October, 1886, and that said line 'C' run by the
engineers of the said Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation
Company over the land in controversy was ran on the 29th
day of October, 1886; and that all of the parts of the line of
the Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, except
said,line ' C,' were run and marked prior to the line run by
the said Burrage, said line I C' being run by the engineers of.
the Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company as an
amendment after they had completed the survey to the town
of Mullen.,
".Fifth. That in the summer and fall of 1881 the defendant,
the Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, extended
its road from the town of Wardner Junction over its line of
survey, a point about one mile east of the town of Wallace,
and over said line I C,' the ground in controversy in this action,
through the town of Wallace; and at all times thereafter, up
'to and at the time of the commencement of this' action, occupied and used the same as a railroad and for railroad purposes;
and at the time of the commencement of this action had its
roadbed and track, and side tracks and depot thereon, and
was using the same exclusively for railroad purposes.
"Sixth. That at all the times above mentioned the lands in
controversy, and all other lands along the.line .of said railroad of the defendant, the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, as described in its articles of incorporation,
were unsurveyed public~lands of the United States.
"Seventh. That on the 7th day of July, .1886, the articles
of incorporation of the plaintiff, -the Washington and Idaho
Railroad Company were filed in the office of the secretary of
the Territory (now State) of Washington;, that by said articles

OCTOBER .TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of incorporation so filed the plaintiff was authorized to construct a railroad from the town of Farmington, in Washington
Territory, by the most practical route in general northerly
direction, to a point at or near the town of Spokane Falls (now
Spokane), in said Washington Territory, together with the
following branch lines tributary -thereto: From a junction
with the said main line at the forks of Hangman Creek,
near Lone Pine, in said Washington Territory, in a general
northeastern direction, across the Cceur d'Alene Indian reservation, to a point near the mouth of St. Joseph's River on Oceur
d'Alene Lake; thence in a northerly direction along the east
side of Oceur d'Alene Lake to the Oceur d'Alene River; thence
in a general easterly direction to Ceur d'Alene River; thence
in a general easterly direction to Coceur d'Alene mission;
thence in a southeasterly direction, by the valley of the South
Fork of the Oceur d'Alene River to Wardner, in Idaho Territory. Second. From a junction with said main line, at or near
the town of Spangle, in Washington Territory, in a generally
northeasterly direction, to a point on Coeur d'Alene Lake, about
five miles north of the mouth of the Cceur d'Alene River, in
said Idaho Territory, and to maintain and operate such railroads and telegraph lines and branches thereof, carry freight
and passengers thereon, and receive tolls therefor.
"Eighth. That the said line of railroad, as described in
the said articles of incorporation of the plaintiff, nor any of
the branches thereof, did not cover or include the ground in
controversy, or any part thereof, or of the valley of the South
Fork of the Coceur d'Alene River adjacent thereto; that the
eastern terminus of the said branch of railroad running in the
direction of the town of Wallace, as described in said articles,
was at the town of Wardner, a distance of about fifteen miles
westerly from the town of Wallace and from the land in controversy herein.
"Ninth. That afterwards, to wit, on the 10th day of November, 1886, and after the completion of said survey by said
Burrage, and the said survey by the engineers of the defendant, the Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company,
over the premises in controversy herein, the plaintiff filed in

WASH. & IDAO R'D v. C(EUR D'AIJENE R'Y.

85

Statement of the Case.

the office of the secretary of the Territory (now State) of
Washington supplemental articles of incorporation, which
supplemental articles of incorporation provided for a branch
line of its railroad from the town of Milo (which is near Wardner), in Shoshone County, Idaho, following the..Squth Fork of
the ceur d'WAlene River to the town of Mullen, in Said Territory, a distance of about twenty miles, which extension would
pass over the premises in controversy.
"Tenth. That on the 22d day of December, 1886, the
plaintiff filed in the office of the Secretary of the Interior at
Washington, D. 0., a copy of its said articles of incorporation
and a copy of the statute of the Territory of Washington
under which the plaintiff's incorporation was made and proof
of its organization.
"Eleventh. That from the time of the making of the said
survey by said Burrage over the land in controversy, on the
28th day of October, 1886, until long. after the completion of
the railroad, side tracks, and depot of the defendant, the Oceur
d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, upon the ground
in controversy, neither the said Burrage nor the plaintiff, nor
any person for them or either of them, ever made any other
survey or did any other act upon the premises in controversy
or took any possession thereof; and that the first act done by
said Burrage or the plaintiff upon said premises thereafter
was the survey made thereon in the year 1888 by the plaintiff; and that at that time the railroad and the side track and
depot of the defendant, the OCeur d'Alene Railway and, Navigation Company, was fully constructed thereon, and had been
so constructed, and thereon, since the fall of 1887, and the defendant, the Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company,
was in full and complete operation and possession thereof and
of the grounds in controversy herein.
"Twelfth. That the public-surveys of the government were
not extended over the land through which said surveys were
made until in the month of Suly, 1891.
"Thirteenth. That on the 9th day of November, 1886, the
defendant, the Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company, fied in the United States land office at Cceur d'Alene,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Idaho, a map or profile of that portion of its railroad running
through the town of Wallace, which was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior December 3, 1886, and that upon
said map or profile said line 'B,' through said town of Wallace, was platted as the line of route of said road; that line
' C ' was in fact and intended to be a definite line of location
thereof, but that said line ' B ' was so platted by a mistake, and
that said mistake was not discovered until after the completion of said railroad and side track and depot upon and over
the ground in controversy herein, and that the filing of said
plat, showing said road to run over said line ' B,' was not done
for the purpose of in any manner deceiving the plaintiff or any
one else, but was done by a mistake as aforesaid, and that the
plaintiff was not in any manner misled or prejudiced by the
filing of said plat or by said mistake."
The case was taken, by a writ of error, to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where the judgment of the
Circuit Court was, on February 12, 1894, affirmed. 15 U. S.
App. 359. On February 4, 1895, by a writ of error of that
date, the case was brought to this court.
Mr.A. A. oehling, Jr., and Mr. Samuel Shellabarger,(with
whom were Mr. WF W. Cotton and M4
r. Jeremiah X. Wilson
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error, said, upon the question
of jurisdiction:
I. The fact that the Northern Pacific Company united with
the Cceur d'Alene Company in making the motion for the
removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the United States
did not make the Northern Pacific Company a party in the
case. Parrott v. Alabam Gold Life Ins. Co., 5 Fed. Rep.
391; A tchinson v. Morris, 11 Fed. Rep. 582; MIliner v. 3arkham, 28 Fed. Rep. 387; Perkins v. Eendryx, 40 Fed. Rep.
657; Golden v. Mlorning News Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 112 ; Clews
v. Woodstock iron Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 31; Bet'snider v. American &c. Publishing Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 433; Bentlif v. London
&c. Finance Corporation,44 Fed. Rep: 667; iallmanv. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,45 Fed. Rep. 156.

WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. CCEUR D'ALEXE R'Y.

81

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.II. The United States Circuit Court for the District of Idaho
had no jurisdiction to enter up judgment herein against the
plaintiff in error and in favor of the defendant in error.
Under the language of this act, the Federal courts created
by the act became the successors of the territorial courts only
in regard to the class of cases of which the Federal courts
might have had jurisdiction had such courts been in existence
at the time of the commencement of the action. Johnson v.
Bunker Hill .Mining Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 417.; Back v. Sierra
frevada Mining Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 673; Strasburgerv. Beecher,
44 Fed. Rep. 209.
Two things are necessary to give a court of the United
States jurisdiction over any particular action: First,-theaction
itself must be within the jurisdiction of the court; and second,
the jurisdictional facts must affirmatively appear in the record.
It is not enough-for the court to see from the evidence, or
know as a matter of fact, that it has jurisdiction; but such
jurisdiction must actually appear by suitable allegations in
the pleadings' or in the petition for removal, and unless such
jurisdiction affirmatively appears, then it is the duty of the
court to dismiss the action, although such jurisdiction may
actifally exist. Insurance Co. v. Pechner, 95 U..S. 183; Bobertaon v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646; Swan v. Manchester, Goldwater
&c. Railway, 111 U. S. 3T9; Parker v. Ormsby, 141 U. S.
81, 83; Crehore v. Ohio & Xissi84bi, Railway, 131 U..S.
240; Gold Washing Co., v: fKeyes, 96 U. S. 199; Gibls v.
Crandall, 120 U. S. 105.
The effect of §-18 of the- Idaho enabling act was to confer
jurisdiction on the state courts of all civil actions in which
the United States was not a party, unless a proper written
request showing the jurisdiction of the .United States court
was filed in the. proper .court, as required-by the act. On
familiar principles, such request for transfer,- in order to oust
the state couirt of jurisdiction and confer jurisdiction uponthe United States court; must necessarily show that the United
States court might have had jurisdiction: of the, action had
such court existed at the time of. the commencement, of such
case, as well as jurisdiction at the time whfen the action was

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

undertaken to be transferred. Johnson v. Bunker HillMining
Co., 46 Fed. IRep. 417; Back v. Sierra Vevada .Mining Co., 46
Fed. iRep. 673; Strasburgerv. Beecher, 44 Fed. Rep. 209.
Such request cannot be amended in the United States
court - and a failure to properly allege therein the necessary
jurisdictional facts is fatal to the jurisdiction of this court and
of the court below. Crehore v. Ohio & Mississippi Railway,
131 U. S. 240; Stevens v. lichols, 130 U. S. 230; Gold
Washing Co. v. Xeyes, 96 U. S. 199.
The two grounds of jurisdiction suggested by the petition
for removal, namely, diverse citizenship and the corporate
character of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, are the
only grounds of jurisdiction anywhere hinted at throughout
the entire record.
Upon these grounds alone was the state court sought to be
deprived of the jurisdiction conferred upon it over this action
by the euabling act. Unless the jurisdictional facts above
mentioned actually existed and are sufficiently stated, then no
transfer took place, and the court below is without jurisdiction.
III. The court below had no jurisdiction by reason of the
Federal character of the Northern Pacific Company.
Under the enabling act no action could be transferred unless
"pending" at the time of the transfer. Glaspell v. .Northern
Pacific Railroad,144 U. S. 211. This action was not pending
against the Northern Pacific Company at the time of the
admission of Idaho into the Union.
The Federal charter to a corporation can only give rise to
a Federal question when the corporation is an actual party to
the suit, actively present, and actively engaged in the litigation. Pacific Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1; Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586. It is only when an act of Congress is
directly brought into consideration in an action that the cause
can be said to arise under such act. Gold Washing Company
v. .Keyes, 96 U. S. 199; .Gibbs v. Crandall, 120 U. S. 105;
Shreveport v. Coe, 129 U. S. 36, 41.
Jurisdiction will not be entertained in an action, even where
the petition for removal states a clear Federal question, if the

WASH. & IDARO R'D. i. C(EUR D'ALENE RY.'

89

Argun~ent for Plaintiff in Error.

party at the time of filing such petition enters a special
appearance for the purpose of setting aside the service of
summons made in the state court. Germania Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 119 U.. S. 473.
The only Federal question alleged in the petition for
removal, or shown by the pleadings, was that suggested by
the incorporation of the Northern Pacific Company; and
when it appeared that that company never appeared, and
that no service was made oh it, that question disappeared.
IV. Diverse citizenship furnishes n6 ground for jurisdiction.
A corporation is a citizen, resident, and inhabitant of the State
or Territory which creates it, and cannot become such in
another State or Territory, by doing business in it. Shaw v.
Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444; Southern Pacijif Co. v.
.Denton, 146 U. S. 202.
At the time "of the commencement of this action, the Washington and Idaho Railroad Company was therefore a resident,
citizen, and inhabitant of the Territory of Washington, and
the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company was a
resident, citizen, and inhabitant of the Territory of Montana;
and no suit either by or against either of such corporations
could have been removed, transferred, or commenced in a
Federal court on the ground of diverse citizenship. New
Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheaton, 91; Railway Company v. Swan,
111 U. S.381; Johnson v. B nker Hill &p. Co., 46 Fed. Rep.
41'; Back v. Sierra .Nevada XMining Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 673;
Strasburgerv. Beecher, 44 Fed. Rep. 209.
V. The record in this action nowhere shows jurisdiction in
the Circuit Court for the District of Idaho.
Jurisdiction must affirmatively appear in. the record.
Parter v. Ormsby, 141 U: S. 81, 83; Gold Washing C. v.
-eyes, 96 U. S.199. Such jurisdiction must not only affirmatively appear to exist at the time of the admission of Idaho
into the Union as a State, but also must be shown affirtnatively to have existed at the time the action was. commenced.
This is plainly required by the language of the act, Stras-.
burger v. Beecher, 44 Fed. Rep. 209; Back v. Sierra Nevada
.Mining Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 673.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Here no Federal question is alleged with sufficient accuracy
in the petition or elsewhere in the record, to have authorized
the court below to have entertained jurisdiction of this action.
Gold IWashing Company v. -eyes, 96 U. S. 199; Gibbs v. Crandall, 120 U. S. 105, 109; Theurkauf v. Ireland,27 Fed. Rep.
769; Austin v. Gagan, 39 Fed. Rep. 626.
Mr. A. B. Browne, (with whom was -Up. A. T. Britton on
the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE

SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We are to answer the questions that arise on this record in
the light of the findings of fact made by the Circuit Court to
which no exceptions were taken.
Those questions are two-first, had the Circuit Court jurisdiction to entertain the action? and, if so, second, did the
title set up by the plaintiff company show a right of possession
of the land in dispute as against the title of the defendants?
It is claimed by the plaintiff in error that as, at the time
when the action was originally brought in the District Court
of the Territory of Idaho, the Washington and Idaho Railroad
Company, the plaintiff, was a corporation organized under the
laws of Washington Territory, and the Cceur d'Alene Railway
and Navigation Company, defendant, was a corporation organized under the laws of Montana Territory, and as the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company.was not really a party to the action,
there was no right to remove the cause from the state court,
whose jurisdiction over the case had attached under the terms
of the act of July 3, 1890, c. 356, 26 Stat. 215, providing for
the admission of Idaho into the Union. The argument is
based on the language of the eighteenth section of that act,
wherein it is provided that "in respect to all cases, proceedings,
and matters now pending in the Supreme or District Courts of
the said Territory at the time of the admission into the Union
of the State of Idaho, and arising within the limits of such
State, whereof the Circuit or District Courts by this act

WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. C(EUR D'ALENE R'Y.

91

Opinion of the Court.

established might have had jurisdiction under the laws of
the United States had such courts existed at the time of the
commencement of such cases, he said Circuit and District
Courts, respectively, shall be the successors of said Supreme
and District Courts of said Territory; aid in respect to all
other cases, proceedings, and matters pending in the Supreme
or District Courts of said Territory at the time of the admission of such Territory into the Union, arising within the
limits of said State, the courts established by such State shall,
respectively, be the successors of said Supreme and District
territorial Courts; and all the files, records, indictments, and
proceedings relating to any such cases shall be transferred to
such Circuit, District, and State Courts, respectively, and the
same shall be proceeded with therein in due course of law;
but no writ, action, indictment, cause, or proceeding now
pending,'or that prior to the admission of the State shall be
pending, in any territorial court in said Territory, shall abate
by the admission of such State into the Union, but the same
shall be transferred and proceeded with in the proper United
States Circuit, District, or State Court, as the case may be:
Provided,however, That in all civil actions, .causes, and proceedings in which the United States is not a party transfers
shall not be made to the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States, except upon written request of one of the
parties to such action or proceeding filed in the proper court;
and in the absence of such request such cases shall be proceeded
with in the proper state courts."
This language is interpreted by the plaintiff 'in error to
mean that no case can be transferred to the Federal courts if
the parties to it could not have gone into such courts at the
time the action was brought,- if such courts had then actually
existed; and the contention is that, as at the time of the commencement of this action, the Washington and Idaho Railroad Company was a resident, citizen, and. inhabitant of the
Territory of Washington, and the Cceur d'IAlenelRailway and
Navigation Company was a resident, citizen, and inhabitant
of the Territory of Montana,,no suit either by or against either
of such corporations could have been removed, transferred, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

commenced in a Federal court on the ground of diverse citizenship.
It should be observed that, while it is true that Montana
and Washington were in a territorial condition when this suit
was brought, they both had become States, the former on .the
8th, the latter on the 11th, of November, 1889, 26 Stat. 1551,
1553, before the filing of the petition for removal.
A similar question was presented in Koenigsberger v. Richmond Silver XAfining Company, 158 U. S. 41. That was a
case where, at the time of the bringing of the action in a District Court of the Territory of Dakota, the plaintiff was a
citizen of such Territory, and, when the Territory became a
State under a statute in terms precisely similar to those of the
statute we are now considering, the cause was transferred to
the Circuit Court of the United States, and it was there contended, as it is here, that the Circuit Court could not acquire
jurisdiction of the case by reason of the diversity of citizenship between the parties, because at the time of the commencement of the case the plaintiff was a citizen of a Territory.
The subject was carefully considered and the conclusion
reached was thus expressed in the language of :Mr. Justice
Gray:
"Upon the whole matter, the reasonable conclusion appears
to us to be that Congress, by the description 'whereof the
Circuit or District Courts by this act established might have
had jurisdiction under the laws of the United States, had such
courts existed at the time of the commencement of such cases,'
intended to designate cases of which -those courts might have
had jurisdiction under the laws of the United States, had those
courts, like the other Circuit and District Courts of the United
States generally, existed, at the time in question, in a State
of the Union, whose inhabitants consequently were citizens
of that State. According to that hypothesis, -the plaintiff
would have been a citizen of the State of South Dakota, and
the defendant a citizen of the State of New York, at the time
of the commencement of the action, and the Circuit Court of
thb United States would have had jurisdiction by reason of
such diversity of citizenship. The case was, therefore, rightly

WASH. & IDAHO

'D v. C(EUR D'AENE

IY.

93

Opinion of the Court.

tansferred, at the written request of the defendant, upon the
admission of the State of South Dakota into the Union, to
the Circuit Court of the United States."
This view sufficiently disposes of the objection made in this
case to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States, so far as that jurisdiction depended on adverse citizenship.
The Circuit Court of Appeals maintained the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, on the ground that there was a Federal
question involved in the fact that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created by the laws of the
United States, was a party to the action. We agree with
that court in regarding such a fact as conferring jurisdiction
on the Circuit Court. But it is urged tlhat the fact did not
exist -that the Northern Pacific Railroad was not a party to
the action. This contention is, we think, disposed of by the
record itself. That discloses that the original suit was brought
against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company as well as
against the Coeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company;
that the summons included both of said defendants; that the
complaint alleged that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was in actual possession of the premises in dispute as
a tenant of the Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company. The return of the summons alleged that service had
been made upon both defendants. The petition for the removal or transfer of the case was joined in by the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, and in that petition it was not
alleged that the latter company objected to the summons, or
for any reason, to the jurisdiction of the court, but alleged
that the controversy was between citizens of different States,
and that the suit was of a civil nature arising under the laws
of the United States.
Upon the face of the record as it existed at the time of the
removal, consisting of the writ, the return of service, the complaint, and the petition for such removal, it was, therefore,
plain that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, as a corporation created by the laws of the United States, was a party
both nominally and actively. It is true that the subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

record discloses that the Circuit Court, in rendering its opinion
and judgment, speaks of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company as not having been served and as not appearing in the
action. But, as was well said by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
when dealing with this contention, "it cannot be said that the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company was not an actual party
to the litigation. It was not only made a party, but it was a
proper party. It was the party in possession of the premises
sought to be recovered by the action of ejectment.
At the time when the cause was removed the return of service
was on file, but no default had been taken against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and no disposition had been
made of the plaintiff's controversy against it; that defendant,
in presenting its petition for removal to the Circuit Court,
declared itselfto be one of the defendants to the case, and
recited the fact that the cause was pending in the state court,
and was properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of the United States."
Whatever reason, therefore, the Circuit Court may have
had for speaking of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
as a party not served and not appearing, it is incontrovertible,
as against the record, that it was served, and whether seryed
or not, it entered a general appearance by joining in the petition for removal. That it may have subsequently ceased to
take an active part in the case is immaterial. The jurisdictional question must he determined by the record at the time
of the transfer of the case.
Whether conflicting claims of railroad companies, under the
right-of-way act of Congress, March .3, 1875, would give a
Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction independently
of citizenship, under the doctrine of Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S.
618, 620, we do not find it necessary to consider.
If, then, the case fell within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, we have next to inquire whether that jurisdiction was
properly exercised.
The controversy was between two railroad companies, one
organized under the laws of Washington Territory, the other
organized under the laws of Montana Territory, and was as

WASH. & IDAHO R'D v. CCEUR D'ALENE RY. .95
Opinion of the Court.
to the right of possession of a tract of land situated in Shoshone County, in the Territory of Idaho, and over which each
company claimed a right of way under the act of March 3,
1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, entitled "An act granting to railroads the right of way through the public lands of the United
States." This act provides that "the right of way through
the public lands of the United States is hereby granted'to any
railroad company duly organized under thelaws of any State
which shall have filed with the Sec.
or Territory .
a copy of its articles of incorporation
of
the
Interior
retary
and due proofs of its organization under the same, to the extent of one hundred feet on each side of the central line of
said road."
It was affirmatively found by the Circuit Court that the
Cceur-d'Alene Railway and .Navigation Company, on the 6th
day of July, 1886, filed its articles of incorporation in the office
of the secretary of the Territory of Montana, and also filed in
the office of the county clerk and recorder of the county of
Lewis and Clarke; in said Territory, a certified copy of its said
articles of incorporation; that the line of route of the railroad
of-the said company, as described in said articles of incorporation, passed over and included the -land in-controversy; that
on the 20th day of July, 1886, the said company fied in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior at'Washington, D. C.;a
certified copy of its articles of incorporation and proofs -of its
organization under the laws of 'the Territory of Montana,
which certified copy of articles of incorporation and proofs'of
organization were duly approved on that day by the Secretary
of the Interior ; that in the summer and fall of 1886 the said
company constructed its railroad over' said line of railroad, as
described in said articles of incorporation, from the Old Mission up the main Coeur d'Alene River to the town of Kingston,
and thence up the South Fork of the Coeur d'Alene River -to
the town'of Wardner Junction, a distance of about fourteen
miles ; that in the month of October, 1886, the said company,
,for the purpose of extendingits line of railroad, caused a survey to be made for its said line of railroad from said Wardner
Junction up the said fork of the -Coeur d'Alene'River, over the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

line described in its said articles of incorporation, through the
towns of Wallace and Mullen, and marked the centre line of
said road upon the ground by planting stakes at each station
at one hundred feet, and at such other points as there were
angles in the line, so that the line of route of said road could
be readily traced upon the ground; that the said surveying
and marking of said line was completed on the 31st day of
October, 1886; that in making said survey the engineers of
said company ran three lines through said town of Wallace,
" B," and "C" - the two former being on
called lines "
the south and line "0" being on the north side of said river,
the latter being the line upon which the railroad of said company was afterwards constructed, and upon the ground in
controversy in this action; that in the summer and fall of 1887
the said company extended its road from the town of Wardner
Junction over its line of survey, a point about one mile east of
the town of Wallace, and over said line "C," the ground in
controversy, through the town of Wallace, and at all times
thereafter, up to and at the time of the commencement of this
action, occupied and used the same as a railroad and for railroad
purposes, and at the time of the commencement of this action
had its roadbed, track, side tracks and depot thereon, and was
using the same exclusively for railroad purposes; and that at
all times above mentioned the lands in controversy, and all
other lands along the line of said railroad of the Coeur d'Alene
Railway and Navigation Company, as described in its articles
of incorporation, were unsurveyed public lands of the United
States.
If these facts stood unaffected by other evidence, the title of
the Occeur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company to the
land in controversy would be clear.
It was, however, shown that on the 9th day of November,
1886, ten days after the completion of the survey of the three
lines "A," "B," and "C," the said company filed in the United
States land office at Oceur d'Alene, Idaho, a map or profile
which was, December 3, 1886, approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, and that on this map the line "B" through the
town of Wallace was platted as the line of the said railroad.

WASH. & IDAHO R'D v.

CEUR D'ALM-TE R'Y.

97

Opinion of the Court.

As already stated, in the fall of 1887 the company constructed
its railroad upon line " C " and across the land in controversy.
But no amendment of the said map was made, nor was any
approval of the Secretary of the Interior obtained to any new
map covering line "C."
The plaintiff contends that the effect of the filing and
approval of the map line "B" was to vest in the said company
a right of way one hundred feet 'vide on each side of the
centre line of its road, as indicated 1ipon said map, which
right could not be changed without the consent of the granting power first had and obtained. Regarding this question as
one entirely between the Oceur d'Alene Railway and Kaviga-.
tion Company and the United States, it should be observed
that the act of Congress, under which both parties claim the
land in question, by its fourth section provides that, in case of
unsurveyed lands of the United States, as these were, the plat
need not be fild until twelve -months after a survey thereof.
It is, however, said that while the company might not have
been required --under the act to fie its map at the time such
filing was made, yet it had the right to do so under certain
regulations 'of the Secretary of the Interior, in force during
the period of this controversy, and that 'when such map was
approved by the Secretary the company had secured the
benefit of the act upon the line there' shown, and could not
thereafter alter the same. We agree with the -Circuit Court
of Appeals in, thinking that, so far as the United States are
concerned, there is nothing in the actV forbidding a railroad
company, having adopted one line of survey along the route
provided for in its articles of incorporation, and having filed a
plat thereof, to subsequently, and within the time allowed it by
law for so doing, adopt another route, and that no reason is
apparent why, insthad'of filing a second plat, it may not construct the road on the line surveyed and adopted, so long as
the rights of others have not intervened. Such an actual construction and appropriation of one line would preclude the
company from asserting any claim to the other lines, and
hence the contention that, by running several lines through
unsurveyed lands, the company sought to'obtain more than the
VOL. cLx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

statute gave, namely, one right of way, is met by the fact that
it claimed and constructed but one line.
If the United States could not, and do not, complain, there
is no foundation for the plaintiff company to do so, as it was
found by the trial court that the platting of line "B," instead
of line "C," was through a mistake, and that such mistake was
not discovered until after the completion of the defendant's
railroad and depot over and upon the ground in controversy,
and that the filing of the plat showing line " B" was not done
for the purpose of, in any manner, deceiving the plaintiff or
any one else, and that the plaintiff was not, in any manner,
misled or prejudiced by the filing of said plat or by said
mistake.
Even if the Oceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company was duly organized as a railroad company, and, as such,
was entitled to construct and maintain its road over the land
in controversy, without being estopped by having filed an inaccurate map, still the plaintiff contends that the right of way
in question belongs to it by virtue of a prior survey made on its
behalf. The facts relevant to this contention are that the
articles of incorporation, under which the plaintiff claims the
land in controversy, were not filed in the office of the secretary of the Territory of Washington till the 10th day of November, 1886, and that a copy of such articles and proof of
organization were not filed in the office of the Secretary of
the Interior till December 22, 1886. It was, indeed, shown
and found that, on October 28, 1886, W. HI. Burrage, claiming
to be acting for the plaintiff, surveyed a line up the Cceur
d'Alene River, through the town of Wallace, and over the
ground in controversy, which was the line described in the
articles of incorporation subsequently filed by the plaintiff
company in the offices of the secretary of the Territory and of
the Secretary of the Interior.
The conclusion of the courts below, on this state of facts,
was that at the time of the making of said survey by W. T
Barrage over the lands in controversy, on October 28, 1886,
the plaintiff was not a corporation organized for the purpose
of constructing, or authorized to construct, a railroad over the

WASH. & IDAHO RD v. CCEUR I'ALENE R'Y.

99

Opinion of the Court.

land in controversy; was not authorized to take possession of
the said premises, or to locate a line of railroad thereon; and
that the said survey on October 28, 1886, conferred no right
whatever on it, the plaintiff, as against the defendant, the
Cceur d'Alene Railway and Navigation Company.
The argument on behalf of the plaintiff is that when, on
December 22, 1886, the Washington and Idaho Railroad Company had filed its articles of incorporation and proof of organization in the office of the Secretary of Interior at Washington,
D. C., it had a right to adopt the survey previously made by
Burrage, as and for the location of its route under the. general
right-of-way, act, and that when it so adopted -said survey it
related back to the date when the survey was made.
We are unable to accept such a view of the law, but concur
in the conclusion of the court below that the language of the
act of Congress, under which :both parties claim, wherein it
provides that "the right of way through the public lands of
the United States-is hereby granted to any, railroad company
duly authorized under the laws of any State or Territory,
which shall file with the, Secretary of the Interior a copy of
its articles of incorporation and due proofs of its organization
under the same, to the extent of a hundred feet on each side
of the central line of said road," plainly means that no corporation can acquire a right of way upon any line not described
in its charter or in its articles of incorporation; that it necessarily follows that no initiatory step can be taken to secure
such right of way by the survey upon thelground or otherwise ;
that until the power to build the road upon the su rveyed line
was in .a proper manner. assumed by or conferred upon the
plaintiff company, its acts of making surveys were of no avail ;
and that, so far as the conflicting rights of the parties to. this
controversy are concerned, the status of the plaintiff is the
same as if its survey of October 28, 1886, had not been made.
The case of .NewBrighton ?ailroad,Co. v. Pittsburg Railroad Co., 105 Penn. St. 14, was, like the present, one of a contest
between two railroad companies for aright of way, and where
the effect of a survey of ,aline before the, legal organization
of the .company had, to be considered; and it was held that

OCTOBER TER]I, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

surveying, locating, and designating, by proper marks, the property to be taken for railroad purposes, cannot be done by the
projectors of a railroad company before its incorporation, but
only by the president and directors of a duly incorporated
company, their engineers and employ~s, and that an unauthorized preliminary survey, though well marked by a line of
stakes indicating the location of a railroad, cannot be regarded
as sufficient notice of a prior legal appropriation of the land,
nor will the subsecjuent adoption of such survey by the company, after its incorporation, give it any right to the location
as against another company, which had surveyed and taken
possession of the land .before the first-mentioned company had
passed the resolution of adoption.
The cases cited by the plaintiff in error do not sustain their
position.
Morris & Essex _Railroad v. Blair, 9 N. X.Eq. 635, was a
case of a contest for a right of way between two railroad companies, both duly incorporated, and it was held that the prior
right attached to the company which first actually surveyed
and adopted a route and filed their survey in the office of the
Secretary of State, and also that the mere experimental surveying of a route will not confer any- vested or legal right
until it shall have been adopted.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, in Lower v. Chicago, Burlington &c. Railway, 59 Iowa, 563, held that though a railroad
company may not for some reason have the legal right to
condemn a right of way for a lateral line, it may cause
another company of its own stockholders to be so organized
as to have that power, and that when such subsidiary company
has condemned the right of way, it may lease its line to the
former company, and in this there will be no fraud upon those
whose lands have been condemned.
It is not perceived that these decisions, accepting them as
sound, disclose any error in the ruling of the court below.
It is further made to appear, by the eleventh finding, that
"from the time of making the said survey by Burrage over
the land in controversy on the 28th day of October, 1886,
until long after the completion of the railroad, side tracks, and

