CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPAKNY v. KEEGAN.

259

Syllabus.

The case being thus left open, by the opinion and mandate
of this court, and by the general rules of practice in equity,
for further proceedings, with a right in the plaintiffs to file a
replication, putting the cause at issue, the Circuit Court might,
in its discretion, allow amendments of the pleadings for the
purpose of more fully or clearly presenting the facts at issue
between the parties. Marine Ins. Co. v. Hlodgson, 6 Cranch,
206, 218; .Nealev. Neales, 9 Wall. 1; -lardin v. Boyd, 113
U. S. 756.
The case is quite different, in this respect, from those in
which the whole case, or all but a subsidiary question of
accounting, had been brought to and decided by this -court
upon the appeal, as in the cases- principally relied on by the
petitioner. Stewart v. Salamon, 94 V. S. 434, and 97 U. S.
361; Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S. 228; E Parte Dubuque &
PacificRailroad,1 Wall. 69 ; In rp Washington & Georgetown
Railroad,140 U. S.91.
It must be remembered, however, that -no question, once
considered and decided by -this court, cn be ree'xamined
at any subsequent stage of the same case. Clarks v. Keith,
106 U. S. 464; Sibbald v. United States, and Texas & Pacific Railway v. Anderson, cited at the beginning .of this

opinion.
WTit of mandam

denied.

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. KEEGAN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 878. Submitted December 8,1894.-Decided December 23, 1895.
A force of five men, in the night service of a railroad company, was em-

ployed in uncoupling from the rear of trains cars which were to be sent
elsewhere, and in attachihg other cars In their places. The force was under

the orders of 0., who directed G. what cars to'incouple, and K. what cars

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
to couple. As the train backed down, G. uncoupled a car as directed. K.,
in walking to the car which was to be attached to the train in its place,
caught his foot in a switch and fell across the track. As the train was
moving towards him he called out. The engine was stopped, but the rear
car, having been uncoupled by G., continued moving on, and passed over
him, inflicting severe injuries. K. sued the railroad company to recover
damages for the injuries thus received. Held, that K. and 0. were fellow-servants, and that the railroad company was not responsible for any
negligence of 0. in not placing himself at the brake of the uncoupled car.

THE action below was brought by Keegan to recover damages for personal injuries sustained while acting as brakeman
in the employ of the railroad company. Judgment having
been rendered upon the verdict of a jury, in favor of Keegan,
the company sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Two circuit judges, sitting
as the court, differed in opinion upon questions of law arising,
and thereupon certified two questions to this court. The certificate sets forth the following statement of facts:
"Five men - O'Brien, Keegan, Lally, Gooley, and Ward
were, on the night of the accident, (October 7, 1889,) in the
service of the Central Railroad of New Jersey, and employed
in its yard at Jersey City. They comprised what was called
the 'night float drill crew,' the duty of such crews being to
take cars from the tracks on which they had been left by incoming trains and place them on the floats, by which they
were transported across the North River to the city of New
York. The drill crews, like others employed in the samne yard,
received their general instructions from Dent, the yardmaster.
The men composing such crews were hired by Dent and discharged by him, and he had the general charge of the yard
and yardmen, and assigned them to their duties.
"The course of business was as follows: Dent, the yardmaster, gave to O'Brien drill slips -that is, slips of paper
containing the numbers of the cars and the particular tracks
leading to the floats on which these cars were to be placed.
These float tracks were five in number and were connected,
by switches, with the other tracks in the yard. The executioh of this order required frequent switching of cars from one

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. KEEGAN.

261

Statement of the, Case.

set of tracks to another in order to sort out-from arriving
trains the particular car or cars to be placed on a particular
float track. It also required the making up of trains of cars
sometimes longer, sometimes shorter; their movement by the
engine attached to them, forward or backward and at varying
rates of speed; the braking, coupling, and uncoupling of the
cars composing them. Ward was engineer. Lally had his
post on some car near the engine in order to transmit to the
engineer any signals received. He also helped the engineer
with coal and water, and acted as braieman. Keegan did
the coupling; Gooley the uncoupling and acted as brakeman, while the turning of the switches was attended to by
O'Brien. The direction of all these operations was with
O'Brien, who is called in the evidence sometimes 'foreman
driller,' sometimes 'conductor of the ,drill crew.' He was
the one to direct what cars should be taken on by the engine, and when and where they should be moved to, when
the movement should start, and where it should stop, and it
was in obedience to his orders that one or another of the men
employed in his crew went to one place or another ind
coupled or uncoupled particular cars. The general management of the operation was with him, and he had control over
the persons employed therein.
"On the night of the accident Keegan, who had been
relighting his lantern at the engine, which was then standing
still, attached to several cars, walked to the rear end of the
train. O'Brien and Gooley were standing there looking over
the drill slip. There were some other cars 'standing on the
same track, about 40 feet beyond the end of the cars to which
the engine was ,attached. O'Brien told Gooley what cars
were to be uncoupled. He then told Keegan to couple the
train onto the cars beyond. Keegan took the coupling link of
the rear car in his right hand, and, having signalled for the
train to back slowly, walked towards the detached cars, with
the rear end of the last car at his back. Before he reached
them he caught his right foot in the guard rail of a switch,
and at once called out to hold up the train. His call was
heard and the engine stopped immediately. Gooley, however,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant In Error.

had already, on O'Brien's order, drawn the pin and thus
uncoupled the cars indicated, so that when the engine pulled
up it did not stop their backward movement. Neither Gooley
nor O'Brien were on the cars thus moving backwards, so there
was no one to check their motion by applying the brakes, and
as a consequence the rear wheel passed over Keegan's leg,
producing the injuries complained of.
"There was evidence tending to show that under circumstances such as these O'Brien or some one else should have
been on the rear car of those moving backward, and the negligence complained of was his ordering defendant in error to
couple cars which he had just ordered to be uncoupled from a
backwardly moving train to stationary cars beyond them
without himself being on the moving cars or seeing that
either Gooley or Lally were there to exercise control over
their movement.
"The jury, by their verdict, found that O'Brien was negligent."
The questions of law arising from these facts, upon which
the court desired instruction for the proper decision of the
writ of error, were certified as follows: 1, whether the defendant in error and O'Brien were or were not fellow-servants;
and, 2, whether from negligence of O'Brien in failing to place
himself or some one else at the brake of the backwardly moving cars, the plaintiff in error is responsible.
-Mr. Robert . .De Forest and Mirt. George Holnes for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. G. 'ande2poel for defendant in error.
Chicago, Miluiaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Ross, 112 U. S.
337, stands as the law to-day. In that case the conductor of
the freight train was present. In Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, there was no conductor present.
-NYorthern Pacijic Railroadv. Hambly, 154: U. S. 349, may be
regarded as the judicial construction of the relation of the
Baugh case to the Ross case.

CENTRAL RAILROAD CO

PANY v. KEEGAN.

263

Opinion of the Court.

The test of liability of the master for the act of a servant is
given in the Ross case,in the following words: C"The conductor
has entire control and management of the train to which he
is assigned. He directs when it shall start, at what speed it
shall run, at what station it'shall stop, and for what length of
time, and everything essential to its successful movements, and
all persons employed on it are subject to his orders." These
words are cited with approval in the Baug case. In the
Hambly case it is said, of the Ross ease: "The case was
decided not to be one of fellow service upon the ground that
the conductor was in fact, aid should be treated as, the personal representative of the corporation, for whose negligence
it is responsible to subordinate servants. The court drew a'
distinction between servants of a corporation exercising no
supervision over others engaged with them in the same employment and agents of a corporation clothed with the control
and management of a distinct department, in which their duty
is entirely that of direction and superintendence. In that
particular case the court found that the conductor had entire
control and management of the train to which he was assigned,
directed at what time it should start, at what speed it should
run, at what stations it should stop, and for what length of
time, and everything essential to its successful movements,
and that all persons employed upon it were subject to his
orders. The word 'orders' referred to the orders of the conductor.
Under such circumstances he was held not to be a fellowservant with the fireman,_ brakeman, and engineer, citing certain cases from Kentucky and Ohio."
O'Brien was a conductor, and the proximate cause of plaintiff's injury was his, O'Brien's, negligent order to Gooley to
pull the pin, and it is respectfully submitted that the giving
that order was a negligent masterial act in law.
Mm.

JusTioE WHrrE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court
We held in Baltimore & Ohio RailroadCompany v. Baugh,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

149 U. S. 368, than an engineer and fireman of a locomotive
engine running alone on a railroad, without any train attached,
when engaged on such duty, were fellow-servants of the railroad company, hence that the fireman was precluded from
recovering damages from the company for injuries caused,
during the running, by the negligence of the engineer. In
that case it was declared that: "Prim facie, all who enter
the employment of a single master are engaged in a common
service, and are fellow-servants. . . . All enter in the
service of the same master to further his interests in the one
enterprise." And whilst we in that case recognized that the
heads of separate and distinct departments of a diversified
business may, under certain circumstances, be considered, with
respect to employ~s under them, vice-principals or representatives of the master, as fully and as completely as if the entire
business of the master was by him placed under the charge of
one superintendent, we declined to affirm that each separate
piece of work was a distinct department, and made the one
having control of that piece of work a vice-principal or representative of the master. It was further declared that "the
danger from the negligence of one specially in charge of the
particular work is as obvious and as great as from that of
those who are simply coworkers with him in it; each is
equally with the other an ordinary risk of the employment,"
which the employ6 assumes when entering upon the employment, whether the risk be obvious or not. It was laid down
that the rightful test to determine whether the negligence
complained of was an ordinary risk of the employment was
whether the negligefit act constituted a breach of positive
duty owing by the master, such as that of taking fair and
reasonable precautions to surround his employ~s with fit and
careful coworkers, and the furnishing to such employ~s of a
reasonably safe place to work and reasonably safe tools or
machinery with which to do the work, thus making the question of liability of an employer for an injury to his employ6
turn rather on the character of the alleged negligent act than
on the relations of the employ~s to each other, so that, if the
act is one done in the discharge of some positive duty of

CENTRAL RAILROAI) COMPANY v. KEEGAN.

265

Opinion of the Court.

the master to the servant, then negligence in the act is the
negligence of the master; but if it be not one in the" discharge of such positive duty, then there should be some
personal wrong on the part of the employer before he is liable
therefor.
There is nothing in the later decision of this court in
.Yorthern Pacifi§ Railroad Company v. Hambly, 154 U. S.
349, militating against the views expressed in the Baugh
case. On the contrary, that case is approvingly referred to,
(p. 359,) although said there to involve a different question
from that which was in the -ambly case.
The principles thus applied, in the case referred to, are in
perfect harmony with the rules enforced. by the Supreme
Court of the State of New Jersey, within whose territory
the accident happened which gave rise to the present controversy.
In O'Bq.ienv. American Dredging Co., 53 N. J. Law, 291, 297,
O'Brien sought to hold the company liable for an injury sustained by him while employed as a deck hand on one of their
dredges, at the time used in dredging the James River, near
Richmond, under a contract with the United States government. The ground of liability alleged was that the injury
had been caused by the negligence of another employe, one
Cannon, who was called the "captain" of the dredge. Cannon was autlorized to employ men to work on the dredge,
subject to the approval of the general superintendent, (who
had his headquarters at the home office of the company,) who
had power to disapprove or discharge them; the duty of the
captain was to operate the dredge in said dredging; plaintiff
was employed by Cannon as a deck hand on the dredge, and
his duty was to aid in the operation of the dredge; and Cannon had charge of the men so employed and they were under
him. The court held that while Cannon was entrusted with
some authority to employ the workmen, yet with respect to
the operation of the. dredge in the prosecution of defendant's
business, he was not a general superintendent, but a mere
foreman of the gang of workmen, engaged with them in the
execution of the master's work.' He was a superior, and they

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

were inferior workmen, but all were employed in a common
operation, though in different grades of service. In the course
of the opinion, on the question of the risks which, it must be
contemplated, are assumed by one entering the service of
another, the court said:
"Whether the master retain the superintendence and management of his business, or withdraw himself from it and
devolve it on a vice-principal or representative, it is quite
apparent that, although the master or his representative may
devise the plans, engage the workmen, provide the machinery
and tools, and direct the performance of work, neither can,
as a general rule, be continually present at the execution of
all such work. It is the necessary consequence that the mere
execution of the planned work must be entrusted to workmen,
and, where necessary, to groups or gangs of workmen, and in
such case that one should be selected as the leader, boss, or
foreman to see to the execution of such work. This sort of
superiority of service is so essential and so universal that
every workman, in entering upon a contract of service, must
contemplate its being made use of in a proper case. He
therefore makes his contract of service in contemplation of
the risk of injury from the negligence of a boss or foreman, as
wel! as from the negligence of another fellow-workman. The
foreman or superior servant stands to him, in that respect, in
the precise position of his other fellow-servants."
Applying the principles announced by this court and the
Supreme Court of New Jersey to the facts of the case at bar,
it is clear that O'Brien and Keegan were fellow servants.
O'Brien's duties were not even those of simple direction and
superintendence over the operations of the drill crew; he was
a component part of the crew, an active coworker in the
manual work of switching, with the specific duty assigned to
him by the yardmaster of turning the switches. He was subordinate to the yardmaster who had jurisdiction over this and
other drill crews, and it was the yardmaster who employed
and discharged all the workers in the yard, giving them
their general instructions, and assigning them to their duties.
O'Brien's control over the other members of the drill crew

0ENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. REEGAN.

261

Opinion of the Court.

was similar to the conttol which a section foreman exercises
over the men in his section; and, :following its construction of
the decisions of this cohrt in the Baugh and JHambly'cases,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit has held
that a section foreman is a fellow servant of a member of his
crew, and that one of the crew injured by the negligence of
the foreman could not recover. Kansas & Adrkansas Valley
Railway v. Waters, 70 Fed. Rep. 28.
In Potter v. 2. Y. Central & Hudson River Railroad,136
N. Y. 77, employ~s of a-railroad company, while switching
cars in the company's yard, under the direction of a yardmaster, shunted a number of cars onto a track so thatthey collided
with a car being inspected, and. caused the death of the inspector. It was claimed that proper and reasonable care required
that there should have been a brakeman on the front of the
cars to control in an emergency their motion, when detached "
from the engine. In the absence of allegation of proof to the
contrary, the court presumed that competent and sufficient
servants were employed, and proper regulations for the management of the business had been established, and observed
(p. 82): "It is quite ob-ious that the work of shifting cars in
a railroad yard must be left in a great measfire to the judgment
and discretion of the servants of the railroad who are entrusted
with the management of the yard. The details must b left
to them, and all that the company can do for the protection
of its employ~s is to provide competent coservants, and presbribe such regulations as experience shows may be best calculated to secure their safety."
We adopt this statement as proper to be applied to the case
at bar. A personal, positive duty would clearly not have been
imposed upon a natural person, owner of a railroad, to supervise and control the details of the operation of switching cars
in a railroad yard; neither is such duty imposed as a po'sitive
duty upon a corporation; arid if O'Brien was negligent in
failing to place himself or some one else at the brake -of the
backwardly inoving ca'rs, such omission not being the performance of a positive duty owing by the master, the plaintiff in
error is not responsible therefor.-

