OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Per Curiam

SARNO

ET AL.

406 U. S.

v. ILLINOIS CRIME INVESTIGAT-

ING COMMISSION
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS

No. 70-7. Argued January 11, 1972-Decided May 22, 1972
Since neither party contends that the scope of Illinois statutory im-.
munity falls below the use and derivative use standard held to be
coextensive with the privilege against self-incrimination in Kastigar
v. United States, ante, p. 441, any uncertainty regarding the scope
of protection in excess of the constitutional requirement should
best be left to the Illinois courts.
45 Ill. 2d 473, 259 N. E. 2d 267, certiorari dismissed as improvidently
granted.

Frank G. Whalen argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners.
Joel M. Flaum, First Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief were William J. Scott, Attorney General, and
Jayne A. Carr, Assistant Attorney General.
Melvin L. Wulf filed a brief for the American Civil
Liberties Union as amicus curiae urging reversal.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioners were ordered to testify before the Illinois
Crime Investigating Commission under a grant of immunity conferred pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 38, ยง 20314 (1969). The occasion for granting the writ in this
case was to consider whether Illinois must demonstrate
to petitioners, prior to an adjudication for contempt for
refusal to answer the Commission's questions, that immunity as broad in scope as the protection of the privilege
against self-inirimination is available and applicable to
thein. 401 U. S. 935 (1971). The writ was granted in
light of petitioners' claim that 'the statute did not provide complete transactional immunity. On the same
day that the writ was granted, probable jurisdiction was
noted, in Zicarelli v. New Jersey State Commission of
Investigation, 401 U. S. 933 (1971), to resolve the ques-

SARNO v. ILLINOIS CRIME COMM'N
482

Per

Curiam

tion whether a State can compel testimony from an unwilling witness, who invokes the privilege against selfincrimination, by granting immunity from use and
derivative use of the compelled testimony, or whether
transactional immunity is required.
We held today in Kastigarv. United States, ante, p. 441,
and in Zicarelli v. New Jersey State Commission of Investigation,ante, p. 472, that testimony may be compelled
from an unwilling witness over a claim of the privilege
against self-incrimination by a grant of use and derivative use immunity. The premise of petitioners' arguments is that transactional immunity is required. They
say that Illinois failed to demonstrate satisfactorily that
transactional immunity was provided, but they do not
contend that the Illinois immunity statute affords prot~ction less comprehensive than use and derivative use
immunity. Respondent asserts thai the'statute affords
complete transactional immunity, reflecting a long-standing Illinois policy of providing immunity greater than
that required by the United States Constitution. Since
neither party contends that the scope of the immunity
provided by the Illinois statute falls below the constitutional requirement set forth in Kastigar,we conclude
that any uncertainty regarding the scope of protection in
excess of the constitutional requirement should best be
left to the courts of Illinois. Accordingly, the writ of
certiorari is dismissed as improvidently granted.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST
took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS dissents for the reasons stated
in his dissenting opinion in Kastigar v. United States,
ante, p. 462.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL dissents for the reasons stated
in his dissenting opinion in Kastigar v. United States,
ante, p. 467.

