OCTOBFt TERM, 1971
Syllabus

406 U. S.

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA

No. 70-5112.

Argued February 28, 1972-Decided April 24, 1972

Decedent, who died as a result of injuries received during the course
of his employment, had maintained a household with four legitimate minor children, one unacknowledged minor child, and petitioner, to whom he was not married. His wife had been committed
to a mental hospital. A second illegitimate child was born posthumously. Under Louisiana's workmen's compensation law unacknowledged illegitimate children are not within the class of
"children," but are relegated to the lesser status of "other dependents," and may recover only if there are not enough surviving dependents in the preceding classes to exhaust the maximum
benefits. The four legitimate children were awarded the maximum
allowable compensation and the two illegitimate children received
nothing. The Louisiana courts sustained the statutory scheme,
holding that Levy v. Louisiana, 391 U. S.68, was not controlling.
Held: Louisiana's denial of equal recovery rights to the dependent
unacknowledged illegitimate children violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, as the inferior classification of these dependent children bears no significant relationship
to the recognized purposes of recovery that workmen's compensation statutes were designed to serve. Levy v. Louisiana, supra,
followed; Labine v. Vincent, 401 U. S. 532, distinguished.
Pp. 167-176.
257 La. 424, 242 So. 2d 567, reversed and remanded.
POWELL, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and DOUGLAS, BRENNAN, STEWART, WHrIE, and MARSHALL,
JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J., filed an opinion concurring in the
result, post, p. 176. REHNQUIST, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post,
p. 177.

Vanue B. Lacour argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
W. Henson Moore argued the cause and filed a brief

for respondents.

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.

165

Opinion of the Court

164

Norman Dorsen and Melvin L. Wulf filed a brief for
the American Civil Liberties Union as amicus curiae
urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The question before us, on writ of certiorari to the
Supreme Court of Louisiana,1 concerns the right of dependent unacknowledged, illegitimate children to recover
under Louisiana workmen's compensation laws benefits
for the death of their natural father on an equal footing
with his dependent legitimate children. We hold that
Louisiana's denial of equal recovery rights to dependent
unacknowledged illegitimates violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Levy v.
Louisiana, 391 U. S. 68 (1968); Glona v. American
Guarantee& Liability Insurance Co., 391 U. S. 73 (1968).
On June 22, 1967, Henry Clyde Stokes died in Louisiana of injuries received during the course of his employment the previous day. At the time of his death Stokes
resided and maintained a household with one Willie Mae
Weber, to whom he was not married. Living in the
household were four legitimate minor children, born of
the marriage between Stokes and Adlay Jones Stokes
who was at the time committed to a mental hospital.
Also living in the home was one unacknowledged illegitimate child born of the relationship between Stokes and
Willie Mae Weber. A second illegitimate child of Stokes
and Weber was born posthumously.
On June 29, 1967, Stokes' four legitimate children,
through their maternal grandmother as guardian, filed
a claim for their father's death under Louisiana's work1Stokes

567 (1970).

v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., 257 La. 424, 242 So. 2d

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

406 U. S.

men's compensation law. 2 The defendant employer
and its insurer impleaded Willie Mae Weber who appeared and claimed compensation benefits for the two
illegitimate children.
Meanwhile, the four legitimate children had brought
another suit for their father's death against a thirdparty tortfeasor, which was settled for an amount in
excess of the maximum benefits allowable under workmen's compensation. The illegitimate children did not
share in this settlement. Subsequently, the employer
2

La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1232 (1967) establishes the schedule of pay-

ment of workmen's compensation benefits to various classifications of
dependents as follows:
"Payment to dependents shall be computed and divided among
them on the following basis:
"(1) If the widow or widower alone, thirty-two and one-half
per centum of wages.
"(2) If the widow or widower and one child, forty-six and onequarter per centum of wages
"(3) If the widow or widower and two or more children, sixty-five
per centum of wages.
"(4) If one child alone, thirty-two and one-half per centum of
wages of deceased.
"(5) If two children, forty-six and one-quarter per centum of
wages.
"(6) If three or more children, sixty-five per centum of wages.
"(7) If there are neither widow, widower, nor child, then to the
father or mother, thirty-two and one-half per centum of wages of
the deceased. If there are both father and mother, sixty-five per
centum of wages.
"(8) If there are neither widow, widower, nor child, nor dependent parent entitled to compensation, then to one brother or sister,
thirty-two and one-half per centum of wages with eleven per
centum additional for each brother or sister in excess of one. If
other dependents than those enumerated, thirty-two and one-half
per centum of wages for one, and eleven per centum additional for
each such dependent in excess of one, subject to a maximum of
sixty-five per centum of wages for all, regardless of the number of
dependents."

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

167

Opinion of the Court

in the initial action requested the extinguishment of all
parties' workmen's compensation claims by reason of
the tort settlement.
The trial judge awarded the four legitimate children
the maximum allowable amount of compensation and
declared their entitlement had been satisfied from the
tort suit settlement. Consequently, the four legitimate
children dismissed their workmen's compensation claim.
Judgment was also awarded to Stokes' two illegitimate
offspring to the extent that maximum compensation benefits were not exhausted by the four legitimate children.
Since such benefits had been entirely exhausted by the
amount of the tort settlement, in which only the four
dependent legitimate offspring participated, the two dependent illegitimate children received nothing.
I
For purposes of recovery under workmen's compensation, Louisiana law defines children to include "only
legitimate children, stepchildren, posthumous children,
adopted children, and illegitimate children acknowledged
under the provisions of Civil Code Articles 203, 204, and
205." 1 Thus, legitimate children and acknowledged ille3La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1021 (3). The relevant provisions for acknowledgment of an illegitimate child are as follows:
La. Civ. Code, Art. 202 (1967):
"Illegitimate children who have been acknowledged by their
father, are called natural children; those who have not been acknowledged by their father, or whose father and mother were incapable
of contracting marriage at the time of conception, or whose
father is unknown, are contradistinguished by the appellation of
bastards."
La. Civ. Code, Art. 203:
"The acknowledgment of an illegitimate child shall be made by
a declaration exacuted before a notary public, in presence of two
witnesses, by the father and mother or either of them, whene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

406 U. S.

gitimates may recover on an equal basis. Unacknowledged
illegitimate children, however, are relegated to the lesser
status of "other dependents" under § 1232 (8) of the workmen's compensation statute 4 and may recover only if
there are not enough surviving dependents in the preceding classifications to exhaust the maximum allowable benefits. Both the Louisiana Court of Appeal ' and a divided
Louisiana Supreme Court I sustained these statutes over
petitioner'.3 constitutional objections, holding that our
decision in Levy, supra, was not controlling.
We disagree. In Levy, the Court held invalid as
denying equal protection of the laws, a Louisiana statute
which barred an illegitimate child from recovering for
the wrongful death of its mother when such recoveries
by legitimate children were authorized. The Court there
decided that the fact of a child's birth out of wedlock
bore no reasonable relation to the purpose of wrongfuldeath statutes which compensate children for the death
of a mother. As the Court said in Levy:
"Legitimacy or illegitimacy of birth has no relation
to the nature of the wrong allegedly inflicted on the
mother. These children, though illegitimate, were
dependent on her; she cared for them and nurtured
them; they were indeed hers in the biological and
in the spiritual sense; in her death they suffered
wrong in the sense that any dependent would."
Levy v. Louisiana, 391 U. S., at 72.
shall not have ben made in the registering of the birth or baptism

of such child."
La. Civ. Code, Art. 204:
"Such acknowledgment. shall not be made in favor of children
whose parents were incapable of contracting marriage at the time
of conception; however, such acknowledgment may be made if the
parents should contract a legal marriage with each other."
4 See

n. 2, supra.

5232 So. 2d 328 (La. App. 1969).
6Stokes v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., see n. 1, supra.

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

169

Opinion of the Court

The court below sought to distinguish Levy as involving a statute which absolutely excluded all illegitimates
from recovery, whereas in the compensation statute in
the instant case acknowledged illegitimates may recover
equally with legitimate children and "the unacknowledged illegitimate child is not denied a right to recover
compensation, he being merely relegated to a less favorable position as are other dependent relatives such as
parents. .. ." Stokes v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co.,
257 La. 424, 433-434, 242 So. 2d 567, 570 (1970). The
Louisiana Supreme Court likewise characterized Levy as
a tort action where the tortfeasor escaped liability on the
fortuity of the potential claimant's illegitimacy, whereas
in the present action full compensation was rendered,
and "no tort feasor goes free because of the law." Id.,
at 434, 242 So. 2d, at 570.
We do not think Levy can be disposed of by such
finely carved distinctions. The Court in Levy was not
so much concerned with the tortfeasor going free as
with the equality of treatment under the statutory recovery scheme. Here, as in Levy, there is impermissible discrimination. An unacknowledged illegitimate
child may suffer as much from the loss of a parent as
a child born within wedlock or an illegitimate later
acknowledged. So far as this record shows, the dependency and natural affinity of the unacknowledged illegitimate children for their father were as great as those of the
four legitimate children whom Louisiana law has allowed
to recover.7 The legitimate children and the illegitimate
children all lived in the home of the deceased and were
7 The affinity and dependency on the father of the posthumously
born illegitimate child are, of course, not comparable to those of off-

spring living at the time of their father's death. This fact, however,
does not alter our view of the case. We think a posthumously
born illegitimate child should be treated the same as a posthumously born legitimate child, which the Louisiana statutes fail
to do.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

406 U. S.

equally dependent upon him for maintenance and support. It is inappropriate, therefore, for the court below
to talk of relegating the unacknowledged illegitimates "to
a less favorable position as are other dependent relatives
such as parents." The unacknowledged illegitimates are
not a parent or some "other dependent relative"; in this
case they are dependent children, and as such are entitled
to rights granted other -dependent children.
Respondents contend that our recent ruling in Labine
v. Vincent, 401 U. S. 532 (1971), controls this case. In
Labine, the Court upheld, against constitutional objections, Louisiana intestacy laws which had barred an acknowledged illegitimate child from sharing equally with
leg;timate children in her father's estate. That decision
reflected, in major part, the traditional deference to a
State's prerogative to regulate the disposition at death
of property within its borders. Id., at 538. The Court
has long afforded broad scope to state discretion in
this area.' Yet the substantial state interest in providing for "the stability of . . .land titles and in the
prompt and definitive determination of the valid ownership of property left by decedents," Labine v. Vincent,
229 So. 2d 449, 452 (La. App. 1969), is absent in the
case at hand.
Moreover, in Labine the intestate, unlike deceased in
the present action, might easily have modified his daughter's disfavored position. As the Court there remarked:
"Ezra Vincent could have left one-third of his property to his illegitimate daughter had he bothered
8 The Court over a century ago voiced strong support for state

powers over inheritance: "Now the law in question is nothing more
than an exercise of the power which every state and sovereignty
possesses, of regulating the manner and term upon which property
real or personal within its dominion may be transmitted by last will
and testament, or by inheritance; and of prescribing who shall and
who shall not be capable of taking. it." Mager v. Grima, 8 How.
490, 493 (1850). See Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, 193 (1938).

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

171

Opinion of the Court

to follow the simple formalities of executing a will.
He could, of course, have legitimated the child by
marrying her mother in which case the child could
have inherited his property either by intestate succession or by will as any other legitimate child."
Labine, supra, at 539.
Such options, however, were not realistically open to
Henry Stokes. Under Louisiana law he could not have
acknowledged his illegitimate children even had he desired to do so.' The burdens of illegitimacy, already
weighty, become doubly so when neither parent nor child
can legally lighten them.
Both the statute in Levy and the statute in the present
case involve state-created compensation schemes, designed to provide close relatives and dependents of a
deceased a means of recovery for his often abrupt and
accidental death. Both wrongful-death statutes and
workmen's compensation codes represent outgrowths and
modifications of our basic tort law. The former alleviated the harsh common-law rule under which "no person
could inherit the personal right of another to recover for
"La. Civ. Code, Art. 204, see n. 3, supra, prohibits acknowledgment of children whose parents were incapable of contracting ma:riage at the time of conception. Acknowledgment may only be made
if the parents could contract a legal marriage with each other.
Decedent in the instant case remained married to his first wife-the mother of his four legitimate children-until his death. Thus,
at all times he was legally barred from marrying Willie Mae Weber,
the mother of the two illegitimate children. It therefore was impossible for him to acknowledge legally his illegitimate children and
thereby qualify them for protection under the Louisiana Workmen's
Compensation Act. See also Williams v. American Emp. Ins. Co.,
237 La. 101, 110 So. 2d 541 (1959), where the Louisiana Supreme
Court held that a posthumously born illegitimate child cannot be
classified as a child entitled to workmen's compensation benefits, as
defined under La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1021 (3).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

tortious injuries to his body";

10

406 U. S.

the latter removed diffi-

cult obstacles to recovery in work-related injuries by offering a more certain, though generally less remunerative,
compensation. In the instant case, the recovery sought
under the workmen's compensation statute was in lieu of
an action under the identical death statute which was at
issue in Levy. 1 Given the similarities in the origins and
purposes of these two statutes, and the similarity of
Louisiana's pattern of discrimination in recovery rights,
it would require a disregard of precedent and the principles of stare decisis to hold that Levy did not control
the facts of the case before us. It makes no difference
that illegitimates are not so absolutely or broadly barred
here as in Levy; the discrimination remains apparent.
II
Having determined that Levy is the applicable precedent, we briefly reaffirm, here the reasoning which produced that result. The tests to determine the validity of
state statutes under the Equal Protection Clause have
been variously expressed, but this Court requires, at a
minimum, that a statutory classification bear some rational relationship to a legitimate state purpose. Morey
v. Doud, 354 U. S. 457 (1957); Williamson v. Lee Optical
Co., 348 U. S. 483 (1955); Gulf, Colorado & Santa F6
R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150 (1897); Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U..S. 356 (1886). Though the latitude given state
economic and social regulation is necessarily broad, when
state statutory classifications approach sensitive and
fundamental personal rights, this Court exercises a stricter
scrutiny, Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483
(1954); Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U. S.
10 See 391 U. S. 73, 76 (1968) (Harlan, J., dissenting in Glona
v. American Guarantee & Liability Insurance Co., and Levy v.

Louisiana).

-

"ILa. Civ. Code, Art. 2315.

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

173

Opinion of the Court

663 (1966). The essential inquiry in all the foregoing
cases is, however, inevitably a dual one: What legitimate
state interest does the classification promote? What
fundamental personal rights might the classification
endanger?
The Louisiana Supreme Court emphasized strongly
the State's interest in protecting "legitimate family relationships," 257 La., at 433, 242 So. 2d, at 570, and the
regulation and protection of the family unit have indeed
been a venerable state concern. We do not question the
importance of that interest; what we do question is how
the challenged statute will promote it. As was said
in Glona:
"[W]e see no possible rational basis . . for assuming that if the natural mother is allowed recovery for the wrongful death of her illegitimate
child, the cause of illegitimacy will be served. It
would, indeed, be farfetched to assume that women
have illegitimate children so that they can be compensated in damages for their death." Glona v.
American Guarantee & Liability Insurance Co.,
supra, at 75.
Nor can it be thought here that persons will shun illicit
relations because the offspring may not one day reap the
benefits of workmen's compensation.
It may perhaps be said that statutory distinctions between the legitimate and illegitimate reflect closer family
relationships in that the illegitimate is more often not
under care in the home of the father nor even supported
by him. The illegitimate, so this argument runs, may
thus be made less eligible for the statutory recoveries and
inheritances reserved for those more likely to be within
the ambit of familial care and affection. Whatever the
merits elsewhere of this contention, it is not compelling
in a statutory compensation scheme where dependency
on the deceased is a prerequisite to anyone's recovery,

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

406 U. S.

and where the acknowledgment so necessary to equal
recovery rights may be unlikely to occur or legally impossible to effectuate even where the illegitimate child
may be nourished and loved.
Finally, we are mindful that States have frequently
drawn arbitrary lines in workmen's compensation and
wrongful-death statutes to facilitate potentially difficult
problems of proof. Nothing in our decision would impose on state court systems a greater burden in thts
regard. By limiting recovery to dependents of the ceceased, Louisiana substantially lessens the possible problems of locating illegitimate children and of determining
uncertain claims of parenthood. 2 Our decision fully
most relevant sections of the Louisiana statutes defining
dependency for purposes of workmen's compensation recovery read
as follows:
La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1231:
"For injury causing death, within two years after the accident
there shall be paid to the legal dependent of the employee, actually
and wholly dependent upon his earnings for support at the time
of the accident and death, a weekly sum as hereinafter provided,
12 The

for a period of four hundred weeks. .

.

La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1251:
"The following persons shall be conclusively presumed to be
wholly and actually dependent upon the deceased employee:
"(3) A child under the age of eighteen years

. . .

upon the

parent with whom he is living at "the time of the injury of the
parent."
The above section thus qualifies the illegitimate children in this
case as dependents.
La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1252:
"In all other cases, the question of legal and actual dependency
in whole or in part, shall be determined in accordance with the
facts as they may be at the time of the accident and death . ..."

Naturally, the variations of dependency claims coming to Louisiana courts under these sections are many, but Louisiana has consistently required valid evidence of dependency for recovery. See,
e. g., Sandidge v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., 29 So. 2d 522 (La.

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

175

Opinion of the Court

respects Louisiana's choice on this matter. It will not
expand claimants for workmen's compensation beyond
those in a direct blood and dependency relationship with
the deceased and it avoids altogether diffuse questions of
affection and affinity which pose difficult probative problems. Our ruling requires equality of treatment between
two classes of persons the genuineness of whose claims
the State might in any event b required to determine.
The state interest in legitimate family relationships is
not served by the statute; the state interest in minimizing
problems of proof is not significantly disturbed by our
decision. The inferior classification of dependent unacknowledged illegitimates bears, in this instance, no
significant relationship to those recognized purposes of
recovery which workmen's compensation statutes commendably serve.
The status of illegitimacy has expressed through the
ages society's condemnation of irresponsible liaisons beyond the bonds of marriage. But visiting this condemnation on the head of an infant is illogical and unjust. 3 Moreover, imposing disabilities on the illegitimate child is contrary to the basic concept of our system
that legal burdens should bear some relationship to individual responsibility or wrongdoing. Obviously, no
child is responsible for his birth and penalizing the illegitimate child is an ineffectual-as well as an unjust-way
of deterring the parent. Courts are powerless to prevent
App. 1947), where children, living with their mother who was sep-

arated from the father, in order to receive the maximum compensation for the father's death, must establish that they were wholly
dependent upon the father for their support.
11See, e. g., Gray & Rudovsky, The Court Acknowledges the
Illegitimate: Levy v. Louisiana and Glona v. American Guarantee
& Liability Insurance Co., 118 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1 (1969). A comprehensive study of the legal status of illegitimacy and the effects
thereof is H. Krause, Illegitimacy: Law and Social Policy (1971);
reviewed by Wadlington, 58 Va. L. Rev. 188 (1972).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BiACKMUN, J., concurring in result

406 U. S.

the social opprobrium suffered by these hapless children,
but the Equal Protection Clause does enable us to strike
down discriminatory laws relating to status of birth '"
where-as in this case-the classification is justified by
no legitimate state interest, compelling or otherwise.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, coneurring in the result.
For me, La. Civ. Code, Art. 204, is the provision in the
State's statutory structure that proves fatal for this workmen's compensation case under the focus of constitutional measurement. The Article operated to deny Henry
Stokes the ability even to acknowledge his illegit'mates
so that they might qualify as children within the definition provided by La. Rev. Stat. § 23:1021 (3). This is so
because the decedent (inasmuch as he was then married
to Adlay Jones Stokes and remained married to her the
rest of his life) and the, mother were incapable of contracting marriage at the time of conception and thereafter. This bar, indeed, under the Court's decided cases,
denied equal protection to the illegitimates. Cf. Labine
v. Vincent, 401 U. S. 532, 539 (1971).
I thus give primary emphasis to the presence of Art.
204 and, I believe, far more emphasis than does the Court.
If that statute did not exist or were inapplicable, the
case might be a different one.. While the Court refers to
Art. 204, and to a degree relies upon it, ante, at 171 n. 9, it
seems to me that it does so only secondarily. I read the
opinion as flatly granting dependent unacknowledged
illegitimate children full equality with dependent legitimate children and therefore as striking down the LouSee Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365 (1971); Hunter v.
Erickson, 393 U. S. 385 (1969); Brown v. Board of Education, 347
. 14

U. S. 483 (1954); and see also Hirabayashi v. United States, 320
U. S. 81 (1943).

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

REHNQUIST,

177

J., dissenting

isiana statutory scheme even for the situation where the
father has the power to acknowledge his illegitimates
but refrains from doing so. In other words, the Court
holds the Louisiana system unconstitutional with respect
to illegitimate dependent children wholly apart from the
barrier of Art. 204. Certainly, the first paragraph of the
opinion is to this effect.
In deciding this case, I .need not, and would not, go
that far. I would let the resolution of that issue await
its appropriate presentation.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

dissenting.

This case is distinguishable from Levy v. Louisiana,
391 U. S. 68 (1968), and could be decided the other
way on the basis of this Court's more recent decision in Labine v. Vincent, 401 U. S. 532 (1971). Yet
I certainly do not regard the Court's decision as an
unreasonable drawing of the line between Levy and Labine, and would not feel impelled to dissent if I regarded
Levy as rightly decided. I do not so regard it. I must
agree with Mr. Justice Harlan's dissenting opinion, which
described Levy and its companion case, Glona v. American
Guarantee& Liability Insurance Co., 391 U. S. 73 (1968),
as "constitutional curiosities," and called the Court's
method of reaching the result "a process that can only
be described as brute force." Id., at 76.
Since Levy was a constitutional holding, its doctrine
is open to later re-examination to a greater extent than
if it had decided a question of statutory construction or
some other nonconstitutional issue. See Coleman v.
Alabama, 399 U. S. 1, 22 (1970) (BURGER, C. J., dissenting); Boys Markets, Inc. v. Retail Clerks Union, 398
U. S. 235, 259 (1970) (Black, J., dissenting); Burnet v.
Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 405-410 (1932)
(Brandeis, J., dssenting).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

406 U. S.

The Equal Protection Clause was adopted as a part of
the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868. Five years later
Mr. Justice Miller delivered this Court's initial construction of that amendment in his classic opinion in SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36 (1873). After setting forth an
account of the adoption of that amendment, he described
the account as a "recapitulation of events, almost too

recent to be called history, but which are familiar to us
all." 16 Wall., at 71. Referring to the Equal Protection
Clause, he said:
"We doubt very much whether any action of a State
not directed by way of discrimination against the
negroes as a class, or on account of their race, will
ever be held to come within the purview of this
provision." 16 Wall., at 81.
In nearly 100 years of subsequent adjudication concerning this clause, the Court has adhered to the no-

tion expressed in the Slaughter-House Cases that racial
classifications are "suspect." See, e. g., Loving v. Virginia,
388 U. S. 1 (1967). But during that same period of time,
this Court has proved Mr. Justice Miller a bad prophet
with respect to nonracial classification.
As noted in Levy, in the field of economic and social
legislation, the Court has given great latitude to the
legislatures in making classifications. Williamson v. Lee
Optical Co., 348 U. S. 483, 489 (1955); Morey v. Doud,
354 U. S. 457 (1957). The test has been whether there
is any rational basis for the legislative classification.

See Kotch v. Board of River Part Pilot Comm'rs, 330
U. S. 552, 556 (1947). "State legislatures are presumed
to have acted within their constitutional power despite
the fact that, in practice, their laws result in some inequality. A statutory discrimination will not be set aside
if any state of facts reasonably may be conceived to justify
it." McGowan v. Maryland, 366 U. S. 420, 425-426

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

REHNQUIST,

179

J., dissenting

(1961). Under this test, so long as the "discrimination
is founded upon a reasonable distinction, or difference
in state policy," Allied Stores of Ohio, Inc. v. Bowers, 358
U. S. 522, 528 (1959), the Court will not attempt to
weigh its social value or determine whether the classification might have been more finely drawn. Ferguson v.
Skrupa, 372 U. S. 726 (1963). However, this salutary
principle has been departed from by the Court in recent
years, as pointed out in its opinion here, where the Court
has felt that the classification has affected what it conceives to be "fundamental personal rights."
The difficulty with this approach, devoid as it is of
any historical or textual support in the language of the
Equal Protection Clause, is that it, leaves apparently to
the Justices of this Court the determination of what are,
and what are not, "fundamental personal rights." Those
who framed and ratified the Constitution and the various
amendments to it chose to select certain particular types
of rights and freedoms, and to guarantee -them against
impairment by majority action through legislation or
otherwise. While the determination of the extent to
which a right is protected may result in the drawing of
fine lines, the fundamental sanction of the right itself is
found in the language of the Constitution, and not elsewhere. The same is unfortunately not true of the doctrine of "fundamental personal rights." This body of
doctrine created by the Court can only be described as
a judicial superstructure, awkwardly engrafted upon the
Constitution itself.
The Court's experience with similar superstructures
has not been a happy one. The first part of this century saw the evolution of the doctrine of "freedom of
contract" which was held by the Court during part of
that time to be a part of the Fourteenth Amendment's
requirement that no person be deprived of life, liberty,
or property without due process of law. This doctrine

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

406 U. S.

had its just deserts in West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,
300 U. S. 379, 391 (1937), where Mr. Chief Justice
Hughes, speaking for the Court, said:
"The constitutional provision invoked is the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment governing the States, as the due process clause invoked in
the Adkins case governed Congress. In each case
the violation alleged by those attacking minimum
wage regulation for women is deprivation of freedom
of contract. What is this freedom? The Constitution does not speak of freedom of contract. It speaks
of liberty and prohibits the deprivation of liberty
without due process of law."
In a similar vein it may be said that the Constitution
does not speak of "fundamental personal rights," but
speaks of the equal protection of the laws and prohibits
the denial thereof. Two years ago, this Court in Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471 (1970), recognized that
the broad latitude accorded state legislatures by both
the contemporary history and the text of the Equal Protection Clause was not limited to statutes regulating
business or industry. There, in a case dealing with the
administration of public welfare assistance which, the
Court noted, "involves the most basic economic needs of
impoverished human beings," the Court nonetheless quite
properly applied the "rational basis" constitutional standard. 397 U. S., at 485. It reaffirmed the historically
correct statement of the meaning of equal protection in
these words:
"In the area of economics and social welfare, a
State does not violate the Equal Protection Clause
merely because the classifications made by its laws
are imperfect. If the classification has some 'reasonable basis,' it does not offend the Constitution
simply because the classification 'is not made with

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

RxHNQUIST,

181

J., dissenting

mathematical nicety or because in practice it results
in some inequality.' Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78. 'The problems of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do
not require, rough accommodations-illogical, it
may be, and unscientific.' Metropolis Theatre Co.
v. City of Chicago, 228 U. S. 61, 69-70. 'A statutory
discrimination will not be set aside if any state of
facts reasonably may be conceived to justify it.'
McGowan v. Maryland, 366 U. S. 420, 426."
The Court in today's opinion, recognizing that two
different standards have been applied in equal protection
cases, apparently formulates a hybrid standard which is
the basis of decision here. The standard is a two-pronged
one:
"What legitimate state interest does the classification promote? What fundamental personal rights
might the classification endanger?"
Surely there could be no better nor more succinct
guide to sound legislation than that suggested by these
two questions. They are somewhat less useful, however,
as guides to constitutional adjudication. How is this
Court to determine whether or not a state interest is
"legitimate"? And how is the Court to know when it
is dealing with a "fundamental personal right"?
While the Court's opinion today is by no means a
sharp departure from the precedents on which it relies,
it is an extraordinary departure from what I conceive to
be the intent of the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment and the import of the traditional presumption of
constitutionality accorded to legislative enactments. Nowhere in the text of the Constitution, or in its plain
implications, is there any guide for determining what is
a "legitimate" state interest, or what is a "fundamental
personal right." The traditional police power of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

406 U. S.

States has been deemed to embrace any measure thought
to further the well-being of the State in question, subject only to the specific prohibitions contained in the
Federal Constitution. That Constitution of course contains numerous guarantees of individual liberty, which
I would have no trouble describing as "fundamental personal liberties," but the right of illegitimate children to
sue in state court to recover workmen's compensation
benefits is not among them.
The relationship of the "legitimate" state interest and
"fundamental personal right" analysis to the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of the law is approximately the same as that of "freedom of contract" to the
constitutional guarantee that no person shall be deprived
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law.
It is an invitation for judicial exegesis over and above
the commands of the Constitution, in which values that
cannot possibly have their source in that instrument-are
invoked to either validate or condemn the countless laws
enacted by the various States. In refusing to accept the
breadth of meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment urged
upon the Court in the Slaughter-Howse Cases, Mr. Justice Miller said:
"And still further, such a construction followed by
the reversal of the judgments of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana in these cases, would constitute this
court a perpetual censor upon all legislation of the
States, on the civil rights of their own citizens, with
authority to nullify such as it did not approve as
consistent with those rights, as they existed at the
-time of the adoption of this amendment." 16 Wall.,
at 78.
Mr. Justice Harlan made clear in his dissent in Levy the
exclusively statutory basis for wrongful-death actions
as a matter of legal history, and- the same may be even
more emphatically said about claims for workmen's

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

REHNQUIST,

183

J., dissenting

compensation benefits. In spite of the Court's statement of a test, one part of which requires the determination of the extent to which "fundamental personal
rights" might be endangered by the Louisiana classification here, we are nowhere told in the opinion just what
"fundamental personal right" it is that is involved, to
say nothing of whether it is "endangered." The Court
says that, while -society has long condemned "irresponsible liaisons beyond the bonds of marriage," nonetheless
"visiting this condemnation on the head -of an infant is
illogical and unjust." A fair-minded man might regard
it as both, but the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires neither that state enactments be "logical" nor does it require that they be "just"
in the common meaning of those terms. It requires only
that there be some conceivable set of facts that may
justify the classification involved.
In the instant case I cannot condemn as irrational
Louisiana's distinction between legitimate and illegitimate children. In a statutory compensation scheme such
as this, the State must inevitably draw rather fine and
arbitrary lines. For example, Louisiana declares that
parents will have priority in this scheme over first
cousins, regardless of the degree of dependency or
affection in any given case. Surely, no one would condemn this classification as violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment, since it is likely to reflect fairly the unarticulated intent of the decedent. Similarly, the State
might rationally presume that the decedent would have
preferred the compensation to go to his legitimate children, rather than those illegitimates whom he has not
acknowledged.
Although the majority argues that "the state interest
in minimizing problems of proof is not significantly disturbed by our decision," ante, at 175 (emphasis added), it
clearly recognizes, as it must, that under its decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

406 U. S.

additional and sometimes more difficult problems of
proof of paternity and dependency may be raised. This
is particularly true with respect to petitioner's youngest child, who was not born until after the death
of his father. I believe that a State's desire to lessen
these problems under its statutory scheme is a rational
basis for difference in treatment of the two classes.
Finally, the majority apparently draws some comfort
from the fact that the illegitimate children here could
not have been acknowledged, since the decedent remained
married to another woman while he raised these children. However, I do not believe that it follows from
this fact that the statutory classification is irrational.
On the contrary, this element of the statutory scheme
points up another possible legislative purpose which I
do not believe this Court should so freely dismiss. Louisiana, like many other States, has a wide variety of
laws designed to encourage legally recognized and responsible family relationships. I believe this particular
statutory provision, forbidding acknowledgment of illegitimate children when the parents were not free to
marry (in this case because the father was already
married to another woman), might be considered part
of that statutory pattern designed to discourage formation of illicit family relationships. Whether this is a
wise state policy, and whether this particular statute will
be particularly effective in advancing it, are not matters
for this Court's determination.
Levy and today's decision are not only inconsistent
with the long line of earlier cases construing the Equal
Protection Clause to forbid only irrational classifications; they are quite inconsistent with Dandridge v.
Williams, supra, decided two years after Levy. If state
welfare legislation involving "the most basic economic
needs of impoverished human beings" is to be judged by
the traditional "reasonable basis" standard, I am at a

WEBER v. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO.
164

REHNQUIST,

185

J., dissenting

loss to see why that standard should not likewise govern
legislation determining eligibility for state workmen's
compensation benefits.
All legislation involves classification and line drawing
of one kind or another. When this Court. expands the
traditional "reasonable basis" standard for judgment under the Equal Protection Clause into a search for "legitimate" state interests that the legislation may "promote," and "for fundamental personal rights" that
it might "endanger," it is doing nothing less than passing
policy judgments upon the acts of every state legislature
in the country.

