OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ADAMfS v. CRITTE -DEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAIIA.
No. 952.

Submitted January 13, 1890.-Decided February 3, 1890.

A person m failing circumstances conveyed away his equityr of redemption
in mortgaged real estate, and then became bankrupt. His assignee in
baikruptcy recovered the tract from the grantee in an action brought for
that purpose, to which the mortgagee was not made party, and then conveyed it by deed to a purchaser. The mortgagee sued in the state court
to foreclose his mortgage, making the bankrupt, his assignee, and the
grantee of the assignee, parties; the land was sold under a decree of foreclosure; and the purchaser under it received a deed and was put into possession. Thereupon the grantee of the assignee in. bankruptcy brought
ejectment against him to recover possession; Held, that the state court
had jurisdiction of the foreclosure suit, and had a right to hear and determine whether the mortgage debt was still a lien, and whether the mortgagee's claim was upon the land or upon the fund in the hands of the
assignee in bankruptcy.

THIS was an action of ejeotment, and was submitted to the
trial court upon an agreed 9tatement of facts, which appears in
the record. The contest was between a purchaser from an assignee in bankruptcy ano a purchaser at subsequent foreclosure
proceedings in a state, court. The land was encumbered with
liens at the time the bankruptcy proceedings were commenced.
The title was not in the bankrupt, nor was the property surrendered by him to the assignee. Subsequently, however, the
assignee sued the party in whose name the title stood and recovered the land. Thereafter, it was sold by the assignee, and
the plaintiff in error became the purchaser. Such sale was
for one-third cash, the balance on time, a lien being retained
_for the deferred payments. Upon this sale a deed was made,
and the purchaser put in possession. The lien holders were
not made parties to any proceedings in the bankrupt court.
They never proved their claims there. After the conveyance
by the assignee to the plaintiff in error, these lien owners
commenced proceedings in the chancery court of the State to

ADAS v. CRITTENDEN.
Argument for -Plaintiff in Error.

foreclose their liens, making the bankrupt, the-assignee in bankruptcy, and the purchaser, among others, parties defendant.
The assignee and the purchaser defended on the ground that
the state court had no jurisdiction to ascertain and enforce.
liens upon property of a bankrupt which had passed into
the jurisdiction of the bankrupt court and by it been disposed
of; but this defence was overruled, the liens declared and the
land ordered to be sold. An appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the State, but it affirmed the decree. Pending the
proceedings in the state chancery court, a bill was filed in the
United States Circuit Court to enjoin those proceedings, but
after hearing that bill was dismissed. After the affirmance
by the Supreme Court of the decree of the chancery court, the
land was sold, and the defendants in error became the purchasers. Upon such purchase they received the ordinary deed
and were put in possession. Thereupon this action of ejectment
was brought.

MY' S. Matson, .Ab 'H. E. Jones and
for plaintiff in error.

b -Laruence Cooper

L The bankrupt court, having absolute and exclusive jurisdiction of the property, had the power to sell it and make a
good title. There is no question concerning the regularity of
the proceedings in bankruptcy The land was sold absolutely,
and free from all liens, by the bankrupt court, deed made in.
regular form, and the plaintiff, the purchaser, was put in possession. This gave him absolute title, and entitles him to a
recovery
II. The plaintiff was m possession of the land under a deed
made to him by the officer of the bankrupt court, in pursuance
of a sale, made under the order of that court, having absolute and exclusive jurisdiction over the land. )e was ousted
by the defendants under subsequent proceedings in a statecourt having no jurisdiction over the subject. matter. The
proceedings in the state court were therefore vid, and the
plaintiff, for this reason, ought to recover.
III. It is agreed that the land in question was worth

OOTO] ER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

$7000, that the annual rents were wort] $500 for each year,
and that the -plaintiff was ousted by the defendants on
the 4th of April; 1883. Therefore the plaintiff ought to have
a judgment for .possession of the land, and a judgment against
the defendants for the rentals of the land, at the rate of
$500 a year, fromApril 4, 1883.
Mr Milton Humes and 3tr R. (. Bnokell for defendants
in error.

MR. JUSTIcE BREwER, after stating the case as above, delivered the o'pinion of the court.
The regularity of the proceedings of the state court is not
challenged. They were all subsequent to the proceedings in
the bankrupt court, and were not commenced until after the
title had passed away from the assignee in bankruptcy The
general jurisdiction of the state court is conceded. The purchaser, the plaintiff in error, was a party to that suit, and the
claim of the plaintiff in error can only be sustained upon the
theory that by reason of the bankrupt proceedings the state
court was prevented from taking jurisdiction.
But the truth is, the question is one of error and not of
jurisdiction. The state court had jurisdiction of the- parties,
and they were served with process and- appeared. It had
jurisdiction of .the foreclosure of liens, and it had a right to
hear and determine whether the alleged liens still existed, and
-whether there was any valid, defence to their enforcement.
The property upon which the liens were claimed was not in
the possession of the bankrupt court, but only in the posses-sion of the party purchasing from it. So,. whether it erred
m deciding that the lien holders had a claim upon the land
rather than upon the fund in the hands of the assignee in
bankruptcy, is immaterial. It presented simply a matter of
error. An error in its ruling did not oust it of jurisdiction.
The error, if error it was, could be corrected only by appeal.
The failure of the party to exhaust his remedy in that direction does not now entitle hun to disregard the entire proceed-

