OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

HOPKINS v. MeLURE.
ERO

TO THE SUPFEM

COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 126. Argued November 20, 1889.-Decided March 3, 1890.

Where the Supreme Court of a State decides against the plaintiff in lerror
on an independent ground, not involving a Federal question, and broad
enough to maintain the judgment, the writ of error will be dismissed by
this court without considering the Federal question.
In this case, the Supreme Court of the State held that the law was not
changed by an isolated decision made by it, because such decision was

an erroneous declaration of what was the law; and on that view this
court held that no Federal question was presented by the record, and the
writ of error was dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Tilliam E. Earle for plaintiff in error.
Mr&. John J. Hemphill for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 9th of July, 1876, George W. iMelton died, intestate
and insolvent, in South Carolina, leaving surviving him his
widow, Margaret A, Melton, and three infant children. John
J. McLure was appointed administrator of his estate, and cominenced an action in the Circuit Court of Chester County, South
Carolina, in July, 1877, to marshal the assets of the estate, to
have the .real property of the deceased sold in aid of assets,
and to have the creditors of the estate establish their derhands.
The creditors were called in, and numerous claims were established, among them, a.note under seal to R. G. Ratchford &
Co., bearing date February 22, 1859; a note under seal to Dr.
A. P. Wylie, bearing'date May 3, 1872; a note under seal to
Samuel D Melton, bearing date February 1, 1871; a bond
secured by a mortgage on real estate to one Duvall, sheriff,
dattd June 4, 1875, which had been transferred to one Kerr,
as clerk of the court of Fairfield County, South Carolina; and

HOPKINS v. XcLURE.
Opinion of the Court.

a bond secured by a mortgage on real estate to Hopkins,
Dwight & Co., dated May 19, 1876. The widow and the
,infant children, and various creditors of the deceased were
made defendants. The case was referred to a special referee,
who reported that the assets of the estate could not exceed
$11,000; that the amount due on the mortgage to Duvall,
sheriff, was $1087.35, and the amount due on the mortgage to
Hopkins, Dwight & Co. was $30,748.44; and that there were
debts on sealed notes and specialties dated prior to November
25, 1873, amounting to $7005.04, and debts on simple contracts
amounting to $36,415.98, the total of the three classes of debts
being $75,256.81. The special referee reported that, after the
payment of the costs, the assets were applicable first to,, the
satisfaction of the bond and mortgage to Duvall, sheriff, and
next to the bond and mortgage to Hopkins, Dwight & Co.
Exceptions were .fled by various creditors to the report of the
referee, and the case was heard by the Circuit Court.
It appeared that the mortgage to Hopkins, Dwight & Co.
had been foreclosed by a judicial sale of the land covered by
it; that the proceeds of the sale were insufficient to pay the
debt; that the debt and the mortgage were set up as a preferred claim against the general assets in the hands of the
administrator; that the land covered by the mortgage held by
Kerr as. clerk was sold under an order of the court before Kerr
became a party to the suit by proving his debt and mortgage;
that, after that sale, Kerr, not having obtained its proceeds,
instituted proceedings to foreclose the mortgage, obtained
-judgment, and sold the land, but the proceeds of sale were
insufficient to pay the mortgage debt; and that Kerr set up
the debt as a preferred one against the general assets of the
estate.
The Circuit Court said, in its opinion, that the referee held
that both of these debts were preferred claims, on the authority
of the case of Edwards v. Sanders, 6 So. Car. 316; and it discussed the question whether the mortgage debt of Hopkins,
Dwight & Co. was a preferred claim afteroits specific lien had
been exhausted, because it was a mortgage.
Section 26 of the act of South Carolina, which became a law

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

March 13, 1789, being act No. 1455, entitled "An act directing
the manner of granting probates of wills and letters of administration, and for other purposes therein mentioned," (Stat. at
L. of So. Car. 1839, v. 5, p. 111,) provided as follows: "That
the debts due by any testator or intestate shall be paid by executors or administrators in the order following, viz.: funeral
and other expenses of the last sickness, charges of probate of
will or of the letters of administration; next, debts due to the
public; next, judgments, mortgages and executions, the oldest
first; next, rent; then, bonds or other obligations; and lastly,
debts due on open accounts; but no preference whatever shall
be given to creditors in equal degree, where there is a deficiency of assets, except in the cases of judgments, mortgages
that shall be recorded from the time of recording, and executions lodged in the sheriff's office, the oldest of which shall be
first paid, or in those cases where a creditor may have a lien
on any particular part of the estate."
This provision was construed by the Constitutional Court of
South Carolina, in 1822,. in the case of Tunno v. Happoldt, 2
McCord, 188.' In that case, the deceased left an outstanding
"obligation or sealed instrument of mortgage and covenant"
and some outstanding simple contract debts. The question
arose whether that instrument was to be ranked, in the legal
order of payment under the staute, among bond debts or
among simple contract debts. The court said that the claim
was by simple contract, that is, by a note; that the question
.was whether the mortgage deed could change the character
of the note, or give it a preference over other simple contract
debts under the statute; that the simple contract debt was not
changed by the mortgage; 'and that the deed gave a particular lien upon certain property, but its object and intent had
terminated, and otherwise left the note as it stood before, still
a simple contract.
In Jinard v. Young, 2 Rich. Eq. 247, in the Court of
Appeals in Equity and Court of Errors of Soith Carolina, in
1846, it was held that, in the administration of the assets of an
insolvent testator or intestate, mortgages, as mortgages, were
not entitled to priority over rent, specialties, and simple con-

HOPKINS v. McLURE.
Opinion of the Court.

tract debts, except so far as they were liens on any particular
part of the estate, and that, after the lien was exhausted, the
grade of the demand must be determined by the nature of the
instrument which the mortgage was given to secure; the
court following the decision in Tunno v. Happoldt.
The provision of the act of 1789 was incorporated in 1872 in
the Revised Statutes of South Carolina, as section 3 of chapter
90, p. 457, as follows: "The assets-which come to the hands of an
executor or.administrator, after proper allowanc6 to the executor
or administrator, in a due course of administration, shall be
applied to the payment of his debts in the following order, that
is to say: 1. Funeral and other expenses of the last sickness,
charges of probate or letters of administration ; 2. Debts due to
the public; 3. Judgments, mortgages, and executions - the oldest first; 4. Rent; 5. Bonds and debts by specialty; 6. Debts
by simple contract."
In 1875, the case of Edwards v. &znders, 6 So. Car. 316, was
decided by the Supreme Court of the State. It was held that,
under section 26 of the act of 1789, prescribing the order in
which debts of a decedent are to be paid, mortgages, whether of
chattels or real estate, rank in the third class, and are entitked
to payment out of the generalestate in preference to spdcialty
and simple contract debts; that a purchase of the mortgaged
premises, by the mortgagee or his assignee, under a decree -for
foreclosure, does not extinguish the mortgage debt for any unsatisfied balance that may remain; and that, where the purchase is made after the death of the mortgagor, the unsatisfied
balance retains its rank as a mortgage debt, with right fo priority of payment out of the general estate, over specialty and
simple contract debts.
While the case of Edwards v. Sanders stood as the rule of
construction, the referee in the present case held that the mortgages in question were preferred claims. Before the case came
on to be heard upon exceptions to the report of the referee, the
case of Piester v. Piester, 22 So. Car. 139, was decided, in January, 1885, by the Supreme Court of the State, which held that,
under the act of 1789, a mortgage, as such, had no precedence
in the administration of the estate of a deceased person, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to the extent of its specific lien upon the property mortgaged,
and that when such lien was exhausted the mortgage ranked
according to the grade of the demand secured by it; thus approving the case of Hinard v. Young, and overruling that of
Edla'ds v. Sanders The court said: "We think that a creditor of a decedent's estate, whose claim is secured by a mortgage on particular property, has under the act a lien upon that
property; but when that is exhausted the mortgage as such is
functus offcio ; and i.further marshalling the assets the demand must rank according as it may be a simple contract or
specialty." The court cited the cases of Tunno v. I-fdppoldt
and Zinardcl v. Young, and said that the doctrine asserted by
them was regarded as the settled construction of the act of
1789, until the case of Edwards v. Sanders. Of that case the
court said that it "is not only unsustained by proper rules of
construction, but is in direct opposition to the decided cases and
what was at that time considered the settled law of the State."
The court then referred to the act of South Carolina, passed
December 14, 1878, entitled "An act to alter and amend the
law in relation to the payment of debts of a decedent" (No.
548; 16 -Stat. 686), which provides: "That in the administration of the assets of a decedent, mortgages shall not be entitled
to a priority over rents, debts by specialty, or debts by simple
coigtract, except as to the particular parts of the estate affected
b r the liens of such mortgages. That after the property covered by the liens is exhausted, the grade of the demand shall
be determined by the nature of the instrument which the mortgage was given to secure," as an act which, although it was
passed after the facts in the case then at bar arose, "only
dclared what had been the law of the State since the act of
1789."
After a consideration of these cases, the Circuit Court
reached the conclusion, in the present case, that the mortgages
in question came under the operation of the decision in Piester
v. Piester, and were not preferred claims as mortgages. The
decree of that court was that, the lien of the mortgages having
been exhausted, they were no longer preferred claims; and
that the debts they were given to secure could only be proved

HOPKINS v. McLURE.
Opinion of the Court.

and take rank against the assets in the hands of the administrator according to the nature of the instrument evidencing
the debt, and the statute relating thereto. Exceptions were
filed to the decree and the case was heard on appeal by the
Supreme Court of the State, which, in April, 1886, affirmed
the decree of the Circuit Court. 2- So. Car. 559.
The point wps taken by the appellants in the Supreme
Court of South Carolina that the case of Piester'v. Piester
could not be applied to their cases, for the reason that so' to
apply it would impair the obligation of contracts or divest
vested rights, because, at the time of the making of the contract of Hopkins, Dwight & Co.,.the law, as then declared by
the case of Edwards v. Sanders, required that the balances
due on the two debts should be ranked as mortgages, and as
such be entitled to priority over specialty debts; and that the
decision in Piester v. Piester could not divest rights which.
became vested at the time the intestate died, under the law as
it was then declared to be.
But the Supreme Court said that the constructionplaced on
the provisions of -the act of 1789 by the decision in Piesterv.
Piester,was the same as that laid down in Tunno v. "Happodt
and Kinard v. Young; that the law stood unquestioned down
to the time of the decision in Edwards v. Sanders; that that decision did not seem to have been followed in a single instance;
that from what was said in Piester v. Piester it would seem
never to have been satisfactory to the profession; that at the
first opportunity it was overruled; and that, in the meantime,
the legislature, by the act of 1878, had shown its dissatisfaction
with the construction adopted in'the case of Edwards v. Sanders. On the question whether the decision in Piester v.
Piester effected such a change in the law as would forbid its
application to the case under consideration, because it would
impair 'the obligation of a contract or divest rights vested
under the law as declared in Edwards v. Sanders, the Supreme
Court said, that, as the proper construction of the statute had
been settled for a long series of years by decisions of both of
the courts of final resort in the State, in accordance with the
view declared in Piester v. Piester,it would be going very'far
VOL. cxxxm-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to say that a single isolated decision, never recognized or followed in any subsequent case, and never recommending itself
to the approval of the profession, should be regarded as having
the effect of changing the law. "On the contrary," says .the
court, "whatever may be the opinions of individuals as to its
correctness, it must be regarded as an erroneous declaration
.of what was the law, and as only thb law of the particular
case in which it was made."
The members of the firm of Hopkins, Dwight & Co., as successors of the former members of that firm, and the trustee
of that firm and of Mrs. Melton and her infant children,
have brought a writ of error to review the decree of the
Supreme Court affirming that of the Circuit Court; and the
defendants in error now move to dismiss the writ of error, on
the ground of a want of jurisdiction in this court.
It is contended on the part of the plaintiffs in error that
the decision of the court below was based upon the application
of the act of 1878 as a valid act, affecting the contract of
the plaintiffs in error and impairing its obligation. But the
validity of that statute was not drawn in question, and the
Supreme Court did not pass upon it. The decree of that court
does not rest upon that statute, but upon independent grounds.
The decision rests upon a ground broad enough to cover the
6ntire case, without considering the statute. It rests upon the
ground that the law of South Carolina, under the act of 1789,
was such as it had always been held to be, in Tunno v. .appoldt, iinardv. YFoung and Piester v. Piester, and that the
law as so declared had~always been the law, and was not varied
or changed by anythifig decided in Edwards v. Sanders. That
being so, we must hold that no Federal question is presented
by the record.
This view is in. accordance with the decisions of this court
in Kreiger v. Shelhy Railroad Co., 125 _U. S. 39, .Desaussurev.
Gaillard,i27 U. S. 216, and &le v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554, the
ruling in which cases is, that where the Supreme Court of a
State decides a Federal question, in rendering a judgment, and
also decides against the plaintiff in error on an independent
ground, not involving a Federal quiestion, and broad enough

