LOUISVILLE &c. IRAILWAY CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 587
Counsel for Parties.

diction' of the court, it was impossible to join her as a party
defendant to this suit, and that it was, therefore, unnecessary
to attempt to do so. The court below ruled against the complainant on this point, and we see no error in that ruling.
The general question involved therein has been before this
court a number of times, and it is now well settled that, notwithstanding the statute referred to and the 17th equity rule,
a Circuit Court can make no decree in a suit in the absence of
a party whose rights must necessarily be affected thereby.
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 141, 142; Coiron v..Xilaudon, 19 How. 113, 1,15, and cases there cited.
But even admitting the complainant's contention as regards
the making of Mrs. Pike a party to this suit, it does not follow
that Talbot and .Brooks should not have beenl made parties.
As we have shown, they had a substantial interest in the subject matter of the contract sued on, and they should have been
made parties to the suit.
We see no error in the decree of the court below prejudicial to the complainant, and it is therefore

Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE, NTEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. :MiSSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE
No. 1195.

SUPREME COURT

OF THE STATE

OF

MISSISSIPPI."

Submitted January 10, 1890.-Decided March 3, 1890.

The statute of the State of Mississippi of March 2, 1888, requiring all
railroads carrying passengers in that State (other than street railroads)
to provide equal, but separate, accommodations for the white and colored
races, having been construed by the Supreme Court of the State to apply
solely to commerce within the State, does no violation to the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The construction of a state statute by the highest court of the State Is
-accepted as conclusive in this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M.

W. P. Harrisfor plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant in error submitted on the record.

Mm. JUSTmE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented is as to the validity of an act passed
by the legislature of the State of Mississippi on the 2d of
March, 1888. That act is as follows:
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted, That all railroads carrying passengers in this State (other, than street railroads) shall provide
equal, but separate, accommodation for the white and colored
races, by providing two or more passenger cars for each passenger traii, or by dividing the passenger cars by a partition,
so as to secure separate accommodations.
"SEC. 2. That the conductors of such passenger trains shall
have power,, and are hereby required, to assign each passenger
to the, car or the compartment of a car (when it is divided by
a partition) used for the race to which said passenger belongs;
and that, should any passenger refuse to occupy the car to
which he or she is assigned by such conductor, said conductor
shall-ha ve power to refuse to carry such passenger on his
train, and neither he nor the railroad company shall be liable
for any damages in any event in this State.
" Svc. 3. That all railroad companies that shall refuse or
neglect within sixty-.days after the approval of this act to
comply with the requirements of section one of this act, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction, be fined not more
than five hundred dollars; and any conductor that shall
neglect to, or refuse to, carry out the provisions of this act
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty-five nor
mo'e than fifty dollars for each offence.
I' SEc. 4. That-all acts and parts of acts in conflict with this
act be, and the same are hereby repealed, and this act to take
effect and be in force from and after its passage." Acts of
1888, p. 48.
The plaintiff in error was indicted for a violation of that
statute. A conviction in the trial court was sustained in the
Supreme Courtdnd from its judgment this'case is here on

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILWAY -0.

T. ISSISSIPPI. 589

Opinion of the Court.

error. The question is whether the act is a regulation of interstate comnrce and therefore beyond the power of the State;
and the cases of hall v. .Dequir, 95. U. S. 485, and Wabash,
St. lowis &c.Railway v. Ilinois, 118 U. S. 557, are specially
relied on by plaintiff in error.
It will be observed that this indictment was against the company for the violation of section one, in not providing separate
accommodations for the two races; and not against a conductor for a violation of section two, in failing to assign' eachpassenger to his separate compartment. It Will also be observed that this is not a civil action brought by an individual
to recover damages for being compelled to occupy one particular compartment, 6r prevented from riding on the train;
and hence there is no question of personal iisult or alleged
violation of personal rights. The question is limited to the
power of the State to compel railroad companies to provide,
within the State, separate accommodations for the two races.
Whether such accommodation is to be a matter of choice'or
compulsion does not enter into this case. The case of Hall v.
DeCuir, supra, was a civil action to recover damages from
the owner of a steamboat for refusing to the pla4ntiff, a person'
of color, accommodations in the cabin specially set apart for
white persons; and the validity of a statute of the State of
Louisiana, prohibiting discrimination on account of color, and
giving a right of action to the party injured for the violation
thereof, was a question for consideration. The steamboat was
engaged in interstate commerce, but the plaintiff only sought
transportation from oiie point to another in the State. This
court held that statute, so far as applicable to the facts-in that
case, to be invalid. That decisibn- is invoked here; bat there
is this marked difference. The Suprefne Court of the State of
Louisiana held that the act applied to interstate carriers, and
required them, when they came within the limits of the State,
to receive colored passengers into the cabin set apart for white
persons. This court, accepting that construction a:s
conclusive,
held that the act was a regulation of interstate commerce, and
therefore beyond the power of the State. The Chief 'Justice,
speaking for the court, said :-" For the purposes of this case

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

we must treat the act of Louisiana of February 23, 1869, as
requiring those engaged in interstate commerce to give all
persons travelling in that State, upon the public conveyances
emliloyed in such business, equal rights and privileges in all
parts of the conveyance, without distinctibn or discrimination
on account of race or color. Such was the construction given
to that act in the courts below, and it is conclusive upon us as
the construction of a state law by the state courts. It is with
this provision of the statute alone that we have to deal. We
have nothing whatever to do with it as a regulation of internal commerce, or as affecting anything else than commerce
among th States." And again: "But we think that it may
safely be said that state legislation which seeks to impose a
direct burden upon interstate commerce, or to interfere directly
with its freedom, does- encroach upon the exclusive power of
Congress. The statute now under consideration, in our opinion, occupies that position. It does not act upon the business
through the local instruments. to be employed after coming
Within the, State, but directly upon the business as it comes
into the State from without or goes out from within. While
it purports only to control the carrier when. engaged within the
'State, it must necessarily influence his conduct to some extent
in the management of his business thioughout his entire voy.age. His disposition of passengers taken up and put down
within the State, -or taken, up within to be carried without,
cannot but affect in a greater or less degree those taken up
without and brought within, and sometimes those taken up and
put down without. A passenger in the cabin set apart for the
use of whites without the State must, when the boat comes
within, share the accommodations- of that abin with such
colored persons as may come on board afterwards, if the law
is enforced."
So the decision was by its terms carefully limited to those
,cases in which the law practically interfered with interstate
commerce. Obviously whether interstate passengers of one
race should, in any portion of their journey, be compelled to
share their cabin accommodations with passengers of another
race, was a question of interstate commerce, and to be deter-

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILWAY GO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 591
Opilioi

of the Court.

mined by Congress alone. In this case, the Supreme Court of
Mississippi held that the statute applied solely to commerce
within the State; and that construction being tlie construction
of the statute of the State by its highest court, must be accepted
as conclusive here. If it be a matter respecting wholly commerce within a State, and not interfering with commerce. between the States, then, obviously, there is no violation of the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.- Counsel for
plaintiff in error strenuously insist s that it does affect and.
regulate interstate commerce, but this contentio-n cannot be
sustained.
So far as the first section is concerned, (and it is with that
alone we have to do,) its provisions are fully complied with
when to trains within the State is attached a separate car for
colored passengers. This may cause an extra expense to the
railroad company; but not more so than state statutes requiring certain accommodations at depots, compelling trains to
stop -at crossings of other railroads, and a multitude of other
matters confessedly within the power of the State.
1o question arises under this section, as to the power of
the State to separate in different compartments interstate
passengers, or to affect, in any manner, the privileges and
rights of such passengers. All that we can consider is,
whether the State has the power to require that railroad
trains within her limits shall have separate accommodations
for the two races. That affecting only commerce within the
State is no invasion of the powers given to Congress by the
commerce clause.
In the case of Wabash Railway Co. v. llinois, supra,
Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the cqurt, said : "If the Illinois
statute could be construed to apply exclusively to contracts
for a carriage which begins and ends within the State, disconnected from a continuous transportation through or into
other States, there does not seem to be any difficulty in hold:ng it to be valid. For instance, a.contract might be made to
carry goods for a certain price from Cairo to Chicago,- or from
Chicago to Alton. The charges -for these might be within
the competency of the Illinois legislature to regulate. The

OCTOBER TERM4, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

reason for this is that both the charge and the actual transportation in such cases are exclusively confined to the limits of
the territory of the State, and is not commerce among the
States; or interstate commerce, but is exclusively commerce
within the State. So far, therefore, as this class of transportation, as an element of commerce, is affected by the statute
under consideration, it is not subject to the constitutional
provision concerning commerce among the States. It has
often been held in this court, and there can be no doubt
about it, that there is a commerce 'Wholly within the State,
which is not subject to the constitutional provision, and the
distinct ionbetween commerce among the States and the other
class of commerce between the citizens of a single State, and
conducted within its limits exclusively, is one which has been
fully recognized in this. court, although it may not be always
easy, where the lines of these classes approach each other, to
distinguish between the one and the other. The -DanielBall,
10 Wall. 557; Hlall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; Telegraph Co.
v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460."
The statute in this case, as settled by the Supreme Court
of the State of Mississippi, affects only such commerce within
the State, and comes, therefore, within the principles thus
laid down. It comes also within the opinion of this court in
the case of Stone v. Farmer.s .oan and Trust Co., 116 U. S.
307.
We see no error in the ruling of the Supteme Court of the
State of Mississippi, and.its judgment is, therefore,

.4fflrmed.
m JusTicE HAxLA-N dissenting.
The defendant, the Lopisville, New Orleans and Texas Railroad Company, owns and operates P,continuous line of railroad
from Memphis to New Orleans. If one of its passenger trains
- starting, for instance, from Memphis to go to New Orleans
- enters the territory of Mississippi, without having cars attached to it for the separate accommodation of, the white and
black races, the company and the conductor of such train are

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILWAY CO. v., MISSISSIPPI. 593
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

liable to be fined as prescribed in the statute, the yalidity of
which is here in question. In other words, it is made an
offence against the State of Mississippi if a railroad company
engaged in interstate commerce shall presume to send one of
its trains into or through that State without such arrangenlent
of its cars as will secure separate accommodations for both
races.
In tfall v. De Ciir,95 U. S. 485, 488, this court declared unconstitutional and void, as a regulation of interstate commerce,
an act of the Louisiana legislature which required those engaged
in interstate commerce to give all persons travelling in that
State, upon the public conveyances employed in such business,
equal rights and privileges in all parts of the conveyance,
without distinction or discrimination on account of race or
color. The court, speaking by Chief Justice Waite, said:
"We think it may, safely be said that state legislation which
seeks to impose a direct burden upon interstate commerce, or
to interfere directly with its freedom, does encroach upon the
exclusive power of Congress. The statute now under consideration, in our opinion, occupies that position. It does not
act upon the business through the local instruments to be
employed after coming within the State, but directly up.o~n
the business as it comes into the State from without, or goes
out from within. While it purports only to control the carrier
when engaged within the State, it must necessarily influence
his conduct to some extent in the management of his business
throughout his entire voyage. His disposition of passengers
taken up and put down within the State, or taken up within
to be carried without, cannot but affect in greater or less
degree those taken up without and brought within, and sometimes those taken up and piut down without. A passenger in
the-'cabin set apart for the bse of whites without the State
must, when the boat comes within, share, the accommodatioiug
of that cabin with such colored persons as may come on board
afterwards, if the law is enforced. It was to meet just such
a case that the commercial clause in the Constitution was
adopted. The river Mississippi passes through or along the
borders of ten different States, and its tributaries reach many
VOL. cxxxni-38

OCTOBER 'TERX, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, 3.

more. The commerce upon these waters is immense, and its
regulation clearly a matter of national concern. If each State
was at liberty to regulate the conduct of carriers while within
its jurisdiction, the confusion likely to follow could not but be
productive of great inconvenience and unnecessary hardship.
Each State could provide for its own passengers and regulate
the transportation of its own freight regardless of the interests
of others. Nay, more, it could prescribe rules by which the
.carrier must be governed within the State in respect to passengers and property brought from without. On one side of the
river or its tributaries he might be required to observe one set
of rules, and on the other another. Commerce cannot flourish
in the midst of such embarrassments. No carrier of passengers can conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or
comfort to those employing him, if on one side of a state line
his passengers, both white and colored, must be permitted to
ocqupy the same cabin, and on the other be kept separate.
Uniformity in the regulations by which he is to be governed
from one end to the other of his r6ute is a necessity in his
business, and to secure it Congress, svhiech is untrammelled by
state lines, has been invested with the exclusive legislative
power of determining what such regulations.c.nall be."
It seetns to me'that those observations are entirely pertinent
to the case before us. In its application to passenges on vessels engaged in interstate commerce, the Louisiana enactment
forbade, the separation of the.-white and black races while such
vessels were within the limits of that State. The Mississippi
statute, in its application to. passengers on railroad trains
employed in interstate commerce, requires such separation of
races, while those trains are within that State. I am unable
to perceive how the former is a regulation of interstate commerce, and the other is not. It is aifficfilt to understand how
a state enactment, requiring the separation of the white and
black races on interstate carriers of passengers, is a regulation
of commerce among the States, while a similar enactment forbidding such separation is not a regulation of that character.
Without considering other grounds upon which, in my judgment,'the statute in question might properly be held to be

