CHRISTIAN v. ATLANTIC & N. C. R ILROAD.

233

Syllabus.

The rule ordinarily followed in construing statutes is to
adopt the construction of the courts of the country by whose
legislature the statute was originally adop'ted, but we are not.
constrained to apply that rule in.this instance. The original
source of the statute is to be found in the legislation of Massachusetts. The Supreme Court of California declined to treat
the received construction in Massachusetts as accompanying
the statute and forming an integral part of it, upon a distinction which we do not regard as well drawn. That construction
commends itself to our judgment, and we hold that the Supreme Court of the Territory properly applied it.
The evidence was competent, and the judgment must be

Afflrvwa.
MR.JUsTC .BnEwE not having been a member of the court
at the time this case was considered took no part in its decision.

CHIRISTIAN v. ATLANTIC AND NORTH CAROLINA
RAILIOAD COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UINITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 46. Argued October 20, 1889.-Decided January27, 1890.

A State is an indispensable party to any proceeding in equity in which its
property is sought to be taken and subjected to the payment of its obligations.
The State of North Carolina subscribed in 1856 for capital stock in a railway
company which had.been incorporated by its legislature, issued its bonds
with thirty years to run, sold them, and with the proceeds paid its
subscription, and received certificates of 'stock therefor, which certificates it never parted with and still holds. In the act incorporating the
company and authorizing the issue of the bonds it was provided that as
security for their redemption "the public faith of the State" "is hereby
pledged to the holders,1 ' "and in addition thereto all the stock held by
the State" in the railroad company "shall be pledged for that purpose"
and that "any dividend" on the stock " shall be applied to the payment
of the interest accruing on said ,coupon bonds." The State being In
default in the payment of the interest due on the bonds since 1868. a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Appellants.
bondholder, who was a citizen of Virginia, brought suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States in the Eastern District of North Carolina
against the Railroad Company, its president and directors, the person
holding the proxy of the State upon the stock held by it, and the treasurer of the State, praying to have the complainant's bonds decreed to be
a lien upon the stock owned by the- State and upon any dividends that
might be declared thereon, and that such dividends might be paid to
complainant and to such bondholders as might join in the suit, and for
the sale of the stock if the dividends should prove insufficient, and for
an account, and for the appointment of a receiver, and for an injunction;
Held, that, as th8 State was an indispensable party to the suit, the bill
must be dismissed.

Decree dismissing the bill, from which the comIN E Qui.
.plainants appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr Joseph B. Batchelor and -Mr Samuel F PhiliPs, (with
whom were -Mr TV IT Lamar and Mr oJ G Zachry on the
brief,) for appellants, cited Beale v W1ite, 94: U S. 382,
Wilson v Boyce, 92 U. S. 320;. WIte Water Valley Canal Co.
v Vallette, 21 How 414, Barings v Dabney, 19 Wall. 1,
Woods nr v lMurdock, 22 Wall. 351, United States v Union
Pacific Railroad, 91 U. S. 72, Ketchum v St. Louss, 101
U. S. 306, Whitehead v. Vineyard, 50 Missouri, 30, Collins v
Central Bank of Georgia, 1 Georgia, 435, Swasey v Nyorth
Carolina Railroad,1 Hughes, 17, S. C. 71 North Carolina,
571, Ingram,v Hirkpatrck, 6 Iredell Eq. 463, S. C. 51 Am.
Dec. 428, Osborn v. Bank qf the United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115, Curran v. Arkansas, 15
How 304, Woodruf v Trajpnall, 10 how 190, 206, Furman
v Nichols, 8 Wall. 44, Bank of the United States v Planters'
Bank, 9 Wheat. 90-4, Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257,
Darrngtonv Bank of Alabama, 13 How 9, State v Stol, 17
Wall. 425, Elliott v Yanvoorst, 3 Wall. Jr. 0. Ct. 299; Wabash
& Erze Canal v Beers, 2 Black, 448, United States v Wilder,
3 Sumner, 308, Davs v Gray, 16 Wall. 203, Board of LguqzeComb, 92 U. S. 531, Iouiszana v Jumel, 107 U. S.
dation v
711; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick -Railroad,109 U. S.
446, UnitedStates v. Lee, 106 U S. 196, Vase v Grant, 15 Mass.
505, Wood v Dummer, 3 Mason, 308, Upton v. Tribilcock, 91

CHRaISTIAN v. ATLANIC & N. C. R ILRQAD.

235

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 45, Union Bank of Tennessee v The State, 9 Yerger, 490,
Slaymaker v Gettysburg-Bank, 10 Penn. St. 373, IIutchn&
v State Bank, 12 Met. 421, Palmer v. -Merrill,6 Cush. 282,
S. C, 52 Am. Dec. 782, Chester Glass Co. v Dewey, 16 Mass.
94, S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 128, Boston Muswc -HallAssociation
v Cory, 129 Mass. 435, Telegraph Co. v Davenport, 97 U S.
369, Mechan'cs Bank v. Seton, I Pet. 299, .Morehead v
Mesten Railroad Co., 96 N. 0. 362, Androscoggm Rairoad v Auburn Bank, 48 Maine, 335, Winslow v .Mitchell,
2 Story, 630, Cameron v. Mc1ofoberts, 3 Wheat. 591, Hogan
Iv. Walker, 14 How 29, 36, Payne v Hook, 7 Wall. 42ยง,
-Hagoodv Southern, 117 U S. 52.
_Yr R. H. Battle,,for appellees, cited. Robinson v. Burley,
11 Iowa, 410, . C. 79 Am. Dec. 497, .emp v. Westbrook, 1
Ves. Sen 278, Vanderzee v Willis, 3 Bro. Ch. 21, Greitherv
Alexander 15 Iowa, 470, Terrell -v Allison, 21 Wall. 289,
Robertson v Carson, 19 Wall. 94, Shields v Barrow, 17 How
130; Russell v Clarke, 7 Cranch, 59, 98, Ribon v Railroad
Companies, 16 Wall. 446, Bank v Carrollton Railroad, 11
Wall. 624, Williams v Bankhead, 19 Wall. 563, Poindexter
v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, In re Ayers, 123 U S. 443,
Cunningham v Macon & Brunstiick Railroad,109 U. S. 446,
The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, LTeveV v. Stockslager, 129 U. S. 470,
Br ggs v. Light Boats, 11 Allen, 157.
lMR. JusTioE

BRADLEy

delivered the opinion of the court.

The State of North Carolina, by virtue of an act of its legislature, passed 12th February, 1855, and through its board of
internal improvement, subscribed for $1,066,600 of the-capital
stock of The Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company,
a corporation created by act of the legislature of said State
for the purpose of building a railroad from Beaufort to Goldsborough. In order to raise money to pay for this stock, the
board of internal improvement, by virtue of the same act,
issued the bonds of the State, signed by the governor anX countersigned by the public treasurer, each for the sum of five
hundred dollars, and in the follow.ng form, to wit

OCTOBER tERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.
"$500.00.

UITTED STA&TES Or AMERIcA.

$500.00.

"It is hereby certified that the State of North Carolina is
justly indebted to or bearer five hundred dollars,
redeemable in good and lawful money of the United States,
at the Bank of the Republic, in the city of New York, on the
first day of January, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, with
interest thereon at the rate of six per cent per annum, payable half-yearly, at the said bank, on the first days of July
and January in each year from the date of this bond until
the principal be paid, on surrendering the proper coupon
hereto annexed. In witness whereof the governor of the
said state, in virtue of power conferred by
law, hath signed this bond and caused the
'[The great seal great seal of the state to be hereunto affixed,
of the
and her public treasurer hath countersigned
State of North the same at the seat of government of the
Carolina.]
said state, this first day of January, eighteen
hundred and fifty-six.
"(Signed) THOMAS BiAGG, Governor
"Countersigned
D. W CouRTs, Palic Treasurer"
"Issued under an act to amend an act entitled An Act to
incorporate the Atlantic & North Carolina Railroad Company
and~the North Carolina & Western Railroad Company, chapter 232."
The act which authorized the issue of these bonds contained
the following guaranty of their payment (sect. 10)
"Be it further enacted, That as security for the redemption
of said certificates of debt the public faith of the State of
North Carolina is hereby pledged to the holders thereof, and
in addition thereto all the stock held by the State in the
' Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company' hereby created shall be pledged for that purpose, and any dividend
of profit, which may from time to time be declared on the
stock held by the State as aforesaid, shall be applied to the
payment of the interest accruing -on said coupon bonds, but
until such dividends of profit may be declared, it shall be the

CHRISTIAN v. ATLANTIC & Nq. C. RAILROAD. .237
Opinion of the Court.

duty of the treasurer, and he is hereby authorized and directed,
to pay all such interest as may accrue out of any moneys in
the treasury, not otherwise appropriated." Laws N. C. 1854--5,
301, c. 232, ยง 10.
The State received certificates for the stock subscribed and
still holds the same, which stock is represented in the meetings
of the stockholders of the railroad company by a proxy appointed by the governor of the State, by virtue of the charter
of the railroad company.
William E. Christian, a-citizen of Virginia, the complainant
m this suit, is the holder of ten of the bonds issued as aforesaid,
and as no interest had been paid thereon since the year 1,868,
he filed this bill in July, 1883, in behalf of himself and all
-other holders of the bonds referred to who should come inand
contribute to the expenses of the suit, and he made defendants
to the suit the Atlantic and North Carolina :Railroad Company, the president and directors of said company, personally,
F M. Simmons, the proxy representing the stock owned by
the State, and J. If. Worth, treasurer of the State. The bill
sets forth the material parts of the acts .in question, which
acts created the company and authorized the board of interlial
improvements, on behalf of the State, to subscribe for twothirds of the capital stock of the company, and, for that purpose, to borrow money on the credit, of the State and issue
bonds therefor. It particularly sets forth the section before
referred to, which guaranteed the payment of the bonds, and
thereto-pledged the stock held by the State. It states the fact
of the subscription of the stock and the issue of the bonds, and
alleges that the complainant is the bona jXd holder for value
of ten of the bonds, whose numbers are given, all having interest coupons attached, the first payable January 1, 1869, and
one on each bond for every six months thereafter. The bill
then avers that, ever since the year 1868, the State has neglected and refused to make any provision for the payment of
the interest, and that all interest accruing since that tune
rerpains due. As the next averment indicates the legal view
on which the bill seems to be founded,, we quote, it-in full. It
alleges as follows, to wit

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"That the aforesaid certificates of debt or bonds are, by
virtue of the act of the general assembly of the said State of
iNorth Carolina hereinbefore recited, and of the pledges therein
made by the said State, a lien upon the 10,666 shares of stock
owned and held by said State in the said The Atlantic and
North Carolina Railroad Company, in payment for which the
said bonds or certificates of debt were issued, and upon all
dividends of profits that have been and that may hereafter
be declared upon said stock, and that the holders of said certificates, among whom is your orator, are in equity and good
conscience entitled to have and receive all such dividends of
profits as the same are paid for and upon account of the interest due and accruing on said certificates."
The bill then states that it appears from the report of the
officers of the railroad company made to the annual meeting
of stockholders in June, 1881, that for the preceding fiscal
year the company had received more money than was expended in running and operating the road, and that, on the
1st of July, 1881, the company leased all its property to The
iMidland North Carolina Railroad Company for the sum of
.$40,000 per year, the lessee to keep the same in good repair;
and then adds
"That these sums not being required for the necessary
expenses of said company, or a large part thereof, should have
been distributed to and among the stockholders of said company by way of dividsnds, and that the holders of the coupons
of said bonds or certificates, amon'g whom is your orator, are
entitled in equity and good conscience to have whatever sum
may be received by the State as and for dividends on the stock
owned by said State in said company appropriated to the payment of the interest due. and in arrears on said bonds."
The bill further states -that the Midland Company having
failed to comply with its contract, the lease has been declared
forfeited and rescinded, and the property has been restored to
the management of the Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad
Company
The bill then states on information and belief that it is the
purpose and intent of the directors to again lease the road and

CHRISTIAN v. ATLA1NTIC &1N.. C. RAILROAD.

239

Opinion of the Court.

property of the company, to which the complainant objects for
reasons set forth in the bill, and asks for an injunction to prevent the same being done, Put as this part of the bill and the
relief sought in relation thereto was abandoned at thehearing
in the court below., and is not urged on this appeal, it is unnecessary to notice it further, except to quote the concluding
paragraph which states the nature of the claim of the bondholders upon the stock owned by the State in the railroad company, and is apposite to a full understanding of complainant's
position. It is as follows, to wit.

"XXII. That the holders of said bonds, having a lien on
the said stock for the payment of the principal and interest of
their said debt, are in equity the real owners of said stock, and
that the same should be applied by said State, through its
proper officers, to the payment of said debt, and that the State
should do nothing herself nor allow anything to be done by
her officers or by her associates in said company which would
destroy or impair the value of this security to her said creditors, and he insists, being so adwsed, that it is contrary to
equity and good conscience for the proxy of the State to give
his consent and thereby the consent of the State to any contract of lease to be made by said company, without the consent
and concurrence of the holders of said bonds, until the State
shall have made adequate provisions for the payment of said
debt, both prmcipal and interest."
The prayer of the bill, so far as relates to the stock held by
the State in the railroad company, and to the dividends
thereon, is substantially as -follows, to wit
1st. That the bonds or certificates of debt -held by the complainant and others may be decreed to be a lien upon the said
stock and dividends until paid or redeemed.
2d. That all dividends on -said stock may be paid to the
complainant and the other bondholders who may join him in
the suit.
3d. That if said dividends prove insufficient for this purpose, a sale of said stock, or so much thereof as may bd necessary to pay said certificates, may be made under the decree of
the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

4th. That an account may be taken of the amount due for
interest, etc.
5th. That a receiver may be appointed to take possession of
the dividends hereafter payable to the State.
6th. That the officers of the railroad company may be enjoined from paying to the state treasurer, or to any other person on behalf of the State, any dividends which may accrue to
the State, and that the treasurer may be enjoined from receiv
ing the same.
To this bill, Simmons, the proxy of the state stock, and
Worth, the state treasurer, filed a joint answer, separate from
the other defendants, admitting the material statements of the
bill, so far as relates to the origin and character of the stockand bonds referred to, but denying that any dividends were
or could be made on the stock, in consequence of the expenses
and legitimate obligations of the railroad company The coneluding averment of their answer is as follows, to wit
"VII. These defendants, further answering, say that two
certificates of stock, one for one thousand and sixty-six shares,
and the other for two hundred shares, have been issued to the
State of North Carolina by the defendant company, which
certificates, together with the stock represented thereby, are
the property of the State and are in her possession, and have
been for a long time before the commencement of this suit,
with authority in no one to part with the same except by the
direction of the general assembly of the State; and these defendants are advised that, so being the property of the State
and in her actual possession, they cannot be taken therefrom
or in anywise be affected by any decree rendered in a cause to
which the -State is not a party, and these defendants rely
upon the fact that the State is not a party to this suit as if the
same had been specially pleaded."
The other defendants also filed answers to the bill, but it is
unnecessary to refer to them, or to other incidental proceedings which took place in the cause. The important facts on
which relief is claimed are as above recited from the statements
of the pleadings. The bill was dismissed by the court below,
and from that decree the present appeal was taken.

CHRISTIAN v. ATLA-NTIC & N. C. RAILROAD.

241

Opinion of .the Court.

-From the foregoing summary of the statements and prayer
of the bill we see that its object and purpose is to obtain, in
behalf of the complainant and other bondholders, the adjudication of a lien upon the stock held by the State of North Carolina in the Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company,
and upon the dividends on said stock, and the enforcement of
that lien by.requiring said dividends to be paid to the bondholders, in satisfaction of the amount due on their bonds, and, if
these are insufficient, by a sale of said stock, or so much thereof
as may be necessary, aided by the appointment of a receiver
to take possession of said dividends, and an injunction to
restrain the railroad company, and its officers, from paying to
the state treasurer, or to any other person on behalf of the
State, and to restrain said treasurer from receiving any moneys
accruing and payable as dividends on said stock.
How the dividends due to the State can be seized and appropriated to the payment of the bonds, or how the stock held
and owned by the State can be sold and transferred, through
the medium of a suit in equity, without making the State a
party to the suit, it is difficult to comprehend. The general
rule certainly is, that all persons whose interests are directly
to be affected by a suit in chancery must be made parties.
-Russell v. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch, 68, 98, Shaelds v Barrow, 17 How 130, 139, Rion v Railroad Cos., 16 Wall. 446 ,
Williams v Bankkead, 19 Wall. 563, _Mlc.Arthur v Scott,. 113

_U. S. 340. The exceptions to the. rule are pointed out in these
cases, and do not touch the present case. The State has a
direct inferest to be affected by such a proceeding. The proposal is to take the property of the State and apply it to the
payment of its debts due to the plaintiffs, and to do it through
the instrumentality of a court of equity
The ground on which it is contended that this may be done
is, that the property is affected by a pledge, and may, therefore, be dealt with sn rem. But a pledge, in the legal sense,
requires to be delivered to the pledgee. He must have the
possession of it. He may then, in default of payment of the
debt for which the thing is pledged, sell it for the purpose 6L
raising the amount, by merely giving proper notice to the
VoL. cxxxm-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the -Court.

pledgor. In the case of stocks and other choses in action, tfe
pledgee must have possession of the certificate or other documentary title, with a transfer executed to himself, or in blank,
(unless payable to bearer,) so as to give him the control and
power of disposal of it. Such things are then called pledges,
but more generally collaterals" and they may be used in the
same manner as pledges properly so called. If there is no
transfer attached to, or accompanying the document, it is iniperfect as a pledge, ana requires a resort to a court of equity
to give it effect.
, These propositions are so elementary that they hardly need
a citation of authorities to support them. Reference may be
made, however, to Story on Bailments, ยง 297, et seq., Casey v
Cavaroc, 96 U. S.467.
The stock and dividends of the State of North Carolina, now
in question, have nothing about them in the nature of a pledge.
The 10th section of the act of 1855, relied on by the complainant for creating a pledge, must be understood as using the
word in a popular and not in a technical sense. That section
declares, first, that as security for the redemption of said certificates of debt the public faith of the State is hereby pledged
to the holders thereof. This is no more than a solemn promi~e on the part of the State, to redeem the certificates. The
section next, in addition to the pledge of the public faith, declares that al the stock held by the State in the Atlantic and
North Carolina Railroad Company shall be pledged for the
same purpose, and any dividend of profit declared thereon
shall be applied to the payment of the ihterest on said bonds.
This was nothing more than a promise that the stock should
be' held and set apart for the payment of the 'bonds, and that
the divideitds should be applied to the interest. There -.as
no actual pledge. It was no more of a pledge than is made
by a farmer when he pledges his growing crop, or his stock of
cattle, for the payment of a debt, without any delivery thereof.
tie does not use the word in its technical, but in its popular
sense. His language may amount to a parol mortgage, ff such
-a mortgage can be created, but that is all. So'm this case,
the pledge given by the State- in a statute may have amounted

CHRISTIAN v. ATLANTIC & N: C. RIAILROAD.

243

Opinion of the Court.

to a mortgage, but it could amount to nothing more, and if
a mortgage, it did not place. the mortgagee in possession, but
gave him merely a naked right to have the property appropriated and applied to the payment of his debt. But how is
that right to be asserted 2 If the mortgagor be a private person, the mortgagee may. cite him into court and ha ie a decree
for the foreclosure and sale of the property The mortgagor,
or his assignee, would be a necessary party in such a proceeding. Even when absent, beyond the reach of process, he must
still be made a party and at least constructively cited by publication or otherwise. This is established by the authorities.
before .referred to, and many more might be cited to the same
effect. The proceeding is a suit against the party to obtain,
by.decree of court, the benefit of the mortgage righmt. But
where the mortgagor in possession is a sovereign state, no
such proceeding can be ma.ntained. The mortgagee's right
against the State may be juit as good and valid, in a moral
point of view, as if it were against an individual. But the
State cannot be brought into court or sued by a private party
without its consent. It was at first held by this court -that,
under the Constitution of the United States, a State might be
sued in it by a citizen of another State, or of a foreign State.,
but it. was declared by the 11th amendment that the judicial
power of the- United States shall not he construed to extend
to guch suits. N-ew H1ampshzre v Louwzana, 108 U. S. 76,
Louzsana v. Aumel, 107 U. S. 711, Parsons v Marye, 114
U. S. 325, llagood v Southern, 117 U. S. 52, In re .Ayers,
123 U. S.443.
There is a class of cases, undoubtedly, in which the interests
of the State may be indirectly affected by a jadicial proceeding
without making it a party Cases of this sort may-arise in
courts of equity where property is brought under its jurisdiction for foreclosure or some other proceeding, and the
State, not having the title in fee or the possession of the property, has some lien upon it, or claim against it, as a judgment against the mortgagor, subsequent to the mortgage. In
such a case the foreclosure and sale of the property will not
be prevented by the interest which the State has in it, but its

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

right of redemption will remain the same as before. Such
cases do not affect the present, in which the object is to take
and appropriate the State's property for the purpose of satisfying its obligations. The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 157, Br?ggs v
Lsght Boats, 11 Allen, 157, 173.
It remains true, therefore, that a bill will not lie to effect a
foreclosure and sale, or to obtain possession of property belonging to the State, and for the very plain reason that, m
such a case, the State is a necessary party and cannot be sued.
This was distinctly held by this court in the case of Cunnzngham v .Xacon & Br'unswck ]Raitroad, 109 U. S. 446. In
that case the State of Georgia had endorsed the bonds of a
railroad company, taking a lien upon the railroad as security
The company failed to pay the interest of the endorsed bonds,
and the governor of the State, under the power vested in him,
took possession of the road, and put it into the hands of a
receiver, who sold 'it to the State of Georgia aild made a
conveyance to the State accordingly Thereupon the State,
by-the governor and other officers and directors, took possession of and operated the road. The holders of a second
mortgage on the same property filed a bill to foreclose their
mortgage and to set aside the sale made by the receiver as
invalid, and to have priority of lien for reasons stated in the
bill. They made the governor, the state treasurer, and the
state directors of the road parties defendant. This court held
that the bill would not lie, because the State was an indispensable party Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the
court, said "Whenever it can be clearly seen that the State
is an indispensable party to enable the court, according to the
rules which govern its procedure, to grant .thQ relief sought, it
will refuse to take jurisdiction." Again "In the case now
under consideration the State of Georgia is an indispensable
party It is, in fact, the only proper defendant in the case.
No one sued has any personal interest in the matter, or any
official authority to grant the relief asked. No foreclosure
suit can be sustuined without the State, because she has the
legal title to the property, and the purchaser under a foreclosare, decree would get no title n. the absence of the State The

CHRISTIAI v. ATLANTIC & N. C. RAILROAD.

246

Opinion of the Court.

State is in the actual possession of the property, and the court
can deliver no possession to the purchaser. The entire interest
adverse to the plaintiff in this suit is the interest of the State
of Georgia in the property, of which she has both the title
and possession.'
These remarks are strikingly applicable to the present case.
The State of North Carolina is the only. partv really conperned.
The whole proceeding is virtually against her. The object of
the suit is to get. possession of her.property,, to sequester .her
dividends (if any there may be) and to compel the payment
of them to the complainants, to seize and sell her stock in the
railroad, stock of which she is in sole possession. Be .t true
that the bondholders have a lien on said dividends and stock,
it is not a lien that can be enforced without suit, and that a
suit against the State.
We are referred to a decision made at the circuit by Chief
Justice Waite in the case of Swasey v. Avorth Carolina Railroad Company, 1 Hughes C. Ct. 17, in -which, ,in a case similar
to the present, it was'held that, inasmuch as the shares of stock
belonging to the State were pledged for the-payment of the,.
complainants' bonds, they were held by the railroad company
as trustee for the bondholders as well as the State, and that
if the trustee was a party to the suit, it was not necessary that
the State should be a party We are not certain 'that we are
fully in possession of the facts of that case, but if they were
the same as in the present case, with the highest respect for
the opinions of the lamented Chief Justice, we cannot assent
to the conclusions to which he arrived. In the gendral principles, that a State cannot be sued, that -its property, in the
possession of its own officers and agents, cannot be reached
by its creditors by means of judicial process, and that in any
such proceeding the State is an indispensable party, .Chief
Justice Waite certainly did express "his emphatic concurrence,
in the able opinion delivered by hun on behalf of the court, in
the case of Louzssana v cTimel, 107 U. S. 711. His views in
the Swasey' case seem to have been based on the notion that
the stock of the State was lodged in the hands of the railroad
company as a trustee for the parties concerned, -and was not

