OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Without discussing the extent of the franchises authorized
to be sold under the mortgage, we axe of opinion that this
appeal was properly taken in the name of the defendant company
Willamette .anufacturzng Company v Bank of Brzt,isk Columbza, 119 U. S. 191, 197, .Mempkias
tLtle Rock
Railroad Company v Railroad Comm-zsswners, 112 U. S. 609,
619.
The defictency decree of June 22, 1887, s reversed at appellee's
costs, and the cause remanded wdth directions to proceed
trearn as may be just and eguwitable.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BOSWORTH.
ERROR

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 79. Argued November 11, 12, 1889. -Decided

January 20, 1890.

A condemnation under the confiscation act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589,
of real-estate owned in fee by a person who had participated in the rebellion, and a sale under the decree, left the remainder, after the expiration
of the confiscated life-estate, so vested in him that he could dispose of
it after receiving a full pardon from the President.

THIS was an action brought by Millard Bosworth and
Charles H. Bosworth, only surviving children of A. W Bosworth, deceased, to recover possession of one undivided sixth
part of a certain tract of land in New Orleans, which formerly
belonged to their said father. The petition stated that the
latter, having taken part in the war of the rebellion and done
acts which made him liable to the penalties of the confiscation
act of Xuly 17th, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, the said one-sixth part of
said land was seized, condemned and sold under said act, and
purchased by one Burbank in May, 1865, that the said A. W
Bosworth died on the 11th day of October, 1885, and that the
plaintiffs, upon his death, became the owners in fee simple of the
said one-sixth part of. said property, of which the defendants,
The Illinois Central Railroad Company, were in possession.

ILL. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. BOSWORTII.
Statement of the Case.

The company filed an answer, setting up various defences,
amongst other things tracing title to themselves from the said
A. W Bosworth, by virtue of an act of sale executed by him
and his wife, before a notary public, on the 23d day of September, 1871, cqisposing of all their interest in the prenses,
with full covenant of warranty They further alleged that
said Bosworth had, before said act of sale, not only been included in the general amnesty proclamation of the President,
issued on the 25th of December, 1868, but had received a
special pardon on the 2d of October, 1865, and had taken the
oath of allegiance, and complied with all the terms and conditions necessary to be restored to, and reinvested with, all the
rights, franchises and privileges of citizenship.
The parties having waived a trial by jury, submitted to the
court an agreed statement of facts in the nature of a special
verdict, upon which the court gave judgment in favor of the
plaintiffs. To that judgment the present writ of error was
brought.
Those portions of the statement of facts which are deemed
material to the decision of the case are as follows, to,wit
"1st. The plaintiffs, Millard Bosworth and Charles H. Bosworth, are the only surwiving legitimate children of Abel Ware
Bosworth, who died intestate in the city of New Orleans on
the eleventh day of October, 1885, and have accepted his succession with benefit of inventory
"2nd. By act before Edward Barnett, notary, on the 25th day
of April, 1860, Abel Ware Bosworth purchased from H. W
Palfrey and others a one-third undivided interest in fee simple
title and full ownership in and to the property described in the
petition of the plaintiffs in this cause.
"3rd. On the breaking out of the war lbetween the States
Abel W Bosworth entered the Confederate army and bore
aris against the government of the United States from about
.1farch, 1861, until April, 1865.
"4th. Under and by virtue of the confiscation act of the
United States, approved July 17th, 1862, and the joint resoluton contemporary therewith, the said property was sdized by
the proper officer of the United States, and on the 20th day

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

of January, 1865, a libel of information was filed against the
said property as the property of A. W Bosworth, in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.
"Into these proceedings intervened Mrs. Rachel Matilda Bosworth, wife of said Abel Ware BoswQrth, to protect her community interests in said property, and, after due proceedings
had, the said court entered a decree of condemnation as to
A. W Bosworth and a decree in favor of Mrs. Rachel Matilda
Bosworth, recognizing her as the owner of one-half of said onethird undivided interest in and to said property
"A venditon, excponas in due form of law issued to the
marshal for the sale of said property under said decree, and at
said sale "all the right, title and interest of A. W Bosworth
m and to the one undivided third part of said property" (reserving to Mrs. Rachel M. Bosworth her rights therein, as per
order of the court) was adjudicated on the - day of the month
of May, 1865, to E. W Burbank for the price and sum of
$1700, and the marshal executed a deed in due form of law
to said Burbank for the same."
"6th. That on the second day of October, 1865, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, granted to said A. W
Bosworth a special pardon, a duly certified copy of which,
together with the written acceptance by said Bosworth thereof,
is hereto annexed, made part of this statement of facts, and
marked 'Document A.'
"7th. That on the 23rd day of September, 1871, by act before
Andrew Hero, Jr., notary public, the said A. W Bosworth and
Mrs. Rachel Matilda Bosworth, his wife, sold, assigned and
transferred to Samuel H. Edgar, with full warranty under the
laws of Louisiana, all their right, title and interest in and to
the'said property, including the one-sixth undivided interest
claimed in this saft by the plaintiffs and described in the petition, for the price dud sum of eleven thousand six hundred
and sixty-six .661 dollars.
"8th. That on the 18th day of December, 1872, the said E.
W Burbank, by act before the same notary, transferred all
his right, title ana interest in the nature of a quitclaim to

ILL. CEIrTRAI. RAILROAD v. BOSWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

S. H. Edgar aforesaad for the price and sum of five thousand
one hundred dollars.
"9th. That the said S. H. Edgar by act executed before
Charles Nettleton, a duly authorized commissioner for Louisiana mnew 'York City, on the 10th day of October, 1872, and
duly recorded in the office of the register of conveyances for
the parish of Orleans on' the 30th day of October, 1872, sold
and tansferred the same propety, with full warranty under
the laws of Louisiana, unto the New Orleans, Jackson and
Great Northern Railroad Company
"10th. That by various transfers made since said date, as set
forth in the answers filed in this suit, the said property has
come into the possession of the Chicago, St. Louis and New
Orleans Railroad Company, who has leased the same to the
Illinois Central Railroad Company, which said company holds
said property under said lease.
"14th. It is further agreed as a part of this statement of'facts
that the President of the United States on the 25th day of
December, 1868, issued a general amnesty proclamation, and
the terms of said proclamation as found m the Statutes at
Large of the United States are made part of this statement
of facts."
The following is a copy of the special pardon (Document A),
referred to in the statement of facts, and of'the written acceptance thereof, to wit
"Andrew Johnson, President of the United States of America, to all to whom these presents shall come, greeting"Whereas A. W Bosworth, of New Orleans, Louisiana, by
taking part in the late rebellion against the government of the
United States, has made himself liable to heavy pains and
penalties,
"And whereas the circumstances of 'his case render him a
proper object of executive clemency
"Now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States of America, in consideration of the
premises, divers other good and sufficient reasons to me thereuntomoving, do hereby grant to the said A. W Bosworth a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

full pardon and amnesty for all 6ffences by him committed,
arising from participation, direct or implied, in the said rebellion, conditioned as follows
"1st. This pardon to be of no effect until the said A. W
Bosworth shall take the oath prescribed in the proclamation
of the President, dated May 29th, 1865.
"2nd. To be void and of no effect if the said A. W Bosworth
shall hereafter at any time acquire any property whatever in
slaves or make use of slave labor.
"3rd. That the said A. W Bosworth first pay all costs which
may have accrued in any proceedings instituted or pending
against his person or property before the date of the acceptance of this warrant.
"14h. That the said A. W 3osworth shall not, by virtue of
this warrant, claim any property or the proceeds of any property that has been sold by the order, judgment or decree of
a court under the confiscation laws of the United States.
"5th. That the said A. W Bos.worth shall notify the Secretary of State, in writing, that he has received and accepted
the foregoing pardon.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto signed my name and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the city of Washington this second day of October,
A.D. 1865, and of the Independence of the United States the
ninetieth.
"ADRE W JOHNSON.

"By the President
CC[SEAL]

WILLIAM I1. SEWARD,

Becretary of Stat."

"WASHINGTON, D.C., October 5th, 1865.
"Honorable William H. Seward, Secretary of State.
"Sm I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the
President's warrant of pardon, bearing date October 2d, 1865,
and hereby signify my acceptance of the same with all the
conditions therein specified.
"I am, sir, your obedient servant,
" A. W BoswoRT ."'

ILL. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. BOSWORTHf.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

The proclamation of general amnesty and pardon issued on
the 25th day of December, 1868, referred to in the last article
of the statement of facts, is found in volume 15, pp. 7 11, 712,
of the Statutes at Large. After referring to several previous
proclamations, it proceeds as. follows, to wit "And whereas,
the authority of the Federal government having been redstablished in all the States and Territories within the jurisdiction of the United States, it is believed that such prudential
reservations and exceptions as at the dates of said several proclamations were deemned necessary and proper may now be
wisely and justly relinquished, and that a universal amnesty
and pardon for participation in said rebellion extended to all
who have borne any part therein will tend to secure permanent peace, order and prosperity throughout the. land, and to
renew and -fully restore confidence and fraternal feel ing among
the whole people, and their respect for and attachment to the
national government, designed by its patriotic founders for the
general good -- now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew
Johnson, President of the United States, by virtue of the
power and authority m me vestpd by the Constitution, and
in the name of the sovereign people of the United States, do
hereby proclaim and declare unconditionally, and without
reservation,, to. all and to every person who directly or indirectly participated in the late insurrection or rebellion, a full
pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against the
United States, or of adhering to their enemies daring the late
civil war, with restoration of all rights, privileges and' immunities under the Constitution and the laws which have,
been made in. pursuance -thereof."
Yrf

GiraultFarrarand .M

tiffs in error.

Thomas J Semmes for plan-

Mr James Fentress was with them on their

brief.

.Mr Edgar E. Farrar(with whom was Mr Ernest B
Kruttscnitl'on the brief) for defendants in error.
The whole argument of the plaintiffs in error is a covert
attack upon the settled jurisprudence of this court, as declared
VOL. Cxxxii-7

OCTOBER -TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

in 1faliackh v. an Riswck, 92 U. S. 202, Chafratx.v Shtf,
92 U. S. 214, Semmes v Vnted States, 91 U S. 21, Pike v.
TWassell, 94 U. S. 711, Wade v French,102 U. S. 132, Avegno
v Schmzdt, 113 U. S. 293, and Shelds v Shtf 124 U. S. 351.
There is a labored attempt made to establish a discrepancy
between the doctrine of Avegno v Schmidt and Shielde v Sh,
and the doctrine of Wallach v Van 1iswtaok, Pike v Wassell, and French v Wade, and to draw a distinction between
these latter cases and the case at bar.
It is insisted that this court in Avegno v Schmtdt has held
that the confiscation proceedings left the fee of the property
in the confiscatee, or retained it in the United States, consequently, that the pardon of the offender restored him the fee
if it remained in him after the confiscation proceeding, or
restored it to him if it remained in the United States.
A mere inspection of these two opinions shows that this
claim is.unfounded.
If this court has decided- anything without variance, it has
decided that the confiscation proceedings absolutely divested
every right, title and interest which the confiscatee had in
the property, that it entirely separated his estate from that
of his heirs, and that it entirely paralyzed his power over the
property during his life, either to affect it by deed or to devise
it by will.
In all of those cases the court has refused, and found it unnecessary, to decide where the fee was after the confiscation.
The common law doctrine that the fee cannot be in abeyance, it has positively declared not applicable to the case and
not material to determine, and that whatever may have been
the common law doctrine, that doctrine must yield to the
statute.
In answer to the suggested difficulty that if the ancestor
was not seized of the property at his death the heir could not
take it, the court has declared that it was not necessary either
at common law, or under this statute, that the ancestor should
be seized in order that the heir might take by inheritance.
In answer to the plea that the pardon and the amnesty proclamation had restored to the confiscatee the power to dispose

ILL. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. BOSWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

of the property and to bind his heirs by warranty deeds, the
court has declared, from the above principles, that the pardon'
could not give back the property which had been sold, nor any
interest in it, either in possession or expectancy.
The whole argument on the other side may be summed upin the statement that the pardon for treason restored the fee,
or the right to control the fee, in property seized, condemned
and sold as enemy's property under the laws of war. This is
the very proposition which the court, for the reasons above
given, has denied both in the Wallach and in the Semmes
cases.
There is no argument or suggestion in the plaintiffs' brief as
to how the pardon of the claimants' ancestor for his offences
against the government could deprive his heirs of the benefit
secured solely to them by the joint resolution of Congress.
The confiscation was an accomplished fact, and whatever
rights grew out of that fact were already vested when the
pardon was granted.
There would be as much reason to hold that the pardon
divested the title of the purchaser of the estate for the life of
the public eneny, who was also a public offender, as to hold
that it annulled the effect of the joint resolution and divested
the rights thereby secured ultimately to the heirs on the death
of their ancestor.
lHe was entirely disseized by the confiscation of the whole
estate, and they were authorized to take this whole estate, at
his death, as his heirs, by descent, although there was no sezon
in him at the time of his death. The pardon may have made
him a "new -man," but it did not make new facts or destroy
vested rights. Enote v United Statee, 95 U. S.. 149, 153, O&born v. United States, 91 U. S.474.IMR. JusTnoR BRADLEY, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question raised m the present case is, whether,
by the effect of the pardon and amnesty granted to A. W
Bosworth by the special pardon of October, 1865, and the
general proclamation of amnesty and pardon of December

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

25th, 1868, he was restored to the control and power of dis
position over the fee simple or naked property in reversion
expectant upon the determination of the confiscated estate
in the property in dispute. The question of the effect of
pardon and amnesty on the destination of the remaining
estate of the offender, still outstanding after a eonfiscation of
the property during his natural life, has never been settled .by
this court. That the guilty party had no control over it in
the absence of such pardbn or amnesty, has been frequently
decided. lYallach v Tan ]?iswwk, 92 U. S. 202, CAaffraix
v SlAqf, 92 U. S. 214, Pike v TVasseil, 94: U S. 711, F.'ench
v. Wade, 102 U S. 132, and see Avegno v Scimzdt, 113 U. S.
293, Sh4elds v Schk, 124 U S. 351. But it has been regarded
as a doubtful question, what -became of the fee, or ultimate
estate, after the confiscation for life. "We are not called
upon," said Justice Strong, in Wallach v 'F1an Rswwk, "to
determine where the fee dwells during the contihuance of the.
interest of a purchaser at a confiscation sale, whether in the
United States, or in the purchaser, subject to be defeated
by the death of the offender." 92 U. S. 212. It has also
been suggested that the fee remained in the person whose
estate was confiscated, but Without any power in him to dispose of or control it.
Perhaps it is not of much consequence which of these theories, if either of them, is the .true one, the important point
being, that the remnant of the estate, whatever its nature, and
wherever it went, was never beneficially disposed of, but
remained (so to speak) in a state of suspended animation.
Both-the common and fhe civil laws furnish analogies of suspended ownership of estates which may help us to a proper
conception of that now under consideration. Blackstone says.
"Sometimes the fee may be in abeyance, that is (as the word
signifies) in expectation, remembrance and contemplation of
law, there being no person in esse in whom it can vest and
abide, though the law considers it as always potentially existing, and ready to vest when a proper owner appears. Thus
in a grant to John for life, and afterwards to the heirs of
Richard, the inheritance is plainly neither granted to John

ILL. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. BOSWORTIL
Opinion of the Court.

nor Richard, nor can it vest in the heirs of Richard till his
death, narn nemo est kaeres mventis., it remains, therefore, in
waiting or abeyance during the life of Richard." 2 B1. Com.
107. In the civil law, the legal conception is a little different.
Pothier says -' "The dominion of property (or ownership), the
same as all other rights, as well 'in re as ad rem, necessarily
supposes a person in whom: the right subsists and to whom it
belongs. It need not be a natural person, it may belong to
corporations or communities, which have only a civil and intellectual existence or personality When an owner dies, and
no one will accept the succession, this dormant succession
(successwsnacente) is considered as being a civil person and as
the continuation of that of the deceased, and in this fictitious
person subsists the dominion or ownership of whatever belonged
to the deceased, the same as all other active and passive rights
of the 'deceased, hredita&yacens personce defuncti locum

obtinet." Droit de Domaine de Propriete, Partie I, c. 1, ยง 15.
But, as already intimated, it is not necessary to be over
.curious about the intermediate state in which the disembodied
shade of naked ownership may have wandered during the
period of its ambiguous existence. It is enough to know that
it was neither annihilated, nor confiscated, nor appropriated
to any third party The owner, as a punishment .fbr his
offences, was disabled from exercising any acts 'of ownership
over it, and no power to exercise such acts was given to any
other person. At his death, if not before, the period of suspension comes to an end, and the estate revives and devolves
1 Le domaine de propriet6, de mrme quje tons les autres droits, tant zn re
qu' ad rem, suppose n6cessairement une personne dans laquelle ce droit subsiste, et I qui i1 appartienne. Il ii'est pas n~cessaire que ce soit une
personne naturelle, telle que sont les personnes des particuliers, A qui le
droit appartienne, ce droit, de m~me que toutos les autres espces de droits,
pent appartenir A des corps et A des commungut~s, qui n'ont qu'une personne
civile et uitellectuelle. Lors qu'un propri~taire 6tant mort, personae no
veut accepter sa succession, cette succession jacente est consid~r~e comnie
6tant une personne civile, et comne la continuation de celle du dffunt; et
c'est dans "cette personne flctive que subsiste le domane de proprifte de
toutes les "choses qui appartenaent, an d6funt, de m~me que tous les autres
droits actifs et passif du d~funt. Haireditasjacens yersonce d efuncti locurn
obtinet.

OCTOBER TERM:, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to his heirs at law In Avegno v Schmsdi, 113 U. S. 293,
and m 2/a elds v Schbzf, 124 IT. S. 351, this court held that the
heirs of the offender,, at his death, take by descent from him
and not by gift or grant from the government. They are not
named in the confiscation act, it is true, nor in the joint resolution limiting its operation. The latter merely says, "nor
shall any punishment or proceedings under said act be so. construed as to work a forfeiture of the real estate of the offender,
beyond his natural life." The court has construed the effect
of this language to be, to leave the property free to descend
to the heirs of the guilty party Bigelow v Forrest,9 Wall.
339, Wallack v Van 1?zswwk, 92 U. S. 202, 210. iMir. Justice
Strong, in the latter case, speaking of the constitutional provision, that no attainder of treason should work corruption
of blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person
attainted, (which provision was the ground and cause for passing the joint resolution referred to,) said "No one ever doubted
that it was a provision introduced for the benefit of the children and heirs alone, a declaxation that the children should
not bear the iniquity of the fathers."
But, although the effect of the law was to hold the estate,
or naked ownership, in a state of suspension for the benefit of
the heirs, yet they acquired no vested interest in it, for, until
the death of the ancestor, there is no heir; During his. life it
does not appear who the heirs will be. Heirs apparent have,
in a special case, been received to intervene for the protection
of the property from spoliation. Pike v TWasseMl, 94 U. S.
'[11. This was allowed from the necessity of the case, arising
from the fact that the ancestor's disability prevented him
from exercising any power over the property.for its protection or otherwise, and no other persons but the-heirs apparent
had even a contingent interest to be protected.
It would seem to follow as a logical copsequence from the
decision in Avegno v Schmidt and Shzelds v Sch-?, that after
the confiscation of the property the naked fee (or the naked
ownership, as denominated in the civil law), subject, for the
lifetime of.the offender, to the interest or usufruct of the purchaser at the confiscation sale, remained in the offender him-

ILL. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. BOSWORTH.
Opimon of the Court.

self, otherwise, how could his heirs take it from him by m.iritance? But, by reason of his disability to dispose of, or touch
it, or affect it in any manner whatsoever, it remained, as before
stated, a mere dead estate, or in -a condition of suspended
animation. We think that this is, on the whole, the most
reasonable view There is no corruption of blood, the offender
,can transmit by descent, his heirs take from him by descent,
why, then, is it not most rational to conclude that the dormant
and suspended fee has continued in him 2
Now, if the disabilities which prevented such person. from
exercising any power over this suspended fee, or naked property, be removed by a pardon or amnesty, - so removed as to
restore him to all his rights, privileges and immunities, as if he
had never offended, except as to those things which have
become vested in other persons, - why does it not restore him
to the control of his property so far 'as the same has never
been forfeited, or has never become vested in another person?
In our judgment it does restore him to such control. In the
opinion of the court in the case of E _parte Garland,4:Wall.
333, 380, the effect of a pardon is stated as follows, to wit
"A pardon reaches both the punishment prescribed for the
offence and the guilt of the offender, and, when the pardon
is full, it releases the punishment and blots out of existence
the guilt, so that m the eye of the law the offender is as innocent as if he had never committed the offence. If granted
before conviction, it prevents any of the penalties and disabilities consequent upon conviction from attaching, if granfted
after conviction, it removes the penalties and disabilities, and
restores him to all his civil rights, it makes him as -itwere a
new man, and gives him a new credit and capacity There ig
only this limitation to its operation it does not restore offices
forfeited, or property or interests vested in others in consequence of the conviction and judgment."
The qualification in the last sentence of this extract, that a
pardon does not affect vested interests, was exemplified in the
case of Semrs v. United States, 91 U. S. 21, where a pardon
was held not to interfere with the right of a purchaser of the
forfeited estate. The same doctrine had been laid down in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The Confiscaion Cases, 20 Wall. 92, 112, 113. It was distinctly repeated and explained in Knote v Un'ted States, 95
U. S. 149. In that case property of the claimant had been
seized by the authorities of the United States on the ground
of treason and rebellion, a decree of condemnation and for
feiture had been passed, the property sold, and the proceeds
paid into the treasury
The court decided that subsequent
pardon and amnesty did not have the effect of restoring to
the offender the right to these proceeds. They had become
absolutely vested' in the United States, and could not be devested by the pardon. The effect of a pardon was so fully
discussed in that case that an extract from the opinion of the
court will not be out of place here. The court says. "A pardon is an act of grace by which an offender is released from
the consequences of his offence, so far as such release is practicable and within control of the pardoning power, or of officers under its direction. It releases the offender from all
disabilities imposed by the offence, and restores to him all his
civil rights. In contemplation of law, it so far blots out the
offence that afterwards it cannot be imputed to him to prevent the assertion of his legal rights. It gives to him a new
credit and capacity, and rehabilitates him. to that extent in
his former position. But it does not make amends for the
past. It affords no relief for what has been suffered by the
offender in his person by imprisonment, forced labor or otherwise, it does not give compensation for what has been done
or suffered, nor does it impose upon the government any obligation to give it. The offence being established by judicial
proceedings,that which has been done or suffered while they
were in force is presumed to have been rightfully done and
justly suffered, and no satisfaction for it can be required.
Neither does the pardon affect any rights which have vested
in others directly by the execution of the judgment for the
offence, or which have been acquired by others whilst that
judgment was in force. If, for example, by the judgment, a
sale of the offender's, property has been had, the purchaser
will hold the property notwithstanding the subsequent pardon. And if the proceeds of the .sale have been paid to a

ILL. CENTRAL RAILROAD v. BOSWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

party to whom the law has assigned them, they cannot be
subsequently reached and recovered by the offender
So also if the proceeds have been paid into the treasury,
the right to them has so far become vested in the United
States that they can only be secured to the former owner of
Where,
the property through an act of Congress.
however, property condemned, or its proceeds, have not thus
vested, but remain under control of the Executive, or of officers subject to his orders, or are in.the custody of the judicial
tribunals, the property will be restored or its proceeds delivered to the original owner, upon his full pardon."
The last portion of the above extract was justified by the
decision in the case of -Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766,
where a pardon was redeived by Armstrong after his foundry
had been seized, and whilst proceedings were- pending for its
confiscation. He was even allowed to plead the full pardon
as new matter in this court whilst the case was pending on
appeal, and the court held, and decided, that this pardon
relieved him of so much of the penalty as accrued to the
United States, without any expression of opinion as to the
rights of the informer.
The citations now made are sufficient to show the true bearing and effect of the pardon granted to Bosworth, and of the
general proclamation of amnesty as applied to him. The
property in question had never vested in any person when
these acts of grace were performed. It had not even been
forfeited. Nothing but the life interest bad been forfeited.
His power to enjoy or dispose of it was simply suspended
by his disability as an offender against the government of
the United States. This disability was a part of his punishment. It seems to be perfectly clear, therefore, in the light
of the authorities referred to, that when his guilt and the
punishment therefor were expunged by his pardon this disability was removed, in being restored to all his rights, privileges and immunities, he was restored to the control of so
much of his property and estate as had not become vested
either in the government or in any other person, -especially
that part or quality of his estate which had never been for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

feited, namely, the naked residuary ownership of the property,
subject to the usufruct of the purchaser under the confiscation
proceedings.
This result, however, does not depend upon the hypothesis
that the dead fee remained in Bosworth after the confiscation
proceedings took place, it is equally attained if we suppose
that the fee was in nubibus, or that it devolved to the government for the benefit of whom it might concern. We are
not trammelled by any technical rule of the common or the
civil law on the subject. The statute and the inferencis derivable therefrom make the law that controls it. Regarding the
substance 6f things and not their form, the truth is simply
this a portion of the estate, limited in time, was forfeited,
the residue, expectant upon the expiration of that time, remained untouched, undisposed of, out of the owner's power
and control, it is true, but not subject to any other person's
power or control. It was somewhere, or possibly nowhere.
But if it had not an actual, it had a potential, existence, ready
to devolve to the heirs of the owner upon his death, or to be
revived by any other cause that should call it into renewed
vitality or enjoyment. The removal of the guilty party's disabilities, the restoration of all his rights, powers and privileges,
not absolutely lost or vested in another, was such a cause.
Those disabilities were all that stood in the way of his control and disposition of the naked ownership or the property
Being removed, it necessarily follows that he was restored to
that control and power of disposition.
It follows from these views, that the act of sale executed by
A. W Bosworth and his wife in September, 1871, was effectual
to transfer and convey the property in dispute, and that the
judgment of the Circuit Court in favor of the plaintiffs below
(the defendants in error) was erroneous. That judgment is,
therefore,
Reversed and the cause remanded, with snst1ruetwns to enter
judgfnentfor the defendants below, the now plaznt~f8 tn.
er'ror
Mi. JusTIcE

BLATGHFORD

part in its decision.

did not sit in this case, or take any

