OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

office was prescribed by law before the President ever appointed, under his constitutional power, any such officer.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

MANNING v. FRENCH.
ERROR TO TiE SUPERIOR COUIT OF TilE STATE OF MASSAIIUSETTS.
No. 1188. Submitted Jaiuary 13, 1890.-

Decided January 27, 1890.

In an action brought in a state court against the judges of the Court of
Commissioners of the Alabama Clains, by one who had been an attornev of that court, to recover damages caused by an order of the court
disbarring him, the plaintiff averred and contended that the court had
not been legally organized, and that it did not act judicially in making
the order complained of hIeld, that a decision by the state court that
the Court of Alabana Claims was legally organtzcd and did act judicially
in that matter, denied to the plaintiff no title, right, privilege or inniunity claimed by him under the Constitution, or under a treaty or statute
of the United States, or under a commission held or authority exercised
under the United States.
The decision- of a state court that a judge of a federal court aoted judicially in disbarring an attorney of the court involves no federal question.
A petition for a writ of error forms no palt of the record upon which action
is taken here.
MOTION TO DISMISS OR AFFIRm.
The case, as stated by the
court in its opinion, was as follows.

Jerome F Manning brought an action of tort in the Superior Court of Massachusetts against James Harlan of Iowa,
Andrew S. Draper of New York, and Asa French pf Massachusetts, to recover damages for being prevented from acting
as an attorney and counsellor in or before the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims of the United States, or in
relation to any matter of business pending therein, by the
defendants, who "falsely pretended to be judges of said Court
of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, and actually acted as
judges thereof, though in truth and fact neither of them was a

MANNING

w. FRENCH.

Statement of the Case.

*judge thereof." Service was had upon the defendant Frexch,.
but upon neither of the other defendants, and he, for answer,
denied each and every allegation in the declaration. The following statement appears in the record, in the "plaintiff's
exceptions," which were allowed by the presiding judge
"At the trial, which was without a jury, it appeared that
the plaintiff, in 1885, was and for many years had been an
attorney and counsellor at law duly admitted to practice in
the Supreme Court of the United States, in the Court of
Claims of the United States, and in all the courts of this
Commonwealth, that he acted as an attorney and counsellor
before the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, commencing in January, 1875, and ending July 29, 1885, that he
presented and prosecuted before said Court of Commissioners
about seven hundred and fifty petitions of the class known as
'Alabama Claims,' representing about fourteen hundred claunants and beneficiaries, and thereby became entitled to receive
from said claimants and beneficiaries divers sums of money,
amounting in all to many thousands of dollars, that the
Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims was established
by act of Congress approved June 23, 1874, chapter 459,
reestablished by another act approved June 5, 1882, chapter
195, and continued by another act approved June 3' 1884,
chapter 62, that in 1874 said Court of Commissioners adopted,
among other rules, the following "Rule V Any person of
good moral character admitted to practice as attorney or
counsellor in the Supreme Court of any State -or Territory
or the District of Columbia, or in any of the federal courts,
on filing with the clerk a written statement of the date and
place of such admission, with his name and post-office address
in full, may, on motion, be admitted to practice in this court;,
that on January 26, 1875, the plaintiff was, on motion of
Robert -M. Corwine, Esquire, admitted to practice in said
Court of Commissioners, and that on October 5, 1882, said
Court of Commissioners adopted certain addiiional rules,
among which was the following 'Rule XIV All attorneys
admitted to practice in the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims as created under the law of Congress approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

June 23, 1874, will be recognized as attorneys in this court,
reestablished under the law of Congress approved June 5,
1882 ,' but the plaintiff claimed that said rules five and four-teen were unauthorized and of no effect, and that the said
Court of Commissioners had no power to create a bar or to
admit attorneys thereto or to expel them therefrom."
The record of the proceedings in i re .Manntngin the said
Court of Commissioners, duly attested, was put in evidence,
which proceedings culminated in an order, made July 25, 1885,
that "the said Jerome F Manning be, and he hereby is,
prohibited from appearing and acting in this court in relation
to any matter or business therein pending, and from exercising
in any way the functions of an attorney and counsellor of this
court. This decree to stand until further order of the court."
That record also contained a motion to rescind the foregoing
order, and the action of the court denying the same.
The exceptions thus continue
"It also appeared that on the twenty-ninth of July, 1885,
said Court of Commissioners made the following order- ' Ordered, that the clerk of the court is hereby authorized to substitute the name of any attorney of this court in place of said
Jerome F Manning in any case upon the receipt of the request
in writing from the claimant therein or from his legal representatives to that effect.'
"It also appeared that the defendant French was commissioned and qualified as a judge of said Court of Commissioners
on or about July 5, 1882, and not otherwise, .and that the
defendant Harlan was commissioned and qualified about the
same time, and not otherwise, and that the defendant Draper
was commissioned and qualified in the year 1885, and not
otherwise, and that each of said judges concurred in said orders
of July 24, July 25, July 29 and October 15, 1885, touching
the plaintiff.
"It also appeared that in addressing the court on July 25,
as mentioned in the foregoing record, IRobert Christy, Esq.,
as counsel for-the plaintiff, read to said Court of Commissioners section 725 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States

MANNING v. FRENCHI.
Statement of the Case.
ui

the cases of Exp
parte -Robnson, in-19 Wall. 505, and Ex

yarte Bradley, in 7 Wall. 364, and argued that said commis-

sioners had no power to prohibit the plaintiff from practising
before them.
1"The defendant French admitted that he concurred with
the other members of said Court of Commissioners in issuing
and enforcing said orderm of July 24- and 29, and that the
plaintiff was thereby damaged, and claimed that the said
Court of Commigsioners had authority to issue and enforce the
same, and that any loss sustained by the plaintiff therehy was
damnurnm absque nu,na.
"The plaintiff introduced evidence tending 'to show that
each of the allegations in his declaration was true, and asked
the court to make the following rulings
"First. That the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims
had no authority to make the order made by them touching
the plaintiff on July 29, 1885, and that the same was unlawful.
"Second. That the defendant French having, admitted that
he, concurred with the other defendants in issuing and enforcing, said order of July 29, 1885, and that the plaintiff was
thereby injured, the plaintiff is entitled to recover from said
French compensation for all losses sustained by him as the
direct result of said order of July 29, 1885, and of the enforcement thereof from thence to December 31, 1886.
"Third. That more than two years having elapsed after the
reorganization of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama
Claims, under the act of June 5, 1882, and after the appointment of the defendant French and the other defendants, but
prior to July 24, 1885, the said French and the other defendants had, on said last-mentioned day and thereafter; no lawful
authority to act as judges of said Court of Commissioners ot
Alabama Claims.
"But the court- declined so to rule, found the facts to be as
stated in said printed record, ruled that the action could not
be maintained, and found for the defendants.
"The plaintiff, being aggrieved by the foregoing rulings and
refusals to rule, excepts thereto, and. prays that his exceptions
may be allowed."

O
TERM , -1889.
OCTOBER
Statement of the Case.

The exceptions having been entered in the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, the cause was there argued and the
exceptions overruled on the 21st day of June, 1889, 149 Mass.
391. As to the contention of the plaintiff that the judges
who in fact composed the court on July 25, 1885, were not
lawfully in office, and particularly that the defendant French
was not then lawfully in office, the court said "It appears
that French was commissioned and qualified as ,judge 'on
or about July 5, 1882. The argument is, that, as by the
-act of June 5, 1882, the existence of the court was limited to
two years, the commission of Judge French had expired before
July 25, 1885, when the court passed the order of which the
plaintiff complains. It is contended that, when the existence
of the court was continued beyond two years by the statute of
June 3, 1884, it was necessary that the judges be reappointed
in order lawfully to hold their office during the continued
existence of the court." The court held that it was unnecessary
to consider whether the plaintiff's right in the matter of his
complaint would be greater against a judge de facto than
against a judge dejure, that it did not appear that the judges
were originally commissioned for any definite tune, that they
would continue to hold their office while the court continued to
exist, unless they were lawfully removed, that it was within
the power of Congress, by statute, to extend the existence of
the court before the original term of its existence expired, and
that the judges, by virtue of their original appointment, continued to be judges while the court continued to exist. It was
also held that the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims
had the powers which the statutes conferred upon it, and that
under the -acts of Congress it had the power to prescribe by
rule the qualification of attorneys to be admitted to practice
before it, and therefore, the power to determine whether the
persons who asked to be admitted had the requisite qualifications, and whether the persons who had been admitted retained
the requisite qualifications, and that "in the exercise of this
power, after notice to the plaintiff and a hearing, that court
prohibited the plaintiff from further exercising before it the
functions of an attorney of the court. Congress had the right

MANNING v. FRENCH.
Opinion of the Court.
I

to confer this power eAclusively upon that court, to be exercised as a judicial power, and the judges of the court are not
liable to individuals for judicial acts done within their jurisdiction. Randall v Brgkamn, 7 Wall. 523 Randall, 1Petztioner, 11 Allen, 473."
On the first day of July, 1889, judgment for costs was
entered for the defendant. The plaintiff, Manning, thereupon
sued out a writ of error from this court, and a motion to'
dismiss or affirm was made by defendant in error.

As,. ohn uA. T Creswell, on behalf of Mr Ch.arles T7eodore
Russell, J'., for the motion, submitted on .r Russell's brief.
-Mr' CharlesCowley, for plaintiff in error, opposing, submitted
on his brief.
Miz. Cn.F JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.

Jurisdiction to review the final judgment rendered in this
case cannot be maintained upon the ground of the denial by
the state courts of any title, right, privilege, or immunity
claimed under the Constitution, or some treaty, or statute of,
or commission held or authority exercised under, the United
States, as the plaintiff in error set up and claimed none such.
Inpes v 7llinozs, 123 U S. 131, 181, (Jha1ell v Bradv.haw,
128 U. S. 132. And the decision that the defendant was not
liable in damages, because in concurring in the order coinplained of lie acted in Is judicial capacity, in itself involved
no Federal question. Lange v Benefdit, 99 U. S. 68, 71. Nor
can the plaintiff object that the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised under, the United States was drawn in
question, or that a title, right, privilege, or immunity was
claimed under the Constitution, or a statute of, or a commission held, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
on the ground that the defendant- claimed to exercise an authority'under acts of Congress, or under a commission held
under the United States,-since this was not the plaintiff's con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tention, but the defendants', and the state courts decided not
against but in favor of the authority, title, right, privilege, or
immunity so claimed.
The three rulings asked by the plaintiff and refused by the
court, were
First. That the Court of, Commissioners of Alabama Claims
had no authority to make the order entered by them, touching
the plaintiff.
Second. That, the defendant French having admitted that
he concurred with the other defendants in issuing and e)forcing said order, the plaintiff was entitled to recover from him
compensation for all loss sustained by him, as the direct result
of its entry and enforcement.
Third. That more than two years having elapsed after the
reorganization of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama
Claims, under the act of Congress of June 5, 1882, and after
the appointment of the defendants, but prior to the date of
the order, the defendants had no lawful authority to act as
judges of said Court of Commissioners.
The court held that the term of the judges had not expired,
and that they had authority to make the order, and, therefore,
that the plaintiff could not recover, and in so holding decided
in favor of the validity of the authority exercised by the
defendant under the United States, and of the right he claimed
under the statutes of the United States, and the commission
held by him.
The petition for the writ of error avers "that said action
involves divers Federal questions one of which is whether
said acts of Congress authorized said defendants to promulgate or 'enforce said order, and anotier of which is whether so
much of said acts of Congress as undertakes (if any part
thereof undertakes) to authorize the defendants to make such
order was not in violation of articles V ,and VIII of the
amendments of the Constitution of the United States, and
the decision of said state court was adverse to the plaintiff's
contention upon all of said Federal questions."
The grounds thus suggested have been disposed of by what
has been said, and it may be added that the petition for a w-it

