OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

county for the purpose of receiving service of process against
it, and service upon him is legal and sufficient service upon the
county
Cortmiseoners v S'ellew, 99 U. S. 624, Thompson v
Un'ded States, 103 U. S. 480, W"'-l v Greene County, 69 M issouri, 281. The officer's return stated that he served a copy of
the summons upon the clerk. Tf that return were false,.yet no
fraud being charged or proved against the petitioner, redress
could be sought at law only, and not by this bill. Walker v
]2obb-ins, 14 How 584. But if the question of the truth of the
return could be considered as open in this suit, the proofs given
at the hearing clearly show that such service was in fact made.
Any neglect of the clerk in communicating the fact to the
county court-was neglect of an agent of the county, and did
not affect the validity of the service-or of the judgment.
Decree affimed.

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v.
GALESBURG.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLJWOIS.

No. 887.

Submitted January 9, 1890.-Decided January 27, 1890.

The city of Galesburg, Illinois, by an ordinance, granted to one Shelton,
and his assigns, in Mlay, 1883, a franchise for thirty years, io construct
and maintain water works for supplying the city and its inhabitants with
water for public and private uses, the city to pay a specified rent for
fire hydrants, and a tariff being fixed for charges for water to consumers.
In December, 1883, the water works were completed by a water company
to which Shelton had assigned the franchise, and a test required by the
ordinanme was satisfactorily made, and the city, by a resolution, accepted
the works. The water furnished by the company for nine months was
unfit for domestic purposes. After November, 1884, the suoply of water
was inadequatq for the protection of the city from fire, and its quality
was no better than before. During eighteen months after December,
1883, the company had ample time to comply with the contract. The
city, by a resolution passed June 1, 1885, repealed the ordinance, and
then gave notice to the company that it claimed title to certain old
water mains which it had conditionally agreed to sell to Shelton, and of

FAkRM ERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG. 157
Statement of the Case.
which the company had taken possession. The city then took possession
of the old mains, and, in June, 1885, filed a bill in equity against the
water company to set aside the contract contained in the ordinance and
the agreement for the sale of the old mains. In August, 1883, the company executed a mortgage to a trustee on the franchise and works, to
secure sundry bonds, which were sold to various purchasers in 1884 and
1885. "The interest on them being in default, the trustee foreclosed the
mortgage by a suit brought in November, 1885, and the property was
bought by a committee of the bondholders, in November, 1886. In
February, 1886, the trustee had been made a party to the suit of the
city. After their purchase, the members of the committee were also
made parties and they filed a cross-bill, praying for a decree for the
amount due by the city for water rents, and for the restoration to them
of the old mains, and for an injunction against the city from interfering
with the operation of the works. After issue, proofs were taken; Held,
(1) The supply of water was not in compliance with the contract, ii
quantity or quality;
(2) The taking -possession by the city of the old mains was necessary
for the protection of the city from fire;
(3) The contract of the city for the sale of the old mains was conditional
and was not executed,
(4) The city was not estopped, as against the bondholders, from refusing to pay the rent for the hydrants, which, by the mortgage, was
to be applied to pay the interest on the bonds, or from having the
contract cancelled,
(5) The obligation of Shelton and his assigns was a continuing one, and
their right to the continued enjoyment of the consideration for it
was dependent on their continuing to perform it;
(6) The bondholders were bound to take notice of the contents of the
ordinance before purchasing their bonds, and purchased and held
them subject to the continuing compliance of the company with
the terms of the ordinance;
(7) In regard to the old mains, the lien of the mortgage was subject to
the 6onditions of the agreement'for the sale of them by the city to
Shelton;
(8) A suit by the city for a specific performance of the contract, or 8pe
to recover damages for its non-performance, would be a wholly
inadequate remedy in the case;
,
(9) A decree was proper annulling the ordinance and the agreement
dismissing the cross-bill, directing t1he city to pay into court, for
the use of the cross-plaintiffs, $3000, as the value of the use. of
the water by the city from December, 1883, to June, 1885, and
dividing the costs of the suit equally between the city and the
cross-plaintiffs.

IN FUIy. The case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr Herbert B. Turner, .fr
Arthur Ryerson,for appellants.

Damd McClure and Hr

A& Frederzck A. Willoughby for appellee.
Mn. JUsTicE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

The city of Galesburg, Illinois, a municipal corporation, by
an ordinance of its city council, passed May 12, 1883, and
approved by its mayor May 17, 1883, entitled "An ordinance
providing for a supply of water to the city of Galesburg and
its inhabitants, authorizing Nathan Shelton or assigns to construct and maintain water works, securing protection to said
works, contracting with said Nathan Shelton or assigns for a
supply of water for public use, and giving said city an option
to purchase said works," granted a franchise to Shelton and
his successors or assign, for thirty years from the passage of
the ordinance, to construct and maintain, within and near the
city, water works for supplying it and its inhabitants and
those of the adjacent territory " with water for public and
private uses, and to use the streets, alleys, sidewalks, public
grounds, streams, and bridges of the City of Galesburg, within
its present and future corporate limits, for placing, taking up
and repairing mains, hydrants, and other structures and devices for the service of water."
Section 2 of the ordinance provided that there should be
two pumping engines, having a specified capacity, a standpipe, and not less than eight miles of maies for the distribution of water, of a sufficient size to furnish all the water
required for the wants of the city and its inhabitants, and
limited the range in size of the mains. It also provided for
a specified test of the mains at their place of manufacture.
and -for the character of the fire hydrants to be rented by the
city, and that there should be a test of the capacity of the
water works on their completion, when Shelton or his assigns
should "cause to be thrown from any six hydrants six simultaneous streams, each through fifty feet of two-and-one-half
inch hose and a one-inch nozzle, to a height of one hundred
feet."

FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST "O. v. GALESBURG. 159
Opimon of the Court.

Section 4 provided that "the water supplied by said works
shall be good, clear water, and the source of supply shall not
be contaminated by the sewerage of said city"
:Maximum rates for charges for,water to consumers by Shelton or his assigns were specified.
Section 7 reserved to the city the right to purchase the
water works, on certain conditions, at any time after the expiration of fifteen years from the passage and approval of the
ordinance.
By section 8 it was provided that in consideration of the
benefits which would be derived by the city and its inhabitants from the construction and operation of the water works,
and in further consideration -of the water supply thereby
secured for public -uses, and as the inducement to Shelton or
his assigns to accept the provisions of the ordinance. and contract and to enter upon the construction of the water works,
the franchises thereby granted to and vested in Shelton or his
assigns should remain in force and effect for thirty years from
the passage of the ordinance, and that, for the same consideration and as the same -inducement, the city thereby rented
of Shelton or his assigns, for the uses thereinafter stated,
eighty fire hydrants of the character therembefore described,
for the term of thirty years from the passage of the ordinance,
and agreed to locate them promptly along the lines of the
first eight miles of mains within the city limits, under direction of the city council, as soon as Shelton or his assigns should
have located the line of the mains under the direction of the
city engineer. The city further agreed to pay rent for the
eighty hydrants, to Shelton or his assigns, at the rate of $100
each per year, and to pay. rent at the same rate for any additional fire hydrants, up to one hundred, directed by the city
council to be erected, and certain specified rates for additional
hydrants over one hundred, such rent to be paid in half-yearly
instalments, in January and July of each year, beginning from
the date when each of the hydrants should be in successful
operation, and to continue during the thirty years, unless the
city should sooner become the owner of the water works, provided that it should not be liable for any hydrant rents for such

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

tune as the works should not be able to supply the required
amount of water.
It was also provided, by section 13, that the ordinance
should become binding, as a contract, upon the city, on the
filing with the mayor of Shelton's written acceptance of its
terms and conditions, and 'that, after such acceptance, the
ordinance should constitute a contract, and should be the
measure of the rights and liabilities of the city and of Shelton
or his assigns.
On the 16th of May, 1883, Shelton and John C. Stewart,
then mayor of the city, executed the following contract "It
is agreed that Nathan Shelton shall purchase of the city of
Galesburg all the ten and six-inch water mains now laid in the
streets of said city that lie can use in the water works he proposes to build in said city, at the price that it will cost him to
buy and lay new mains, less the depreciation in value of said
pipes, which depreciation is to be determined by Mr. Shelton
and the finance and water committee of the council of said
city, and less the cost of relaying, recaulking and repairing
said mains, should they have to be taken up, relaid, recaulked
or repaired, and less the cost of recutting for cross-connections,
and the city agrees to sell to Mr. Shelton, in case le shall
erect his proposed water works as above, and deduct the pay
for the same from the first hydrant water works rent accruing
from said city to said Shelton. This agreement for the sale of
water mains does not include any mains that are imperfect.
It is further agreed that said mains now in use shall not be
disturbed further than shall be necessary to cut and make
connections with said pipes, until the pipes are laid and ready
for use in the adjacent streets."
On the 17th of May, 1883, the mayor signed the ordinance,
and on 'the 19th of Mlay, 1883, at the meeting of the city
council, the following communication from Shelton was received and ordered to be filed "Hon. John C. Stewart,
mayor of the city of Galesburg I hereby accept the terms
and conditions of the ordinance of said city, entitled ' An ordinance providing for a supply of water to the city of Galesburg
and its inhabitants, authorizing Nathan Shelton or assigns to

FARIMIERS' LOANI & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG.

161

Opinion of the Court.

construct and maintain water works, securing protection to
said works, contracting with said Nathan Shelton or assigns
for a supply of water for public use, and giving said city the
option to purchase said works,' passed by the city council of
said city May 12th, 1883, to all intents and for the purposes ag
by the 13th section of said ordinance I am to do. Nathan
Shelton." The contract between .Shelton and the mayor for
the purchase by Shelton of the water mains from the city was
thereupon approved by the city council.
Shelton then organized a joint-stock corporation, under the
general law of the State of Illinois, under the name of the
Galesburg Water Company, with a capital stock of $150,000,
of which stock Shelton owned the amount of $147,500. Shelton
became its president, and on the 20th of July, 1883, by an instrument in writing, assigned to it all the franchises, rights,
privileges, contracts and agreements gra2ated to or made with
him by the city by the aforesaid ordinance, And authorized
the company to receive all rentals to become due from the
city for fire hydrants pursuant to the ordinance, as well as all
other profits which might accrue from the erection of water
works thereunder.
On the 20th of June, 1885, the city of Galesburg filed a bill
in equity against the Galesburg Water Company in the Circuit
Court of Knox County, Illinois, making the following aver
ments Prior to the 30th of April, 1883, the city had established a system of water works for its protection from fire, and
for that purpose had purchased and laid down water mains
in certain specified streets, which mains were supplied with
water for fire purposes by two manufhcturing companies, each
of which had its pumps and machinery for furnishing water
connected with the mains. Sach system- was at thvat date.in
full operation and able at all times to supply ample protec
tion for the city m case of fire. The ordinance before mentioned was passed and approved, the contract of May 16, 1883,
was made, and the acceptance of the ordinance by Shelton was
received and filed. The Galesburg Water Company was
created and organized, and Shelton assigned to it his rights
under the ordinance. The company erected engine-houses,
VOL. CXXXM-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

placed boilers and engines therein, erected a stand-pipe and
sunk a well. On the 1st of'December, 1883, the city received
notice from Shelton of his assignment to the company of his
rights under the ordinance, and also a like notice from the
company, with a further notice that the hydrants were in
successful operation and ready for use, and the city council
thereupon ordered a test to be made of the water works on the
6th of December, 1883. On, that day Shelton caused to be
turned on six streams of water simultaneously, each through
fifty feet of hose with a nozzle attached thereto, to a considerable height in the main street of the city Afterwards, and on
the same day, the city council passed the following resolution
"Whereas the water works have been completed according to
contract, and the test required- by the ordinance concerning
water works, passed May 12, 1883, has this day been satisfactorily made by the Galesburg Water Company Therefore,
resolved, that the city accept said water works from said company" The company thereafter made various efforts to supply the city with water in the quantity and of the quality
called for by the ordinance, but failed to do so, although full
opportunity therefor was afforded by the city The water
furnished was filthy in character, polluted by drainage from
slaughter-houses and other offal, stagnant and wholly unfit for
use, unhealthy and dangerous to life. On the 1st of June,
1885, an ordinance was passed by the city council in the following terms "1Section 1. That the ordinance entitled ' An ordinance providing for a supply of water to the city of Galesburg
and its inhabitants, authorizing Nathan Shelton, or assigns, to
construct and maintain water works, securing protection to said,
works, contracting with said Nathan Shelton, or assigns, for
a supply of water for public use, and giving said city an option
to purchase said works,' passed May 12th, 1883, be, and hereby
is, repealed. All rights and privileges therein granted or
thereby permitted are null. This ordinance shall take effect
and be in force from and after its passage." That ordinance
was approved by the mayor on ihe 10th of June, 1885, and
-on the next day a copy, of it was served on the company, with
a notice that all privilege of purchasing the water mains be-

FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALERBURG. 163
Opinion of the Court.

longing to the city was considered by the city to be at an end,
and that it claimed the right and title to the mains.
The bill waived an'answer on oath, and prayed-for a decree
that the contract contained in the ordinance of -May 12, 1883,
and the agreement of May 16, 1883, be set aside, that, all
rights conferred by the ordinance and contract upon Shelton,
his assigns, or the company, be decreed to be annulled, and
that all right to purchase the water -mains from the city be
cancelled.
The company answered the bill, setting up facts in justification of its acts and denying the right of the city to relief.
The answer also set up that, on the 1st of August, 1883, the
company execifted to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
of the city of New York, a New York corporation, a mortgage
to that company, as trustee for the .holders of one hundred and
twenty-five bonds of the water comparyr, each for $1000 bearing that date,, the principal payable in thirty years, with semiannual inferest at the.rate of six per cent per annum, covering all the water works, franchise, contract, machinery, mains,
and appurtenances belonging to the water company; that
the mortgage was duly recorded in the proper county; that
the bonds were bought by parties on the faith of the mortgage
and the acceptance of the works by the city, subsequently to
such acceptance; that such mortgage was a valid and subsisting lien on the contract between the city and the water company; and that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company and
the bondholders were necessary parties to the suit.
Under a petition filed in the court February 12, 1886, by
the Farmers' Loan and Trust .Company, an order was made
allowing it to be made a party, and on the 24th of February,
1886, it filed a petition for the removal of the cause/i'to.the
Circuit Court of the United States for the.Northern District
of Illinois. The cause was removed and thereafter proceeded
in the said Circuit Court.
On th" 22d of April, 1886, the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company filed an answer to the bill, setting up, among otter
things, that the amount found to be due to the city for the
water mains sold by it was duly fixed and settled between the

OCTOBER TERM1,

1889.

Opinion of the. Court.

city and the water company, and the balance found due from
the water company was credited to the city upon its indebtedness to the water company for water rents under the ordinance,
and the mains were transferred to and taken possession of by
the water company, and operated by it as a part of its water
system. It also set up that the property mortgaged to it by
the water company, -to secure the bonds, included the fran.chises and rights granted by the city to the water company
and covered by the ordinance passed May 12, 1883, ant also
the water mains which had been bought by the water company from the city prior to the execution of the mortgage and
the bonds, that the holders of the bonds were ignorant of the
nature and quality of the water supply of the water works,
except as the same were represented to the bondholders by the
city and the water company at the time of the execution of
the mortgage and the sale of the bonds, and supposed, from
such representations, that the water supply -was ample and that
the watej* works were satisfactory and in successful operation,
that, before the negotiation and sale of any of the bonds, the
purchasers of them were furnished with certified copies of the
ordinance and of all the resolutions of the common council
regarding the same, and with copies of the contracts and resolutions between the city and Shelton and the water company
in regard to the purchase of the water mains, and with copies
of the acceptance and assignment by Shelton of all his rights
in, the ordinance and mains to the water company, that it was
represented to the bondholders by the city and its officials that
the ordinance constituted a valid and binding contract between
the city and the water compaiy, according to its terms, and
that the company had become the owner of all the water mains;
that it was further represented to the bondholders, by the city
and its officials and by the water company, that that company
was in successful operation and furnishing water to the city
and its inhabitants under the terms of the ordinance, that, on
the faith of such representations and statements, the owners
of the bonds up to the amount of $125,000 purchased the
same in good faith and for a valuable consideration, in and
about January, 1884, that the bonds were outstanding and

FARIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG. 165
Opinion of the Court.

unpaid, that the water company had failed to pay the interest
on the bonds, and it was in default, and the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company had filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois against the
water company, to foreclose the mortgage, that the city, in
June, 1885, had forcibly taken possession of the water mains,
that it had repudiated its liabilities under the ordinance and
refused to pay the water rent under the same, whereby the
mortgaged property was made almost valueless, that the city,
by reason of such statements and representations, was estopped,
as against the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, from denying the validity of the ordinance or the sale of the water
mains, that,.by reason of the mortgage and the bonds secured
under it, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company had a valid
lien upon the 'ordinance and franchise, and upon the water
mains as well as all other property of the water company,
and that it denied the right of the city to rescind the ordinance,
to repudiate the sale of the water mains, and to have any of
the relief claimed in the bill, as against the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company
A replication was filed to his answer on the 3d of May, 1886,
and on a petition filed. November 29, 1886, by Hardin Parrish,
Ephrann W Bond and iR. Dale Benson, to be made parties defendant, an order was that day entered making them parties
and giving leave to them to file a cross-bill. On the same day
they filed an answer to the bill, adopting all the statements of
the answer of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and'also
filed asupplemental and cross-bill against the city, two of them
being citizens of Pennsylvania and one of them a -citizen of
Massachusetts.
That bill averred, among other things, as follows' A foreclosure suit by the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was
brought November 4, 1885, a decree of foreclosure and sale
was made in it June 21, 1886, and thereunder all the rights,
property and franuaises of the water company were purchased
by the plaintiffs for $100,000, and, after a confirmation of the
sale by the court, a deed of the property was executed by the
master to them, November 8, 1886, so that they became its

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of 'the Court.

owners. They adopted, as a part of their supplemental and
cross-'bill, the answer of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to the bill filed by the city Among the property sold
to them under the foreclosure sale were the water mains which,
when the mortgage was executed, were connected with and a
part of the system of the water company and operated by it,
the same having been before that time sold by the city to the
water company In June, 1885, the city took forcible possession of the water mains and cut and destroyed the connection
of the same with the other mains of the water company, and
took up and carried away the hydrants and faucets of the
water company connected therewith, and entirely depri ved that
company of the use of the same, and had ever since retained
possession thereof, and deprived the water company and the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company and the plaintiffs of the
use and possession of them. Without such mains the property
purchased by the plaintiffs is almost, if not entirely, valueless,
and cannot be operated, because the connection of the water
inains had been cut and destroyed and the hydrants removed,
and thus the plaintiffs were prevented from using and operating any of the property so purchased by them, and from
furnishing water to private consumers and also to the city
The plaintiffs are ready and willing to operate the works and
furnish water to the dity or to private consumers, and would
do so were they not prevented by the acts of the city It is
the intention of the plaintiffs, and they have the right, to
extend the operation of the water system of the city and the
mains thereof so as to cover the entire limits of the city,
and also to extend the base of water supply so as to furnish
always an abundant supply of good water for the needs of the
city and of -the private consumers therein, and there is an
abundant supply of good water accessible for the water works
and procurable by the plaintiffs, which it is their intention and
they are ready to procure and supply
There is a large
amount of money owing to the plaintiffs from 'the city for
water rents earned by the water company, or its receiver, up to
the time of the purchase by the plaintiffs, the claims for which
passed to the plaintiffs by virtue of the sale, and also on account

FARaMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v.GALESBURG. 16*1
Opinion of the Court.

of the contract and water rents since the sale, and also on account of the acts of the city in cutting and destroying the water
mains and taking possession of the same and preventing the
plainti.fs from using them and from operating the water works.
The prayer of the supplemental and cross-bill, which waives
an answer on oath, is that an accounting be had between the
plaintiffs and the city to ascertain the amount due to the
former, that a decree be made for its payment, and that the
city restore to the plaintiffs the water mains, hydrants, faucets
and other property, and be enjoined from interfering with the
plaintiffs in the possession thereof and in connecting the water
mains with any of the other water mains belonging to them,
and from violating any of the provisions of the ordinance
passed May 12; 1883, and from interfering with the plaintiffs
in the use of any of the property so purchased l'y them, and
from collecting the water rents, or extefi'ing the water mains
through any of the streets of the city, or extending the source
of supply for the water works.
The city, on the 21st of December, 1886, answered the supplemental and cross-bill, denying the right of the plaintiffs in
it to relief. A replication was filed to the answer of Parrish
and others, and the court, on the 2d of April, 1887, made an
order referring the case to John L Bennett as master, to, take
proofs and report the evidence with his findings and conclusions thereon.
Voluminous proofs were taken before a special examiner
and also some before the master, and the case was argued'before the lafter. On the 13th of May, 188T, he filed his report.
It stated that some of the water works bonds were sold at various times from the spring of 1884 to May, 1885, those bonds
being represented in the litigation principally 'by tle crossplaintiffs Parrish, Bond and Benson. The master arrived at
the following conclusions
(1) The 6ity had express authority by its charter to pass
the ordinance of May 12, 1883, and to fix the rates of water
rents for a period not exceeding thirty years, and it.became
binding on the city and on Shelton, and'was duly assigned by
the latter to the water company

OCTOBER TERTj, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

(2) In view of the provisions of the ordinance, that the object for which the franchise was granted was expressed to be
"for supplying the said city and the inhabitants thereof and
of the adjacent territory with water for public and private
uses," that "the works shall be increased in capacity as the
growth of the city and its needs require " that "there shall
be not less than eight miles of mains for the -distribution of
water in said city, of a sufficient size to furnish all the water
required for the wants of said city and its inhabifants;" that
"the water supplied by said works shall be good, clear water,
and the source of supply shall not be. contaminated by the
sewerage of said city," that Shelton or nis assigns "shall,
with due diligence, increase the steam and furnish fire pressure
so long as needed for the extinguishment of any fire," it was
manifest that the purpose of the ordinance was to furnish a
fire protection to the city and its inhabitants, and to furnish
water for other public uses, for the flushing of sewers, for the
use of the city hall and its offices, for public schools, churches
and public fountains, and also for the use of the inhabitants,
upon rates fixed m the ordinance, for mechanical and domestic
purposes.
(3) The contract of Shelton as to the quantity and quality
of the water was in the nature of a condition precedent to a
performance on the part of the city, except as to the opportunity to Shelton and his assigns to construct the works.
(4) The contract on-the part of the city was a grant of the
right to maintain the works for thirty years, the right to use
the public property of the city in constructing or repairing the
works; the right to collect maximum annual rates for water
used for private purposes, an agreement to pay for the use of
hydrants, of a defined number, a fixed rate per hydrant, as
rent, for thikty years, and the right to adopt rules for the
supply of water and to enforce their conditions when not contrary to law, such rights acquired by Shelton and his assigns
being dependent upon performance by Shelton and his assigns
of his agreements. There was added the mutual agreement
that after the expiration of fifteen years the city might purchase the water works.

FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG. 169
Opinion of'the Court.

(5) The contract contained in the ordinance was an entire
one, and was not executed by a partial performance or by a
performance as to one of the several essential undertakings on
the part of Shelton and his assigns, and they assumed all "the
risk of obtaining a water supply sufficient m quantity and
quality to comply with their contract.
(6) Although the water company constructed the building,
machinery for pumping, stand-pipe, And water mains and their
attachments, within the time limited and in compliance with
the terms of the ordinance, prior to December 6, 1883, it failed
to furnish a water supply which complied with the requirements of the ordinance either in quantity or quality, either
before or after the expiration of the limit prescribed in the
contract for the construction and successful completion of the
works. The details of this failure, as founded on the evidence, are given at length by the master, his conclusion being,
that the fact is established that the waters furnished by the
water company were never pure, clear waters, nor furnished
in the required quantity, but were- always more or less contaminated by substances injurious to health and comfort,
and which would naturally be-derived from the sources from
which the water supply was shown to have been obtained.
Therefore, waiving the legal effect which the resolution of
December 6, 1883, might have had as. an estoppel upon the
city, the water company, at no time, either before or after the
fifteen months following May 17, 1883, furnished water to the
city and its inhabitants in the quantity and of the quality
required by the ordinance, and at nO timiie complied with the
ordinance and the contract.
(7) The resolutions passed by the common council ont the
6th of December, 1883, were an estoppel against the city to
deny the facts alleged in- those resolutions, and the city was
bound to know that the water company might execute a
mortgage upon its property and franchises to secure the
bonds, and the council intended by the resolutions, so far as
Shelton and the water company were concerned, to foreclose the question as to the amount of water main$ which
the latter had placed in the streets, the character of the struc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tures which they had erected, the machinery which they
had pat in place, and generally the mechanical execution
of the contract, and also the question that they had complied
with the test provided m the ordinance, so far as related to
throwing fire-streams of the number and character required,
but the test provided for in the ordinance was merely a test
of sufficiency for fire service, and was designed to determine
the time when the water rerfts for the use of the hydrants
should commence, and could not be a test as to the quantity
of water capable of being supplied by the works every twentyfour hours,.much less a test of the goodness and purity of the
water. Whether or not the water company was able to furnish the required quantity of water every twenty-four hours,
and whether or not'its quality as to purity and goodness for
domestic and other uses was in compliance with the ordinance,
must rest upon facts as proved to exist. Moreover the estoppel, so far as it did exist, was not a continuing one. The obligation of the water company to furnish the quantity and
quality of water required by the contract was a continuing
obligation, and was not met once for all by a compliance with
the fire test of December 6, 1883. The right of the company
to enjoy the consideration of the contract was thereafter to
depend upon its continuing to perform it. There was not and
could not be, a final and absolute acceptance of thl water
w6rks by the city, without regard" to a future compliance on
the part of the. water company with the requirements of the
contract. The case was not one of works constructed for the
city and to become its property upon acceptance, and the
acceptance related merely to the sufficiency of the structures
for fire service at the time.
(8) The agreemerit in regard to the purchase from the city
of the water mains, and the contract formed by the ordinance
and its acceptance, must be considered as one contract and
construed together, and the agreement in regard to the water
mains did not constitute an absolute sale of them, except on
the compliance on the part of Shelton and his assigns with
the conditions contained in the agreement itself in regard to
the water mains. The city was not at any time to be de-

FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG. 171
Opinion of the Court.

prived of the fire service of which the mains were a part, and
they were not to be disturbed until Shelton or the water company were able to connect their works with those mains and
continue the efficiency of the service by the new works when
in successful operation, and the successful erection of those
works and the accomplishment of the things required by the
ordinance were a condition to the sale of the mains. The
agreement as to the mains was therefore a conditional contract, and such delivery as was made under it was a conditional delivery The city's mains were never disturbed in its
streets, except to the extent of making connections with the
mains subsequently laid by the water company and the attachment of some new hydrants. The valuation of-the mains and
the adoption of such valuation by the council amounted to no
more than if their value had been stated at a definite sum in
the agreement in regard to them. The letter of the mayor,
written, in fact, after his term of office had expired, and
antedated, stating that the mains had been delivered by the
city to the water company, was of no effect, and, even if it
had been written by him during his term of office, it was
simply the expression of a legal opinion, and was not within
the line of his official duty, without a special authority from
the council.
(9) After the passage of the ordinance of June 1, 1885, rescmding the contract between the city and the water company,
the city forcibly disconnected its mains from the system of
mains laid by the water company, and restored the system of
fire protection which it.had enjoyed before the water company
constructed its works.
(10) The -period within which the water company was required to complete its works and put them in successful operation expired in August, 1884. It- failed to.comply with its
contract, and acknowledged that failure. It then resorted to
the sinking of gang wells, which it completed in November,
1884:, but they also failed as a source of supply The city
showed great patience and forbearance, and waited-more than
eight months after August, 1884, and then passed the repealing ordinance of June 1, 1885.

OCTOBER TERM, .1889.
Opinion of the Court.

(11) The recaption of the mains, which were only conditionally in the possession of the water company under a conditional sale, and which conditions had not been complied with
by Shelton and his assigns, was therefore rightful, and the
water company can have no right to restitution, nor had it
any legal right to a further extension of time, for further
experiments in respect to a new source of water supply
(12) As to the question whether the plaintiffs in the crosssuit are entitled to any relief which could not be granted to
the water company, the effect of the decree, sale and deed in
the foreclosure suit was to vest in the purchasers at the sale
the equitable interest of the trustee and of the bondholders,
and all the legal interest of the water company Before the
decree, the bill of foreclosure had been dismissed as against
the city, and its interests were in no manner affected by
the foreclosure. The foreclosure suit, having been initiated
and brought to a conclusion while the present suit of the
city against the water company was pending, was, as to tllis
suit, a proceeding pendente lite, but the plaintiffs in the
cross-suit stand as the representatives of the bondholders, and
the equities of the latter should be considered in fixing the
terms of the decree. The, bondbonilers, as between them and
the water company, were borta Xfie purchasers of the bonds.
The water company and its agents holding the bonds for sale
in 1884: and 1885, prior to May 20th, 1885, represented that
the works of the water company were in successful opeation,
and that it had complied, when -be bonds were sold, with all
the conditions of its contract with the city, and, the bonds
being negotiable, there was no proof of any notice to any of
their purchasers which ,would affect their validity The bonds
and the mortgage, however, were in no sense obligations of
the city, nor was it a party- to their issue, and it did not become m any manner responsible for any part of the debt
created by the bonds. The letters written by the city engineer, the city attorney, the chairman of the water committee,
the mayor of the city and perhaps other officers, cannot operate as an estoppel on the city, because they were not written
in pursuance of direct authority and were not within the

FARMERS' .LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG. 173
*Opimon of the Court.

official duty of those officers. They tend, however, to show
the bonaf§des of the purchases made by the bondholders, and
the plaintiffs in the cross-suit cannot have imputed to them the
actual bad faith which may be inferred as against Shelton and
the water company in regard to the construction of the works,
the water supply and the management of the affairs of the
water company They can have, however, no greater right
than the water company would have had, to be restored to
the possession of the city's mains, and to be permitted by the
city to further experiment in regard to securing a supply of
water and complying with the contract.
(13) The city never paid any interest upon the bonds. 'rhe
first payment of interest was made by the water company,
and the fact of such payment was made known to some of the
purchasers before they would purchase the bonds. The mortgage provided for the direct payment of hydrant rents to
the trustee, to be applied in payment of interest, but no
payment was ever thus made by the city to the trustee.
That fact was known to the trustee, and, it being the agent
of the bondholders, such knowledge was -imputable to them.
The water company afterwards defaulted in the payment
of interest, and the foreclosure proceedings were had upon
the basis of a default made in the payment of interest due
February 1, 1885. The bondholders knew or were chargeable
with knowledge that there was a default in the payment of
interest early m 1885 and a long time before June 1, 1885,
and they also had knowledge of the existence of trouble
between the city and the water company
(14) There was a clause in the mortgage providing that if
the water company should fail to.perform any of its agreements contained in the mortgage-it should be lawful for the
trustee to take possession of thQ mortgaged property, and
operate it as a mortgagee in possession, for the benefit of the
bondholders, and during such possession tq make all needful
repairs and replacements in the mortgaged property, and, to
receive the rents and profits therefrom ,until foreclosure. This
could have been done at least-as early as February, 1885; when
there was a default' in the payment of interest. The trustee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and the bondholders for whom'it was acting, failed to take
such possession, and the plaintiffs in the cross-suit are not
entitled to the relief prayed in their cross-bill, while the city
is entitled to have the ordinance of May 12, 1883, annulled.
,(15) The decree cancelling the franchise ought not to be
unconditional, however, but should be conditioned that the
city, or some person or corporation authorized by it, should
pay into court, for the use of the plaintiffs in the cross-suit,
the reasonable cash value of the mains constructed by the
water company, the machinery, the stand-pipe, the enginehouse, the land on which the same are located, and perhaps
other property, to be ascertained by a master, and also -an
equitable amount in satisfaction of water rents.
The city excepted to this report, and the trustee also
excepted to it. The case was heard before Judge Gresham,
and his opinion is reported in 34 Fed. Rep. 675. He concurred generally with the master in his views of the case, and
said "The purchasers of the bonds knew that, unless water
was furnished in quantity and quality as called for by the
-contract, nothing would be due from the city for water rents.
A different ruling would be equivalent to holding that by
adopting the resolution of December 6, 1883, the city guaranteed the payment of interest which would thereafter accrue
on the bonds. The city did nothing of the kind, nor is it
believed that the purchasers of the bonds invested their money
believing that this resolution amounted to such guaranty By
the trust deed or mortgage the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company and the bondholders succeeded to the rights of the water
company If this were a suit between the city and the waterworks company I should grant the relief prayed for without
allowing anything for water furnished, for none was furmshed
m compliance with the contract. But the controversy now is
between the city and persons representing the bondholders,
and I think it equitable that the city should pay them a reasonable compensation for the water which was furnished up to
the time it resumed possession of the old mains. I do not
think the bondholders' committee is entitled to the old mains.
They were not sold to Shelton unconditionally and absolutely

FARMERS' LOAN "& TRUST CO. v. GALESBU1RG. 175
Opinion of the Court.

They were sold to him to be used in a particular way and for
a particular purpose, and to be paid for by, water furnished
under the terms of the contract. Shelton and his successor,
the water company, having failed to comply with the contract,
although afforded ample time to do so, the city was authorized
to resume possession of its old mains and protect its inhabitants as best it could against fire."
On the 2dl of May, 1888, the court entered a decree adjudging that the contracts granting the franchise to Shelton and his
.assigns and providing for the sale of the water mains, and the
ordinance of May 1.2, 1883, and all rights, franchises and
privileges granted thereunder, were annulled and cancelled,
and the property in the water mains was revested and confirmed in the city, dismissing the supplemental and cross-bill
of Parrish, Bond and Benson, ordering the city to pay to them
a reasonable sum for water used from December 1, 1883, to
June 1, 1885, and referring it to a master to ascertain such
sum, and dividing the costs of the suit equally between the
city and the plaintiffs in the cross-suit. The Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company and the plaintiffs in the cross-suit prayed
an appeal to this court frem that decree. The master, on the 13th of June, 1888, reported the sum to
be paid, as the value of the use of the water, at $3000. The
plaintiffs in the cross-suit excepted to. this report, and on. the
1th of June, 1888, the court overruled their exceptions, confirmed the report, and directed the city to pay into court for
the use of the plaintiffs in the cross-suit the sum of '$3000.
From that decree, and from the prior dgcree of May 2, 1888,
the plaintiffs in: the cross-suit and the Farmers' Lo in and
Trust Company prayed an appeal to this court.
The appellants urge that the Circuit Court erred (1) in not
dismissing the bill for want of equity, because the. conditions.
of the contract were conditions subsequent, (2) in not holding that the city was estopped by the resolution of December
6, 1883, (3) in not dismissing the bill on the merits, on the
ground that the water company was not in default,, (4) in
holding that the city had a right to repossess itself of the old
mains which it had sold to Shelton and through him .to the

OCTOBER TERtM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

water company, (5) in not granting the prayer of the crossbill, and (6) in not sustaining the exceptions of the appellants to the first report of the master, and particularly those
to his findings respecting the nature,and scope of the contract.
It is quite clear, on the proofs, that the water furnished by
the water compajiy for the period of about nine months during
which its works were operated was unfit for domestic purposes , that the course of the city was entirely forbearing and
generous towards the water company , and that after the
gang wells were completed in November, 1884, the supply of
water was ipadequate for the protection of the city from fire,
and its quality was but little better than it was before the
construction of the gang wells. After they were constructed
the water distributed to the customers of the company was
surface water mixed with water from the gang wells. The
company was at no time able to furnish even bad water in
the quantity requrred -by the contract, or needed by the city
for fire protection or for flushing the sewers. During the
eighteen months which elapsed after the completion of the
works, the company had ample time to comply with the contract, and the city was under no obligation to give it further
time to -experiment. The taking possession by the city- of the
old water mains, after the passage of the resolution of June 1,
1885, was necessary for the protection of the city from fire.
It could not continue, after annulling the contract, to receive
from the water company -'ater for fire purposes. The contract for the sale. of the old mares was a part of the contract
with the city in relation to the water works. The two agreements constituted one contract. The contract for the sale was
merely a contract to sell, and not"an executed contract of sale.
The delivery of ,the old water mains was conditional, and
made for a special purpose, and, the conditions not having
been performed, no title to them passed either to the water
company or to the trustee under the mortgage, and the recaption of them by the city was lawful. By the contract for
their purchase, both what mains were to be purchased and the
price to be paid for them remained to be determined, and so
the agreement was executory It was also by its terms con-

FARMERS' LOAN'& TRUST CO. v: GkLESBURG. 177
Opinion of the Court

ditional, and the delivery, too, was conditional, for a specific
purpose, and without any intention that the city should, by
the making of the 'agreement, part with its title to the mains.
In regard to the rights of the bondholders, although the
purchasers of the bonds may have been influenced to purchase
th.em by the terms of the resolution of December 6, 1883, and
by the letters from the officers and citizens of the city introduced in evidence, the city was not thereby estopped from refusing to pay the rental for the hydrants, which by the terms
,of the mortgage was to be applied in. payment of the interest
on the bonds, or from having the contract cancelled. Although
the bondholders exercised good faith in purchasing the bonds,
they bought them knowing that the city was not a party to
them, and that the payment of water rents by the city for the
hydrants depended upon a continued compliance by the water
company with the terms of the contract. The letters of the
private citizens could not affect the city, and the letters from
the officers of the city could not affect its rights, because they
were not written by its authority or within the scope of their
powers as its officers.
The scope of the resolution of December 6, 1883, accepting
the world, extended only to the fact that the provisions of. the
ordinance respecting their construction had- been complied
with and the test required by the ordinance had been satisfactorily made. It covered only the physical existence and
condition of the artificial structures. The contract extended,
however, to the amount of water which the works should be
able actually and permanently to supply, aid the character of.
the water to be supplied, all of which was uncertain, and the
risk of which was assumed by Shelton and his assigns, their
obligation being a continuing obligation, and their right to the
continued enjoyment of the consideration for it being dependent upon their contmmng to perform it. There was in the
resolution of December 6, 1883, no guaranty that the water
company could or would in the future comply with its contract. The liability of the city to pay in future the hydrant
reits depended upon the future compliance of the water cbom
pany with its contract, and in case of its failure the city would
voL. cxxxn-12

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

have the right to ask for the rescission of the contract. This
the bondholders knew when they purchased the bonds. The
city entered into no contract with them, and the passage of
the resolution of )ccember 6, 1883, could not deprive the city
of the relief to which it would otherwise be entitled, on the
failure of the water company to comply with its contract.
The provisions of the ordinance requiring the water company
to furnish the amount of water called for by it, and that the
water supplied by the works should be good, clear water, and
the source of sup)ly not be contaminated by the sewerage of
the cit', were known to the bondholders when they purchased
the bonds, and they also knew that the payment of the hydrant rents which would go to pay the interest on the bonds
must depend upon the furnishing of water by the water company according to the contract.
Nor coul the test re(quired by the ordinance and satisfactorily made by the water coimpany be a test of anything but
the pressure l)ower of the works. It could not be a test of the
quantity of water which would thereafter be supplied by the
works, nor or its continuing quality for domestic purposes.
The resolution of acceptance cannot be considered as a guar
anty to the bondholders that the water company would
thereafter perform its contract for furnishing water in the
quantity and of the quality called for by the ordinance. The
bondholders were bound to take notice of the contents of the
ordinance before purchasing their bonds, and purchased and
held them sul)Jcct to the continuing compliance of the water
company with the terms of the ordinance. They bought the
bonds 'as obligations of the water company, and not as evidences of indebtedness of the city, and they had information
from the ordinance that the city would not be liable for hydrant
rents if the water company failed to furnish water as agreed,
and that if the water company neglected to comply with its
contract the city would have the right to invoke the aid of a
court of equity to enforce a cancellation of .the contract.
As to the old water mains, the trustee and the bondholders
took the lien of the mortgage subject to the conditions of the
agreement for the sale of them by the city to Shelton. Iinme-

FARIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO. v. GALESBURG. 179
Opinion of the. Court.

diately after the passage of the resciinding resolution of June
1, 1885, the city proceeded to resume possession of the old
mains, and its bill against the water company was filed immediately thereafter, and on the 20th of June, 1885. The-water
company never credited the city with any money due on account of rent for the hydrants, applying it as payment on
account of the old water mains, nor did the city ever apply
any money due by it to the water company for hydrant rents
towards paying itself for the old mains.
The principal contention on the part of the appellants is
that, on the acceptance of the ordinance by Shelton, a right in
the franchise vested in him, which coufd not be defeated even
though he afterwards failed to comply with its terms, that the
failure of the water company to furnish water in the quantity
and of the quality called for by the ordinance was only a
breach of a condition subsequent, and that a court of equity
will not lend its aid to divest an estate, for such a breach.
But it seems to us that in respect to a contract of the character
of the present one, the ability of the water company to continue to furnish water according to the terms of the ordinance
was a condition precedent to the continuing right of Shelton
and his assigns to use the streets of the city and to furnish
water for a period of thirty years, and that when, after a reasonable time, Shelton and his assigns had, failed to comply
with the condition as to the quantity and quality of the water,
the city bad a right to treat the contract as terminated, and to
invoke the aid of a court of equity to enforce its rescission. A
suit for a specific performance of the contract, or a suit to recover damages for its non-performance, would be a wholly
inadequate remedy in a case like the present. The danger to
the health and lives of the inhabitants of the city from. impure
water, and the continued ekposure of the property in the city
to destruction by fire from an inadequate supply of water, were
public questions peculiarly under the care of the municipality.,
and it was entitled and bound to act with the highest regard,
for the public interests, and at the same time, as it did, with.due
consideration for the-ights of the other parties to the contract.
We see no error in the decree of the Circuit Court, and it is
A.ffi med.

