,CALIFORNIA IUTS. CO. v. UNION COM1PRESS CO.

887

Syllabus.

;o maintain the judgment, the writ of error will be dismissed
vithout considering the Federal question.
.The writ of error is
DisMi8ed.

CALIFORINIA INSURANCE COMPANY

'.

UNION

COMPRESS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1051. Submitted October 80, 1889. -Decided March 3,1890.

The defendant, a fire insurance company, issued a policy of insurance to
the plaintiff, a cotton compress company, on "cotton in bales, held by
them in trust or on commission," and situated in specified places. The
cotton was destroyed by fire in those places. The plaintiff received cotton for compression, and issued receipts to the depositors, which said
"not responsible for any loss by fire." The holders of the receipts exchanged them with one or the other of. two railroad companies for bills
of lading of the cotton, which exempted the carrier from liability for
loss or damage by fire. On issuing the bills'of lading the railroad companles notified the plaintiff of their Issue, and ordered it to compress the
cotton. It was burned while in the hands of the plaintiff for compression, after the bills of lading were issued. In a suit to recover on the
policy; Held,
(1) It was competent for the plaintiff to prove, at the trial, that it took
out the policy for the benefit of the railroad companies, and in
pursuance of an agreement between it and those companies that
it should do go; also, that by like agreement, it collected from
the railroad companies a specified sum for all cotton coimpressed
by it, as covering the compression, tie loading,' and the cost of
insuring. the cotton; also, that such customs of buginess were
known to the defendant when the policy was isued, and that an
officer of the plaintiff had stated to the agents of the defendant,
when the policy was applied for, that it was intended to cover
the interests of the plaintiff and of the railroad companies; also,
what claims had been made on the railroad companies, by owners
of cotton burned,'to recover its value;
(2) The railroad companies were beneficiaries under the policy, because
they had an insurable Interest in the cotton, and to that extent
were its owners, and it was held in trust for them by the plaintiff;
(3)It was lawful for the plaintiff to insure ib its own name goods held
in trust by it, and it can recover for their entire value, holdin

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)
(9)

(10)

(11)

the excess over its own interest in them for the benefit of those
who entrusted the goods to it;
The issuing of the bills of lading for the cotton did not effect such a
change in the possession of the cotton as to avoid the policy,
under a provision in it making it void, " if any change take place
in the possession of the subject of insurance;"
The plaintiff can recover for losses caused by the negligence of the
railroad companies in improperly exposing the cotton to danger
from fire.
The exception "not responsible for any loss by fire" in the receipts
given by the plaintiff, and the clause in the bills of lhding exempting the railroad companies from liability for loss or damage by
fire, did not free the latter from responsibility for damages
occasioned by their own negligence or that of their-employs;
The ruling, that a common carrier may insure himself against loss
proceeding from the negligence of his own servants, made in
Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312,
324, affirmed.
The words in the policy, "direct loss or damage by fire," explained;
The mere fact of the dwelling by the court below, with emphasis,
in its charge to the jury, on facts which seemed to it of controlling importance, and expressing its opinion as to the bearing of
those facts on the question of negligence, is immaterial, if, it left
the issue to the jury;
Under a clause in the policy, that it " shall not apply to or cover
any cotton which may at the time of loss be covered in whole or
part by a marine policy," such clause is not operative unless it
amounts to double insurance, which can exist only in the case of
risks on the same interest in property and in favor of the same
person;
The right of action of the plaintiff accrued on the occurring of
the loss, and did not require that the railroad companies should
have actually paid damages for the loss of the cotton.

THIs was an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas,
by the Union Compress Company, an Arkansas corporation,
against the California Insurance Company, of San Francisco,

a California corporation, to recover on a policy of insurance
against fire, issued by the latter company to the former company on the 2d of November, 1887.
By the policy the California company insured the Compress
Company, for the term of thirty days from November 2, 1887,
at noon, to December 2, 1887, at noon, "against all direct

CA.LIFORNIA INS. CO. v. UNIONW COMPRESS CO.

389

Statemeit of the Case.

loss or damage by fire, except as hereinafter provided, to an
amount not exceeding ten thousand dollars, to the followingdescribed property while located and contained as described
herein,' and not elsewhere, to wit: Form of cotton. _polij.
$10,000 on cotton, in bales, their own or held by them in trust
or on commission, while contained in the frame shed 112 to
122, inclusive, and in back shed and yard 115 to 123, inclusive,
1North Mlain Street, and on platforms adjoining and in -street
immediately:between the sheds, Sauborn's map of Little Rock,
Arkansas; and it.is agreed and understood to be a condition
of this insurance that this policy shall not apply to or cover
any cotton which may at the time of loss be covered in whole
or part by a marine policy; and it is further agreed to be a
condition of this policy that only actual payment by bank
check or otherwise for cotton purchased shall constitilte a
delivery of cotton flom the seller to the buyer; and it is further agreed that this company shall be liable for only such
proportion of the whole loss as the sum hereby insured bears
to the cash value of the whole property hereby insured at the
time of fire; and it is further agreed that tickdts, checks, or
receipts delivered to bearer shall not be considered as evidence
of ownership. Other insurance permitted without notice until
required.

.

.

.

In case of loss or damage to the property

insured, it shall be optional with the company, in lieu of pay-*
ing such loss or damage, to replace the articles lost or damaged
with others of the same kind and quality.

.

.

.

This entire

policy, unless otherwise provided by agreement endorsed hereon
or added hereto, shall be Void . . . if any change
take place in the . . . possession of the subject "of insurIn case of any other insurance upon the proplance. ...

erty hereby insured, whether to the .same party or upon the
same interests therein or otherwise, whether valid or not, and
whether prior or subsequent to the date of this policy, the insured shall be entitled to recover from this company no greater
proportion of the loss sustained than the sum hereby insured
bears to the whole amount insured thereon, whether such other
insurance be by specific or by general or floating policies, or
by policies covering only in excess of specified loss; and it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

hereby declared and agreed that in case of the assured holding
any other policy in this or any other company on the property insured, or any part thereof subject to the conditions of
average, this policy shall be subject to average in like manner.
. . . If this company shall claim that the fire was caused
by the act or neglect of any person or corporation, private or
municipal, this company shall, on.payment of the loss, be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all right of recovery
by the insured for the 'loss resulting therefrom, aAd such right
shall be assigned to this company by the insured on receiving
such payment. . . . In case of. loss on property held in
trust or on commission, or if the interest of the assured be
other than the entire and sole ownership, the names of the
respective owners shall be set forth" [in the proofs of loss]
"together with their respective interests therein."
The complaint alleged that on the 14th of November, 1887,
the plaintiff was engaged in the business of compressing cotton,
which it received or held on its own account or on commission
or in trust for others, at its warehouses and compress buildings
and adjoining sheds and platforms situated at the foot of Main
Street in the city of' Little Rock, Arkansas; that it had on
hand, at that date, about 2800 bales of cotton, delivered to it
to be compressed and belonging to divers parties, the value of
which, equalled the sum total of the insurance thereon; and
that such cotton, whether owned by the plaintiff or held by it
on commission or in trust for others, was insured against loss
or damage by fire in twenty-eight insurance companies, which
were named, in the several amounts stated opposite their respective names, amounting in the aggregate to $142,500, which
included the defendant for the sum of $10,000. It then set
forth the issuing of the policy by the defendant to the plaintiff,
a copy of which was annexed to the- complaint, and that on
the 14th of November, 1887, all the cotton in bales, contained
pn said premises and so insured, was destroyed by fire, "together with a large quantity of other cotton in possession of
plaintiff at said place, which was not insured by plaintiff."
The complaint then proceeded as follows: " [That at .the
time that said cotton came to the possession of the plaintiff it

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. U-MION COMPRESS CO.

391

Statement of the Case.

was engaged in the business of compressing cotton at its compress in the town of Argenta, opposite Little Rock, and on
the north side of the Arkansas River, and that said cotton was
deposited with the.plaintiff for compression by various owners
thereof, who delivered the same at the sheds and yards and
adjacent grounds in the said city of Little Rock, as described
in said policy, with directions that the same should be transported to said compress by the plaintiff or some carrier employed for that purpose by .it, and that on the receipt of any
bales of said cotton by said plaintiff it gave a receipt for the
same to the. owiner thereof, and that, according to a custom
known to said depositors, to the plaintiff, and to the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Co. and the Missouri Pacific Railway Co., of which it was a part, and the Little Rock
and Memphis Railroad Company, which were common carriers
having and operating railroads of which'both Argenta and
Little Rock were stations, said owners transferred said receipts
to either one or the other of said carriers and received from
said carriers bills of lading for the transportation by said carriers of said cotton to various places to which said cotton was
then and there shipped by said -owners, with an agreement
with said railway companies that said cotton should not be
shipped until it bad been compressed by the plaintiff. There
was a standing and continuing agreement between said plaintiff and said railway companies that the plaintiff should pro-.
ceed to compress said cotton and all cotton thus received and
should insure the same, after notice of the execution of' said
bills of lading by said railway companies, against loss by fire
during the time that said cotton should be in the hands of the
plaintiff, for the purpose aforesaid, for a price averaging from
sixty to sixty-five cents per bale, to be paid by said railway
companies, respectively, when said cotton should be compressed
and delivered to said railway. companies on their cars at Arg~nta for transportation under said bills of lading; at which
time said carriers should surrender-to *plaintiffthe said receipts
issued as aforesaid at the time that said cotton was deposited
with the plaintiff for compression by the owners, as above
stated; that all of said cotton was in the custody -f plaintiff,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

at the time of said loss, under and by virtue of said custom and
agreement, and that it was lost by the negligence of the servants, agents, and employ6s of said railway companies, and
that since said loss said St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern
Railway Company has been sued in this court by two of said
consignees for 'the value of part of said cotton above named, to
wit, the York Manufacturing Company and Hazard & Chapin,
and said railway company defended said actions on the ground
that said loss was not occasioned by the negligence of said
railway company or its servants and employ6s, and on a trial
of said first-named cause it was adjudged by this court that
said York Manufacturing Company and said Hazard & Chapin
recover from said railway company the value of said cotton
sued for as aforesaid, and that since said adjudication said railway company has paid said judgment and the value of a large
part of the cotton for which it had issued bills of lading as
aforesaid, and that several suits are now pending in this court
against said Little Rock and Memphis Railroad Company,
brought by the consignee of portions of said cotton, -for the
recovery of damages for the loss of said cotton by reason of
the negligence of said railroad company, which said suits are
now pending and undetermined. On said 14th day of November, 1887, the plaintiff had in its possession at its sheds 'and
premises above mentioned, for purposes of compression, a large
amount of cotton, to wit, over 3000 bales; that of this number
2700 bales of cotton were held by this plaintiff for the St.
Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company and the
Little Rock & Memphis Railroad Company. By said contract
and agreement betweeni plaintiff and said railroads this'plaintiff took out the policies 'of insurance above set out for the
purpose of indemnifying this plaintiff agafist loss and liability,
and the said railroad companies against loss and liability, by
reason of the destruction -of said cotton while it was being
held by plaintiffs for purposes of compression. The St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway has been adjudged as
aforesaid to pay a large sum of money, to wit, $ -, and in
addition has paid a still larger amount because of its liability
for such loss, amounting in all up to this date to $72,209.58,

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. UNION COMPRESS CO. 393
Statement of the-Case.

and has made demand therefor against the plaintiff for reimbursement of said losses.]" It also averred that the loss by
fire on the cotton equalled the insurance on it, and that the
plaintiff had performed all the conditions of the policy; and
prayed judgment for $10,000, with interest.
The defendant moved to strike from the complaint the
words "together with a large quantity of other cotton in pos-session of plaintiff, at said place,, which was not insured by
plaintiff," and also the foregoing part included in brackets.
It also demurred to the complaint on the ground that. it did
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; and
also demurred separately to that part of it which is so included
in brackets, on the ground that the facts therein stated did
not tend to constitute a cause of action. The court overruled
the said motion, and also the demurrer, and the defendant
excepted to both of those rulings.
The defendant then filed its answer, admitting the issuing
of the policy, and that at the fire one hundred and twelve
bales of cotton belonging to one -Hanger and held by the
plaintiff in trust for Hanger, were burned, for .the loss of
which the insurance companies named in the complaint had
paid the plaintiff $4826.59, in full satisfaction thereof, and of
which sum the defendant paid its full portion -of the loss.
The answer denied the material allegations of the complaint,
and averred that the greater portion of the cotton alleged to
have been lost at the fire was received by the plaintiff from
the owners thereof after the issuing of the policy; that. the
cotton burned was first delivered by its owners to the plaintiff,
and the plaintiff gave to the owners receipts for it, which provided that the plaintiff should not be liable for the loss of it
by fire; that afterwards, and, after the policy was issued, the
cotton was sold to various persons who became its owners,
and the :Missouri Paciic Railway°Oompany, the Little Rock
and Memphis Railroad Company, and the Little Rock, Mississippi River and.Texas Railway Company, common carriers of
cotton for hire, issued their bills of lading, for the same to the
purchasers, which provided that tlie carriers should not be liable for the loss thereof by fire, and at the same tfime such rail-

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

road companies took up the receipts issued by the plaintiff to
the original owners and surrendered them to the plaintiff,
whereby the possession of the cotton was changed, contrary
to the provisions of the policy, without any consent of, notice
to, or knowledge by the, defendant; (7) that it was provided
in the policy that it should not apply to or cover cotton which
was at the time of loss covered in whole or in part by marine
policies, and at that time 2172 bales of the cotton alleged to,
have been burned, and of the value of $101,973.73, were covered by marine policies theretofore issued to the respective
owners of the cotton; (8) that after the railroads had issued
their bills of lading for the cotton, and before and at the time
of the fire, it was kept in a grossly negligent manner, in a
dangerous public place, without being covered or. sprinkled,
and but a few feet from a railroad track, where locomotives
of the Missouri Pacific and the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and
-Southern railroads, emitting sparks, were constantly'passing,
by which sq ks the fire was kindled, and the cotton was destroyed by a fire which- occurred in broad daylight, at about
four o'clock P.m., and which fire those two railroad companies,
by the use of ordinary care, could have extinguished by removing the bales first ignited, or by putting out the fire by water
from the hydrants which were close by; and that none of the
cotton was destroyed -by the negligence of the Little Rock and
Memphis Railroad Company or its employ~s.
The plaintiff demurred to certain paragraphs of the answer,
and among them paragraphs 7 and 8, as not stating facts sufficient to constitute a defence. The, court overruled such
demurrer as to two of the paragraphs and sustained it as to
paragraphs ' and 8; to which latter ruling the defendant excepted. Thereupon the case was tried by a jury, which found
a verdict for the .plaintiff for $9491.96, on which a judgment
was accordingly 'entered, to review which the defendant
brought a writ of error.
The first four assignments of error on the part of the defendant related to the overruling of its motion to strike out part
of the complaint, the overruling ofi its demurrer to the complaint and to part thereof, and the sustaining of the demurrer
q the plaintiff to paragraphs 7 and 8 of the answer.

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. TNIO" CONPTRESS CO.

395

Statement of the Case.

At the trial, the plaintiff offered evidence tending to prove
that it was engaged in the business of compressing cotton at
the town of Argenta, which was on the nerth bank of the
Arkansas River directly opposite the city of Little Rock; 'that
it received cotton for compression at Argenta and also at the
premises described in the policy at Little Rock; that for cotton received at either place it issued receipts to the depositors,
red receipts at Argenta and green receipts at Little Rock; a
blank form of which, as it appears in the bill of exceptions, if
filled out, would read thus : "Little Rock, Arkansas, Nov. 1,
1887. ReceiVed by the Union Compress Company. From
John Smith. Account of John Doe. For compression. Storage after ten days will be charged. Not responsible for any
loss by fire. Marks X, Y, Z. No. bales of cotton, 65. Richaxd Roe, Superintendent;" that the holders of such receipts
took them to the freight offices of one or the other of the two
railway companies, the Missouri Pacific Railway'Company, and
the Little Rock and Aemphis Railroad Company, and those
companies issued bills of lading for cotton, which specified the
number of bales and the marks, agreeing to deliver the cotton
at an address specified in the bill of ladiiig; that the same
bills of lading covered cotton which was received by the plaintiff at Argenta and which actually was at Argen La, and' cotton
received at Little Rock and which actually was at Little Rock;
that one form of bill of lading was issued by the Missouri
Pacific Railway Company and two forms by the Little Rock
and Memphis Railroad Company ; that it was claimed that
each form covered a ,portion of the cotton burned; that each
form, by its terms, exempted the carrier from liability for loss
or damage by fire; and that, as, the cotton might pass through
the custody of several carriers before reaching its destination,
each of them provided that the legal remedy for loss or damage occurring in transit should be only against the particular
carrier in whose custody the 'cotton actually might be at the
time of the happening thereof. The Missoui Pacific Railway
Company in its bills of lading reserved to itself the privilege
of compressing all cotton signed for on the bill of lading.
The Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company did not re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

serve that privilege, but in one of its two forms, which was a
through bill of lading to England, it stipulated for the benefit
of any insurance that might have been effected on the goods.
There were five of such foreign bills of lading, covering 158
bales of lost cotton. Bills of lading covering 1460 bales alleged
to have been burned were issued by the Missouri Pacific Railway Company. The loss claimed on behalf of the latter company was for 1463 bales. The bills of lading issued by the
Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company were for 992
bales, but the loss claimed was for 1211 bales. By the bills
of lading isued by the Missouri Pacific Railway Company on
the.lost cotton, 884 bales were covered after the date of the
policy; and by those issued by the Memphis and Little Rock
Railroad Company 255 bales were covered after that date.
It also appeared by the bill of exceptions that, on the issuing
of the bills of lading, the respective railroad companies notified
the plaintiff of their issue, and ordered the cotton designated
therein to be conpressed at A'rgenta; that all of the cotton
transported from Little Rock to Argenta was carried on the
track and by the cars of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company; that the Little Rock and Memphis Railroad Company
had no track and ran no cars near the premises described in
the policy; that the plaintiff paid the Missouri Pacific Railway Company an agreed price for the transportation of the
cotton from Little Rock to Argenta; and that the cotton was
to be compressed after it arrived at Argenta, and was there to
be loaded on the cars of such of the two railroad companies
as,its marks and the bills of lading called for, to be transported
by them to its destination.
Thebill of exceptions further stated that the plaintiff offered
evidence tending to prove that 2670 bales of cotton, covered
by said bills of lading, were burned at the fire in question,
while in the hands of the plaintiff for compression, after the
bills of lading were issued and at the place described in the
policy.
.The plaintiff also proved that in October and lNovember, 1887,
there was an accumulation of cotton at the premises described
in the policy, owing to the fact that the Missouri Pacific Rail

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v.UNION COMPRESS CO. 397
Statement of the Case.

way Company had not sufficient cars to transport the cotton
to Argenta as fast as it was received; that the cotton-sheds
were open sheds and were at the time of the fire full of cotton,
which had no tarpaulin or other cover over it, and stood within
three or four feet of the track of the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company, over which locomotives and trains passed several
times daily; that, after the sheds were full, the cotton was
stored in the street, leaving a passage-way some four feet wide
for foot passengers; that the two, railroad companies had no
control over the cotton while so stored, and could not obtain
actual possession of it until the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company transported it to Argenta for compression; but
that that company could take it at any time across the river
for compression.
The defendant offered in evidence the proof of loss furnished
by the plaintiff to it, made ou after the bringing of the suit,
alleging the total destruction by fire of 2687 bales 'of cotton,
in addition to what was known as the Hanger cotton, and that
the 2687 bales were held by the plaintiff in trust or on commission, that is to say, to, be compressed, and were the property of various persons, the plaintiff being interested in the
same to the extent of its charges, and stating the names of the
consignees and the number of bales and their value pertaining
to each consignee, no allusion being made to any interest of
the railroad companies.
(1) The plaintiff offered evidence tending to prove that the
policyin suit was taken out by it for the benefit of the railroad
companies named in the complaint, and in pursuance of agreements between the plaintiff and those companies by which the
plaintiff agreed to take out such insurance. The defendant
objected to such evidence, on the ground that it was incompetent and in contradiction of the terms 'of the policy. The
objection was overruled, and the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff also offered evidence tending to prove that by
agreement between it and the railroad companies it charged
and collected from them 13 cents per 100 pounds for all cotton
compressed by it, which charge was by agreement intended to
cover and did cover the compression of the cotton, the loading

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

of it on the cars at Argenta, and the cost of insuring it for the
benefit of the railroad companies. The defendant objected to
the evidence on the ground that it was immaterial, irrelevant
and incompetent, the objection was overruled, and the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff also offered evidence tending to prove that the
contracts and customs of busiiess before stated were well
known to shippers and the defendant when the policy sued on
was issued, it having been stated to the agents of the defendant, by an officer of the plaintiff, when the policy was applied
for, that it was intended to cover the interests- of the plaintiff
and of th$ railroad companies. The dfendant objected to
this evidence, but the objection was overruled and the defend-'
ant excepted.
The plaintiff also offered evidence tending to prove that
claims had been filed against the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company by the owners of 1463 bales of cotton burned at the
fire, of the claimed value of $72,735.58; that since the commencement of this suit that company had paid such claims to
the amount of $65,000 ; and that the balance had been adjusted
by that company and would be paid. The defendant objected
to the evidence on the ground that it was immaterial, irrelevant and incompetent, but the objection was overruled and the
defendant excepted.
The plaintiff further offered evidence tending to prove that
claims had been filed against the Little Rock & Memphis Railroad Company by the owners of 1211 bales of cotton burned
at the fire, of the claimed value of $57,529.55, no part of which
has been paid by that company, though suits had been brought
on several of the claims and were still pending. The defendant objected to the evidence on the ground that it was incompetent, irrelevant, and immaterial; but the court overruled the
objection and the defendant excepted.
After the close of th6 evidence, the defendant requested the
court to instruct the jury as follows: "1. The policy of insurance of the defendant on which this action is brought covered
all goods in possession of the Union Compress Company at the
place designated in the said policy, at the date when said pol-

CALIFORNIA. INS. CO. v. 'UNION COMPRESS CO.

399

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

icy was issued, which were held by the said Union Compress
Company under warehouse receipts issued to the owners 'of
said cotton by said company, and also all cotton subsequefitly
and during the life of said policy so received by the Union
Compress Company. 2. The policy in question insures the
goods of the Union Compress Company at the place designated.
It also insures :the Union Compress Company to the extent of
its liens upon or charges against all goods held by it during the
life of the policy, not'its own, but held by it in trust or on
commission. It also insures the interest of the owners of the
legal title to such goods so held. It does not insure any one
else. Any possible interest of any common carrier not an
ow.ner of the goods, or any. of them, in the place designated,
is not insured by said policy. 3. The jury are instructed to
disregard all evidence in. the case tending to show that the insurance in question was issued for the benefit of any railroad
company not an owner of any of the goods destroyed by fire,
for the value of which recovery is sought herein." The-court
refused to give any of tliose three instructions and the defendant excepted to each refusal.
Xr. . IF. .AcGraw and A.
in error.

. WF. 1M alI for plaintiff

I. The beneficiaries under the policy are the owners of the
cotton; the possible interest of no common carrier is covered
thereby ; the policy is not ambiguous, and parol testi.mony is
inadigissible to aid in its interpretation.
The law of marine insurance affords a very unsafe guide to
the determination of rights under a policy of fire insurance.
A party suing upon a marine policy, and imbibing his ideas
of the law of representation and concealment solely from adjudications in fire cases, would -meet with many embarrassments. An adjuster who shoild attempt to adjust and sdttle
a fire loss on the basis of the law adapted to marine:insurance
would commit grievous e.nors.
These co.ntracts of insurance, generally designated as fire
and marine, while they have some points in common, have a
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

different ancestry; the law as to each is peculiar to itself; the
points in which the contracts and the construction of them
differ are nearly as numerous as those in which they agree.
The term "on account of whom it may concern" is of American origin, originated in policies of marine insurance, and is
still generAlly confined to such policies. In Massachusetts,
and perhaps one or two other States, it has been to a limited
extent engrafted on policies of fire insurance.
Marine insurance comes from the civil law, the rules of
which to the present. day enter into the construction of its
policies.
Originally in England marine policies were frequently, if not
.commonly, issued in blank, leaving it to the person procuring
the insurance to insert the name of such beneficiary as he
pleased. When not in blank they were almost equally indefinite as to the identity of the assured. The issue of policies in
blank is now prohibited there. The term " for account of
whom it may concern" is yet. a stranger to English policies.
It is the brief American substitute for the lines of the Queen
Aine policy above quoted, which lines were in themselves a
dedlaration of the existing doctrine, that the person obtaining
the insurance could fill in the name of the beneficiary at his
leisure, and that it was a matter which in no way concerned
the insurer. When this term was first inserted in a policy of
marine insurance in this country it is not easy exactly to determine, nor is it very material. See -Davis v. Boardrnan, 12
Mass. 80; Graves v. Boston .Marine Ins. Co: 2 Cranch, 419;
Lawrence v. Leber, 2 Caines, 203 ; Ilodgson v. Marine Ins. Co.,
5 Cranch, 100; Seamans v. Loring, 1 Mason, 127.
The business of fire insurance had its origin under the common law, in 1667, after the great fire in London, and from its
inception was strictly a contract of indemnity. During the
first seventy-nine years of, its existence the courts of England
upheld the validity of wager policies of marine insurance.
While the statute prohibiting wager policies of marine insurance was passed in 1736, no such statute applicable to fire
insurance was passed until 1774. Yet before that time Lord
Chancellor King and Lord Chancellor 1{ardwicke had recorded

CAILIFORNIK INS. CO. v. UNIONi COMPRESS CO.

401

Argument for PMaintiff in Error.

their opinions, that on a policy of fire insurance there could
be no recovery without proof of interest. Lynch v. Dalzell, 4
Bro. P. C. 431. ed. Toml.; Sadlers Co. v. Badcock, 2 Atk. 554.
With this wide difference in -the history and customs of
marine and fire insurance it is not surprising to find in the
adjudications concerning the latter, that the question "who
was the assured" assumes a prominence that it does not
attain under policies of marine insurance.
An insurance on "goods, their own or held by them in
trust or on commission" is of American origin, and was an
innovation on the accustomed manner of doing a fire insurance business. The form probably made its appearance in
policies some years before it appears in the reports. See
Parks v. General Interest Assurance Co., 5 Pick. 34; Defforest v. °Fulton Fire Ins. "Co., 1 Hall (N. Y.) 84.
Insurance in this form has invariably been held. to insure;
first, the bailee to the extent of his liens or advances, and
second, the owner of the goods. The varied interests in goods
which may exist without property therein, have never been
held covered by the form of insurance under consideration.
In this particular policy the words "their own" and, the
words "or on commission" may be eliminated as it is an
established fact that the Union Compress Company neither
owned any of the-cotton burned or held any of it on commission. For all purposes of this case the insurance was upon
cotton in bales held in trust by the Union Compress Co., at
the place designated in the policy.
That the words "in trust" have not a technical meaning
is admitted. The trust referred to is 'not of the kind usually
treated of in works on Trusts and Trustees. The words,
"held in trust by them" are defined as goods of which they
had the care and custody, intrusted to-them as representatives
of others, and for which they are responsible to the owner.
Stillwell v. Staples, 19 N. Y. 401 ; Waring'v. Indemnity Ins.
Co., 45 N. Y. 606. See, also, Bome Ins. Co. v. Baltimore Warehouse Co., 95 U. S. 543 ; Iond6n & Northwestern Railway v.
Glyn, 1 El. & El. 652; -kobbins V. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.,
16 Blatchford, 122; Siter v. ,Aorrs, 13*"Penn. St. 218; lee v.
VOL. cxxxm-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

How. Firee Ins. Co., 11 Cush. 324; Pl aix Ins. Co. v. Favorite, 46 Illinois, 259; Home Ins. Co. v. -Favorite,46 Illinois,
263; Beidelman v. Powell, 10 Mo. App. 280; Thomas v.
108 Penn. St. 354.
Cummiskey,
II. The policy
is without ambiguity, and no evidence was
admissible to prove that railroad companies, and not the owners
of the cotton were intended as beneficiaries.
The subject matter of the insurance is definitely described.
It was all the cotton held by the Union Compress Company
in trust, at the place designated in the policy. We have
shown by an unbroken series of decisions that the term "in
trust" has acquired an established definition, in view of which
contracts of insurance are entered into. It is held by the
courts, and is known to factors, carriers and other bailees, that
the beneficiary of such insurance is the owner of the goods.
There is nothing then ambiguous about the policies, which
calls for any explanation whatever.
True, the amount of cotton that was on the premises, its
value and the names of the owners are not specified, and they
can be established only by evidence. But evidence can go no
farther. See Emer v. Washington zis. Co., 16 Pick. 502;
Finneyv. Bedford Ins. Co., 8 Met. 348 ; S. C. 41 Am. Dec. 515 ;
'i4npincott v. Louisiana Ins. Co., 2 Louisiana, 399; .llinois
.3tut. Fire Ins. Co. v. O'Neile, 13 Illinois, 89; Holmes v.
Charkestown -Hut.Fire .ins.Co., 10 Met. 211; 8. C. 43 Am.
Dec. 428; Cheriot v. Barker, 2 Johns. 346; S. C. 3 Am.
Dec. 437; Bishop v. Clay Ins. Co., 45 Connecticut, 430; _Russell v. Russell, 64 Alabama, 500; Bolton v. Bolton, 73 Maine,
299; Snowden v. Guion, 101 N. Y. 459; Hough v. People's
Fire Ins. Co., 36 Maryland, 398, which is an interesting and
instructive case; Home -Ins.Co. v. Baltimore Trarehouse Co.,
93 U. S. 527, 542; -Lucasv. Insurance Co., 23 West Va. 258.
III. Under the evidencethe railroad companies were hot
and could not be the-beneficiari'es of the insurance.
1. This cotton policy which was put in evidence contains
an unusual and prominent feature, which is irreconcilable with
any intent to insure a carrier-against a loss caused by its own
negligence. Ordinarily a fire insurance policy runs "against

CALIFORNIA IlNS: CO. v.UNION COMPRESS CO.

403

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

all loss or damage by fire." But the policy in question is
against "all direct loss or damage by fire." .The evidence'
discloses the fact that all of the bills of lading issued by the
railroad companies provided that th6 carriers should be exempt
from loss or damage by fire. The only interest, then, which
the common carrier bad in this cotton, was a contingent interest, arising from its liability for damages for loss by a fire,
occurring through its own negligence.
Now, in the case at bar, the possible loss to the carrier by
the destruction of the goods was by no means "direct" in any
sense of the term. It was remote, contingent and conditional.
The fire alone could not inflict any loss.
2. Another very serious objection to the claim that this'
insurance was for the benefit of carriers as to the goods
destroyed arises on the record. *The evidence, is not only
strongi but irresistible that the insurance was for the owners,
and that the court below, if it assumed to decide the facts for
the jury, should have come to a conclusion exactly contrary
to that which it announced.
3. By the complaint and evidence it appears that all this
cotton originally came into the hands of the Union Compress
Company. Afterwards the railroads issued bills of lading. on
the cotton, some of which were -issued before the policy, but
more after it. If it be material to decide whether or not the
possession was changed by those bills 6f lading, we sub mit
that it was changed, and that at the time of the fire the cottori
was in the possession of the railroad companies, and so not
covered by our policy. The delivery of the bills of lading was
conclusive on the question of the delivery of the cotton.
.Kentucky.Mamine & Fire m. Co. v. West. & Atd. Railroad,
8 Baxter, 268. This precise -point inder very similar circumstances was decided by the Supreme Court of Maryland.
That court held that the issuing of a bill of lading by a transportation company of goods in warehouse of another company
,)laces the goods in the care and custody of the transportation
ompany for purposes of insurance. Fire Ins. Asso. v. -Her;hanar and .Xiners' Trans: Co., 66 ]Maryland, 339.
4. Upon one other point in this connection, we ask leave Of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the court, to ball in question an expression of opinion of this
honorable court, and to respectfully request that that opinion
may be reviewed by this court.
In Phoewnix Ins. Co. v. Erie Transortation Company, 117
'U. S. 312, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, said:
"-No rule of law or of public policy is violated by' allowing a
• common carrier, like any other person having either the
'general property or a peculiar interest in goods, to have them
insured against the usual perils, and to recover for any loss
from such perils, though occasioned by the negligence of his
own servants." p. 324.
We have already shown in this case that the insurance, if
for the benefit of the railroads, was purely and wholly an insurance against negligence.
We wish, if we may, to argue to the court that insurance of
that nature is contrary to public policy and void. We do
so more hopefully because while, in the case cited, the question of public policy may have been involved, it did not, if we
may judge by the reported briefs of counsel, assume as much
prominence as other considerations of more immediate interest
to their clients.
We most respectfully submit that the tendency of this class
"'of insurance would be to foster a gross and often criminal
negligence with respect to property and property rights of
others, and to jeopardize the safety not only of the goods insured, but of the property of others in proximity thereto.
IV. In regard to the instruction of the court as to the liability for negligence of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad
Company we have to say that when a court instructs the jury
a to facts, its narration or allusion to facts should be fair. It
should not select and dwell on isolated facts which might be
construed favorably to one side and make no allusion to other
facts which might militate against that side. Evans v. George,
80 Illinois, 51; Newman v. McComas, 43 Maryland, 70; West
69iester Fire Ins. Co. v.,Earle, 33 Michigan, 143; Jones v. Jones,
'.57 Missouri, 138; Chase v. Buhl Iron Works, 55 Michigan, 139.
The instruction of the court below was not a -fair one as to
the facts. Whether or not the place named in the policy was

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. V. UNION COIdTRESS CO. 405
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

a proper place to store cotton under the circumstances was an
immaterial question so far as the liability of the railroad

company was concerned.
t was the place selected by the owners of the cotton, and not
by the railroadcompany. The cotton was stored there by the
owners and not by the company. The accumulation of cotton
at this improper place, if it was improper, existed in the mouth
of October, before our policy was issued, and in November.
Less than 300 bales of the burned cotton were covered by bills
of lading of that company, issued in October. Seventy-two
bales of it were covered by a bill of lading issued November
10, only four days before the fire. No negligence can therefore be imputed to the railroad company on account of the
unfitness of the place where the cotton was stored.
V. Assignment 3d is that the court erred in sustaining the
demurrer of plaintiff to 7th paragraph of defendant's answer.
That paragraph is as follows: "The defendant says that it
is a provision of said policy, that it shall not apply to. or
cover cotton, which, at the time of the loss, was covered in
whole, or in part, by marine policies, and it says that at the
time of said loss, 2172 bales of said cotton, alleged by plaintiff to have been burned at said fire, and of the value of
$101,973.73, were covered by marine policies theretofore
issued to the respective owners of said cotton."
The policy, which is part of the complaint, contains the
following provision. "It is agreed and understood to be a
condition of this insurance that this policy shall not apply to
or cover any cotton which may at the time of loss be covered
in whole or in part by a marine policy."
By its policy, the plaintiff in. error absolutely declined to
insure any cotton which, at time of loss, was covered by
marine policies. As to the- validity of this condition, there
can be no .question. The right of the insurer to decline
.insurance absolutely upon certain classes of goods, or under
circumstances distasteful to the insurer, cannot be denied. He
can provide that goods held in-trust are not insured, unless so
declared in the policy, and the provision is valid. Baltimore
20.
Fire _ts. Co. v. Loney, §0 Maryland,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In this case, the plaintiff in error in positive terms declined
to insure cotton covered by marine policies. A reason for this
provision may easily be found, but it is not necessary to search
for one. It is sufficient to say, thus is the contract written.
We allege that at the time of loss, nearly all this cotton was
covered by marine policies. - If that be so no liability attached
to this company for loss of cotton so covered.
VI. Assignment 10th is the rejection of competent evidence
proffered by us that at the time of the fire 2172 bales of cotton covered by bills of lading of the railroad companies and
alleged to have been burned, and of the value of $101,9M3,
were covered by marine policies of insurance, theretofore issued
to the respective owners of said cotton, etc.
By our answer we alleged that at the time of the fire there
was a total insurance on the cotton burned to the amount of
about $2502000 and claimed the benefit of the contribution
clause in our policy. The complaint alleged total insurance to
amount of $142,500.
Our policy contained the following contribution clause: "In
case of any other insurance upon the property hereby insured,
whether to the same. party or apon the same interest therein or
.otherwise, whether valid or not, and whether prior or subsetuent to the date of this policy, the insured shall be entitled to
recover from this company no greater proportion of the loss
sustained than the sum hereby insured bears to the whole
amount insured thereon, whether such other insurance be by
specific or by general or floating policies, or by policies covering only an excess of specified loss. And it is hereby declared
and agreed that in case of the assured holding any other policy
in this or any other company on the property insured, or any
part thereof, subject to the conditions of average, this policy
shall be subject to average in like manner."
, It will be seen by the very terms of the policy that it is immaterial on the question of contribution, whether the fire policies were taken out for the benefit of the owners or of the
railroad companies. In either case the marine policies are
contributory.
The clause is very like, but a little stronger, than that sus-

CALIFORNIA INS, CO. v. IION "COMPRESS -CO. 407T
Argument*for Plaintiff in Frror.

tained by the Court of AppeAls of Maryland in'-FireIns. Aes'n
v. MerqhanOe' & -Miners' Trans. Co. already cited. Under it
these marine polibies were contributory to our fire policy. The
.validity of the clause can hardly be called in question. It is
perfectly competent for an insurance company to provide in
its policy that any other policy taken. out on the insured property shall be considered contributory, even though that policy,
be invalid, or .that its policy shall be absolutely void under like
conditions. -Liverool, London &c. Ins. Co. v. Vrerdier, 35
Michigan, 395; Continental Ins. Co. v. Hulman, 92 Illinois, 145.
We then respectfully submit that we should, have been permitted to prove the existence of these cwatributory policies.
That proof being ruled out, we were held to'Iay the proportion
of this loss which 10,000 bears to 142,500, while, if liable at all,
we should have been held to pay only in proportion of 10,000
to 244,4*73.
VII. Assignment 11th is that the court erred"in striking out
testimony of the bookkeeper of Ralli Brothers, who were claiming pay from the Memphis & Little Rock Railroad Co. for 158
bales of cotton, to the effect that said cotton was covered by
marine policies taken out by Ralli Brothers. It was stricken
out on the ground that we could prove the insurance only-by
the policies. It was shown that we could not get the policies. .
The ruling was erroneous. 'Snow v. Carr, 61 Alabama, 363.
It was especially erroneous in this kase, because the Cotm
pany was making a claim on us for thd value of those 158
bales solely because Ralli & Brothers had made a claim on
them. Any evidence which the railroad could have used against
Ralli Brothers we were entitled to use against the railroad, and
certainly when Ralli Brothers refused to produce the pli6ies,
the railroad company could have proved their existence by
their clerk. The bills of lading under which that cotton was
shipped stipulated that the catriers should have the benefit of
all insurance.
VIII. Our 17th assignment is that the court ehied in refusing to instruct the jury that no cause of action arose on this
policy, on behalf of the railroad companies, until actual payment of damages to the owners.

OCTOBER ,TERAE, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The statement of the facts in this case is a strong argument
on behalf of that instruction. The Memphis & 'Lttle Rock
Railroad has not paid a cent, and it is not alleged or proved
that it ever- will or intends to.
It is contesting the suits brought against it, and may, while
we are writing, have defeated them. It was not a party to
this action, nor estopped by the pleading-therein. If it has defeated the owners in their actions, - and it certainly ought to
defeat them, on the evidence in this record, - what recourse
would we have were this judgment affirmed?
The Missouri Pacific had paid nothing when this action was
commenced.
N'o cause of action accrues in a case of this kind untilpayment of the railroad companies of the damages they claim.
Cm., Ham. & Dayton Railroad Co. v. Spratt, 2 Duvall, 4.
.Mr. U. X. Rose and Mr. G. B. Rose for defendant in error.
.Mr.
John F. Dillon,for defendant in error, in the interest of
the St: Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company.
i

M.n. JusTicE BLATcr OFD, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The foregoing exceptions, except the two which relate to
the sustaining of the demurrer to paragraphs 7 and 8 of
the answer, may be grouped together, because they relate to
the same question. The court refused to strike out the matter
in the complaint which is before recited in brackets, and also
overruled the demurrer of the defendant to that portion of the
complaint; and on the trial the plaintiff was permitted to introduce evidence tending to prove some of the allegations contained in that part of the complaint. The three instructions
before quoted as asked by the defendant, and not given, relate
to the same. matter.
The defendant contends that there was error in the action of
the court covered by those exceptions, and complains that the
court treated the words in tke policy, "their own or held by

CALIFORNI& INS. CO. v. UNION CONPRESS CO. 409
Opinion of the Court.

them in trust, or on commission," as if they read, "on account
of 'whom it may concern ;" that, as the plaintiff did not 6wn
the cotton, the beneficiaries under the policy were its owners ;
that no interest of any common carrier was covered by the
policy; that it was not ambiguous; and that no parol testimony was tdmissible to aid in its interpretation or to show
that the railroad companies were itended to be beneficiaries
under it. The view urged is, that the plaintiff did not own
any of the cotton or hold any of it on commission; that the
insurance on goods'held in trust was an insurance only for the
benefit of the owners of the cotton; and that evidence of an
intention to effect the insurance for the benefit of one who was
not the owner of the goods was inadmissible, because it would
contradict the policy.
But we think the positions taken on behalf of the defendant
are not sound. The title to cotton in the temporary custody
of a bailee for comnpression, for which receipts or bills of lading
have been given, is manifestly changing hands constantly.
The language of the present policy, insuring cotton "1their own
or held by them in ,trust or on commission," accommodates
such a state of things. - In the present case, the insurance was
really taken out by the railroad companies, and that fact was
well known to the agents of the defendant at the time the policy was issued. The railroad companies had aniliusurable interest in the cotton, and to that extent were the1 owners of the
cotton, which was held in trust for them by the plaintiff. Evidence of their ownership of the cotton Wasadmissible. tome
Ins. Co. v. Balt. Wareiouse Co., 93 U. S. 527,' 542.
The policy covered all the cotton which was placed in the
hands of the plaintiff by those companies. It was lawful for
the plaintiff to insure in its own name goods held in trust by
it, and it can recover for their entire value, holding the excess
over its own interest in them for the benefit of those who
have entrusted the goods to it. DeForest v. Fulton Fire
Ins. Co., 1 Hall, 94; Eome Ins. Co. v. Balt. Warehouse Co.,
93 U. S. 527, 543; Sillwell v. Staples, 19 N. Y. 401; Waring
v. Indemnity Fire Ins. Co., 45 N. Y. 606; Waters v. -Monareh
Fire Ass. Co., 5 EL & ]l. 870 ; Sitar v. .Morrs, 13 Penn. St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
,Opinion of the Court.

218; Johnson v. Campbell, 120 Mass. 449; -FreIns. Asso. v.
.- ercltants' & -Miners' Trans. Co., 66 Maryland, 339; London
& HYorthwestern Railway v. Glyn, I El. & El. 652; Phoenix
Ins. Co. v. H[amilton, 14 Wall. 504, 508.
The words "held by them in trust," in this policy, cannot
properly be limited to a holding in trust merely for an absolute owner, when it clearly appears that the railroad companies had an insurable interest in the cotton, and the plaintiff
held the property in trust exclusively for those companies.
The reasoning of the cases where the bailor was the owner
of the goods insured by the bailee applies equally to any person, who, having an insurable interest in property, entrusts it
to another; and such bailor can, to the extent of his insurable
interest, claim the benefit of insurance effected in his favor by
his bailee. The original depositors of the cotton surrendered
to the railroad companies the receipts which they had taken
from the plaintiff, and those companies were thus substituted
in the relation to the plaintiff which before had been held by
such depositors. The railroad companies thus became the
beneficiaries of the trust, so far as the plaintiff was concerned,
because they thus became the persons to whom the plaintiff
owed the duty of bailment, and the persons entitled to demand
the possession of the property from the plaintiff. There was
privity in the plaintiff with the person who held its receipt,
and privity with no one else. This is a necessary and obvious
result of the course of business; and the business in question
could not be carried on under any other circumstances so as to
give protection by insurance to the parties really interested.
The case is not varied or affected by the clause in the receipts
given by the plaintiff, "not responsible foi any loss by fire,"
because the relation of the plaintiff to the property entrusted
to it, arid its duty to the bailor, determine the legal propriety
of the insurance for the benefit of the latter. In the present
case, the arrangement was that the railroad companies should
pay to the plaintiff, in connection with the charge for compressing, an additional sum which would provide for the insurance of all cotton in the possession of the plaintiff, for which
the railroad companies should issue bills of lading. The

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. UNIOT C0TMPRESS CO.

411.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant had notice that th6 insurance was effected in the
interest of the railroad companies; and it issued the policy in*
the terms it did, to include the protection of the railroad companies. The fact that the same policy might protect the
interest of other persons in respect to cotton held for them by
the plaintiff cannot affect the question whether it protects the
interest of the railroad companies in respect to cotton heldoby
the.plaintiff for them, during the life of the policy. Nor is it
material whether the cotton was originally deposited by the
railroad companies, or whether their interest, accrued through
the subsequent transfer to the railroad companies of receipts
given by the plaintiff on a deposit of cotton made by other
parties.
(2) We come now to another group of errors assigned.
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury as follows: "The policy in question provides that it shall be void
if there be any change in the possession of the insured prop-,
erty, except under circumstances which have no bearing on.
this case. If the jury believe from the evidence that after the
policy in question was issued, any common, carrier, with the
knowledge and consent of plaintiff and under agreement with
plaintiff, issued its bills of lading for any of the cotton w'hioh
at the date of the policy was or thereafter came into possession of the plaintiff, the issuance of such bills of lading, under
the conditions of the policy, avoided the policy as to all cotton
covered by such bills of lading." The court refused to give
such instruction, and the defendant excepted to the refusal.
The court instructed the jury as follows: "1By an agreement made between the plaintiff and'the St. Louis, Iron Mouptain and Southern Railway Company and the IMemphis and
Little Rock Railway Company, the plaintiff engaged to insuro
for said railway companies, respectively, all cottons stored -in"
the compress sheds and yards of the plaintiff,.at the foot 9 f
Main Street, Little Rock, when the railway companies or
either of them should notify the plaintiff of the issuance by
them of bills of lading therefor. This agreement was carried
out, and on the day of the fire the plaintiff held insurance in*
various companies, aggregating the sum of $14:2,500.00, in.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

trust and to indemnify the railway companies against loss or
damage by fire of the cotton for which they had issued their
bills of lading and which was stored in the plaintiff's sheds
and yards described in the policy, at the foot of Main Street."
The defendant excepted to this instruction.
The court also charged thejury as follows: "1As the plaintiff is a trustee, and insured the cotton for the benefit of the
railway companies, and has no separate claim of its own on
the property, it is only entitled to recover an amount equal to
its liability to the railroad companies; or, in other words, a
sum that will make the railway companies whole for the cotton on which they had issued bills of lading; so that, if the
market price of cotton produces a larger sum than the aggregate loss of the railway companies (and 2670 bales at $50
per bale, if you should find that was the number of bales
and their value, produces an amount slightly in excess of the
claims of the railroad companies), then the plaintiff's recovery
must be on the basis of the latter sum - that is, one that
makes the railway companies whole. In no event is the
market value of the cotton to be increased, but it may be
reduced by the difference between the value and the amount
that will satisfy the just claims of the railway companies.
What amount of cotton was burned for which the railway
companies had issued bills of lading and which was covered
by policies taken out by the plaintiffs, the value of the same,
and the amount of the just demands of the railway companies
against the plaintiff for the cotton so burned, are questions of
fact to be determined by you." The defendant excepted to
this charge.
The court also charged the jury as follows : "This suit is
brought on a policy of insurance issued by the defendant's
company to the Union Compress Company to indemnify the
railroad company for the loss of cotton or for cotton that
might be burned after the railroad company issued its bills of
lading for it, and while it yet remained in the custody of the
Compress Company. Now, the Compress Company, under its
contract with the railroad company, is bound to make good, by
insurance, to the railroad company, any damages resulting to it

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. UNION CO X IRESS CO.

41

Opinion of the Court.

from the loss of cotton whieh the Compress Company held for
the railroad company after the railroad company had issued
its bills of lading therefor and notified it thereof." The defendant excepted to this charge.
,The defendant contends that, although, under a proper construction of the policy, the railroad 'ompanies may be
regarded as properly beneficiaries under it, the'-matters
involved in the instructions so given by the court were
questions of mingled fact and law, and were erroneous, in the
light of the facts proved by the plaintiff. The ground urged
is, that the policy cannot be'reconciled with any intent to
insure a railroad company against a loss caused by its own
negligence, because the policy insures against "all direct loss
or damage by fire;" that, therefore, the only interest which
the railroad companies had in the cotton was %acontingent
interest, arising from their liability for damages for loss by a
fire occurring through their own negligence; that the interest
alleged to have been insured as that of the railroad companies
was not such as could have sustained a claim on a direct loss
by fire, because it was a contingent or doubtful interest, and
not a certain or direct interest; 'that the fire alone could not
inflict any loss, and that whether the railroad companies
would suffer loss would depend on the contingencies, (1)
whether or not their negligence caused the loss; (2). whether
the owner would be able to prove negligence in the railroad
companies; (3) whether the owner was innocent of contributory negligence; and, (4) whether the owner should make a
claim for loss against the railroad companies within the
statute of limitations.
Under this head, it is also urged, that, on the face of the
policy, the insurance was on -cotton held in trust by the plaintiff, in a designated place, for thirty days after November 2,
that it was claimed by the plaintiff, in the face of the policy
and contradictory of its terms, that' cotton covered by a bill
of lading issued November 8th, by ,the Missouri Pacific Ralway Company, which was heldrin trust by the plaintiff, and
was in the place described, was not covered by the policy
until the bill of lading was issued; that if, as the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

alleges the fact to be, that cotton was covered by the policy
from the 3d to the 8th of November, for the benefit of its
owners, there was no process known to the law by which the
benefit of such insurance could be transferred to the raileoad
companies, without action by either the owner or the insurer;
that the fact that the plaintiff understood that the insurance
was for the benefit of the owners of the cotton was shown by
the practical construction put upon the insurance by the
plaintiff after the fire, in putting in a claim on behalf of
Hanger for 112 bales of cotton burned not covered by the bills
of lading, and being paid for it, on behalf of Hanger, as owner
of the cotton; and that thus the plaintiff claims that the
insurance was for the owners of the cotton, or for the railroad
companies, according to circumstances.
It is further urged that, if the bills of lading changed the
possession of the cotton, it was at the time of the fire in the
possession of the railroad companies and not in that of the plaintiff, and the plaintiff had ceased to hold it in trust; that in
such case it was not insured, because of the provision in the
policy that any change in the possession should avoid the
policy; that if the bills of lading did not change the possession, there could have been no insurance on behalf of the
railroad companies, because, in the absence of possession by
them, they had no right to insure and no contingent liability
to loss; and that it was error in the court to charge that at
the *ime of the fire the plaintiff held insurance on cotton
cover ld by bills of lading.
This court is also asked to review its announcement of the
principle of law laid down in Phwenix Ins. Co. v. Erie Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312, 324, that "no rule of law or of
public policy is violated by allowing a common carrier, like
any other person having either the general property or a peculiar interest in goods, to have them insured against the usual
perils, and to recover for any loss from such perils, though
occasioned by the negligence of his own servants."
It is also contended that the jury had a right to decide
whether or not the poliQy was issued on goods held in trust'
for the railroad companies by the plaintiff, and whether or not

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. UNION COIMTRESS CO.

415

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff or the railroad companies held the cotton at the
time of the fire; and that these were not questions for the
court to decide.
'In reply to these suggestions, it is to be said, that the excep-tion of loss by fire, contained in the receipts given by. the
plaintiff, and in the bills of lading given by the railroad companies, did not free them from responsibility for .damages
occasioned by their own negligence or that of their employ~s.
N~or are, we disposed to review our decision that common
carriers can insure themselves against loss proceeding from
the negligence of their own servants. The doctrine announced
in the case cited has been referred to with approval in the
subsequent cases of Orient Ins. Co. v. Adams,123 U. S. 67,
72, and .iverpool ,Steam Co. v. Pkawnix 74s. Co., 129 U. S.

-the

397, 438.
As to the suggestion that by the bills of lading the possession of the cotton was transferred to the railroad companies,
and that the policy was avoided thereby, the answer is, that
the cotton was still in the hands of the plaintiff, in its actual
possession and upon its premises. At most, thbe railroad companies, by acquiring the receipts of the plaintiff and issuing
bills of lading for the cotton, took only constructive possession
of it; and the plaintiff, retaining actual and physical possession of it, did not lose any element of possession necessary to
give it the right to effect insurance for its own benefit, and, as
bailee or agent, for the protection of the railroad companies.
All that the railroad companies acquired was the right to
ultimate possession, which passed to them by the transfer to
them, by the original depositors, of the cotton receipts given
by the plaintiff.
As to the argument that no recovery can be had in the
interest of the railroad companies, because the injury to them
depended upon their liability for the negligence of their
employs in causing the fire, and the point taken in regard to
the words of the -policy, "direct loss or -damage by fire," the
reply- is, that those words mean loss or damage occurring
directly from fire 'as the destroying -agency, in contradistinction, to the remotenes§ of fire as such agency. The books arb

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

full of cases on that subject, and the meaning of the policy is
not doubtful. Remoteness of agency is the explosion of gunpowde4, gases or chemicals, caused by fire; the explosion of
steam-boilers; the destruction of buildings to prevent the
spread of fire, or their destruction through the falling of burning walls; and so forth. In the present case, the bales of
cotton were physically burned by the direct action of fire.

(3) The court also charged the jury as follows: "Now, you
have heard the testimony, gentlemen, with reference to the
situation under which this cotton was placed and the length
of time it remained there. If you think there is no negligence
on the part of the railroad company, then you will find that
the railroad company is not liabe for this cotton. If you can
say that that was a proper place to store cotton, and that leaving a passage-way there of not exceeding four feet up and
down, through which persons passed at all hours of the day
and night to the boat-house and skiff ferry, and it being a dry
season, with three or four thousand bales of cotton stored
there - thfn, if you say this is not negligence, you excuse this
railroadpomjoany, and to that extent will disallow the claim of
the plain?iff; but if you should so find I would be very much
surprised at your verdict, and would not be surprised if -I
should set it aside ; but I will leave it for you to say." The
defendant excepted to this instruction, and especially to the
italicized portion thereof.
It is urged that in this part of the charge the court did not
allude to facts proved which the defendant claimed disproved
negligence, and that thus the instruction was not a fair one
as to the facts; that the place of storage was selected and the
cotton was stored there by the owners of it, and not by the
Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company.; that no negligence can bb imputed to the latter on account of the unfitness
of the place; that it had no control over the cotton stored in
that place, and had no track at that place, the Missouri Pacific
Railway Company having the track there; that the Memphis
and Little Rock Railroad Company had no opportunity to obtain possession of the cotton until after it had been compressed at Argenta; that the bills of lading of the latter

CALIF6RTIA INS. CO. v. UNION CO-MPRESS CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.

company exempted it from liability for loss occurring on the
lines of other carriers, and the cotton was burned, not on its
line, but on the line of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company ; that the court made no allusion to any of these matters
as going to establish the absence of negligence and liability on
the 'art of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company;
that the court threatened the jury with its displeasure and the
setting aside of the verdict if the jury should bring -in a verdict for the defendant on .that issue; and that this action of
the court was erroneous.
But the mere fact of the dwelling by the. court with emphasis upon facts which seemed to it of controlling importance, and expressing its opinion as to the bearing of those
facts on the question of negligence, is immaterial, if the court
left the issue to the jury. -In the charge, just b~fore the passage complained of, the court, in referring to the question of
the liability of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company
for the destruction of the cotton, bad said to the*jury: "It is
for you to determine whether this railroad company was not
guilty of negligence, and was not at fault in leaving this cotton in an exposed condition after, it issued bills of lading
therefor;" and in the clause of the charge objected to, the
court expressly states that it leaves the question of negligence
to the jury.
On this subject, this court said, in icksburg &c. Railroad
v. Putnam, 118 U. S. 545, 553: "In the courts of the United
States, as in thos of England, from which our practice was
derived, the judge, in submitting a case to a jury, may, at his
discretion,, whenever he thinks it necessary to assist them in
arriving at a just conclusion, comment upon the evidence, call
their attention to parts of it which he thinks important and
express his,opinion upon the facts,; and the expression- of such
an opinion when no rule of law is incorrectly stated, and all
matters of fact are,ultimately submitted to the determination
of the jury, cannot be reviewed on writ of error." See, also,
.Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426; Indianapolis &c. Railroad
v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291; St. Zouis &c. Railway v. Yickers,
12 U. S. 360.
VOL. cxxx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

(4) In the course of the trial the plaintiff offered evidence
tending to prove that the contracts and custom of business
stated in the bill of exceptions were well known to shippers
and to the defendant when the policy sued on was issued, it
having been stated to the agents of the.defendant by an officer
of the plaintiff, when the policy was applied for, that it was
intended to cover the interests of the plaintiff and of the railroad companies. The defendant objected to the admission of
the evidence, but the objection was overruled, and'the defendant excepted; and this is alleged as error.
In this connection it is urged that the complaint does not
allege any such knowledge on the part of the defendant, or
any intention on its part to issue its policy for the benefit of
the railroad companies. The case of Rough v. People's Fire
Ins. Co., 36 Maryland, 398, is cited in support of this assignmentof error. But we think the evidence was admissible. In
the Hough case the policy covered the merchandise insured,
"their own, or held by them in trust, or in which they have
an interest or liability." Parol evidence was held to be incompetent which was offered to show that the policy did not cover
merchandise which was their own. The evidence would have
contradicted the plain terms of the policy. In the present case,
the evidence offered was admissible under the ruling in iomne
Ins. Co. v. Balt.-Warehouse Co., 93 U. S. 527, 542. In that
case the court says: "It is no exception to the rule" (governing the admission of parol evidence) "that, when a policy is
taken out expressly 'for or on account of the owner' of the
subject insured, or ' on account of whomsoever it may concern,'
evidence beyond the policy is received to show who are the
owners or who were intended to be'insured thereby. In such
cases, the words of the policy fail .to designate the real party
to the contract, and, therefore, unless resort is had to extrinsic
evidencb, there is no contract at all.". See, also, Finney v.
Bedford Ins. Co., 8 Met. 348; Fire Ins. Asso. v. Merchants'
& finers' Trans. Co., 6.6 Maryland, 339; Snow v. Ca'r, 61
Alabama, 363.
Having issued the policy with notice that it *as intended to
cover the interest of the railroad .companies, the defendant is

CALIFORNIA INS. CO. v. UNION C01[PRESS CO. ,19
Opinion" of the Court.

-

estopped from asserting that the policy was intended to protect
only the legal owners of the cotton.
(5) It is alleged, also, that the court erred in sustaining the,
demurrer of the. plaintiff to paragraph 7 of the defendant's
answer, which alleged that at the time of the loss 2172 bales
of the cotton alleged to have been burned were covered by
marine policies theretofore issued to the .respective owners of
the cotton, and therefore, underthe terms of the policyin this
suit, such cotton was not covered by it. It is alleged, also, as
error, that the court, at the trial, rejected, on the objection of
the plaintiff and under the exception of the defendant, evidence
offered by the latter tending to prove that that number of bales
of the cotton covered by the bills of lading, and alleged to have
been burned,, were, at the time of the fire, covered by marine
policies of insurance theretofore issued to the respective owners
of such cotton, residing in various portions of the United States
and in England.
It is to be said, in reply, that paragraph 7 of the.answer does
not show that the marine policies wereon the same interest as
that covered by- the fire policy. This element is. necessary,
becawe otherwise the policy sued on would be of no practical
force. As soon as the consignees of the cotton were advised by
telegraph of its shipment, they would take out marine policies
to cover their own risk; and thus the fire insurance companies
woulbt obtain the premiums of insurance from the railroad companies, and immediately avoid all risk, because of the taking
out of the marine policies. _Vort Britisk ins. co. v. Lodon,
liverpool & 0lobe Ins. Co., 5 Oh. D. 569. The question of
the legal effect of the contribution clause of the policy, before
recited, is not presented by the record.
The objection alleged at the trial to the introduction of evidence as to the marine policies was made on the ground- that
it was immaterial and irrelevant, and that the insured knew
nothing of those policies and had" no interest in them. This
was the objection which was sustained; and the allegatidn of
paragraph 7 of,the answer was, that the marine policies had
been issued to the respective owners of the cotton. It did not
'appear that either the insurer or the insured had any previous

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledge of the existence of the marine policies, nor did it
appear whether they were issued before or after the date of
the fire policy. The issuing of the marine policies, in order to
have any effect in this case, must amount to double insuranc6.
In no other view can the defendant have any interest in the
question of marine insurance. Double insurance exists only
in the case of risks upon the same interest in property and in
favor of the same person. HIorth British Ins. Co. v. London,
-Liverpool& Globe Ins. Co., 5 Oh. D. 569; _Louell -Mfg. Co.
v. Safeguard Fire Ins. Co., 88 N. Y. 591; Phillips on Insurance, § 359; Wood on Fire Ins. 1st ed. § 352. No reason
can exist for a distinction between the construction of a provisiort avoiding h policy in case of marine insurance and in
case of further or additional fire insurance. In the latter case
the provision is A"ways construed as relating only to additional
insurance upon the same interest and effected by the same
person or in his interest.
The contention of the defendant is, that its policy is avoided
by the taking out of a marine policy by the owner of the cotton, without the knowledge or participation of the plaintiff or
of the railroad companies, whether the marine insurance was
effected before or after the fire insurance in favor of the railway companies, and although the fire insurance policy was
taken to protect the independent interests of the railroad companies. We cannot admit the soundness of this view. The
cases cited where a policy is avoided by the carrying on of a
prohibited business, or the storing of a prohibited article,
without the knowledge or consent of the insured owner of a
building, are placed upon the ground that the possession of
the tenant or occupant of a building is the possession of its
owner, and that the contracts which he makes as to the use of
the insured premises are in the nature of warranties, and relate
to matters over which he has legitimate control. It cannot
be contended successfully that the condition in question here
was intended by the plaintiff to subject the policy to forfeiture
if any person who had a remote atnd independent insurable
interest should take out a policy of marine insurance to protect that interest, the jlaintiff having no privity with such

CALIFOIRNIA INS. CO. v. UNION COMPRESS CO.

421

Opinion of the Court.

person. As was said in Grandin v. Rochester German Aus.
Co., 107 Penn. St. 26, 37: "We are not to suppose that conditions involving forfeitures are introduced into policies by
insurance companies, which are purely arbitrary and without
reason, merely as a trap to the assured or-as a means of escape
for the company in case of loss. When, therefore, a general
condition has no application to a particular policy; where the
reason which, alone gives it force is out of the case, the condition itself drops out with it." See, also, Hofnzn v. E'tna
Ins. Co., 32 N. .Y. 405.
The offer of evidence by the defendant at the trial, in regard
to the marine insurance, was by its terms an offer to prove
the mere fact of marine insurance, in support of the defence
set up in paragraph 7 of the answer; and the claim on the
part of the defendant that the evidence was proper to sup 'rt
the further defence set up in the answer, as to the amount of
the proportionate liability of the defendant, is not tenable. The
offer was to prove merely the fact of marine insurance, and
not to prove its amount. It was an offer in bar of liability,
and not an offer applicable to a reduction of the verdict. No
suggestion of the latter object was, made in the offer, and the
evidence, if admitted as offered, could have no bearing upon
the question as to how much the proportionate liability of the
defendant would be reduced by virtue of the marine policies.
The only specific offer to prove the terms of any marine policy, and the extent, of the insurance under it, was made in the
form of an offer of the deposition of one Phillips and the -testimony of one Bowen, both of which were excluded on proper
grounds, and complaint is made only of the exclusion of the
deposition of Phillips.
(6) It is assigned for error that the court 'erred in striking
out the testimony in the deposition of Phillips, the clerk of Ralli
Bros., who were claiming pay from the Memphis and Little
Rock Railroad Company for 158 bales of cotton, to the effect
that that cotton was covered by marine policies taken out by
Ralli Bros. The policies of insurance mentioned in the testimony .in the deposition were not attached to it. The testimony was objected to by ,tbe plaintiff as incompetent because

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

it was an attempt to prove by parol the contents of written
instruments-; it was stricken out by the court, and the defendant excepted.
The ruling of the court was manifestly correct. There
was no proof that the policies referred to were in Liverpool,
for all that the witness Bowen said was that he was informed
.they were there; and as to the copy which Phillips refused to
attach to his deposition, all the evidence in regard to its identity is that Phillips said to the witness Bowen that such copy
was a copy of the marine policy which had been issued on the
cotton. This was, all of it, only hearsay evidence.
(7) The court was requested by the defendant to instruct
the jury as follows: "As this action is brought solely on behalf of the railroad companies on account of liability incurred
through carelessness of the agents and servants of the companies, no cause of action accrued against the defendant until
the actual payment by said companies 6f damages on account
of the alleged fire, and the recovery cannot be greater than
the value, on November 14, 1887, at Little Rock, of the cotton
so burned and paid for-nor greater than the sum paid by
the railroad companies- that is, if they have paid more than
the value of the cotton they bannot recover the excess from
the defendant; if they have paid less than the value, they can
recover only to the extent of the payment." The court refused to give that instruction, and defendant excepted. This
is alleged as error. It is urged that the Memphis and Little
Rock Railr6ad Company has never paid any damages, and
that the Missouri Pacific Railway Company had not paid any
when this suit was commenced; and it is contended that no
cause of action accrues, in a case of that kind, until payment
of the damages by the railroad companies is made.
But, as a bailee, under a policy taken out to cover property,
his own or held by him in trust or on commission, may enforce
the contract of insurance to the full value of the property destroyed, holding the proceeds primarily for his own benefit
and the balance for that of his bailor, the right of action of
the plaintiff accrued on the occurring of the loss. The case
cited by the defendant, CU., tamilton d Dayton Railroad

