OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

far to defeat that policy, if married women could take and hold
stock without liability to the creditors." See also, Sayes v
17?a es, 15 R. I. 345.
This question arose in Anderson v Line, m the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
where it was held by Judge MoKennan, that a married woman
was not exempted by reason of her coverture from the liability
imposed by Congress upon shareholders in national banks.
14 Fed. Rep. 405. To the same effect isthe decision of Judge
Wheeler in TVitters v Sowles, 32 Fed. Rep. 767.
We are of opinion that the coverture of the defendant did
not prevent the plaintiff from recovering a judgment against
her dor the amount of the assessment in question, if she was,
within the meaning of the statute, a shareholder in the bank
at the time of its suspension. But the question as to what
property may be reached in the enforcement of such judgment
is not before us, and we express no opinion upon it.
For the above errors committed by the court below in its
instructions to the jury, the judgment is
R-eversed, with directwns to grant a new trnal, and for further proceedings connstent witti th ts op non.
ML.

JUSTICE MILLER dissented.

KNOX COUNTY v. HARSHMAN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 1212.Submitted January 10, 1890. -Decided

January 27, 1890.

A court of equity does not interfere with 3udgments at law, unless the complainant has an equitable defence of which he could not avail himself at

law, or had a good defence at law which he was prevented from availing
himself of by fraud or accident, unmixed with negligence of hunself or
his agents.
Harshman v. Knox County, 122 U. S. 306, affirmed.

Where by statute the summons in any action against a county may be served
upon the clerk of the county court, and the officer's return in such an

KNOX COUNTY v.

ARSIIMMAI.

Statement of the Case.
action shows such a service, the county cannot maintain a bill in equity
to restrain process of execution upon the judgment, on the ground that
service was not made upon the clerk, or that he did not inform the county
court thereof.

Tmis was a bill in eqmty by the County of Knox, in the
State of Missouri, against Harshman,,a citizen of Ohio, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri, for a perpetual injunction against the prosecution of
the peremptory writ of mandamus issued by that court, pursuant to the judgment and mandate of this court in Ha'shman
v .Knox County, 122 U S.306, to compel the judges of the
county court to levy a tax sufficient to pay a judgment recovered by Harshman in the Circuit Court of the United
States for $77,374.46, on bonds issued by the county for a subscription to the capital stock of the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company
The bill set forth that this judgment was rendered on default, upon a petition alleging that the subscription- was
authorized by a vote of two-thirds of the qualified voters of
the county at a special election held under ยง 1T of c. 63 of the
General Statutes of Missouri of 1866, and upon a return of
the marshal that fifteen days before the return day he had
made service upon the county by delivering a copy of the petition and summons to Frank P Hall, the clerk of the county
court, at Edina in the county and district aforesaid.
The bill averred that the allegations of the petition were
false, and that the bonds were in fact issued without the
assentof two-thirds of the voters, and under ยง 13 of the charter of the railroad company, by which the tax to -be levied -n
payment of the bonds was limited to one-twentieth of one per
cent upon the assessed value of taxable property for each
year.
The bill further alleged that neither the county court, nor
any of the judges thereof, nor the county attorney, had any
notice or knowledge of the commencement of the suit until
after the end of the term at which the judgment was rendered,
when they were informed thereof by Harshman's attorney,
that Hall, the county clerk, after the pretended service upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

him, never handed to the county court the copy of the petition
and summons, or called the attention of the county court or its
judges, or of the county attorney, to the fact of service, or said
anything about it until, upon being inquired of by them after
they had been informed of it as aforesaid, he denied that a copy
of the petition or summons had been served upon him, or that
he had any knowledge or notice thereof, and the bill alleged,
and charged the fact to be, "that neither a copy of said summons and petition, nor either of them, was served upon said
Frank P Hall, as stated by the marshal in his return to said
summons, and that said return was and is false."
The bill also alleged that "said judgment on default was
rendered on a false allegation of facts, and as the record stands
it is a gross fraud upon your orator to the extent and in the
particulars herein mentioned."
The answer averred that the allegations of the petition and
the statements in the return were true, and that the county
had full notice of the commencement of the action, and denied
that the judgment was rendered upon a false allegation of
facts, or was a fraud upon the plaintiff. The plaintiff filed a
general replication.
At a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the bill was dismissed, and the plaiitiff appealed to this court.
]Mr James Carr for appellant.
Mr T K. S

ker for appellee.

MR.JuSTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

A court of equity does not interfere with judgments at
law, unless the complainant has an equitable defence of which
he could not avail himself at law, or had a good defence at
law which he was prevented from availing himself of by fraud
or accident, unmixed with negligence of himself or his-agents.
.MartneIns. Co. v Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 332, 336, Hendmckson
v Hinckley, 17 How 443, 445, Orzm v Handley, 94 U. S.
652, Phillipsv 37egley, 117 U. S. 665, 675.

KNOX COUNTY v. IAlSHMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case before us, the bill in equity of the judgment
debtor contains no allegation of any fraud on the part of the
judgment creditor or his agents. The allegation that the
record of the judgment as it stands is a gross fraud upon the
judgment debtor, is in terms, as it must be in legal effect,
limited to the particulars specified m the bill. United &ttes
v Atherton, 102 U. S. 372, .Ambler v Choteau, 107 U. S. 586,
590, 591. The grounds assigned for the interposition of equity
reduce themselves to two.
The first ground is that the allegations in the petition on
which the judgment was recovered were false, especially in
that they alleged that the subscription was made under the
General Statutes of Missouri, authorizing the levy of a tax
sufficient to pay the amount of the bonds and coupons. But
this ground is fully met and disposed of by the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Matthews in .Harshmanv. .Ynox County,
122 U. S. 306, in which it was said "By the terms of the
judgment in favor of the relator it was determined that the
bonds sued on were issued under the authority of a statute
which prescribed no limit to the rate of- taxation for their payment. In such cases, the law which authorizes the issue of
bonds gives also the means of payment by taxation. The findings in the judgment on that point are conclusive. They bind
the respondents in their official capacity, as well as the county
itself." 122 U. S. 319, 320.
The other ground relied on is that the county had no notice
of the commencement of the action against it. The bill of the
county and the argument-of its counsel proceed on two hardly
consistent . suppositions - that the clerk of. the county couit
was never served with process, and that he was negligent ih
not seasonably informing the county court or county attorney,
that service had been made upon him. But in either aspect of
the case the bill cannot be maintained.
The statutes of Missouri provide that "where any action
shall be commenced against any county, a copy of the original
summons shall be left with the clerk of the county court fifteen
days, at least, before the return day thereof." Missouri Rev
Stat. of 1879, ยง 3189. The clerk is thus made the a-ent of the

