DAVI& v. BEASO'.
Syllabus.

DAVIS v. BEASONi.
A.PEAL FROM THE THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT OF THE

TRRrrORY OF IDAHO.
No. 1261. Argued December 9, 10, 1889.-Decided February 3, 1890.

The provision in § 501, Rev. Stats. Idaho, that" no person who is a bigamist
or polygamist, or who teaches, advises, counsels or encourages any person or persons to become bigamists or polygamists, or to commit any
other crime defined by law, or to enter into what is known as plural or
celestial marriage, or who is a member of any order, organization or
association which teaches, adviLses, counsels or encourages its members
or devotees or any other persons to commit the crime of bigamy or polygamy, or, any other crime defined by law, either as:a rite or ceremony of
such order, organization or association, or otherwise, is permitted to
vote at any election, or to hold any position or office of honor, trust or
profit within this Territory" is an exercise of the legislative power conferred upon Territories' by Rev. Stat. §§ 1851, 1859, and is not open to
any constitutional or legal objection.
Bigamy and polygamy are crimes by the laws of the lUnited States, by the
laws of Idaho, and by the laws of all qivilized andidChristian countries;
and to call their advocacy a tenet of .religion is to offend the common
sense of mankind.
A crime is none the less so, nor less idious, because sanctioned by what
any particular sect may designate as religibn.
It was never intended that the first Article of Amendment to the Constitution, that "Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of
religon, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof," should be a protection against legislation for the punishment of acts inimical to the
peace, good order and morals of society.
The second subdivision of § 504 Rev. Stats. Idaho, requmrng every person
desiring to have his name registered as a voter to -take an oath that *he
does not belong to an order-that advises a disregard -of the criminal law
of the Territory' is not open to any valid legal objectior.
The act of Congress of March 22, 1882, 22 Stat. S1, c. 47, "to amend section
fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes," does not restrict
the legislation of the Territories over kindred offences or over tide-means
for their ascertainment and prevention.
The cases in which the legislation of Congress will supersede the legislation
of a State or Territory, without specific provisions to that effect, are
those in which the same matter is the subject of legislation by both.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Iw April, 1889, the appellant, Samuel D. Davis, was indicted
in the District Court of the Third Judicial District of the
Territory of Idaho, in the county of Oneida, in connection with divers persons named, and divers other persons
whose names were unknown to the grand jury, for a conspiracy to unlawfully pervert and obstruct the due administration of the laws of the Territory, in this that they woula
unlawfully procure themselves to be admitted to registration as electors of said county of Oneida for the general
election then next to occur in that county, when they were
not entitled to be admitted to such registration, by appearing
before the,respective registrars of the election precincts in which
they resided, and taking the oath prescribed by the statute of
the State, in substance as follows "I do swear (or affirm) that
I am a male citizen of the United States of the age of twenty
one years (or will be on the 6th day of November, 1888),
that I have (or will have) actually resided in this Territory
fonr-months and in this county for thirty days next preceding
the day of the next ensuing election, that I have never been
convicted of treason, felony or bribery, that I am not registered or entitled to vote at any other place in this Territory,
and I do further swear that I am not a bigamist or polygamist, that I am not a member of any order, organization or
association which teaches, advises, counsels or encourages its
members, devotees or any other person to commit the crime of
'bigamy or polygamy, or any other crime defined by law, as a
duty arimng or resulting from membership in such order, organization or association, or which practises bigamy, polygamy
or plural or celestial marriage as a doctrinal rite of such organization, that I do not and will not, publicly or privately, or in
any manner whatever teach, advise, counsel or encourage any
person to commit the crimeof bigamy or polygamy, or any other
crime defined by law, either as a religious duty or otherwise,
that I do regard the Constitution of the United States and the
-laws thereof and the laws of this Territory, as interpreted by the
courts, as the supreme laws of the land, the teachings of any
order, organization or association to the contrary notwithstanding, so help me God," when, in truth, each of the defendants was

DAVIS v. BEASON.
Statement of the Case.

'a member of an order, organization and association, namely, the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, commonly known
as the Mormon Church, which they knew taught, advised,
counselled and encouraged its members and devotees to commit
the crimes of bigamy and polygamy as duties arising and resulting from membership in said order, organization and association, and which order, organization and association, as they
all knew, practised bigamy and polygamy, and- plural and
celestial marriage as doctrinal rites -of said organization; and
that in pursuance of said conspiracy the said defendants went
before the registrars of different precincts of the county (which
are designated) and took and had administered to them respectively the oath aforesaid.
The defendants demurred to the indictment, and the demurrer being overruled they-,pleaded separately not guilty.
On the trial which followed on the 12th of September, 1889,
the jury found-the defendant, Samuel D. Davis, guilty as
charged in the indictment. The defendant was thereupon
sentenced to pay a fine'of $500, and in default of its payment
to be confined in the county jail of Oneida County for a term
not exceeding 250 days, and was, remanded to the custody of
the sheriff until the judgment should be satisfied.
Soon'afterwards, on the same day, the defendant applied to
the court before which the trial was had, and obtained a writ
of abeas corpus, alleging that he was imprisoned and restrained of his liberty by the sheriff of the county; that his
imprisonment was by virtue of his conviction and the judgment mentioned and the warrant issued thereon; that such
imprisonment was illegal; and that such illegality consisted
in this: 1, that the facts in the indictment and record did not
constitute a public offence, and the acts chirged were not
criminal or punishable under any statute or law of the territory; and, 2, that so much of the statute of the territory as.'
1 "No person under guardianship, non compos mentis or insane, nor any
person convicted of treason, felony, or bribery in this Territory or in any

other State or Territory in the Union, unless restored to civil rights; nor
any person who is a bigamist or polygamist or who teaches, advises,,counsels, or encourages any.person or persons to become bigamists orpolyg&

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

provides that no person is entitled to register or vote at any
election who is "a member of any order, organization, or association which teaches, advises, counsels, or encourages its
members, devotees, or any other person to commit the crime
of bigamy or polygamy, or any other crime defined br law,
as a duty arising or resulting from membership in such order,
organization, or association, or which practises bigamy or
polygamy or plural or celestial marriage as a doctrinal rite of
such organization" is a "law respecting an establishment of remists, or to commit any other crime defined by law, or to enter into what
is known as plural or celestial marriage, or who is a member of any order,
organization, or association-which teaches, advises, counsels, or encourages
its members or devotees or any other persons to commit the crime of
bigamy or polygamy, or any other crime defined by law, either as a rite or
ceremony of such order, organization, or association, or otherwise, is permitted to vote at any election, or to hold any position or office of honor,
trust, or profit within this Territory. Rev. Stats. Idaho, § 501.
" The registrar must, before he registers any applicant, require him to
take and subscribe the oath, to be known as the ' elector oath,' which is as
follows:
"I do swear (or affirm) that I am a male citizen of the United States of
day of
the age of twenty-one (21) years (or will be on the
18-, naming date of next succeeding election). That I have (or will have)
actually resided in this Territory for four (4) months and in this county for
thirty (30) days next preceding the day of the next ensuing election (in case
of any election requiring different time of residence so make it). That I have
never been convicted of treason, felony, or bribery; that I am not now regIstered or entitled to vote. at any other place in this Territory; and I do
further swear that I am not a bigamist or polygamist; that I am not a
member of any order, organization, or association which teaches, advises, counsels, or encourages its members, devotees, or any other person
to commit the crime of bigamy or polygamy, 6r any other crime defined by
law, as a duty arising or resulting from membership in such order, organization, or association, or which 'practises bigamy or polygamy or plural or
celestial marriage as a doctrinal rite of such organization; that I do not,
and will not, publicly or privately or in any manner whatever, teach, advise,
counsel, or encourage any person to commit the crime of bigamy or polygamy, or any other crime defined by law, either as a religious duty or otherwise; that I do regard the Constitution of the United States and the laws
thereof, and of this Territory, as interpreted by the courts, as the supreme
law of the land, the teachings of any order, organization, or association
to the cottrary notwithstanding (when made before A judge of election
add 'and I have not previously voted at .this election'), so help me God."

Id. § 504.

DAVIS v. BEASON.
Argument for Appellant.

ligion," in violation of the first Amendment to the Constitution
and void.
The court ordered the writ to issue, directed to the sheriff,
returnable before it, at three o'clock in the afternoon of that
day, commanding the sheriff to have the body of the defendant,
before the court at the hour designated,.with the time and cause
of his imprisonment, and to do'and receive what should then
be considered concerning him. On the return of the writ, the
sheriff produced the body of the defendant and also the warrant of commitment under which he was held, and the record
of the case showing his conviction for the conspiracy -mentioned and the judgment thereon. To this return, the defendant, admitting the facts stated therein, excepted to their
sufficiency to justify his detention. The court, holding that
sufficient cause was not shown for the discharge of the defendant, ordered him to be remanded to the custody of the
sheriff. From this judgment the defendant appealed to this
court. IRev. Stat. § 1909.
Afl'. Jeremiah M. Wilson and .Mr.Franklin . 1-ickhrds
(with -whom 'was XA. Samuel Shellabarger on the brief) for
appellant.
The power.of Congress (or the legislative assembly of a
Territory) to pass a statute under which' a prisonet is held in
custody may be inquired into under a writ of habeas corpus, as
affecting the jurisdiction of the court which .ordered his -imprisonment. And if the want of power appears, the 'court
which has authority to issue the writ is bound to release him.
.Hans ]lNiesen,*Petitioner,131 U. S. 176, 183; In re 'Coy, 127.
U. S.731; E xparte Siebold, 100 U. S 371; In re Snow, 120
U.- S. 274; EeParte Lange, 18 Wall. 163.
I The legislature of Idaho could not legally prescribe that a
man who has never c6mmitted any crime should not have the"
right to register and vote, or bold office, because he belonged to
a church organization that holds or teaches bigamy and polygamy as a doctrixle of the church, membership in such organ-'.
izatio not having been by law made a crime.
voL. cxx=-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

I. The statute disfranchising and disqualifying citizens from
holding office fqr that reason is unconstitutional and void,
because it prohibits "the free exercise of religion," and conflicts with the first amendment to the Constitution -that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." Reynolds v.
United States, 98 U. S. 145, 162; Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19
How. 393, 450.
Religious liberty is a right embracing more than mere opinion, sentiment, faith, or belief. It includes all "human conduct" that gives expression to the relation between man and
God; it includes "all frames of feeling, all forms of faith, and
acts of worship" to which man is impelled by his hopes or
fears; it includes the "cultus" or "outward expression of the religious sentiment;" it means "entire freedom of creed, thought
and worship," with a restriction upon the government that it
"cannot go behind the overt act;" in other words, it includes
all acts of manifestation or exercise of religion which are not in
United States v. Reyviolation of "peace and good order."
twlds, 98 U.'S. 163. That the term "free exercise of religion"
was intended by the promoters of the first article of amendment
to the Constitution to have this broad and comprehensive
signification is apparent from an examination of the history of
that period, to which this court said we should look for the
meaning of the term, and in the Reynolds case, supra, pages
162, 163, 164, it gave an epitome thereof, in which it adopted
the definition of religious freedom given in the preamble of
the Virginia act, drafted by Mr. Jefferson, "for establishing
religious freedom." 12 Henning's Statutes Virginia, 84, 85, 86.
See also 1 Jefferson's Works, 45 (N. Y. 1853); 8 Sparks's
Washington, 568; Board of Education v. .'inor, 23 Ohio St.
211; Attorney General v. Detroit,58 Michigan, 213; and state
constitutions -as follows: Georgia, 1777, Article 56 ; Maryland,
Declaration of Rights, 1776, Article 33; Massachusetts, Declaration of Rights, 1780, Article 3; New Jersey, 1776, Article
18 ; North Carolina, 1776, Article.34 ; New York, 1777, Article
38; New Hampshire; Bill.of Rights, 1784, Article 5; Pennsylvania, Declarationof Rights, 176, Article 11; Virginia, Bill-

DAVIS v. BEASON.
Argument for Appellant.

of Rights, 1776 § 16; .3 Elliot's Debates, 659; 4 Elliot's
Debates, 244; 2 Kent -Com. 35; 2 Tucker's Blackstone, App.
4, 6, 10; 2 Story Const. 1876, § 1879; Cooley's Const. Lim.
469, 470.
H. This Idaho statuite violates the provision *in the Fourteenth Article of Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States that "No State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the prhileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law, nor deny to iany person within its jurisdiction the equal protectidn ofthe laws."
For the scope of this amendment see Sinking FundCases, 99
U. S. 700, 718; Cummings v. _fissouri, 4 Wall. 2.77, 320;
S traude2 v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 307, 308; .x _parte
Vrginia, 100 U. S. 339, 347; Yiek Wo v. gopkins8 118 U. S.356, '369; United States v. Cruikshank, 1 Woods, 308; . C. 92
U. S. 542, 555 ; furpkiy v. -Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 44.
III. This Idaho statute violates the provision in article 6
of the Constitution of the United States, that "No religiods
test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or
public trust under the United States.!'
That this statute requires a religious test is apparent upon
its face. The ground of disfrafichisement is membership in
an organization which encourages its members to commit
bigamy or polygamy "as a duty resultingfrom member&&i ,"
or which practices bigamy or polygamy, or celestial marriage;
"as a. doctrinal rite of suck order." Simple encouragement to
commit crime by an organization of which the citizen is a
-nember does not disqualify him from voting,, because; by the
language of the.act, the encouragement must be offered upon
the ground of duty, or religious obligation arising from membership in the organization,. or the latter must teach the commission of 'these acts from 'religious notives, otherwis the
exclusion does not operate. And -so also, the practice must
be "as a doctrinal rite," or the member is not excluded. In
other'words the practice must be'as a tenet of faith. sanctified
by a religious ceremony; and the language of tne staiute does
not admit of such an interpretation as will disfranchise .he-.

340

QCTOBER ,TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

members of an organization existing solely for the promotion
of crime, howeverheinous their acts may be, even though the
primary and sole object of the organization be to commit
uturder, theft, arson, rape and other crimes which are malum
in se; unless their acts are the promptings of duty, or are performed "as doctrinal rites" or religious ceremonies, the members are not disqualified by this statute from voting or holding
office.
Webster defines a "rite" as: "The act of performing
divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept or
custom; formal act of religion, or other solenm -nity; a religious ceremony of usage."
The object of this legislation was not only to deprive citizens
of the elective franchise because of their membership in a
religious organization, the Mormon Church, but to confine
the exclusion provided for to members of tfhat religious organization.
IV. The Idaho statute is void because Congress has exercised
its power on the same subject.
While denying the powei of both Congress and the legislative assembly of Idaho to prescribe the test it has, as a qualification for voting and holding4 office, if in error as to the
pbwer of Congress in this regard, we still maintain that the
territorial legislature could not prescribe it, for the reason
that Congress had already legislated upon the subject, and
its action is "the supreme law 6f the land."
Undoubtedly Congress ha& the right to legislate for the
Territories, and the most that can be said for the territorial
legislature is that it may legislate upon the same subjects
if Congress has not already legislated thereon, and in that
respect it stands in the same attitude towards Congress- as a
State, which may legislate if Congress does not, but -ifCongress
does legislate a State cannot, or if the state has'legislated and
Congress afterwards does so,,the state legislation is superseded.
The authorities on-this suliect are numerous and familiar.
It is now settled that when powers are exercised by Congfess,
the doncurreit power in the inferior legislature ceases or is-in
abeyance;, that the two legislative wills cannot be exercised

.-DAIS v. BEASON.-'

841

Opinion of the Court.
at the same time upon the same subject matter, and that of
Congress, within its sphere, is "the supreme law of the land.".parte .Af.iel, 13 Wall. 236, 240; Gilman v. Philadelhia,.
3 Wall. 713, 727; Pennsylvaniav. Wkeeling Bridge, 18 How.
421., 430 ; Railroad Co. v. Fu/ler, 17 Wall. 560, 568.
.,r.
H. W. ,iitA for appellee.
MR. JUSTcn ThmnD, after stating *the case. delivered the
opinion of the court.
On this appeal our only inquiry is whether the District
Court of the Territory had jurisdiction of the offence charged
in the indictment of which the defendant was found guilty.
If it had jurisdiction, we can go no farther. We cannot look
into any alleged errors in its rulings on the trial of the defendant. The writ of labea, copus cannot 'be turned into a'writ
of error to review the action of that court.- Nor can we inquire
whether the evidence established the fact alleged, that the
defendant was a memi er of an order "or.organization known
as the Mormon Church, called the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, or the fact that the order or organization
taught and counselled its members and Odevotees to commit
the crimes of -bigamy and polygamy as .duties arising from
membership therein. On this hearing we can only consider
whether, these allegations being taken as true, an offence was
committed of which the terirtorial c6urt had jurisdiction to
try the defendant. 'And on this point there can be no seriou"
discussion or differenc of opinion. Bigamy and polygamy
are crimes.by the laws of all civilized and Christian countries.
They are primes by the, laws 'of the United: States, and they
are crimes by.the laws of Idaho. They tend to destroy the"
]purity of the marriage relation,.t, disturb the peace of fami-,
lies,.to degrade woman and to debase man. Few crimes are
more pernicious to the best interests of society and receive"
more general or more. deserved- punishment. To extend,
exemption from -punishment for such- cihes Would be to.
shock the moral judgment of the community. To call tlheir

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

advocacy a tenet of religion is to offend the common sense of
mankind. If they are crimes, then to teach, advise and counsel their practice is to aid in their commission, and such teaching and counselling are themselves criminal and proper subjects
of punishment, as aiding and abetting crime are in all other
cases..
The term "religion" has reference to one's views of his
-relations to his Creator, and to the obligations they impose
of reverence for his being and character, and of obedience to
his will. It is often confounded with the cultus or form of
worship of a particular sect, but is distinguishable from the
latter. The first amendment to the Constitution, in declaring
that Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment
of religion, or forbidding the free exercise thereof, was intended
to allow every one under the jurisdiction of the United States
to entertain such notions respecting his relations to his Maker
and the duties they impose- as may be approved by his judgment and conscience, and to exhibit his sentiments in such
form of worship as he may think proper, not injurious to the
equal rights of others, and to prohibit legislation for the
support of any religious tenets, or the modes of worship of
any sect. The oppressive measures adopted, and the cruelties
and punishments inflicted by the governments of Europe for
many ages, to compel parties to conform, in their religious
beliefs and modes of worship, to the views of the most numerous sect, and the folly of attempting in that way to control
the-mental operations of persons, and enforce an outward conformity to a prescribed standard, led to the adoption of the
amendment in question. It was never intended or supposed
that the.amendment could be invoked as a protection against
legislation for the punishment of acts inimical to the peace,
good order and morals of.society. With man's relations to his
Maker and the obligatibns he may think they inpose, and the
manner in which an expression shall be made by him of his
belief on those subjects, no interference can be -permitted,
provided always the .laws of society, designed to secure its
peace and prosperity, and the morals of its people, are not
interfered -with. However free the exercise of religion iaay

"DAVIS

.

BEASOT.

-84-9-

Qplniou of the Court.

be, it must be subordinate to the criminal laws of the country,
passed with reference to actions regarded by general consent
as properly the subjects of punitive legislation. There. have
been sects which denied as a part of their religious tenets that
there should be any marriage tie, and advocated promiscuous
intercourse of the sexes as prompted.by the passions of itg
members. And history discloses the fact that the necessity of
human sacrifices, on. special occasions, has been a tenet -of
many sects. Should a sect of either of these kinds ever find
its way into this country, swift punishment would follow the
carrying into effect of its doctrines, and no heed would be
given to the pretence that, as religious beliefs, their supporters
could be protected in their exercise by the Constitution of the
United States. Probably never before in the history of this
country has it been. seriously contended that the whole punitive power of the government for acts, recognized by the
general consent of the Christian world in modern times as
proper matters for prohibitory legislation, must be suspended
in order that the tenets of a religious sect, encouraging crimb
may be carried out without hindrance.
On this subject the observations of this court through the
late Chief Justice Waite, in Reynolds v. United States, 'are
pertinent. 98 U. S. 145, 165, 166. IA- that case the defendant was indicted and convicted under sectiofl 5352 of the Revised Statutes, which declared that "every' person having a
husband or wife living, who marries another, whether married
or single, in a Territory, or other place over which ,the United
States have exclusive jurisdiction, is guilty of bigamy, ani
shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment for a term not more than five years."
The case .being brought here, the cout, after referring to a.
law passed in December, 1788, by the State of rirgihia,-punishing bigamy and polygamy with death, said that from thatday there nevei had been a time in any State of the Union
when polygamy had not been an offence against society 6ogni,
zable by the civil courts and punished with more or less severity; ,and added: "Marriage, while from its very nature a"
sacred obligation, is, nev6rtheless, in most civilized nations a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

civil contract, and.usually regulated by law. Upon it society
may be said to be built, and out of its fruits spring social relations and social obligations and duties, with which government
is necessarily required to deal. In fact, according as monogamous or polygamous marriages ate allowed, do we find the
principles on which the government of the people, to a greater
or less extent, rests." And, referring to the statute cited, he
said: "It is constitutional and valid as prescribing a rule of
action for all those residing in the Territories, and in places
over which the United States have exclusive control. This
being so, the only question that remains is, whether those who
make polygamy a part of their religion are excepted from the
operation of the statute. If they are, then those who do not
make polygamy a part of their religious belief may be found
guilty and punished, while those who do must be acquitted
and go free. This would be introducing a new element into
criminal law. Laws are made for the government of actions,
and while they cannot interfere with mere religious belief and
,opinions,-they may with practices. Suppose one believed that
human sacrifices were a necessary part of religious worship,
would it be seriously contended that the civil government
under which he lived could not interfere to prevent a sacrifice?
"'Or, if a wife religiously believed it was her duty to burnherself upon the funeral pile of her dead husband, would it be
beyond the power of the civil government to prevent her carrying her belief into practice? So here, as a law of the organization of society under the exclusive dominion of the United
States, it is provided that plural marriages shall not be allowed.
Can a man excuse his practices to the contrary because of his
religious belief ? To permit this would be to make the professed doctrinesof religious belief superior to the law of the
land, and in effect- to permit every-oifizen to become 'alaw unto
himself., Government could exist only in nme under such
circumstances." And in Mlurphyv. Ramsey, 114 U. S.15, 45,
referring to, the act of Congress excluding'polygamists and
bigamists, from voting or holding office, the court; speaking by
Mr. Xustice Matthews, said: "Certainly no legislation can be
supposed more wholesome and necessary in the founding of a

DAVIS v.' BEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

free, self-governing commonwealth, fit to take rank as one of
the cobrdinate States of the Union, than that which seeks to
establish it on the basis of the idea of the family, as consisting
in and springing from the union for life of one man and one
woman in the holy estate of matrimony; the sure foundation of
all that is stable and noble in our civilization ; the best guaranty of.that reverent morality which is the source of all benef-'icent.pr.ogress in social and political improvement. And to
this end no means are more directly and immediately suitable
than those provided by this act, which endeavors to withdraw
"all political influence from those who are practically hostile.to
its attainment."
It is assumed by counsel of the petitioner, that because no
mode of worship can be established or religious tenets enforded
in this country, therefore any form of worship may be followed
and any tenets, however destructive of society, may be held
and advocated, if asserted to be a part of the religious doctrines
of those advocating and practising them. But nothing is further from the truth. Whilst legislation for the establishment
of a religion is forbidden, and its free exercise permitted, it
does not follow that everything which may be so called can
be tolerated. Crime is not the less odious because sanctioned
by what any particfilar sect may designate as religion.
It only remains to refer to the laws which authorized the
legislature of the Territory of Idaho to prescribe the qualifica;tions of voters and the oath they were required to take. The
Revised Statutes provide that "the. legislative power of every
Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not
inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the. United
States. But no law shall be passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil; no tax shall be imposed upon the
property of the United States; nor shall the lands or other
property of non-residents be taxed higher than the lands or
other property of residents." Rev. Stat. § 1851.
Under this general authority it would seem that the territorial legislature was authorized to prescribe any qualifications
for voters calculated to secure obedience to its laws. But, in
addition to the above -laws, §. 1859 of -the Revised Statutes

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

provides that "every male citizen above the age of twentyone, including persons who have legally declared their intention to become citizens in any Territory hereafter organized,
and who are actual residents of such Territory at the time of
the organization thereof, shall be entitled to vote at the first
election in such Territory, and to hold any office therein;
subject, nevertheless, to the limitations specified in the next
section," namely, that at all elections in any Territory subsequently organized by Congress, as well as at all elections in
Territories already organized, the qualifications of voters and
for holding office shall be such as may be prescribed by the
legislative assembly of each Territory, subject, nevertheless, to
the following restrictions:
First. That the right of suffrage and of holding office shall
be exercised only by citizens of the United States above the
age of twenty-one or persons above that age who have declared their intention to become such citizens;
Second. That the elective franchise or the right of holding
office shall not be denied to any citizen on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude;
Third. That no soldier or sailor or other person in the army
or nayy, or attached to trbops in the service of the United.
States, shall be allowed to vote unless he has made his permanent domicil in the Territory for six months; and,
Fourth. That no person belonging to the army or navy shall
be elected to or hold a civil office or appointment in the Territory.
These limitations are the only ones placed upon the authoritv of territorial legislatures against granting the right of
suffrage or of holding, office. They have the power, therefore,
to prescribe any reasonable qualifications of voters and for
holding office 'not inconsistent with the above limitations. In
our judgment, § 501 of the Revised Statutes of Idaho Territory, which provides that "no person under guardianship, non
compos menti8 or insane, nor any person convicted of treason,
felony, or bribery in this Territory, or in any other State or
Territory in the Union, unless restored to civil rights; nor any
person who is a bigamist or polygamist or who teaches, advises,

DAVIS 2i. BEASOI.
Opinion of the Court.

cdunsels, or encourages any person or persons to become bige
mists or polygamists, or to commit any other crime defined by
law, or to enter into what is known as plural or celestial marriage, or who is a member of any order, organization or association which teaches, advises, counsels, or encourages its
members or devotees or any othdr persons to commit the crime
of bigamy or polygamy, or any other crime defined by law,
either as a rite or ceremony, of such order, organization, or
association or otherwise, is permitted to vote at any election,
or to hold any position or office of honor, trust, or profit within
this Territory," is not open to any constitutional or legal objection. With the exception of persons under guardianship or
of unsound mind, it simply excludes from the privilege of voting,
or of holding any office of honor, trust or profit, those who
have been convicted of certain offences, and those who advocate a practical resistance to the laws of. the Territory and
justify and approve the commission of crimes forbidden by it.
The second sub-division of § 50d: of the Revised Statutes of
Idaho, requiring every person desiring to have his name registered as a voter to take an oath that he ddes not belong fo an
order that advises a disregard of the criminal law of the Territory, is not open to any valid legal objection to which our
attention has been called.
The position that Congress has, by its statute, covered the
whole subject of punitive legislation against bigamy and
polygamy, leaving nothing for territorial action on the
subject, does not impress us as entitled tto iuch weight.
The statute of Congress of March 22, 1882, amending a
previous section of the Revised Statutes in reitrence t
bigamy, declares "that, no polygamist, bigamist,, or any
person cohabiting with more than one woman, and no voman',
cohabiting with any of. the persons described as aforesaid in
this section, in any Territory or other place over which .he
United States have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be entitled to
vote at any election held in any such Territory or other place,
or be -eligible for election or appointment to or be- entitled to'
hold any office or place of public trust, honor or emolumentin,
under, or for any such Territory or place, or under the United
States." 22 Stat. 31, c. 47, § 8.

OCTOBER TERX, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

This is a general law applicable to all Territories and other
places under the exclusive jurisdiction' of the United States.
It does not purport to restrict the legislation of the Territories
over kindred offences or over the means for their ascertainment,
and prevention. The cases in which the legislation of Congress will supersede the legislation of a State or Territory,
without specific provisions to that effect, are those in which
the same matter is the subject of legislation by both. There
the action of Congress may well be considered as covering the
entire ground. But here there is nothing of this kind. The
act of Congress does not touch upon teaching, advising and
counselling the practice of bigamy and polygamy, that is, upon
aiding and abetting in the commission of those crimes, nor
upon the mode adopted, by means of the oafh required for
registration, to prevent persons from being enabled by their
votes to defeat the criminal laws of the country.
The judgment of the court below is therefore

A~ffirmed.
NoT.- The constitutions of several States, in providing for
religious freedom, have declared exiiressly that such freedom shall.
,not bQ construed to excuse acts of licentiousness,. or to justify

practices inconsistent with the peace and safety of the State.
-Thus, the constitution of New York of 1777 provided as follows:
. "The free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and
worship, without discrimination -or preference, shall forever hereafter be allowed, within this State, to all mankind: Provided, That
'the liberty of conscience, hereby granted, shall not be so construed
as to excuse acts of licentiousness, or justify practices inconsistent
with the peace or safety of this State." Article xxxviii, 2 Charters
and Constitutions; -1338. The same declaration is repeated in ,the
cqnstitution of 1821 (Article vii, Section 3, Id. 1347) and in that of
1846, (Article I, Section 3, Id. 1351,) except that for the words
"hereby granted," the words "hereby secured" are substituted.
The constitutions of California, Colorado, Connecticut, 'Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
Nevada and South Carolina contain a similar declaration.

