OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
opinion of the Court,

COYNE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 8. Ar ied and submitted January 23, 24, 1890. - Decided March 3, 1890.

In this case, which was an action against a railroad company, by one of its
employ6s, to recover damages for a personal injury, it was Held, that it
was proper for the Circuit Court to direct the jury to find a verdict for
the defendant.
The plaintiff was a laborer or construction hand, under a construction boss
or foreman of the defendant. He was injured by the fall of a steel rail,
which he and other laborers were trying to load from the ground upon a
fiat car, and which struck the side of the car and fell back. The negligence alleged was, that the foreman moved out the construction train to
which the fiat car belonged, in the face of an approaching regular freight
train, to avoid which the laborers were hurrying to load the rails; and
that he failed to give the customary word of command to lift the rail in
concert, but, with the approaching freight train in sight, and with oaths
and imprecations, ordered the men to get the rail on in any "way they
could, and they lifted it without concert; Held, that whatever negligence
there was, was that of either the plaintiff himself or of his fellow servants
who with him had hold of the rail.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr,. E . Wells (with whom was lif'r. Edward I. Johnsonm
for plaintiff in error) submitted on their brief.
'Mr. John F. Dillon for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE BLATCHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

James Coyne brought an action in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado, against the Union
Pacific Railway Company, to recover damages for a personal
injury. After isslie joined, the case was ttied by a jury. The
court instructed the jury to fi'd the issues for the defendant,
to which instruction the plaintiff excepted. The jury rendered
a verdict for-the' defendant, and the- plaintiff has brought -a
writ of.error.

COYNE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

3"
71

Opinion of the Court.

The bill of exceptions sets forth that the plaintiff gave evidence tending to show the following facts: On and before
the 18th of May, 1882, the plaintiff was in the employ of the
defendant as a laborer or construction hand, under one McCormick, construction boss or foreman of the defendant.
McCormick had authority to control and direct, and compel
obedience of, the plaintiff, and also, in his discretion, to discharge the plaintiff or any other servant of the defendant working under his direction and control. While employed by the
orders of McCormick, the plaintiff, with the other servants
and section men of the defendant, went upon its construction
train, which was under the control and direction of McCormick,
to a place between two stations on its railroad, known respectively as Byers' and River Bend, about two miles east from
Byers' station, and at such place the plaintiff and the other
servants were commanded by McCormick to load upon a certain flat car in the construction train about forty steel rails,
which were then lying near the track of the railroad. The
plaintiff and the other employ6s of the- defendant proceeded
to load the rails on the flat car, as directed by McCormick,
and under his orders, he directing the labor of the plaintiff
and the other servants. Each of the rails was from 24 to
29 feet long, and weighed from 400 to 600 pounds. To lift
one of them, the labors of about ten men were required; and
the plaintiff and the other servants utnder the command of
McCormick were divided into two gangs, of ten or. more men
each. In loading the rails, each of the gangs was required
and directed by McCormick to act in concert, and td lay hold
of and lift the rail, and walk with it to -the flat car,' and there
halt, dress, and, at the word of command given by McCormick,
lift the rail, and c&it it,with one-inotion, on the floor of the
flat car. By reason'of the length and groat weight of the
rails, it was'necessary, in loading them upon flat cars, that; in
order to avoid injury to the workmen engaged, care, deliberation and concert of action should be observed, and that some
person should give the word of command in each of the several
stages of progress-in: loading them, and particularly at the
point when the rail was to be thrown upon the car. Prior to

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the injury complained of, McCormick had controlled and directed the men, in loading the rails, and the plaintiff supposed
that, in loading the last rail, the one which hurt him, the same
course would be pursued by McCormick. iNeither at such
place nor nearer than Byers' station was there any siding or
switch. When all but three or four of the rails were loaded
upon the fiat car, the regular freight train of the defendant
appeared rapidly approaching from the east. McCormick
thereupon, -with violent oaths and imprecations, urged the
plaintiff and the other men of the party to make haste and
complete the loading of the rails, so that he might move the
cbnstruction train back to Byers' station and out of the way
of the freight train. By reason of the great haste so commanded by McCormick, and the confusion resulting therefrom,
the plaintiff, who had before been, and then was, working and
lifting at the end of the rail seized by the gang to which he
belonged, was crowded off from that rail. McCormick, who
was then, as before, standing on the fiat car, commanded the
plaintiff with oaths and violent language, to lay hold of the
other rail and not to stand idle. Thereupon, the plaintiff in
obedience to the commands of McCormick, rushed to and seized
upon the rail being lifted by the other gang of men and moved
forward to the fiat car. While the plaintiff and the other
men so holding that rail were awaiting the word of command
to lift it, McCormick, with further oaths, imprecations, and
harsh and violent commands, ordered the party to get the rail
on in any way they could, not giving to them any word of
command. Thereupon, the party, hurried and agitated by the
oaths, imprecations, and violent commands of McCormick,
lifted without concert, some at one moment and some at
another, and threw the rail at one end with force and at the
other end with less force, so that it struck the side of the flat
car at one end and fell backwards. The plaintiff, seeing that
it was about to fal, endeavored to retreat out of the way of it,
but was unable to avoid it, and it fell on him, bore him down,
and broke and crushed his foot and leg. He had been in the
service of the defendant only about seven days. At the time
of his going with McCc.rmick to the place of loading the rails,

COYNE v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the time at which the freight train of the defendant would
approach the place was well known to McCormick and was
unknown to the plaintiff. The freight train was overdue at
Byers' station at the time the construction train left that station, and McCormick knew the fact of its being so overdue,
and knew that the freight train was then coming towards
Byers' station.from the east; and the plaintiff knew nothing
about the freight train. The injury so occasioned, to the
plaintiff, was probably due and owing to the haste and confusion occasioned by the oaths, violent commands and injunctions to make haste given by McCormick.
. The only question to be considered in the case is whether it
was proper for the court to instruct the jury to find for the
defendant, or whether the case should have been left to the

jury.
We are of opinion that it was proper to direct a verdict for
the defendant. On the facts set forth, the injury to the plaintiff was not caused by any negligence on the part of McCormick. It is alleged that McCormick, knowing of the approach
of the regular freight train, moved out his train in the face of
it; but that does not showv any negligence, for it does not
appcar that the approaching freight train was so near as to
render it unsafe for McCormick to start the construction
tfain. Whatever the distance away of the freight train, it
would properly be called an approaching train;. and it is very
plain that the work of construction and repair must be done
in the intervals between the running of regular trains.- This
latter fact was known as well to the plaintiff as to McCormick,
and the plaintiff, being employed to do construction work with
a construction train, must be held to have 'assumed the risk of
doing it at the times at which it had to be done. The fact
that all of the rails save three or four had bebn loaded at the
time shows that there was no negligence in undertaking to
load the rails upon the construction train at the time they
were loaded. The negligence on the part of McCormibk, if
there was any, could have -been only as to the manner of loading the particular rail whose fall injured the plaintiff.
It is clearly to be deduced from the evidence that the method

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

described, of lifting the rail, walking with it to the car, halting, dressing, and then, acting in concert, lifting the rail, at the
word of command given by McOormick, and throwing it upon
the floor of the flat car, was a proper and safe method of
loading the rails, and that if, in the course of such action, the
injury to the plaintiff had happened, no negligence could have
been complained of. The negligence alleged consists in the
fact that, after the men had lifted the rail in question and had
carried it forward to the car and were there holding it, awaiting the word of command from McCormick to lift it further

and throw it on the car, McCormick failed to give the word
of command in such a way as to produce concert of action in
the men; but, on the contrary, ordered them to get the rail on
the car in any way they could. The fact that McCormick
hurried the men does not show any negligence on his part, or
excuse any negligence on theirs. The necessity of keeping the
construction train out of the way of the freight train was one
of the risks of the employment. The use of oaths and imprecations by McCormick was not an element of negligence. The
fact that McCormick urged the men to hasten, even if, as a
consequence, the plaintiff and his fellow-workmen became confused and failed to act in concert, cannot be regarded as a
fault or negligence in McCormick. Whatever negligence there
was, was the negligence either of the plaintiff himself or ef
his fellow-servants who with him had hold of the rail.
These views being conclusive in favor of the defendant, it is

unnecessary to considerthe broader grounds urged in support
of the judgment below.
Judgment effirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER

concurs in the judgment.

