SAN FRANCISCO v. ITSELL.
Statement of the Case.

SAN FRANCISCO CITY AND COUINTY v. ITSELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No.1506. Submitted January 8, 1890.-Decided January20, 1890.
This court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the highest court
of a State, unless a federal question his been, either in express terms or
by necessary effect, decided by that court against the plaintiff in error.

THE original action was ejectment,,brought in the Superior
Court of San Francisco by the city and county of San Francisco to recover a tract of land in San Francisco, of which
the plaintiff alleged that it was seized in fee, and entitled tW
the possession, in trust for the use of the State of California
and of the people of the city and cogty as a public plaza,
park, common or square, and commonly known as Htamilton
square or plaza.
It was duly pleaded in the answer, and found by the court,
(a trial by jury having been waived by the parties,) as follows
1st. Tn July, 1869, a compromise was agreed upon -between
the city and one Tompkins, who claimed this and other land,
by .which the officers of the city, under an ordinance of the
board of supervisors, executed a conveyance of the land to
Tompkins, and in consideration thereof Tompkins conveyed
to the city the other land claimed by him. On February
19, 1870, the ordihance and conveyances were ratified and
confirned by act of the legislature of California. On July
23, 1869, Tompkins conveyed this land to one Palmer.
2d. On September 11, 1869, Palmer brought an action
against the city, in a court of the State having jurisdiction-of
the subject matter and of the parties, alleging that he had the
title in fee and the right of possession of this land, and that
the city claimed an adverse interest. but had no title, interest
or estate therein, the city appeared and denied his allegations
and the issue was decided in his favor, and it was adjudged
that he was the lawful owner in fee simple absolute of thc
land, and that the city had no estate, right, title or interes
VOL. cxxxn-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

therein, and be forever restrained and debarred from asserting any That judgment remained in full force and effect.
And on May 21, 1875, Palmer conveyed this land to one
H~ollis, from whom by mesne conveyances these defendants
claimed title.
The Superior Court gave judgment-for the defendants, and
the plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of California,
which affirmed the judgment, and the .plaintiff sued out this
writ of error.
Opinions of the Supreme Court Commissioners and of the
Supreme Court of the State were filed in the case and copied
in the record. The Commissioners were of opinion that under
the rule. stated in Hoadley v San Franczsco, 50 California,
265, Sawyer v San Franozsco,50 California, 370, and loadley
v. San Francsoo,70 California., 290, and 124 U. S. 639, the
compromise could not be sustained, for want of powe- in the
city .to make it, but that the judgment pleaded was a bar,
according to the decision in San Franesco v iolliday, 76
California, 18' The Supreme Court was of opinion that the
judgment should be affirmed, for the reasons given in the
opinion of the Commissioners. 22 Pacific Reporter, 75.
.r John 1. Love, Mr George Flournoy and Mr J B.
.Mhoon, for plaintiff in error.
_Mr Thomas _D Rorda, Mr William Levnston and _Mr
George Levzston, for defendants in error.
MM. JUSTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This court has. no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the
highest court of a State, unless. a federal question has been,
either in express terms or by necessary effect, decided by that
court against -the plaintiff in error. Rev Stat. ยง 709, _New
Orleans Materworks v Louzszana Sugar Refinsng Co., 125
U. S: 18, De Saussure v Gaillard,127 U. S. 216, Hale v
Akers, 132 U. S.554.
In the present case, the record of the pleadings, findings of

