OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

by this court in the case of Richmond v. Irons, before
quoted.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affrmed.
MR. CIEF JUSTICE FULLER, having been of counsel in Richmond v Irons, took no part in the consideration or decision of
this case.

STUART v. BOULWARE.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 1495. Submitted January 6, 1890.-Decided January 20, 1890.
An allowance of counsel fees on behalf of a receiver is made to the receiver,
and not to the counsel.
A receiver is an officer of the court, entitled to apply to the court for instruction and advice, and permitted to retain counsel, whose fees are
within the just allowances that may be made by the court.
Allowances to a receiver for counsel are largely discretionary, and the
action of the court below in this respect is treated by an appellate court
as presumably correct.
MOTIONS TO DISMISS OR

A

n

.

The case is stated m the

opinion.
31 r W Halett PAi2ij2* for the motions.
.Mr Jehn . Eenna and AXr -M. F .Mtorms opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

William A. Stuart filed a-bill against the Greenbrier White
Sulphur Springs Company and others in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Distric* of West Firginia, praying
among other things for the appointment of a receiver, and
upon the 13th day of April, 1883, A. L. Boulware of the city
of Richmond, Virginia, was appointed by consent "receiver of

STUART v. BOULWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

all the estate, both real and personal, of the defendant company"
iHe was required to give bond in the sum of $50,000,
to make an inventory of the property upon taking possession,
and to file it with the clerk of the court, to keep a full, clear
and accurate statement of his acts and doings, and to render
an account monthly It was further ordered that "until further orders the defendant company shall be allowed to conduct
its business of hotel-keeping as it may deem best for the interest
of said company and its creditors, and its leases and contracts
for the proper conduct of its business already made shall be
allowed by the receiver to stand, but the receiver shall collect
and account for the receipts ;6f the company, allowing the
said company all expenditures necessary economically to conduct its business, and shall report his receipts and allowances
monthly to this court." The receiver gave bond and entered
upon the discharge of his duties accordingly It appears that
the property at the time was leased as a hotel, but with the
season of 1883 that lease terminated, and thereafter the receiver Tented the property from year to year under the
authority of the court. The rents for five successive seasons
amounted to $100,000 and upwards, of which this record shows
the receipt of more than $70,000, (including some amounts
from sales,) the disbursement by the receiver of more than,
$67,000, the subsequent receipt of something over $14,000, and
that all of the rents had been received and accounted for
except the receipts for the last season, the receipts and, disbursements for that year having been reported to the court, but that
report .not appearing in this record. The record contains
various petitions, reports and accounts, by the receiver, and
orders thereon, and it is also shown that the receiver sold
cattle, horses, wines and liquors belonging to the company,
took various journeys with his counsel to Baltimore, New
York and Parkersburg, and -had litigation. In September,
1887, the Greenbrier White Sulphur Springs property proper,
end some other property of the company, was sold by special
commssioners appointed by the court, for $380,700, to the
complaifsant, Stuart.
On the 26th day of October, 1885, the receiver was f'author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ized to retain to his own use, out of any funds in his hands as
such receiver and on account of his services, the sum of thirtyfive hundred ($3500) dollars, and he is further authorized to
pay Leigh R. Page, esquire, the sum of eighteen hundred
($1800) dollars on account of his services as counsel to said
receiver."
On the 5th day of February, 1889, the receiver filed his
petition, setting forth that during his said receivership, acting
under authority from the court, he had rented out the property
for five successive seasons for more than $100,000, all of which
had been accounted for except the receipts from the last year's
renting, and the receipts and disbursements for that year had
been reported to the court, and that, as soon as his report,
which had been filed, had been acted upon by the court, which
'he asked might be speedily done, he was ready to submit his
accounts to the auditor to examine and settle the same that
his duties as such receiver had terminated, that his services in
that capacity had been arduous and exacting, that he had
been allowed $3500 on. account for those services, and desired
to settle with his counsel, Mr. Page, for professional services
rendered to him with "diligence and fidelity during the whole,
of said receivership," that $1800 had been-allowed said counsel under a special order in the fall of 1885, but he had, however, paid counsel $2500. In consideration of the premises
the receiver prayed the court to allow him and his counsel
such further compensation as the court might deem reasonable.
and proper. The matter conting on to be heard upon this
petition, and having been argued by counsel, the court ordered
"that the sum of four thousand, five hundred ($4500) dollars
be,and the same is hereby; allowed to the said Boulware in
full compensation for his said services, and the sum of two
thousand ($2000) dollars-be, and the same is hereby, allowed
to the said Leigh fR. Page in full compensation for his services
as counsel to said receiver."
From this decretal order the complainant, Stuart, prayed
an appeal to this court, which is now before us on a motion to
dismiss or affirm.

Counsel for appellees contends- that these

allowances should be taken separatyly, and as neither of them

STUART v. BOULWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

amounts to $5000, that the appeal should be dismissed. On
the other hand it is argued, and in this we concur, that if it
were proper for the receiver to employ counsel, the allowance
of reasonable counsel fees is to the receiver and not directly to
the counsel, and that such fees would constitute only one of
the items in the receiver's account, that the counsel had no
cause of action, but the allowance was in legal effect to the
receiver to enable him to make compensation for professional
services. It is also insisted, as a second ground of dismissal,
that Stuart prosecuted the suit as a creditor, "on behalf of
himself and, of other creditors of the company, who may come
in and contribute to the costs of the suit, and that the record
does not show that Stuart claims aninterest sufficient in
amount to give the court jurisdiction." But it appears from
the record that Stuart claimed to be the bolder and owner of
a very large amount of the debts, which were first liens upon
the property, and to which the surplus of the cash payment
which would remain after paying the costs of suit and expenses
of sale wpuld be applicable, that the sale was for $380,700, and
of that sum $38,070 was paid in cash, and that Stuart insisted
that after deducting the costs of suit and expenses of sale
therefrom, the larger part, if not the whole of the balance,
should be repaid to him, so that Stuart's interest as claimed
might cover more than $5000, if the disallowances should be
sufficiently large. But while, therefore, we shall overrtile the
motion to dismiss, it is unquestionable that there was color for
it, and that we can consider the motion to affirm in accordance with the rule on that subject.
The receiver is an officer of the court and subject to its
directions and orders, and while, in the discharge of his official
duties, he is at all times entitled to apply to the court for
instruction and advice, he is also permitted to obtain counsel
for himself, and counsel fees are considered as within the just
allowances that may be made.by the court. The order of October 26, 1885, recognizes the employmeit by the receiver of
counsel in this litigation, although no specific original order
giving that authority is found in the record. So far as the
allowances to counsel are concerned, it is a mere question as to
VOL. cxxxm-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

their reasonableness. Nor is there any doubt of the power of
courts of equity to fix the compensation of their own receivers.
That power results necessarily from the relation which the
receiver sustains to the court, and in the absence of any legislation regulating the receiver's salary or compensation, the
matter is left entirely to the determination of the court from
which he derives his appointment.
The compensation is usually determined according to the circumstancdes of the particular case, and corresponds with the
degree of responsibility and business ability required in the
management of the affairs entrusted to him, and the perplexity
and difficulty involved in that management. Like all questions
of costs in courts of equity, allowances of this kind are largely
discretionary, and the action of the court below is treated as
presumptively correct, "since it has far better means of knowing what is just and reasonable than an appellate court can
have," as was remarked by Mr. Justice Bradley in Trusteem v
Greenougk, 105 U. S. 527, 537, where the subject is considered.
We find nothing in this record justifying us in arriving at
the conclusion that these allowances were excessive. Considering the number of years covered by the receivership, the
responsibility involved, the evident difficulties surrounding
the, receiver, and the amounts collected and disbursed, it would
be going very far to hold the action of the Circuit Court to
have been an abuse of discretion. The motion to affirm will
therefore be sustained.
Motion to disnwss denwed. itotwon to affirm granted.

