OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and -are legally chargeable. He has no power to review, revise
and alter items, expressly allowed by statute, nor items of
expenditures or allowances made upon the judgment and discretion of other officers charged with the duty of expending
the money or of making the allowances. His duty extends no
further than to see that the officers charged with that duty
have authorized the expenditures q have made the allow
ances." 21 C. Cl., 37, 38.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of
Clanns is
_________Afirmmd.

COULAM v. DOULL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UrAH.
No. 124. Submitted November 18, 1889. -Decided

January 27, 1890.

Under the statute of Utah, enacting that when a testator omits to provide
m his will for any of his children or the issue of any deceased child,
such child or issue of a child shall have the same share in the estate it
would have had had the testator died intestate, "unless it shall appear that
such omission was intentional," the intention of the testator is not necessarily to be gathered from the will alone, but extrinsic evidence is admissible to prove it.
A statute of Massachusetts, touching wills in which the testator fails to
make provision for a child or children or issue of a deceased child in
being when the will was made, was substantially followed by the legislature of California, and, as enacted in California, was followed in Utah.
In Massachusetts it received a construction by the Supreme Judicial
Court of the State which the Supreme Court of California had, before
the adoption of the statute in Utah, declined to follow. In a case arlsing
under the statute of Utah; Held, that the court was at liberty to adopt
the construction which was in accordance with its own judgmenlt, and
that it was not obliged to follow the construction given to it by the
Supreme Court of California.

JOHN COULAM of Salt Lake City, in the county of Salt Lake
and Territory of Utah, died at that place -on the 20th day of
May, A.D. 1877, leaving him surviving, his widow, now Ann
Doull, (she having since his death intermarried with one
George Doull,) and John Coulam, George Coulam, Henry
Coulam, Fanny Baker and Sarah J Heiner, his children and

COULAMI

v. DOULL

Statement of the Case.

buly heirs-at-law At the time of his death, the said John
Coulam was seized inifee simple, and in possession, of the
following described real property, to wit: "All of lot No. six
(6), in block fifty-nine (59), in plot 'B,' Salt Lake City survey, in the city and county of Salt Lake and Territory aforesaid, with the tenements and appurtenances thereunto belonging." He left -a last will and testament, which was duly
admitted to probate, and was as follows
"I, John Coulam, being of sound mind and memory, do
make and publish this my last will and testament in manner
and form following- I give and bequeath unto my beloved
wife, Ann Coulam, all my personal property and real estate,
to wit, the sum of one thousand and twenty-five ($1025) dollars, held in trust by Wells, Fargo & Co., and now due me
from the Hon. William A. Hamill by note .now m my possession, and I also give and bequeath unto my said beloved wife
Ann my freehold estate known and recorded as lot six (6),
block fifty-nine (59), plot 'B,' Salt Lake City survey, with all
the messuages, tenements and appurtenances thereunto belonging; and all the rest, residue and remainder, and all the debts
accruing to me, of my personal estate, goods and chattels of
what kind and nature soever I give and bequeath the same to
my said beloved wife; and I hereby revoke all former wills by
me made."
Upon the 2d of November, 1885, the children of the testator
and one Zera Snow brought an action in the District Court .of
the Third Judicial District of the .Territory to recover an
undivided interest in the real estate dbove described, the
children claiming, as heirs-at-law, three-quarters of the estakte,
real and personal, of Coulam, deceased, and Zera Snow, as
owner by conveyance from said heirs-at-law made since the
death of John Coulam, an undivided one-fourth part of the
real estate in question, the plaintiffs together averring title to
an undivided three-quarters thereof.
The complaint set up.the will, and alleged "that in or by said
will said John Coulam, testator, omitted to provide for any of
his said children, the said. plintiffs that it does not appeal
that said omission was intentional." The defendant answered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and denied "that the omission of said decedent testator to
provide in his said will for his said children was not intentional
on the part of said testator, and, on the contrary, alleges that
said omission was intentional on the part of said testator and
so appears." A jury having been expressly waived, the cause
was heard by the court.
Upon the trial evidence was offered on behalf of the defendant, and admitted over the objection of the plaintiffs, tending
to show that before and after and at the time of the execution
and publication of the will, and up to the time of his death,
the testator was in full possession of his faculties, and of sound
and perfect memory, that he had no other property when the
will was executed or at his death, than that mentioned in the
will, that he had previously personally prepared the drafts of
two other wills, which he called for and which were before
him when the will in question was drawn, both of .those prior
wills being in his own handwriting and signed by him, and
omitting to provide for his children, that the instrument in
question was drawn by a Mr. Campbell, to whom the testator
gave instructions as to what it should contain, that the testator's wife, the defendant in this action, had lived with him
for nearly thirty years, had raised his children, the youngest
from babyhood, and had worked hard and helped to make the
money with which the houses upon the lot were built, that
the children had all attained maturity, were married, and had
homes of their own, (chiefly bestowed on them by the testator
and his wife,) and were in comfortable circumstances, and that
his daughters and sons were in daily attendance upon him
during his last illness, and when the will was drawn up and
executed. INone of the evidence was offered for the purpose
of showing advancements.
The court thereupon rendered its decision in writing, and
made and filed the following finding of fact
"That the omission and failure of John Coulam, senior, the
testator, to provide for any of his children, the said plaintiffs,
in his last will and testament, was intentional on his part."
And the conclusion of law "That the defendant is entitled
to recover herein."

COULAN

v. D.OULL.

Argument for Appellants.

Judgment was accordingly entered for the defendant, and
the cause was brought here on appeal.
M
lants.

Milliam C. Hall and Mr John A. Xarshall for appel-

The appellants and the appellee claim under a common
source of title, viz. one John Coulam, who died testate in
1877. His will is set out in the complaint, and purports to
give Ins entire estate to his wife, the appellee, entirely ignormg the appellants, his children.
(694) Section 10, Compiled Laws of Utah of 1876, p. 2,2,
is as follows "When any testator shall omit to provide in his
or her will for any of his or her children, or for the issue of
any deceased child, unless it shall appear that such omission
was intentional, such child, or the issue of such child, shall
have the same share in the estate of the testator as if he or
she had died intestate, to be assigned. as provided in the preceding section."
(703) Sec. -19,Compiled Laws of 1876, p. 273, provides that
if the decedent leave a husband or a wife and more than one
child, the estate of the decedent goes one-fourth to the surviving husband or wife for life, and the remainder with the
other three-fourths to the children.
Two issues are raised by the pleadings but the second,
having been abandoned below, there remains in this court for
discussion only the question Was the omssion of the testator
to provide in Ins will for his children intentional? The question of law raised by the assignmeAt of errors relates to the
admission of parol testimony, tending to prove that the testator intentionally omitted to provide, for his children a part
of such testimony being the contents of two drafts of former
wills, not published or witnessed.
On the part of the appellants it is contended that the oussion of the testator to provide in his will for his children, by
virtue of the statute, annexes to the will the condition that
the will shall be void, quoad the children, unless a contrary
intention appears by intrinsic evidence, and that the operatioji

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

of this rule of law is altogether independent of the intention
of the testator except as that intention may be expressed in
the will.
It is a general rule that the intent of a testator must be
found on the face of the will, and that extrinsic evidence is
inadmissible to .show it, the exception being where such evidence is needed to remove a latent ambiguity Mann v
.Mann, 1 Johns. Oh. 231, Tucker v Seaman's Asl Soctety,
7 Met. 188, iSpencer v. liggzns, 22 Connecticut, 526, Zurtz
v. Hibner, 55-Illinois, 514.
To this general rule and its limitations as stated we find no
opposing authority, but it is contended in behalf of the appellee that this rule is not applicable to the-case at bar.
Our statute on the subject of pretermitted children is but an
outgrowth of the common law doctrine of the implied revocation of a will by a subsequent marriage and birth of issue,
and the authorities defining that doctrine of the common law
will assist in arriving at the proper construction of the statute
in question.
Under the doctrine above referred to, it was well settled
that no revocation would be implied by law if the testator in
his will made any provision, however small, for the future
wife and children, such provision furnishing intrinsic evidence
that he did not intend the future alteration in his circumstances to work a revocation of his will. .Kenebelv. Scrafton,
2 East, 530, 541.
It was then contended, as it is claimed by appellee in this
case, that the entire doctrine was one of presumption raised
by the parol proof of extrinsic circumstances, viz. the subsequent marriage and birth of issue, and that a presumption
so raised could be rebutted by like parol evidence.
This contention received serious consideration in Marston v
Boe, 8 Ad. & El. 14, decided in 1838, the case having been
argued in the presence of all the judges of England, with the
exception of Lord Denman, as stated in the opinion, and it
was in that case decided that no extrinsic evidence would be
admissible to prove an intention against revocation, but that
the revocation took place by virtue of a condition tacitly an-

COULAX v[. DOULL.
Argument for Appellants.

°nexed to the will by the law, independent of the intention of
the testator, except as such intention was expressed in the will.
A portion of the evidence so excluded was, as in the case at
bar, the drafts of two former wills.
And the reason for the exclusion of such evidence is stated
to be, that the statute required wills of real estate to be in
writing, and that the object of the statute was to prevent the
title to real property from being dependent on "the perplexity
and uncertainty of such conflicting evidence."
The same reason exists in this Territory See sec. (654),
p. 265, and sec. (686), p. 271, Compiled Laws of Utah, 1876.
The case of -Larston v Roe has been always followed in
this country 2 Greenl. Ev §§ 684, 685, C. B. & Q Railroad
v Wasserman, 22 Fed. Rep. 872.
In Massachusetts in 1783, a statute was passed containing
the following provision, viz. "That any child or children,
not having a legacy given them in the will of their
father or mother, shall have a proportion of the estate of their
parent assigned to him, her or them, as though such parent
" Stat. of 1783, c. 24, § 8. It was
had died intestate.
the well settled construction of this statute by the Supreme
Court of said State, that although the child had no legacy
left him in the will of the parent, yet if an- intention to omit
hu appeared, he would not be entitled to -any portion of the
estate. Tucker v. Boston, 18 Pick. 162, 167, Wilson v. Foseet,
6 Met. 400; S. .39 Am. Dec. ,736. But it was equally well
settled that such intention could only be made to appear by
intrinsic evidence, and that all extrinsic evidence of such intent was inadmissible. See cases above cited.
After this statute was thus judicially construed the laws "of
M£assachusetts were revised. See. 21 of c. 62, Rev. Stats., provided that an heir for whom an ancestor omits to provide
in his will, is entitled to a distributive share of the ancestor's
estate, unless he shall have "been provided for by the testator
in his lifetime, or unless it shall appear that such omission was
intentional, and not occasoned by any mistake or acctdent."
It is stated by the Commissioners for revising the statutes, in
their note to the section last quoted, that it. was taken from

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

Stat. 1783, c. 24, 11adopting the construction which has been
gxven to it by the Supreme Court." See brief of counsel for
appellee in Wilson v _Fosket, cited ante.
Under this last statute Filson v Fosket was decided in 1843.
That case, without overruling the prior cases in Massachusetts
under the statute of 1783, or intimating a doubt of their correctness, decided that the commissioners "had builded better
than they knew," and that under the new statute parol evidence, including evidence of the parol declarations of the testator, was admissible to show that the testator intended to
omit to provide for his child. That case has ever since been
followed M Massachusetts under the same statute.
Iowa adopted the Massachusetts statute, last cited, and
adopted with it the judicial construction placed thereon by the
Massachusetts courts. Zorzeux v Keller, 5 Iowa, 196, S. C. 68
Am. Dec. 696.
We submit that unless the Massachusetts cases under the
new statute find their warrant for the admission of extrinsic
evidence in the words, "and not occasioned by any mistake or'
accident," they are opposed to both principle and the weight
of authority It is difficult to conceive how a mistake or accident can be shown except by extrinsic evidence, and such mistake or accident as will permit the child to inherit has been
held in Massachusetts to be perfectly consistent with an intentional omission of the child's name from the will. Pamsdill
v. Wentworth, 101 Mass. 125.
In M issouri the statute is substantially the same as the Massachusetts statute of 1783, and has uniformly received the same
construction, viz. that to disinherit a child it is not necessary
that he should be. named or provided for in the will of the
parent, if the omission to do so appears to be intentional, but
that such intention can only be proved by intrinsic evidence.
BradZey v Bradley, 24 Missouri, 311, Burc v Brown, 46
Missouri, 441, Pounds v Dale, 48 Missouri, 270, ]Fetherallv
H7arrm, 51 Missouri, 65. See, also, Chace v Chace, 6 R. I. 407,
S. C. 78 Am. Dec. 446.
The Utah statute in question is precisely similar, it seems to
us, to the Massachusetts statute of 1783 and to the Missouri
statute as they were judicially construed.

COULAM v. DOULL.
Argument for Appellants.

'In California in 1868, in the case of Estate of Gaooraud,
35 California, 336, section 17 of the Stat. of Wills of that
State, of which (694) sec. 10, Comp. Laws of Utah, 1876,
is an exact copy, first received a judicial construction by the
Supreme Court. In that case it was held that the intention of
the testator to omit to provide for his children can only be
gathered from the face of the will, that it can only be proved
by evidence competent to prove any other testamentary intention, and that evidence of the acts and declarations of the testator is inadmissible to prove such intention.
Suppose at the time of the actual execution of the will, the
testator unintentionally omits to provide for his children, but
that afterwards he changes his mind and declares his intention
not to provide for them, is the will, ambulatory in the meantime2 and where are such changes to stop 9
If there be any doubt as to the true construction of the statute in question, it would be settled by the consideration, that
in adopting the California statute, we adopted its received
construction in California, which must be considered as accompanying the statute to this Territory, and forming an integral
part of it. Cathcartv Robnson, 5 Pet. 264, Bem v Becker,
1 Kansas, 226.
The leading case of Estate of Garraud,35 California, 336,
was decided in 1868. In the case of Estate of Utz, 43 California, 200, decided in 1872, and in Pearson v Pearson, 46
California, 609, decided in 1873, the leading case was admitted
by counsel to be controlling in California, and its authority has
never been questioned in that State.
In 1876, the legislature of Utah Territory enacted a statute
of wills, seven sections of which were literally copied from the
California act, as it was when the Estate of Garraudwas
decided. See sections, 6-12 inclusive, Compiled Laws of Utah,
p. 271. One of these sections, section 10, is the one invoked
by appellants in this case. It is to be presumed, then, that
the legislature of Utah Territory was familiar with the judicial construction of the California statute placed thereon by
the highest court of that State, and that they intended to
adopt that construction when they adopted the statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

Although evidence of all the circumstances which surrounded
the author of a written instrument will be received for the
purpose of ascertaining his intentions, yet those intentions
must ultimately be determined by the language of the instrument. No proof, however conclusive in its nature, can be
admitted with the view of setting up an intention inconsistent
with the known meaning of the writing itself. For the duty
of the court in all these cases is to ascertain, not what the
parties may have really intended, as distinguished from what
their words express, but simply what is the meaning of the
words they have used. It is merely a duty of interpretation,
and evidence of surrounding circumstances cannot change the
legal effect of clear and unambiguous words. Reynolds v
-Fire Ins. Co., 47 N. Y 597, 606, Partrztdge v rns. Co., 15
Wall. 573 -Marylandv Railroad Co., 22 Wall. 105, _Kurtz
v llibner, 55 Illinois, 514, Waldron v Waldron, 45 Michigan,
350. There is no pretence made iu this case that the language
of the will is not clear and unambiguous.
The uniform language of the authorities is to the effect
that no intention to omit to provide for the children appears
by reason of the absolute devise to the appellee. C. B. & Q
Railroadv Wasserman, 22 Fed. Rep. 874, Pounds v Dale,
48 Missouri, 270, Ramsdill v Wentworth, 106 Mass. 320,
Bush v Lndsay, 44 Califorma, 121.
Ar Benjambn Sheeks and
appellee.

Mr" Josep

L. Rawlins for

MR. CHiEF JusTicE FULL R, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Accepting the finding of fact that the testator intentionally
excluded his children from any share of the prouerty disposed
of by the will, respecting which, upon this record, there could
be no doubt, the only question in the case is as to whether the
court erred in admitting extrinsic evidence to establish that
the omission to provide for the children was intentional. The
solution of this question depends upon the proper construction
of the statutes of Utah bearing upon the subject.

COULAM v. DOULL.
Opinion of the Court.

'Under those statutes a will or codicil to "pass the estate-of
the devisor" must be in writing, and by section one of "An
Act relative to the Estates of Decedents," approved February
18, 1876, which is. section 685 of the Compiled Statutes of
Utah of that year, "every devise purporting to convey all the
real estate of the testator" carried that subsequently acquired,
",unless it shall dlearly appear by his or her will that he or
she intended otherwise."
Sections 9, 10 and 12 are as follows
(693) "S~c. 9. When any child shall have been born, after
the making of its parent's will, and no provision shall have
been made for him or her therein, such child shall have the
same share in the estate of the testator, as if the testator had
died intestate, and the share of such child shall be assigned
as provided by law, in case of intestate estates, unless it shall
be apparent from the will that it was the intention of the testator that no provision should be made for such child.
.
10. When any testator shall omit -to provide
(694) "S Ec.
in his or her will for any of his or her. children or for the issue
of any deceased child, unless it shall appear that such omission
was intentional, such child, or the issue of such child, shall
have the same share in the estate of the testator as if he or
she had died intestate, to be assigned as provided in the preceding section."
(696) "SEC. 12. If such. child, or children, or their descendants, so unprovided for, shall have had an equal proportion of
the testator's estate bestowed on them in the testator's lifetime,
by way of advancement, they shall take nothing in virtue of
the provisions of the three preceding sections." 'Compiled
Laws of Utah, 1876, 262, c. 2, tit. 14.
Section 19 provides that, .incase of intestacy, if the decedent left a husband or a -wife and more than one child, the
estate of- the decedent shall go, one-fourth to the surviving
husband or wife for life and the remainder with the other
three-fourths to the children.
It will be seen that section 12 applies to-advancements during the lifetime of the testator, and section 9 to a child born
after the execution of the will, no provision having been -made
VOL. CXX=-I5

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

for it therein. The child is to take its share as provided by
law in case of intestacy, "unless it shall be apparent from the
will that it was the intention of the testator that no provision
should be made for such child." And section 10 relates to
children in being, or the issue of any deceased child, at the
time of the execution of the will, who are to take as in case of
intestacy, "unless it shall appear that such omission was
intentional."
As to a child born after the making of the will; the intention
to omit must be apparent from the will, as to children in
being when the.will is made, the statute does not say how it
shall appear that the omission was intentional. But it is
insisted on behalf of appellants that such intention is required
in the latter case also to appear from the will, and cannot be
shown by evidence aliunde.
The source of the statute under consideration was undoubtedly that of Massachusetts upon the same subject, though it
is said that this particular statute was taken from a similar
one in California.
The first and second sections of an act of the Province of
Massachusetts, passed in the year 1700, (12 Win. 3,) with their
preambles, read as follows
"Forasmuch as it often happens
that children are not borne till after the death of their fathers,
and also have no provision made for them in their wills,
"IBeit therefore enacted, etc., That as often as any child
shall happen to be borne after the death of the father, without having any provision made in his will, every such posthumous child shall have right and interest in the estate of his or
her father, in like manner as if he had died intestate, and the
same shall accordingly be assigned and set out as the law
directs for the distribution of the estates of intestates.
"And whereas, through the anguish of the diseased [deceased]
testator, or through his solicitous intention though in health,
or through the oveiisight of the scribe, some of the testator's
children are omitted and not mentioned in the will, many
children also being borne after the makeing of the will, th6
in the lifetime of their parents,
"Be it therefore enacted,etc., That any child or children not.

COULAX v. DOULL.
Opinion of the Court.

having a legacy given them in the will of their father or
mother, every such child shall have a proportion of the estate
of their parents given and set out unto them as the law directs
for the distribution of the estates of intestates, p)rovided such
child or children have not had an equal proportion of his. estate
bestowed on them by the father in his lifetime." 1 Mass.
Province Laws, 429, 430.
This provincial act was in effect repealed by an act of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, passed February 6th, 1784;
by which it was revised, the phraseology somewhat changed,
and the preambles omitted. Mass. Stat. 1783, c. 24 §§ 1, 8.
By the first section of this latter act any person seized in
fee simple of any estate is authorized to devise the same to
and among his children or others, as he shall think fit, without
any limitation of persons whatsoever. By the eighth section
ib s provided "that any child or children, or their legal representatives in case of their death, not. having a legacy given
him, her or them in the will of their father oi mother, shall
have a proportion of the estate of their parents assigned unto
him, her or them-, as though such parent had died intestate,
provided such child, children or grandchildren have not had
an equal proportion of the deceased's estate bestowed on him,
her or them in the deceased's lifetime."
The Supreme Judicial Court held that the object of the
statute was to furnish a remedy solely for those cases, where,
from accident or other causes, the children or grandchildren
might be supposed 'to have been forgotten by the testator in
making his will, and' that, whenever from the tenor of the
will or any.part of it, sufficient evidence appeared to indicate
that the testator had not forgotten his children or grandchildren; as the case might be, when he made his will, they should
not be entitled to a distributive share of his estate, although
no legacy was given them by the will. Terry v Foster, 1
Mass. 146, Wild v. Brewer, 2 Mass. 570, Church v Crocker
'3 Mass. 17, Wider v Gbss, 14 Mass. 357.
Thus, although the statute provided that a child should take,
notwithstanding its name was omitted, the court ruled that if
on the face of the will it appeared that such omission was in-

OCTOBER TERN, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tentional, the child could not take, hence, whenever the will
was silent the child took, and to prevent that result, where
such silence was by design, the statute was amended, so as to
read as follows
"When any testator shall omit to provide in his will for any
of his children, or for the issue of any deceased child, they
shall take the same share of his estate, both real and personal,
-that they would have been entitled':to if he had died intestate,
unless they shal have been provided for by the testator in is
lifetime, or unless it shall appear that such omission was intentional, and not occasioned by any mistake or accident."
Rev Stat. Mass. 1836, c. 62, § 21.
How appear? Evidently aliunde the will. If it must appear upon the face of the will that the omission was intentional, the words inserted in- the statute were superfluous, for
if it did so appear the child could not take, notwithstanding
the provision that in case of omission it should take, inasmuch as the latter provision was only inserted to give the
omitted child a share, not against the intention of the testator,
but because of the presumption of an oversight. Hence in
IWilson v Fosket, 6 Met. 400, the court held that. under the
statute as amended, evidence ddors the will was admissible to
establish that the omission was intentional, and such is the
Converse v. Wales, 4 Allen,
settled law of Massachusetts.
512, Buckley v Gerard, 123 Mass. 8 , Ramsdill v WeVdwortkt,
101 Mass. 125. In the latter case the court said "The opera.tion of the statute is peculiar, but there is no violation under
it of the rules of evidence. The only issue is, whether provision was omitted in tho will by design, and without mistake
or accident. Parol evidence is admitted, although the result
may change or modify the disposition of the testator's estate.
The will is used to show that there is no legacy under it, and
however the issue may be established, there is no conflict with
its terms."
In Bancroft v Ives, 3 Gray, 367, the statute of Massachusetts was held to apply to children born after the making of the
will and before the death of their father. The argument was
pressed thqt the language "omit to.provide in his will" neces-

COULAM v. 'DOULL.
Opinon of the Couit.

sarily meant and should be confined to children living at the
time of making the will. This argument was regarded by
Chief Justice Shaw as plausible but not sound, because as. a
man's will is ambulatory until his decease, the time to which
the omission applied was the time of the testator's death. If,
therefore, he -hadthen made no provision by his will, the case
of the statute arose, for he had made a will, but left a child
without having made any provision for such child.
By the Utah statute, however, specific provision is made for
children born after the making of the will, and also for children in being but omitted when the will is made. Children
born after the making of the will but before.the decease, inherit, unless it appears from the will that the testator intended
that they should not. And this applies to posthumous children.
Mr. Jarman -ays it down that marriage and the birth of a
child, conjointly, revoked a man's will, whether of personal or
real estate, these circumstances producing such a total change
in the testator's situation as to lead to a presumption that he
could not have intended a disposition of property previously
made to continue'unchanged. But this effect is not produced
where there is a provision made for both wife and children by
the will itself, enebeZ v Scrafton, 2 East, 530, or by a previous
settlement providing for both. 1 Jarman on Wills, 4th Eng.
ed., 5th Am. ed. *123, *125.
Revocation, treated as matter of presumption merely., was
thought, in Brady v- Cubitt, 1 Doug. 31, open, to be rebutted
by parol evidence, *and this is guardedly conceded by Chancellor Kent in Brusk v Wilkzns, 4 Johns. Ch. 506, and by Mr.
Greenleaf, vol. 2, § 684. But, as is stated in a note to that
section, the doctrine that the presumption is not conclusive has
been overruled, upon great consideration, in the cases of Xrarston v Boe, S Ad. & El. 1-, and Israeli v Rodon, 2 Moore
-P 0. 51, in the former of which it was, among other things,
resolved, that, " where an unmarried man, without children by
a former marriage, devises all the estate he has at the time of
making his will, and leaves no provision for any child of a
future marriage, the law annes_ to suck will the tacit condition
that if he afterwards marries, and has a child born of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1989.
Opmlon of the Court.

marriage, the will shall be revoked," and that "evidence not
amounting to proof of publication, cannot be received in a
court of law, to show that the testator intended that his will
should stand good, notwithstanding his subsequent marriage
and the birth of issue, because these events operate as a revocation by force of a mle of law, and independent of the
testator."
The subject is regulated in this country by the statutes of
the several States and Territories, marriage alone working
revocation under some, and both marriage and birth of issue
being required under others, while subsequently born children,
unprovided for, are allowed to take unless a contrary intention
appears.
But the provisibn we are considering concerns children in
being when the will is made. As to children born after death
or the making of the will, the reason why the intention to
omit them should appear on the face of the will is obvious. It
is the same as that upon which the doctrine of revocation
rests- the change in the testator's situation. But this reason
loses its force so far as children living when the will is made
are concerned, and this explains the marked difference between
the sections of the statutd before us applicable co the two
classes.
The statute raises a presumption that the omission to provide
for children or grandchildren living when a will is made is the
result of forgetfulness, infirmity or misapprehension, and not
of design, but this is a rebuttable presumption, in view of the
language employed, which negatives a taking contrary to an
intentional omission, and at the same'time leaves undefined the
mode by which the affirmative purpose is to be established.
Legal presumptions drawn by the courts independently of or
against the words of an instrument may be, in some instances,
repelled by extrinsic evidence, and this statutory presumption
of an unexpressed intention to .provide may be rebutted in the
same way
Under section 12, a pretermitted child is entitled to no share
if it has had an equal proportion by way of advancement, but
it is not contended that this fact must necessarily appear from

COULAM v. DOQULL.
Opinion of the Court.

the will when that is not required by statute, yet proof of
advancements and of intentional omission alike defeat the
claimant.
The rule as to patent and latent ambiguities, so far as analogous, sustains the same conclusion. Where a devise is, on
the face of it, clear and intelligible, yet from external circumstances an ambiguity arises as to which of two or more things,
or of two or more persons, the testator referred to, it being
legally certain that he intended one or the other, evidence of
his declarations, of the instructions given for his will, and of
other circumstances of the liker nature, is admissible to determine his intention.
The will in this case is entirely unambiguous. The testator's
intention was that his wife should have the property There
being children at the time of the execution of .the will, an
ambiguity may be said to have been created by operation of
the statute, as to their having been intentionally omitted,
which ambiguity evidence of the character named at once
removed.
Children so situated do not set up title under the will but
under the statute. The will is used to establish that they have
no legacy or devise under it. Then the inquiry arises whether
the testator intended to omit them. Evidence that he did
does not conflict with the tenor of the will. It simply proves
that he meant what he said. Instead of tending to show the
testator's real purpose to have been other than is apparent
upon the face of the will, it confirms the purpose there'indicated. The fact of the existence of. children when a will is
made is proven dehors the instrument, and since -under the
statute that evidence opens up a question as to the testator's
intention, which but for the statute could not have arisen, and
which by the statute is not required to be determined by the
will, we cannot perceive why the disposal of it should be so
limited.
It is contended that the statutory provision in question was
copied from that of California, and that we are bound by the
construction previously put upon it by the courts of the latter
State. The California act declared that in case of the omission

OCTOBER TERITY,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

of the testator to provide m his will for his children, they
should be entitled to the same share as in case of intestacy,
"unless it shall appear that such omission was intentional."
Laws of California, 1850, c. 52, , 17.
In Payne v Payne, 18 California, 291, 302, the Supreme
Court of California, speaking through its then Chief Justice,
Mr. Justice Field, said "The only object of the statute is to
protect the children against omission or oversight, which not
unfrequently aTises from sickness, old age, or other infirmity,
or the peculiar circumstances under which the will is executed.
When, however, the children are present to the mind of the
testator, and the fact that they are mentioned by him is conclusive evidence of this, the statute affords no protection, if
provision is not made for them. The inference follows that
no provision was intended;" and Terry v Foster, Wild v
Brewer, Church v Crocker, and Wilder v. Goss, su.pra, were
cited.
But in the Matter of the Estate of Garraud,35 California,
336, it was held that evidence aliunde the will was not admissible to show that the omission to make provision for children
was intentional, and, in respect to the Massachusetts decisions,
the court was of oDpinon that the words "and not occasioned
by any mistake or accident," found in the statute of Massachusetts but not i- that of Californxa, were very material, and
furnished the real ground for the admission of extrinsic evideuce. We do not think so. While those words may strengthen
the argument in favor of the admissibility of the evidence, it
by no means follows that the construction of the statute should
be otherwise in their absence. The evidence which shows that
the omission was intentional establishes that it was not through
accident or mistake. Action purposely taken by one in the
sufficient possession of his faculties, and not induced by fraud
or undue influencei excludes in itself the idea of casualty or
error.
We are satisfied that this particular phraseology was used
out of abundant caution, as serving to render the proper
construction somewhat plainer, and that the construction must
be the same, although those-words are not used.

