BOESCH v. GRAFF.
Syllabus.

to the trustees is notice to the 'beneficiaries. , Fidelity Co. v.,
Shenandoah Valey' Ycail-road, Supreme' Court 'of Appeals,
West Yirginia, February '25, 1889, 9 Southeastern Reporter,
181,185; Beverly v. Brookes, 2 Leigh, 446; Frenok .v. oya
Co., 5 Leigh, 627, 641.
The knowledge of the situation possessed by Mr. Old, one
of the trustees, who was the Bains' attorney at the time of the
assignment, and by whom it was drawn, was quite comprehensive, and was obtained in such a manner and under such
circumstances that he must be presumed to have communi
cated it. It was knowledge obtained in the particular transaction. The DistilledSpirits,11 Wall. 356, 366. There can be
no doubt, also, respecting the duty of the trustees to inquire
as to the rights of the bank, and that they are chargeable with
a knowledge of all the facts that inquiry would have disclosed.
The decree directs-that the costs of the suit be paid out of
the trust funds in the hands of the defendapt trustees, and as
we agree with the results arrived at by the Circuit Court, we
are of opinion that this direction was .correct. The decree
will be in all things
Affrmd.
MR. JusTinB BHEwFR- was not a member. of the court when
this case was argued and took no part in its debision.

BOESCH v. GRFF.
APPE A

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE X1

ED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.'
No. 1408.

Submitted January 10, 1890.-fDecided March 3, 18kO.

The refusal of a circuit court to grant a rehearing is not subject to review
here.
S., by an assignment absolute in form and for an expressed sum and "other
valuable considerations," assigned to G. an interest in letters patent. G.,
by a writing executed the following day,'made a further agreement witb
S. as to the times and modes and amounts'of payments, and 'further
agreed that if he should fail to carry out his said agreements, the title

OCTOBER TERM , 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
was to revert to S.; Held, that the transfer was absolute, subject to be
defeated by failure to perform the condition subsequent.
When an invention patented in a foreign country is also patented in the
United States, articles containing it cannot be imported into the United
States from the foreign country and sold here without the license or consent of the owner of the United States patent, although purchased in the
foreign country from a person authorized to sell them.
To a master's report upon the damages to be awarded In an equity suit
for the infringement of letters patent the exceptions raised the points:
(1), that the infringement was not wilful; (2), that the reduction in price
of the article manufactured by the plaintiff was not solely due to the
infringement; Held, that this was sufficient to bring before the court the
whole subject of the computation of damages.
When a plaintiff in a suit for the. infringement of letters patent seeks to recover because he has been compelled to lower his prices in order to
compete with the infringing defendant, he must either show that the reduction was due solely to the defendant's acts, or to what extent it was
due to them, and must furnish data by which actual damages may be
calculated.

IN "EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

fr. ~. J. Scrivner for appellants.

Mr. JAn

. -Millerand Mr. J. P. Ldngkorne for appellees.

Mr.. CurEi JUSTICE FULLElI delivered the opinion of the

court.
Albert Grff and J: F. Donnell filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of California against Emile Boesch and Martin Bauer, to recover for
infringement of letters patent No. 289,571, for an improveinent in lamp burners, granted on December 4, 1883, to Carl
Schwintzer and Wilhelm. Graff of Berlin, Germany, assignors
of one-half to J. F. Donnell & Co., of New York, all rights
being averred to be now vested in the complainants. Claim 1
alleged to have been infringed reads as follows:
"In a lamp burner of the class described, the combination;
with the guide tubes, of a ring-shaped cap provided with openinos for the wicks, said cap being applied to the upper ends of
the guide tubes, so as to close the intermediate spaces between
the same, substantially as set forth."

BOESCH v. GR.XFF.
Opinion of the Court.

Th patent was granted December 4, 1883, but prior to that,,
November 14, 1879, January 13, 1880, and March 26, 1880,
letters patent had been granted to Carl Schwintzer and Wilhelm 'Grf by the government of Germany -for the same
invention. After a hearing on the merits, an interlocutory
decree was entered, finding an infringement, and referring
the case to .a master for au accounting. The opinion will be
found reported in. 33 Fed. Rep. 279. A petition for a rehearing was filed and overruled. The case then went to the master,
who reported that the infringement was wilful, wanton and
persistent; that the appellees had sustained damages to the
extent of $2970.50; and that they waived all claims to the
profits realized by the infringement. Exceptions were filed to
this report and overruled, and a final decree entered in favor
of Grdff and Donnell for $2970.50, with interest, and costs,
from which decree this appeal has been prosecuted.
Appellants urge three grounds for reversal:
First. That a title to the patent sufficient to maintain a suit
for infringement was not at the date of filing the bill vested
inthe complainants.
Second. That Boesch and Bauer, could not be held for infringement, because they purchased the burners in Germany
from a person having the right to sell them there, though nota licensee under the German patents.
Third: "That the damages awarded were excessive.
These propositions are presented by some of the errors assigned, and are the only errors alleged which require attention,
that which questions the infringement not being argued by
counsel, and that which goes upon the refusal of the Cirbuit
Court to grint a rehearing not being open to consideration
here. Bufflngton v. Harvey, 95 U. S. 99, 100; Steines v.
Franklin County, 14 Wall. 15,22; Railway Company v. feck,
102 U. S. 120 ; -ennon, v. Gilmer, 131 U. S. 22, 24.
The assignment by Schwintzer to Albert Grdff was dated
the 22d day of April, 1885, was absolute in form and transferred title to six twenty-fourths of the patent for the expressed
consideration.of "th sum of one hundred dollars and for other
valuable considerations;" but a contract between Schwintzer

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court:

and Albert GrUff was produced by the latter upon his examination by the respondents, which read as follows:
"S. 1. Mr. Albert GrUff binds himself to pay to Mr. Carl
Schwintzer, instead of the; in the patent letter mentioned, one
hundred dollars for the first year, the sum of two hundred and
fifty marks, payable on the 1st February, 1886, and each following year on the same date the sum five hundred marks
(not less) till the amount of four thousand marks are paid in
all.,
' S. 2. Should Mr. Albert GrUff, of San Francisco, not be
able to sell more than one thousand burners, called Diamond
or Mitrailleuse burners, NSo. 10,621, manufactured by ,]Xess.
Schwintzer & GrUff, of Berlin, he reserves to himself to make
up a new agreement with Mr. Carl Schwintzer.
"S. 3. Should not Mr. Albert GrUff, San Francisco, against
all expectations, stick to the agreements mentioned in S. 1 and
2, all titles of the patent letter ceded to him by Carl Schwintzer
shall him return.
"S. 4. Mr. Carl Schwintzer, partner of the firm Schwintzer
& Graff, engages to 'deliver to Mr. Albert GrUff the said burners at the same price as before, if the market price of the
metal does not exceed - make 150% kos., and promise likewise
to effect any order promptly, if in his power."
Albert Graff testified in respect to the words, "instead of
the, in the patent letter mentioned, one hundred dollars for
the first year," etc., that they meant that, instead of the one
hundred dollars mentioned in the assignment, he was to pay
two hundred and fifty marks the first year, and that the contract was made one day later than the assignment. Counsel
contends that the two documents must be construed together,
and amount simply to an executory contract to assign when
Graff shill have paid the sum of 4000 marks; that, therefore,
Graff could at most only be regarded as a licensee of the
interest under the patent, until such-time as his contract should
be executed according to its terms; and that the legal right
as to six twenty-fourths of the patent remained in Schwintzer,
who was therefore a necessary party. It is evident that the
agreement was not drawn by parties well -versed in English,

BOESCH'v. GRAFF.
Opinion 'f the Court

but their intention is sufficiently 'apparent. The assignment
being absolute in form, conveyed the legal title,-and on the
next day the parties signed this contract, relating to the consideration, probably, to- en~ble Albert -Griiff to pay, the 4060
marks out of the sales of the burners; at all events, it provides
that if GrEff failed to carry out his covenants, then 'tha-title
was to return to Schwintzer, which provision was iri
the'nAture
of a security to him that he should be paid. The condition
that if Mr. Albert Gruff did not, ",against all expeetations,
stick to the agreements mentioned in S. 1 & 2, all titles of the
patent letter ceded to him by Carl Schwintzer slll
him
return," is a condition subsequent,. The title had-already
vested, but was liable to obe defeated in futuro on failure of
the. condition. There has been no,such failure, but on te
contrary Albert GrSff lhas paid the 4000 marks in 'full.., We
shall, therefore, not reverse the" decree on the ground first
referred to.
Letters patent had been granted to the original patentees
for the invention by.the, government of Germany in.1879 and
1880. A portion of the burners in question were purchased ini
Germany from one Hecht, who .had the right to make and s'ell
them there. By section :5 of the 'imperial patent-law of Germany, of May 25, 1877,it was provided that, "the patent does
not affect persons who, at the time of the patentee's applicatio, have already commenced toinake use of the invention in
the country, or made-the preparations requisite, for such use."
12 Off. Gaz. 183. Hecht had made preparations -to manufac&
ture the burners prior -to the application for the German
patent. The official .report of, a prosecution against Hecht in
the first criminal division of the Royal District 'Court,'No. 1,:
at Berlin, in its session of -March 1,1882, for an infringemen\
of the patbnt law, was putin evidence, wherefrom it 'appeared
that he was found not guiltyj-and judgment for-cdsts given in
his favor, upon the ground "that the defendant has already
prior to November 14, 1879 -that
is to say, at the time of
the application by the patentees for.and within-the State-made use of the invention in question, especially; however, had
made the necessary, preparations for its use. § 5,' ebdom Thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Schwintzer & Grff's patent is of no effect against him,,and
he had to be acquitted accordingly."
It appears that appellants received two invoices from Germany, the burners in one of which were not purchased from
Hecht, but in the view which we take of the case, that circumstance becomes immaterial. The exact question-presented
is whether a dealer residing in the United States can purchase
in another country artidles patented there, from a person authorized to sell them, and import them to and sell them in
the United States, without the license or consent of the owners
of the United States patent.
In Wilson .,1?ousseau, 4 How. 646, it was decided that a
party who had purchased and was using the Woodworth plan-

ing machine during the original term for which the patent
was granted, had a right to continue the use during an extension granted under the act of Congress of 1836; and Mr. Chief
Justice Taney, in Bloomer v. HfQuewan, 14 How. 539, 549,
says in reference to it, that "the distinction is there taken between the grant of the right to make and vend the machine and
the grant of the right to use it." And he continues: "The distinction is a plain one. The franchise which the patent grants
consists altogether in the right to exclude every one from making, using or vending the thing patented without the permission
of the patentee. This is all he obtains by the patent. And
when he sells the exclusive privilege of making or vending it
for use in a particular place, the purchaser buys a portion of
the franchise which the patent confers. He obtains a share
in the monopoly, and that monopoly is derived from, and
exercised under, the protection of the United States. And the
interest he acquires necessarily terminates at the time limiteI
for its continuance by the law which created it.

.

.

.

But

the purchaser of the implement or machine for the purpose of
using it in the ordinary pursuits of life stands on different
ground. In using it he exercises no rights created by the act
of Congress, nor does he derive title to it by virtue of the
franchise or exclusive privilege granted to the patentee. The
inventor might lawfully sell it to him, whether he had a patent or not, if no other patentee stood in his way.

And when

BOESCH

. GIAFF.

Opinion of the Court.

the machine passes to the, hands of the purchaser it is no
longer within the limits of the monopoly. It passes outside
of it, and is no longer under the protection of the act of 'Congress."
In Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453,'it was held that :'where
a patentee has assignedhis right'to manufacture, sell and use
within a limited district an instrument, machine or other manufactured product, a purchaser of such instrument or m achine,
when rightfully bought .within the prescribed limits, acquires
by such purchase the right to use it anywhere, without reference to other assignments of territorial rights by the same
patentee;" and that "the right to the use of ,such machines
or instruments stands on a different ground from the right
to make and sell them, and inheres in the nature of a contract of purchase, which carries 'no implied limitation to the
right- bf use within .6given locality." Mr.. Justice Bradley,
with whom concurred Mr. Justice Swayne and Mr. Justice
Strong, dissented, holding that the assignee's intei'est "was
limited in locality, both as td manufacture, and use."' The
right which Hecht had to make and sell the burners in Germany was allowed him under the laws of that country, and
purchasers from him could not be thereby authorized to sell
the articles in:the United States in defiance of the rights of
patentees under a 'United States patent. -. A prior.' foreign"
patent operates under our law to limit the duration of the
subsequent patent here, but that is'all. The sale. of articles in
the United States under. a United States patent cannot' be
controlled by foreign laws. This disposes of the second erroi
relied on.
This brings us to the consideration of the damages reporvec.
by the master, which report was, confirmed 'by the court; .ai.d
we are met on the threshold by the objection that the exceptions taken in the Circuit Court-were not sufficiently specific
to entitle appellants to raise the questions here upon which
they submit argument.
These exceptions aro as follows:
"First exception. For that the said master has in and by
his said report certified on page six thereof that 'the cap was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the essential feature of the Graff burner. The respondeits
adopted Graff's arrangement, and then reduced the price of
the burner, forcing Graff to do the same in order to hold his
trade. The evidence shows that the reduction in prices by
Gr'ff was solely due to the respondents' infringement. So far
as the evidence shows, the only competitors with Graff in the
use of his cap arrangement dui ing the period covered by the
accounting, were the respondents;' whereas the said master
ought-to have certified that respondents came innocently into
possession of the burners by purchase in the ordinary course of
business from legitimate manufacturers thereof in Germany, and
that immediately upon being notified that they were claimed
to be an infringement they ceased to. sell the same. The
evidence shows that at about the-time Gr'ff made the alleged
reduction in the price of his burners there were thrown upon
the market lamp-burners of other kinds'of equal or greater
power, which came directly in competition with the, Graff
burner, and that the reduction in price was the result of such
competition; that the sale of 14 infringing burners by resporident in the course of three years' trade could not have been a
sufficient competition to plaintiff's business to cause him to
make a reduction of price, where the testimony shows that
during the period from IMarch 1st, 1886, when complainant
reduced the price of burners, until October 31st, 1887, he sold
about 6000 of said burners.
"Second exception. For that the said master hath certified
'that the amount of damages which the complainant has suffered and sustained from and by reason of said infringement
is "two thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars and fifty
cents;' whereas he should have reported nominal damages.
"In all which particulars the report of the said master is, as,
the said respondent is advised, erroneous, and the said respon(lent appeals therefrom to the judgment of this honorable
court."
It is conceded that these exceptions raise two points,
namely, that the infringement was not wilful, and that the
reduction of prices was not caused solely by it. And this, as
it seems to,us, is quite sufficient to permit the real .question

BOESCH v. GRAFF.
Opinion of the Court.

involved to be passed upon.' The master awarded $2970.50 as
damages for the reduction in price, which, he holds, was caused
.bythe respondents' infringement. He says:
"After the reduction il his prices, complainant sold, at
wholesale, one thousand three hundred and twelve ten-wick
burners, at a price twenty-five cents less bn each than his orig
"inal price; four hundred and fifty twelve-wick burners, at
fifty .cents less; five hundred and ninety-two sixteen-wick
burners, .at seventy-five cents less; and seven hundred 'and
sixteen twenty-wick burners, at seventy-five cents less; a
total difference between the original and the reduced prices
of one thousand five hundred and thirty-five dollars and- fifty
cents.
"In addition, he sold at retail, on an average, 'five' burnerS
on each of the five hundred and seventy-four business days
between the time when his prices were first reduced andOctober 31st, 1887; the number of burners thus sold being
two thousand eight hundred and seventy, which were sold at
a minimum reduction of fifty cents each under original prices
--a total difference between the original and the new prices
of fourteen hundred and thirty-five dollars;- which sum, added
to the.said sum of on& thousand five hundred and thirty-five
of two."
dollars and fifty cents, gives .an aggregate amount
thousand nine hundred and seventy dollars and fifty cents?"
The report of a master is merely advisory to the court; which
it may accept and act upon in whole or, in part, according 'to
Iits own judgment as to the weight of the evidence. Ximberly
v.'Arms; 129 U. S. 512, 523. Yet, in dealing with exceptiong
to such reports, (the conclusions of the,-master, depending
upon'the weighing of conflicting testimony, have every reasonable presumption in their favor, and're -not to be set aside .r
modified..unless there clearly. appears 'to'-have been error -dr
mistake on his part." 'Tilghman v. PoItor,125 U. S. 136"
149 We think there was error here.within that rule.
Where the patentee granted no licenses, and had no established license fee, but supplied the demand -himself, and whs
able to do soi an .enforced redudtiofi, of rico is a proper item
of damages, -ifproven by satisfactory eyidence. Yale -Zo
VoL. cxxxm--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

.Aanufacturing CJo. v. Sargent, 117 U. S. 536. The damages
must be actual damages, but where the patented feature is the
essenfial element of the machine or article, as in the base just
cited, if such damages can be ascertained they may be awarded.
When, however, a plaintiff seeks to recover because he has
*been compelled to lower his prices to compete with an infringing defendant, he must show that his reduction in prices was
due solely to the acts of the defendant, or to what extent it was
due to such acts. Cornely v. .arokwald, 131 U. S. 159.
There must be some data by which the actual damages may
be calculated. N&ew York v. Ransom, 23 How. 487 ; Rud v.
Thestcott, 130 U. S. 152.
The master reported "that the -number of lamp burners
proven to have been sold by respondents, containing the invention claimed in and by the first claim of complainants'
letters patent, is fourteen, provided that only the capped burners sold cofitain said invention, and that the number is one
hunxdred and fourteen, if the.half-capped burners so sold are to
be held to contain said invention."
The evidence established that the first invoice of lamp burners contained fifty 20:wick burners with caps, of which respondents sold four; and fifty 12-wick burners with half caps,
of which respondents sold twelve; and fifty 16-wick burners
with half caps, of which respondents .sold fofty-four; and that
respondents.ultered the forty-six remaining 20-wickl burners by
changing their caps to -half caps, and sold forty-four. This
makes the one hundred with half caps, referred to -by the
master.' Of the second invoice, the respondents sold four 20wick capped burners and six 16-wick capped burners, making,
with four 20-inch burners -withcaps sold out of the first invoice,
the fourteen capped wick burners reported as thus disposed of.
The original bill in this case was filed September 17, 1886. It
had been preceded by another suit, which had been dismissed.
The goods in the second invoice, it is testified, had been ordered before this suit was commenced, but the invo.ice is dated
October 16, 1886. This invoice contained one hundred 20 and
one- hundred 16-wick burners with caps, of which respondents
sold four 20-wick and six 16-wick burners'unchanged as before

BOESOR v. GRAFF.
Opinion of the Court.

stated. Most of this lot were still on hand at the time the
testimony was taken, though some had been altered into what
was called the "Boeso h burner," which had no caps at all, and
sold as such.
The evidence tends to establish a profit of $1.85 on the
20-wick burners; $1.50 on the 16-wick; and 75,cents on the
12-wick. This would show a profit of $23.80 on the fourteen
capped buirners, being eight 20-wick and six 16-wick burners;
and a profit of $156.40 on. the one hundred half capped
burners, being forty-four 20-wick, forty-four 16-wick and
twelve 12-wick burners. Respondents had been advised, by
their• counsel that the burners with half caps were not an
infringement. The cap was the invention iii question. Tle
claim infringed, as already seen, was a combination, with the,
guide tubes, of a ring-shaped cap -provided with openings' for
the wicks, said- cap being applied to the upper ends of the
guide tubes, so as to close the intermediate spaces between
the same. The half cap admitted the air directly to each
wick, and in that respect differed from the claim of the
patent. It is argued, however, with nuch force on behalf of.
the appellees, that the difference was a difference in degree
and not in kind, as the air reached the wick when the full
cap was used, and the functions of the latter as a, strengthen-ing band, a protector of the tops of the tubes, and in other
particulars, were performed by the half cap; and this position
is not resisted by counsel for appellants. But assuming that
the sale of one hundred bliners with half caps was an. infringement, we are not prepared to concede tbat the sale ofone hundred and fourteen burners under the circumstances
detailed could have had the effect in compelling a reduction
of price which has b~ea ascribed to it.
It is remarked by the master that "it is a fact of common
knowledge that there is,
to be found on sale in the market, a
great variety of lamp burners, among which, as shown by the
evidence, have been . for many years burners of the same
general class, as complainants'." This being so, and Boesch
& Bauer being dealers in burners generally, it is not to'be
presumed that Grdff reduced his prices, for nineteen months,

OCTOBER TERM , 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

on six thousand burners, not on account of competition in
burners, but because of the effect upon his particular burner
created by the sale of fourteen of the same kind, and of one
hundred. differing but the same in principle. ionceding that
as Gr'iff granted no licenses, and had no established license
fee, but supplied the demand for his burner himself, and was
able to supply that demand, and that, therefore, if he was
compelled to lower the price by the infringement he could
recover for the loss thus sustained, does the etidence satisfactorily establish that the reduction in prices was due solely
to the acts of the defendants in infringing? The opinion of
Mr. and Mrs. Gr-Zff to that effect is not sufficient, and even
that is so qualified as to fall far short of expressing it. The
master allowed upon 3070 burners sold at wholesale, and on
2870 sold at retail, by the complainants, between "March 1,
1886, and October 31, 1887, or 5940 in all. The sales of one
hundred and .four out of the one hundred and fourteen sold
by the respondents apparently took place prior to the filing of
the bill. Boesch had been in the business for twenty years.
The firm. of Boesch & Bauer carried a large stock of lamps,
embracing a hundred varieties in styles and sizes, under a very
large variety of names.
GrUff's burner was a "'mitrailleuse" burner, and called
"Diamond" as the Miller burner was. Boesch testified that
there was no difference between the selling price of the
Hecht, the Miller, and the Boesch burners; that there was no
demand in their trade for a mitrailleuse burner with a cap;
and that in his judgment the Boesch burner, was better than
the Hecht. This evidence may properly be considered in
connection with the ,fact that but one hundred and four-.
teen were sold.
We cannot concur with the conclusion that the result of
the sales of the one hundred and fourteen burners was to
keep Graff's prices for his particular burner down from
March 1, 1886, to October 31, 1887. If Boesch and Bauer
had a burner which satisfied the public just as well as Gruff's,
and which they could sell cheaper, Graff cannot complain of
the consequences. If Gruff's burner was so much better than

BOESCH v. GRIFF.
Opinion of th

109

Court.

any other that the puablic must have it he could make his own
price, and, if within the bounds of reas6n, find a sufficient
market.
In the state of the case disclosed by this record, the complainants must be content with the protection of an injunction
and a recovery of the profits realized from the infringing
sales.
The decree is reversed and th'cause remanded for further
rocedsng8 in conformity 'with th& opinio..

