COLE v. CUNNMGIAM.
Statement of the Case.

COLE v. CUNNINGHAM.
ERROR TO. THE SUPRF-ME JUDICIAL

COURT OF THE

STATE

OF

MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 74: Submitted November 6,1889. -Decided

January20,1890.

The Constitution of the United States, in proper cases, permits equity
courts of one State to control persons within their jurisdiction from
prosecuting suits in another State.
It is no violation, of that provision of the Constitution of the United States
which requires that full faith and credit shall be given in each State to
the judicial proceedings of every other State, if a court in one State, (in
which proceedings have been begun, under a general'insolvent law of the
State, to distribute the estate of an insolvent debtor among his creditors,)
enjoins a creditor of the insolvent, (who is a citizen of the same State,
and subject to the jurisdiction of the court,) from proceeding to judgment
and execution in a suit against the insolvent in another State, begun by
an attachment of his property there, after knowledge of his embarrassment and actual.insolvency, which property the insolvent law of the
State of the debtor's residence requires him to convey to his assignee in
insolvency, for distribution with his other assets-there being nothing
in the law or policy of the state in which the attachment is made, opposed
to those of the State of the creditor and of the insolventdebtor.

THE case, as. stated by the court, was as follows:
Daniel C. Bird, a citizen and inhabitant of Massachusetts,
unable to meet his bills at maturity, suspended payment March
2, 1885. being at the'time indebted to Butler, Hayden & Co.,
a copartnership composed of Charles S. Butler and N. F T.
Hayden, citizens and residents of -Massachusetts, doing business
in that State. On the night of the 4th or 5th of March, 1885,
Butler, Hayden & Co. were informed by Bird that he had
stopped payment, and that the firm of Aaron Claflin & Co., of
New York, were indebted to him in a considerable sum for
goods consigned by him to that firm to be sold on his account,
and upon which Claflin & Co. had made advances but not to
their full value. March 6th, Butler, Hayden & Co. executed.
an assignment of their claims against Bird to one Fayerweather,
a resident of the State of New York, which assignment was
made without consideration, and without previous comynumcation with Fayerweather. March 11th and March 25th two

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

actions were commenced in New York in the name of Fayerweather on the claims of Butler, Hayden & Co. against Bird
as defendant, and t1le firm of Claflin & Co. were summoned
as garnishees. March 18, 1885, a meeting of Bird's creditors
was held, and a committee appointed to investigate his affairs
and make a report. On the 20th of March a second meeting
of.Bird's creditors was held, at which a report was submitted
by the committee. April 23, 1885, a proposal for composition
under the statutes of Massachusetts in that behalf was filed by
Bird, returnable May 4th. May 20th, the composition proposal having been withdrawn, regular proceedings in insolvency
were continied therein, and June 1,1885, Richard Cunningham
and Henry Tohnan, Jr., were duly appointed assignees in
insolvency of the estate of said Bird by the court of insolvency
for. the -county of Flymouh, Massachusetts. Hayden, of
Butler, Hayden & Co., was present at one of these creditors'
meetings. The suits in New York were brought m a, court of
competent jurisdiction, and the -attachments and proceedings
were regular and in conformity with the laws of New York,
they are still pending, and no judgment has yet been obtained
therein.
On the 19th of June the assignees in insolvency brought a
bill in equity in the Supreme Judicial Court for the county of
Suffolk, in the State of Massachusetts, against Butler and
Hayden, copartners as Butler, Hayden & Co., praying that
Butler, Hayden & Co., their agents, servants, attorneys, and
solicitors, might be enjoined and restrained from proceeding
to further continue the suits against Bird, begun by them in
the name of Fayerweather, and from attempting to collect by
suit or otherwise, in the name of Fayerweather or any other
person, for their own benefit, from Claflin & Co., any money
or other thing on account of the claim against Bird, that they
.be ordered to refrain from further prosecuting the suits in
New York, in which Claflin & Co. were summoned as garnishees, or that they be ordered to transfer to the assignees all
their right, title and interest by, or under, or on account of
their claim pretended to have been. assigned to Faverweather,
so that, the assignees may have, as the effect of said order, full

COLE v. CUNNINGHAM
Statement of the Case.

right to receive all money, due from Claflin & Co. without any
hindrance or interference upon the part of, Butler, Hayden &
Co. therewith, and a prayer for general relief.
Butler, Hayden & Co. answered the bill, denying any knowledge of Bird's insolvency, --ad claiming that the assignment to
Fayerweather was made in good faith, and that the rights' of
Fayerweather, as a citizen of Net, York, under said assignment cannot be in any way affected by the insolvency of
Bird, and afterwards amended the answer, and claimed that
even if the assignment to Fayerweather was invalid, the
attachment proceedings in New York were regular, and gave
a valid lien on the property attached, and that, by the Constitution of the United States, the rights and interests gained
by the attachments in New York cannot be taken away by
the courts of Massachusetts without violating the provision
that full faith and credit must be given in each State to the
judicial proceedings of every other State.
The case was heard by a single judge upon certain agreed
facts and additional evidence, and reserved by him for the
consideration of the fall court. It was stipulated "that either
party may refer to the siatutes of the United States, the statutes of the State of New York, and the several decisions of
the State of New York, with the same effect as if the same
were regularly introduced in evidence." The Supreme Judicial Cburt found, in addition to the matters hereinbefore
stated, that it was fairly proven from tte evidence "that the
defendants, with full knowledge that Bird was insolvent, anticipating that there might be proceedings in insolvency in this
State, and intending to secure to themselves, to the exclusion
of other creditors, The avails of the debt owing to Bird by
Claflin & Co., made the transfer of their claims to Fayerweather, and that the suits in New York now carried on in
his name are subject to their control and conducted for their
benefit. The attachments made in New York by process of
garmshment are to be treated, so far as the defendants are
concerned, as made by them." The court concluded its opinion, which is certified as a part of this record, .and is reported
in 142 Mass. 47, thus:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.

"In the case at bar it is true that the defendants had made
their attachment through Fayerweather in New York before
there had been an asgnment in insolvency in this State actually
executed, but this was doue with full knowledge on their- part
that the debtor, Bird, was embarrassed and had suspended
payment, and necessarily with intent to avoid the effect of the
assignment, so far as the property attached was concerned.
As residents of this State, they cannot be allowed to this extent to defeat the operation of the assignment, and thus to
obtain a preference over other creditors resident here. They
are within the limits of the jurisdiction of this court, and
amenable to its process, aid should be enjoined from prosecuting a suit the effect of which, if successful, will be to work
a wrong and injury to other residents of the State."
The court thereupon entered a decree for the injunction
prayed for, and Butler, Hayden & Co. sued out a writ of error
from this court.
Mr Henry D Hyde and .3fr H. F Dickinson, Jr., (with
whom was 3fr Hollis R. Bailey on the briefs,) for plaintiffs in
error, cited CAwstmas v Russell, 5 Wall. 290, 300, Green v
Fan Buskirk, 7 Wall. 139, 145, Warner v Jafrey, 96 N. Y
248, 259; Sartwell v Field, 68 N. Y 341, Dunlop v Pattrson Fire 17s. Co., 74 N. Y 145, Anthony v. Wood, 29
Hun, 239, -McGinnv Ross, 11 Abb. Pr. (N. S.) 20, fliberntan
Nat. Bank v .Lacombe, 84: N. Y 367, 385, Jenks v Ludden,
34 Minnesota, 486, Jidder v Tufts, 48 N. H. 121, 126, Paine
v -Lester, 44 Connecticut, 196, 204, Rhawn v Pearce, 110
Illinois, 350, Kelly v Orapo, 45 N. Y. 86, Fuller v Cadwell,
6 Allen, 503, Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610, Rervey v R. I.
-Locomotive Works, 93 -U. S. 664 , Talor v. Carryl, 20 How
583, Cooper v Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, Pennoyer v..Nef,
95 U. S. 714, lRl7 ple v. Robbns, 97 Mass. 107, S. C. 93
Am. Dec. 64, Amercan Bank v Rollins, 99 Mass. 313,
Garity v Gigie, 130 Mass. 184, Wallace v ]McConnell, 13
Pet. 136, 151, Nicoll v Spowers, 105 N. Y 1, Keller v.
Pane, 107 N. Y 83, 90, Bicknell v. Field, 8 Paige, 440,
Harrims v. Pullman, 84 Illinois, 20, 5Dehon v Foster,4 Allen,

COLE v. CUNNINGHAM.
\

Opinion of the Court.

545, .Dehon v. Foster, 7 Allen, 57, Lawrence v Bat heller,
131 Mass. 504.
.2f Eugene -M1.
Johnson,for defendants in error, cited -Dehon
v. Foster, 4 Allen, 545, RHeyser v. Rice, 47 Maryland, 203,
Qutidnsck Co. v. Chafee, 13 R. I. 367, Snook v Bnetzer, 25
Ohio St. 516, Vermont & Canada Railroadv Vermont Central Railroad,46 Vermont, 792, 797, Great Falls 3Manfg. Co.
v. Worster, 23 N. H. 462, Bushby v
lunday, 5 Madd. 297,.
307, Beckford v. KYemble, 1 Sim. & Stu. 7., Attwood v. Banks,
2 Beavan, 192, Hill v Turner, 1 Atk. 515, Glascott v. Lang,
3 Myl. & Cr. 451, Hope v. Carnege, L. R. 1 Clh. 320, B
*parteTait, L. R. 13 Eq. 311 ; In re COlpman, L. R. 15 Eq.
75, Sartwell v Field,66 N. Y 341, Massm v. Watts, 6 Crancn,
148, Phelps v MeDonald, 99 U. S. 298, Corbett v fYutt, 10
Wall. 464, Penn v. Lord Baltmore, 1 Yes. Sen. 444, Watkins v ilonan, 16 Pet. 25.
M

CHmEF JuSTIm FULLER. delivered

the opinion of the court.

The question to be determined is, whether a decree of the
Supreme Tadicial Court of Massachusetts, restraining citizens
of that commonwealth from the prosecution of attachment
suits in New York, brought by them for the purpose of evading
the laws of their donicil, should be reversed upon the ground
that such judicial action in Masachusetts was in violation of
Article 4, sections 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the United
States, which read as follows
"SEc. 1. Full faith and credit shall be given ineach State
to the public' acts, records and judicial proceedings of every
other State. And the Congress may by general laws prescribe
the manner in which such acts, records and proceedings shall
be proved, and the effect thereof.
"SEc. 2. The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
The act of May 26, 1790, 1 Stat. 122, now embodied in
§ 905 of the Revised Statutes, after providing the mode of
authenticating the acts, records and judicial proceedings of the
States, declares

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

the said records, and judicial proceedings authenticated as aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given to
them in every court within the United States, as they have by
law or usage in the courts of the State from whence the said
records are or shall be taken."
This does not prevent an inquiry into the jurisdiction of the
court, in which a judgment is rendered, to pronounce the
judgment, nor into the right of the State to exercise authority
over the parties or the subject matter, nor whether the judgment is founded in, and impeachable for, .a manifest fraud.
The Constitution did not mean to confer any new power on
the States,! but simply to regulate the effect of their acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within their territory It did not make the judgments of the States domestic
judgments to all intents and purposes, but only gave a general
validity, faith and credit to -them as evidence. No execution
can be issued upon such judgments without a new suit in the
tribunals of other States, and they enjoy, not the right of
priority or privilege or lien which they have in the State
where they are pronounced, but that only which the lex fort
gives to them by its own laws, in their character of foreign
judgments. AfoElmoyle v Cohen, 13 :Pet. 312, 328, 329,
D'Ar'cy v. Ketchum, 11 How 165, Thompson v Witman,
18 Wall. 457, Pennoyer v. fef, 95 U S. 14, Wisconsn v.
Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U S. 265, 292 , C/rstmas v Russell,
5 Wall. 290? Story, Constitution, §§ 1303 et seq., and Story,
Conflict of Laws, § 609. And other judicial proceedings can
rest on no higher ground.
These well-settled principles find pertinent illustration in the
decisions of the highest tribunal of the State of New York, to
one of which we reier, as the contention is that the decree
under review was in some way an unconstitutional invasion
of the jurisdiction of that State.
In Dobson v Pearce, 12 N. Y (2 Kernan) 156, the plaintiff
in a judgment, recovered in New York, brought an action
upon it in the Superior Court of Connecticut, whereupon the
defendant in the judgment filed a bill against the plaintiff on
the equity side of the same court, alleging that the judgment
CAnd

COIX v. CUhNNIN~GHAM.
Opunon of the (Rourt.

was procured by fraud, and praying relief. The plaintiff in
the judgment appeared in and litigated the equity suit, and
the court adjudged that the allegations of fraud in obtaimng
the judgment were true, and enjoined him from prosecuting an
action upon it. He assigned the judgment, and it was hefd
in a suit -n New York, brought thereon by the assignee, that
a duly authenticated copy of the record of the decree in the
Connecticut Court was conclusive evidence that the judgment
was obtained by fraud.
The Court of Appeals held that while a judgment rendered
by a court of competent jurisdiction could not be impeached
collaterally for error or irregularity, yet it could be attacked
upon the ground of want of jurisdiction, or of fraud or imposition, that the right of the plaintiff in the judgment was a
personal right, and followed his person, that when the courts
of Connecticut obtained jurisdiction of his person by the dfve
service of process within the State, these courts had full power,
to pronounce upon the rights of the parties in respect to the
judgment, and to decree concerning it, that the jurisdiction of
a court of equity anywhere, to restrain suit upon a judgment
at law, upon sufficient grounds, was one of the firmly established parts of the authority of courts of equity, and that it
could not be held that a court of equity in one State had no
jurisdiction to restrain such a suit upon a judgment of a court
of law of another State. If the objection to so doing was
founded upon an assumed violation of the comity existing
between the several States of the United States, that did not
reach to the jurisdiction of the court, a rule of comity being
a self-imposed restraint upon an authority actually possessed,
and as to the objection that the Constitution of the United
States and the laws made li. pursuance of it inhibited the
action of the Connecticut courts, this could not prevail, since
full faith and credit are given to the judgment of a state court,
when in the courts of another State it receives the same faith
and credit to which it was entitled -in the State where it was
pronounced. Pearee v Olney,.20 Connecticut, 544, BEngel v
Scheuerman, 40 Georgia, 206; Cage, v Casszdy, 23 How 109.
The intention 'of section 2 of Article 4 was to confer on the
VOL. cxxxm--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

citizens of the several States a. general citizenship, and to communicate all the privileges and immunities which the citizens
of the same State would be entitled to under the like circumstances, and this includes the right to institute actions. The
fact of the citizenship of Butler and Hayden did not affect
their privilege to sue in New York and have the full use and
benefit of the courts of that State in the assertion of their legal
rights, but as that fact might affect the right of action as between them and the citizens of their own State, the courts of
New York might have held that its existence put an end to
the seizure of their debtor's property by Butler, Hayden & Co.
in New York. If, however, those courts declined to take that
view, it would not follow that the courts of Massachusetts
violated any privilege or immunity of Massachusetts's own
citizens in exercising their undoubted jurisdiction over them.
Discharges under state insoivent laws exemplify the principle. Where the effect of the insolvent law is to relieve the
debtor from liability on his contracts, such discharge, if the
creditor and debtor have a common domicil, or the creditor,
though non-resident, has voluntarily become a party to the
proceedings, avails the defendant in all courts and places.
It was decided in Sturges v Crownimnskreld, 4 Wheat. 122,
that state legislatures have authority to pass a bankrupt or
insolvent layr, providea there be no act of Congress in force
establishing a uniform system of bankruptcy, conflicting with
such laws ; and provided the law itself be so framed that it
does not impair the obligation of contracts. Eight years
later, in Ogden v Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, the court held
that the power of Congress to establish uniform laws on the
subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States did not
exclude the right of the States to legislate on the same subject, except when the power had actually been exercised by
Congress, and the state laws conflicted with those of Congresg,
that a bankrupt or insolvent law of any State which discharged
both the person of the debtor and his future acquisitions ot
property was not a law impairing the obligation of contracts,
so far as respected debts contracted subsequent to the passage
of the law, tiiat a certificate of discharge under such law

OOL-E v. CUNNhR6HA_.
Opnion of the Court.

.could not be pleaded m bar of an action brought by a citizen
of another State in the courts of the United States, or of any
other State than that where the discharge was obtained. The
insolvent law could have no extra-territorial operation, and
the tribunal administering it would have no jurisdiction over
citizens of other States. But this objection would not lie
where such citizens had become parties to ,the proceedings.
was held, where a citiHence in Clayv Smith, 3 Pet. 411, 'it
zen of Kentucky sued a citizen of Louisiana, and the defen4ant.pleaded his discharge by the bankrupt law of Louisiana,
that the .plaintiff, who had received a dividend on his debt
declared by the assignees of the defendant in Louisiana, had
voluntarily made himself a party to those proceedings, abandoned his extra-territorial immunity from the bankrupt law of
Louisiana, and was bound by that law to the same extent to
which the citizens of Louisiana were bound. And it may be
considered as settled that state insolvent laws are not only
binding upon such persons as were citizens of the State at the
time the debt was contracted, but also upon foreign creditors
if they make themselves parties to proceedings under these
insolvent laws, by accepting dividends, becoming petitioning
creditors, or in some other way appearing and assenting to the
jurisdiction. Baldwin v Hale, 1 Wall. 223, Giman v Lockwood, 4 Wall. 409.
In New York an attachment is obtained on application, to a
judge of the Supreme Gourt, or a county judge, affidavit being
made as to the validity of the claim and the grounds of the
attachment, and a;bond furmshed with sufficient sureties. The
judge in his discretion makes an order that a warrant of attachment be granted. The warrant is directed to the sheriff, and
is subscribed by the judge, and requires the sheriff to attachand' safely keep so much of the property as will satisfy the
plaintiff's demand, with costs and expenses. This is served -by
the sheriff taking the property into his actual custody, or, in
the case of a demand trusteed, by leaving a copy with the
trustee or garnishee. The sheriff, under the direction of the
court, must collect any debt or chose in action attached by him,
and, if necessary,'may bring an action in his own name, or i.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that of the defendant, against the garnishee. Code of Civil
Procedure, Title 3, 1 Bliss's New York Annotated Code, 545
et seq.
An attachment is in the nature of, but not, strictly speaking,
a proceeding sn rem, since that only is a proceeding qn e n in
which the process is to be served on the thing itself. If, in an attachment suit "the defendant appears, the cause becomes mainly
a suit Mpersonam, with the added incident, that the property
attached remains liable, under the control of the court, to
answer any demand -which may be established against the
defendant by the final judgment of the court. But, if there
is no appearance of the defendant, and no service of process
oi-. him, the case becomes, in its essential nature, a proceeding
in rem, the only effect of which is to subject the property
attached to the payment of the demand which the court may
fund to be due to the plaintiff." I Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall.
308, 318. The lien is inchoate, and the property attached held
to await the result of the suit. If a judgment for the plaintiff is obtained, the lien becomes perfected and the property
is applied -to satisfy the judgment. If plaintiff fails in his
action, the lien falls with it. And he may so fail by reason of
the discharge of the defendant in insolvency, when he is a
citizen of the same State, or has made himself a party to the
proceedings in insolvency, or by the action of other courts of
the State where the suit is pending, or elsewhere, if jurisdiction
m pversonam be obtained. So that, after all, the inquiry is,
whether, in a proper case, the equity courts of one State can
control persons within their jurisdiction from the prosecution
of suits in another. If they can, in accordance with the principles of equity jurisprudence and practice,.no reason is perceived for contending that the Constitution of the United
States prescribes any different rule. And the determination
of what is a proper case for equity interposition would seem
to be reposed in the court whose authority is invoked, though
some remarks in that regard may not improperly be made.
The jurisdiction of the English Court of Chancery to restrain,
persons within its territorial limits and under its jurisdiction
from doing anything abroad, whether the thing forbidden-be

COLE v. CVNITGiAM.
Opinion of the Court.

a conveyance or other act, =la w, or the institution )r the
prosecution of an action in a foreign court, is well settled.
In Penn, v Lord Balmtin'e, 1 Ves. Sen. 444, Lord Hardwicke recognized the principle that equity, as it acts primarily
sn 2ersonam and not merely ihi rem, may, where a person
against whom relief is sought is within the jurisdiction, make
a decree, upon the ground of a contract, or any equity subsisting.
between the parties, respecting property situated out of the
jurisdiction. 2 Lead. Cas. in Eq., (4th American edition,) 1806,,
and cases.
In .cIntosh. v Oglvt, 4: T. R. 198, n., S. . 3 Swanston, 365,
n., S. 0. 1 Dick. Ch. 119; Lord Hardwicke lays down the same
doctrine as to restraining prosecution of suit. This case bears
so close an analogy to that at bar that we give it in full, as
follows, as reported in 4 T. R.
"The plaintiff was the assignee of a bankrupt, the defendant
a creditor, who before the bankruptcy went into Scotland and
made arrestments on debts due to the bankrupt from person'
there. Upon an affidavit of the defendant's having got this
money into his hands, a ne eeat was granted, and a motiol
was now made on the behalf of the defendant to-discharge it,
upon a supposition that he had a right to the goods as creal
itor by 'his arrestments.
"The -Lord Chancellorasked whether he had sentence before
the bankruptcy, and, bemganswered in the negative, he-said,
' Then it is like a foreign attachment, by which this court will
not suffer a creditor to gain priority, if no sentence were 'pronounced before the bankruptcy I cannot grant a prohibition
to the Court of Sessions, but I will certainly make an order,
on the party here to restrain him from getting a priority, and
evading the laws-of bankruptcy here. If the gentleman were
not going abroad, I would do nothing, but as he is, I will not
discharge the writ without his giving security to abide the
1
event of the cause.'
Penn v lord Balt'Imore is cited with approval by Chief
Justice Marshall in _2llassie 'v Watts, 6 Cranch, 148, where a
suit was instituted in the Circuit Court of Keintucky to compel
the conveyance by the defendant of the legal title of land

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

in Ohio, on the ground that he had notice, when it was purchased, of the prior equity of the complainant. The defence
was that the land was beyond the jurisdiction of the court
and within the State of Ohio. This defence was overruled by
the court below, and its decision affirmed by this court.
"This court is of opinion," said the Chief Justice, "that m
a case of fraud, of trust, or of contract, the jurisdiction of a
court of chancery is sustainable wherever the person be found,
although lands not within the jurisdiction of that court may
be affected by the decree." p. 160.
And in Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 723, it is said in
the opinion of the court by Mr. Justice Field "The State,
through its tribunals, may compel persons domiciled within its
limits to execute, in pursuance of their contracts respecting
property elsewhere situated, instruments in such form and
with such solemnities as to transfer the title, so far as such
formalities can be complied with, and the exercise of this
jurisdiction in no manner interferes with the supreme control
over the property by the State within which it is situated.
Pen
v Lord Baltmore, 1 -es. Sen. 444, .Massze v Watts,
6 Cranch, 148, lWatkins v _Holman, 16 Pet. 25, Corbett v
Nutt, 10 Wall. 464."
In Lord Portaringtonv Soulby, 3 Mfylne & K. 101,106, Lord
Chancellor Brougham reviews the history of the jurisdiction
to restrain parties from commencing or prosecuting actions in
foreign countries, and concludes "Nothing can be more unfounded than the doubts of the jurisdiction. That is grounded,
like all other jurisdiction of the court, not upon any pretension
to the exercise of judibial and administrative rights abroad,
but on the circumstance of the person of the~party, on whom
this order is made, being within the power of the court." Earl
qf Oxford's Case, I Ch. ReP. 1, .C. 2 Lead. Cas. in Eq. 1316.
Mr. Justice Story states the principle thus
"But, although the courts of one country have no authority to stay proceedings in the courts of another, they have an
undoubted authority to control all persons and things within
their own territorial limits. When, therefore, both parties to
a suit in a foreign country are resident within the territorial

COLE v. CUNNINGIHAM.
Opimon of the Courb&

limits or another country, the courts of equity in the latter
may act znjersonam upon those parties, and direct them, by
injunction, to proceed no further in such suit. In such a case,
these courts act upon acknowledged principles of public law*
in regard to jurisdiction. They do not pretend to direct or
control the foreign court, but, without regard to the situation
of the subject matter of the dispute, they consider the equities
between the parties, and decree = personan according to
those equities, and enforce obedience to their decrees by
It is now held that whenever
process 'tnrpersonam.
the parties are resident within a country, the courts of that
country have full authority to act upon them personally with
respect to the sdbject of suits in a foreign country, as the ends
of justice may require, and, with that view, to order them to
take, or to omit to take, any steps and proceedings in any other
court of justice, whether in the same country, or in any foreign country"s Story Eq. Jur. §§ 899,900.
In Phe/ps v. .cDonald, 99 U. S. 298, 308, Mr. Justice
Swayne uses this language:
"Where the necessary parties are before a court of equity,
it is immaterial that the res of the controversy, whether it be
real or personal property, is beyond the territorial jurisdiction
Tt has the power to compel the defendant to
of the tribunal
do. all things .necessary, according to the le, loo? 'ret sdtes,
which he could do voluntarily, to give full effect to the decree
against him. Without reg.ard to the situation of the subject
matter, such courts consider the equities between the parties,
and decree -n personam according to those equities, and enforce obedience to their decrees by process znpersonam."
Such is undoubtedly the result of the clear weight of authority, and the rule has been often applied by the courts of
the domicil against the attempts of some of its citizens to
defeat the operation of its laws to the wrong and injury of
others.
Thus it was held by the Supreme Court of Ohio in Snooko
v Snetzer, 25 Ohio St. 516, that where the statutes of that
State exempted the earnings for personal service 6f a debtor,
vho was the head of -a family and a citizen of the State, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Ohio courts had authority to restrain a citizen of the county
in which the equity action was commenced, from proceeding
in another State to attach the earnings of such head of a
family, with a view to evade the exemption laws of Ohio, and
to prevent him from availing himself of the benefit of such law
To the same effect is .Heyser v Rice, 47 Maryland, 203.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland declared the power of the
State to compel its own citizens to respect. its laws, even beyond its own territorial limits, to be supported by the great
preponderance of precedent and authority, and sustained an
injunction to restrain the further prosecution in another State
of an attachment, by which the defendant sought to recover
wages due the complainant in Maryland and there exempt
from attachment.
So in Burlington, and .Xissourz Railroadv Tkompson, 31
Kansas, 180, though it was held that a foreign corporation doing business in Kansas might be garnisheed for a debt due to a
non-resident employe, contracted outside of the State, and exempt from garnishment in the State where the defendant and
garnishee resided, yet it was conceded by Judge Brewer, in
delivering the opinion, "that in the courts of a State any citi.zen of that State may be enjoined from resorting to the courts
of any other State for the purpose of evading the exemption
laws of his own State," and this was so decided in Zimmerman
v Franke,34 Kansas, 650.
In WFilson. v Joseph, 107 Indiana, 490, the Supreme Court of
Indiana ruled that an injunction would lie to restrain a resident
of Indiana from prosecuting an attachment proceeding against
another resident in the courts of another State, in violation of,
a statute which made it an offence to send a claim against, a
debtor out of the State for collection, in order to evade the exemption law Ard see Chtaffee v. Qusdnscw Company, 13 R..I.
442, 449, Great Falls3Manufacturing Co. v Worster, 23 N. IL
(3 Foster) 462, Pzokett v Ferguson,45 Arkansas, 177.
The rule is not otherwise in New York. It is true that in
Mead v. .Merfrtt, 2 Paige, 402, 404, the chancellQr said "I am
not aware that any court of equity in the Union has deliber
ately decided that it will exercise the lvwer. by process of in-

COLE v. CUNIhGINGAM.
Opinion of the Court.

junction, of restraining proceedings which have been previously
conmnenced m.the courts of anotaer State." And the reason
urged against the exercise of the power was that if the courts
of one State should see fit to enjoin proceedings in another,
the latter might retaliate in like manner in enjoining proceednags in the first, and thus give rise to an,endless conflict of
jurisdiction. But tins reasoning has not commended itself to
the judicial mind, for the injunction is not directed to the
courts of the other State, but simply to the parties litigant,
and althiough the power should be exercised with care, and
with a just regard to the comity which ought to prevail among
co~rdinate sovereignties, yet its existence cannot at this day be
denied.
In 'ail v. _na2p, 49 Barb. 299, 305, an injunction was continued against citizens of New York, plaintiffs an attachment
suits in Vermont, upon the ground that they were proceeding
in Vermont in evasion of the laws of New York, and the
court points out that, though as a general rule the court of
New York decline to interfere by injunction to restrain its
citizens from proceeding in an action which has been commenced in a sister State, citing Ifead v -Merrtt, 2 Paige,
402, Burgess v Smith, 2 Barb. Ch. 276, and other cases, yet
"there are exceptions to this rule, and when a case is presented,
fairly constituting such exception. extreme delicacy should not
deter the court from controlling the conduct of a party within
its jurisdiction to prevent oppression .or fraud. No rule of
comity or policy forbids it."
The same result was announced in Dnsmore v.. .feresheimer,
32 Hun, 204, where the Supreme Court of New York held
that an express company could maintain an action in New
York to restrain the defendant, a resident of the State of New
York, from prosecuting actions against- the company in the
District of Columbia, brought to avoid a decision of the Court
of Appeals of New York, differing from the rule upon the
same subject in the District of Columbia.
In -Erm Railway Co. v. Ramsey, 45 N. Y 637, -the Court of
Appeals, speaking through Folger, J., treats the general ques
tion as not admitting of doubt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

At the time of these proceedings, as for many years before,
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts had an elaborate system
of insolvent laws, designed to secure the equal distribution of
the property of its debtors among their creditors. Under
these insolvent laws all preferences were avoided, and all
attachments in favor of particular creditors dissolved. The
transfer of the debtor's property to flis assignees in insolvency
extended to all his property and assets, wherever situated.
This was expressly provided as to such as rmght be outside of
the State. By one of the sections of the chapter of the Public
Statutes of Massachusetts treating of this subject, the debtor
was required to do all acts necessary to give the assignees
power to "demand, recover and receive all -the estate and
effects so assigned, especially any part thereof which is without
this State." Mass. Pub. Stat. 1882, c. -7,§ 74. Whenever
the debtor had made, to the satisfaction uf° the judge in insolvency, a full transfer and delivery of all his estate, and conformed to the directions and requirements of the law, lie was
entitled to be absolutely and wholly discharged from his debts,
with certain exceptions, but it was provided that a discharge
should not be granted to a debtor whose assets did not pay
fifty per cent of the claims proved against his estate, unless
upon the assent in writing of a majority in number and value
of his creditors who had proved their claims. §§ 80, 86.
Nothing can be plainer, than that the act of Butler, Hayden
& Co. in causing the property of the insolvent debtors to be
attached in a foreign jurisdiction, tended directly to defeat
the operation of the insolvent law in its most essential features,
and. it is not ,easy to understand why such acts .could not be
restrained, within the practice to which we have referred.
But for the attachment suits the assignees in insolvency could
have collected the claim of Bird against Claflin & Co., but
could not have intervened in those suits and asked of the courts
of New York the enforcement of their title. The rule in that
State is, that by the comity of nations, the statutory title of
foreign assignees in bankruptcy is recognized and enforced when
it can be done without injustice to the citizens of the State,
and without prejudice to creditors pursuing their remedies

COLE r., CUNNINGHAM
Oimon of the, Court.

under the New York. statutes, provided also that. such title is
not in conflict with the laws o public policy of the State, and
that the foreign court had jurisdiction of the bankrupt. In re
IY-aite, 99 N. Y 433.
Under such a rule it is evident that the remedy of the assignees was in equity and in the courts of their domicil.
This is the conclusion reached in Eidder v fTufts, 48 N. H.
121, 126, referred to by counsel for appellant. That was a
case where citizens of Massachusetts commenced in New
Hampshire an attachment against certain other citizens of
the former State, proceedings in insolvency against the defendants were afterwards instituted in Massachusetts; and,
subsequently to this, certain New Hampshire creditors attached
the same property and then moved for a continuance to await
the proceedings in insolvency, for the purpose of pleading the
insolvent's discharge in bar of the first attachment. But'the
court denied 'the motion, holding that the Massachusetts creditors had availed themselves of their strict legal rights as
established and allowed by the statute law of New Hampshire,
and, for the purpose of an attachment, might properly be considered subjects of that state government, but the court
added "If the subsequent attaching creditors have a remedy,
and can in any way prevent the plaintiffs from obtaining a
preference, their appeal should be made, as creditors, of the
defendants, to the Massachusetts courts, which may exercise
their jurisdiction over their own citizens if they have violated
any of their laws by their experiment here." liernm Nat..
Bank v Lacombe, 84 N. Y 367, 386.
So in the case of Patne v. Zeste', 44 Connecticut; 19Q,
where a citizen of Rhode Island attached in Connecticut a.
debt due from a citizen of Connecticut to a corporation ol
Pennsylvania, which had made an assignment for the benefit
of creditors, the lien of the. attachment was held valid against
the claim of the trustee in the assignment, because the right
of the trustee in insolvency in Connecticut rested only on the
comity which the court there could exercise ot refuse-to exercise at its discretion, while the plaintiff had a legal right, under
the laws of Connecticut, to.prosecute his suit.

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

In R]kawn v Pearce, 110 Illinois, 350, the Supreme Court
of Illinois declined to recognize"at law the insolvent laws of
Pennsylvania, by giving effect to a statutory assignment in
that State, even as against an attaching creditor of the same
State with the debtor. But the same tribunal found no difficulty in holding, in Sercomb v Catlin, 128 Illinois, 556, that
the courts of Illinois, on the application of a receiver appointed
by them, could enjoin a person within the jurisdiction of the
court from interfering in respect to property belonging to an
insolvent copartnership for which the receiver had been appointed, although that property was outside of the jurisdiction, and COaffee v Quidnick Co., 13 R. I. 442, Dehon v
Foster, 4 Allen, 545, and Termont & Canada Railroad Co.
v Vermont Central Railroad Co., 46 Vermont, 792, were
cited.
Delon v Foster, 4 Allen, 545, is the leading case upon the
subject, argued by eminent counsel on both sides, and decided
upon great consideration. The Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, speaking through Bigelow, C. J., points out
that the jurisdiction of a court, as a court of chancery, to restrain persons within its jnrisdiction from prosecuting suits,
upon a proper case made, either in the courts of Massachusetts
or in other States or foreign countries, rests on the clear authority vested in courts of equity over persons within the
limits of thei1 ; jurisdiction and amenable to process, to stay
acts contrary to equity and good conscience, and that, as the
decree of the court in such cases is directed solely at the
party, it is wholly immaterial that such party is prosecuting
his action in the courts of another state or country
The action was a bill in equity to enjoin a citizen of Massachusetts frown availing himself of an attachment of personal
property in Pennsylvania, as against a debtor put into insolvency under the laws of Massachusetts, and thus preventing
the same from coming to the hands of the assignee. The
court held that it was obvious that the controversy was simply
as to the relative rights of citizens of Massachusetts to personal property belonging to insolvent debtors, domiciled in
that state, and raised no question involving a conflict of rights

COLE v. CUNI'NGHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

-between -citizens of Massachusetts and another State, nor as
to the validity of a foreign law, or of liens acquired under it.
On the contrary, the case rested on the ground that the defendants, if allowed to proceed with their action, would perfect a lien then only inchoate under their attachment, and
might thereby establish a valid title to the property of the
insolvent debtors under the laws of Pennsylvania.
"Looking then at our own laws," said the court, "to ascertain which of the two parties to this suit has a paramount
right or superior equity to the debts clue to the insolvents
from, persons residing out of the state, there would seem to be
but little, if any, room open for doubt or controversy " The
fundamental principle of the ansolvent laws of the commonwealth, that all the property of 'the debtor should be taken
and equally distributed among his creditors, was remarked on,
and the provisions of the statute intended to secure that end
recapitulated. The inevitable conclusion was announced that,
as the act of the defendants in causing, the property of the
insolvent debtors to be attached in a foreign jurisdiction tended.
directly to defeat the operation of the law by preventing a
portion of the property of the debtors from coming to their
assignees to be equally distributed among their creditors, and
giving ,a preference to certain of their debtors, so that they
would obtain payment of their debt in full, it was, therefore,
an attempt by those creditors, citizens of Massachusetts, to'
d3feat the operation of their own laws, to the injury of other
creditors, of the insolvents. And the court proceeded "This
is manifestly contrary to equity, The defendants, being citizens of this state, are bound by its laws. They cannot~be
permitted to do any acts to evade or counteract their operation, the effect of which is to deprive other citizens of rights
which those laws are intended to secure. Oertain it is that
they could not m any manner or by any process take from
the assignees of an insolvent debtor property belonging to him
within this state, and appropriate it to the payment of their
debt in full. To prevent such appropriation, if the law furnished no adequate and complete remedy this court would
interfere by suitable process -in equity. We are unable to see

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

any reason for withholding such interference, merely because
our citizens seek to accomplish the same purpose by resorting
to a foreign jurisdiction, and with the aid of the laws of
another state or country An act which is unlawful and contrary to equity gains no sanction or validity by the mere form
or manner in which it isdone. It is none the less a violation
of our laws, because it is effected thrdugh the instrumentality
of a process which is lawful in a foreign tribunal. By interposing to prevent it, we do not interfere with the jurisdiction of
courts in other states, or control the operation of foreign laws.
We -only assert and enforce our own authority over persons
within our jurisdiction, to prevent them from making use of
means by which they seek to countervail and escape the operation of our own laws, in derogation of the rights and to the
wrong and injury of our own citizens."
To the argument that the bill could not be maintained, because the statutes of Massachusetts regulating the assignment
and distribution of insolvent estates could, have no extra-territorial effect or operation, the court answered that while it was
true that the statutes of -Massachusetts exproyrso vzgore had
no effect or operation in other states, it was also true that, by
the comity of states and nations, the laws of one country are
allowed to a certain extent to control the rights of persons and
property in other countries, though not allowed to have any
effect to the injury of the citizens of such other country From
this principle it followed as a necessary consequence, that personal property of a Massachusetts insolvent debtor, situated in
Pennsylvania, would vest in the Massachusetts insolvent's
assignees, with power to take possession of and collect it
either ill their own names or in the name of the insolvent, if
they wvero not held or attached by virtue of a process or lien
in favor of a creditor, which would be valid under the laws of
Pennsylvania. Hence. if the attachment m Pennsylvania were
valid and binding, the Massachusetts creditors would obtain a
right, superior to that conferred under the Massachusetts laws
on the assignees in insolvency, by the act of such creditors, in
defeat of the operation of the laws of their own state, so that
a proceeding in equity might properly be resorted to to compel

COLE v. CUNININGHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendants to desist from the prosecution of a suit which
would have such an effect.
:Nor did the court regard the fact as controlling to the contrary, that the attachment was made prior to the institution of
the proceedings in insolvency, because the attachmenz tended
to contravene the clear intent of the statutes, which aim to
vest in the assignee all the property of the debtor which could
have been assigned by him, or taken on execution against him,
at the time of the commencement of the insolvent proceedings,
",although the same is then attached on mesne process as the,
property of the debtor;" and because, aside from that, it appeared that the defendants, when they instituted process in
Pennsylvania, and made their attachment, knew that the
debtors were insolvent, and had reason to believe that proceedings in insolvency were about to be instituted against them,
and caused the attachment to be made with an intent to obtain
a preference over other creditors, and to avoTd the operation of
the insolvent ]aws of the commonwealth. Under such circumstances, priority gave no equity to the defendants. The purpose to interfere with and prevent the proper distribution of
the insolvent's estate took away all claim to equitable consideration which might exist when priority was obtained in good
faith. The decree accordingly went enjoining the defendants
from prosecuting their attachments.
The objection was urged that the effect of the restraint
might be to enable all non-resident creditors to appropriate
property by attachment to the payment of their debts, and
thereby to gain a preference over attaching creditors residing
in Massachusetts as well as to prevent the property from passing to the assignees. This was of course a matter to be considered by the. court in arriving at a conclusion as to granting
the relief prayed. It may be remarked, however, that while
as between citizens of the State of the forum, and the assignee
appointed under the laws of another State, the claim of the
former will be held superior to that of the latter by the courts
of the former, yet this has not been so ruled in many of the
States, as between an assignee appointed in another State and
citizens of other States than that of his appointment, and of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the forum. Undoubtedly the fiction of law that the domicil
draws to it the personal estate of the owner wherever it may
happen to be, yields whenever it is necessary for the purposes
of justice that the actual situs of the thing should be examined, and always yields when the laws and policy of the State
where the property is located invalidate a transfer, even
though valid by the law of the assignor's domicil, in which
state it was made, subject to the qualifications, that property
once vested in the assignee and in his possession will not be disturbed, and that in some jurisdictions, when the attaching
creditor is domiciled in the same state with the assignor, he
may be precluded from disputing the assignment in a foreign
court.
Whether the law of the common donucil of two or more
litigants determines their title to property in another territory,
so that an attaching creditor, whose domicil is the same as
that of the assignor, cannot set up against an assignment the
law of a foreign country where the property is actually situated, has been much discussed. It is certain that the law of
the common domicil cannot overcome such registry and other
positive laws of the other country as are distinctively politic
and coercive. Wharton on Confl. Laws, §§ 369, 371. If a
State provides that no title shall pass to property within its
borders, except on certain conditions, such provision cannot be
overridden by the law of any other State, which parties domiciled there may be held to have adopted. It was in this view
that Mr. Justice Miller, referring to a voluntary conveyance,
in Green v. Van Buskzrk, 5 Wall. 307, 311, 312, said
"There is no little conflict of authority on the general
question as to how far the transfer of personal property by
assignment or sale, made in the country of the domicil of
the owner, will be held to be valid in the courts of the country
where the property is situated, where these are in different
sovereignties. The learned author of the Commentaries on the
Conflict of Laws has discussed the subject with his usual exhaustive research. And it may be conceded that, as a question of comity, the weight of his authority is in favor of the
proposition that such transfers will generally be respected

COLE v. CUTNINGHAM.
Opinion of the Court,

by the courts of the country where the property is located,
although the mode of transfer may be different from that
prescribed by the local law
"But, after all, this is a mere principle of comity between
the courts, which must give way when the statutes of the
country where property is situated, or the established policy
of its laws, prescribe to its courts a different rule."
Great contrariety of state decision exists upon this general
topic, and it may be fairly stated that, as between citizens of'
the state of the forum, and the assignee appointed under the
laws of another state, the claim of the -former will be held
superior to that of the latter by the courts of the former,
while, as between the assignee and citizens of his own stater
and the state of the debtor, the laws of such state will ordinarily be applied in the state of the litigation, unless forbidden
qy, or inconsistent with, the laws or policy of the latter.
Again, although, in some of the states, the fadt that the
assignee claims under a decree of a court or by virtue of the
law of the state of the domicil of the debtor and the attaching creditor, and not under a conveyance by the insolvent, is
regarded as immaterial, yet, in most., the distinction between
involuntary transfers of property, such as work by operation
of law, as foreign bankrupt and insolvent laws, and a voluntary conveyance is recognized. The reason for the distinction
is that a voluntary transfer, if valid where made, ought generally to be valid everywhere, being the exercise of the personal
right of the owner to dispose of his own, while an assignment
by operation of law has no legal operation out of the state in
which the law was passed. This is a reason which. applies to
citizens of the actual situs of the property when that is elsewhere than at the domicil of the insolvent, and the controversy
has chiefly been as to whether property so situated can pass
even by a voluntary conveyance.
In Waner v Jaffrcy, 96 N. Y. 248, the debtor, residing in
New York, made a general assignment, for the benefit of creditors, to the plaintiff. He owned personal property situated in
Pennsylvania, which was attached by New York creditors,
having no actual notice of the assignment, before the assignvioL. CXxxmI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ment had been recorded in Pennsylvania. A statute of that
State provided that assignments of property situated there,
made 6y a person not a resident therein, might be recorded in
any county where the property was, and would take effect
from its date, "provided that no bona fide purchaser, mortgagee, or creditor, having a lien thereon before the recording
in the same county, and not having previous actual notice
thereof, shall be affected or prejudiced." It was held that an
injunction should not be granted against the New York creditors from prosecuting their attachment suits in Pennsylvania.
The assignment, said the court, was a mere voluntary convey,ance, and "did not operate upon the creditors of the assignor,
nor place them under any obligations. It left them entirely
free to act. They could utterly refuse, to have anything to do
with it, and retain their claims and enforce them in their own
time, as best they could, against their debtor. The assignee
became a irustee for such creditors of the assignor only as
chose to accept him as such, and without their assent the
assignment did not bring the creditors into any relation with
the assignee, or with each other. The law did not take this
insolvent's property for distribution among his creditors, but
its distribution was his own act. Any one of his creditors
could, notwithstanding the assignment, enforce his claim
against any property of the assignor not conveyed by the
assignment, without violating any rights or equities of the
other creditors." The law of Pennsylvania was then referred
to, and it was shown, as the fact was, that such an assignment
was recognized in Pennsylvania, but that to give it effect before it had been recorded where the property was, would have
been in contravention of the law of the State. Upon this
ground the court distinguished Ockerman v Cross, 54 N. Y
29, where "it was held that a voluntary assignment by a
debtor residing in Canada, valid by the laws of his domicil,
and not invalidated by any lp.w of this State, was valid here
and operated to transfer the assignor's property situated here.
That the decision would have been different if the assignment
'had been in contravention of our laws or policy, is fully recognized in the opinion of the court." And so also the court dis-

COLE .w. OUNNTGAAM.
Opimon of the Court.

tinguished the case of .Bagy v. Atlantic, .fissstpp & Ohio
.Rai1~ad Co.,.86 Penn. St. 291. There a receiver had been
appointed in the State of Virginia of the property of the railroad company, and at the time of such appointment there was.
due to it, from a debtor in Pennsylvania, a certain sum of
money which the receiver claimed. But after his appointment
a creditor residing in Virginia went to the State of 'Pennsylvania and there commenced suit against the railroad company
and attached the debt due it, and it was held that the receiver
was entitled to the debt. And the Court of Appeals said
'The transfer of the title to the receiver was not in contravention of any law of Pennsylvania, and hence it was held
that as against a citizen of Virginia, bound by its laws, the
appointment of a receiver, binding upon him there, would, by
comity, be held to be binding upon him in Pennsylvania."
In the case in hand, the Supreme Jutlicial Court of Massachusetts thought it proper to grant the injunction, since it was
a case of the taking by the law of the insolvent's property for
distribution among his creditors, who, so far as resident in the
State of Massachusetts, were brought into relations with the
assignee and with each other, which precluded them from
enforcing their claim against the property of the assignor conveyed by the assigitment, and rendered the effort to do so a
violation of the rights and equities of the other creditors, and
an absolute infracti6n of the law of their own domicil. Nor
was there any law or policy of the State of New York contravened by the insolvent proceedings in question, or in itself
inimcal to the title of the assignees.
In .Lawrence v. Batheller, 131 Mass. 504, the defendant,
Batcheller, a citizen of Massachusetts, had brought suits by
attachment in other States against one Paige, also a citizen of
Massachusetts, indebtedl to defendant, and in embarrassed
circumstances, and garnisheed and ultimately collected various
amounts due to Paige. Paige subsequently went into insolvency,
and his assigpees sued Batcheller at law to recover the moneyThe Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts held' that the
assignees could not recover because, as the attachments were
made prior to the time when the assignment ininsolvency took

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

effect, and. having been made in other States, were not dissolved by the proceedings in insolvency, and were valid by the
laws of the States where they were instituted, they prevailed
over the insolvency assignment, the statutes of massachusetis
not making a title so acquired void or voidable at the election
of the assignees in insolvency And the court, holding that
courts of law will not always afford a remedy m damages for
all wrongs which courts of equity might prevent, said "Courts
of equity recognize and enforce rights which courts of law do
not recognize at all, and it is often on this ground that defendants in equity are enjoined from prosecuting actions at law"
The distinction between the action as brought and .Dehon v
Foster was treated as obvious.
What has been said is in harmony with the rule announced
an Green v 'Fan BuskTrk, 5 Wall. 307, S. C. 7 Wall. 139. In
that case, Bates, who lived in New York, executed and delivered to Van Buskirk, who lived in the same State, a chattel
mortgage on certain iron safes which were then in the city of
Chicago. Two days after this, Green, who was also a citizen
of New York, being ignorant of the existence of the mortgage, sued out a writ of attachment in the courts of Illinois,
levied on the safes, and subsequently had them sold insatisfaction of the judgment obtained in the attachment suit. There
was no appearance or contest in this attachment suit., and Van
Buskirk was not a party to it, although he could have made
himself such party and contested the right of Green to levy
on the safes, being expressly authorized by the laws of Illinois
so to do, It was conceded that by the law of Illinois mortgages of personal property, until acknowledged and recorded,
were void as against third persons. Subsequently Van Buskirk
sued Green in New York for the value of the. safes mortgaged
to him by Bates, of which Green had thus received the proceeds.
The courts of New York gave judgment in favor of Vaan
Buskirk, holding that the law of New York was to govern
and ilot the law of I Jinois, although the property was situated
in the latter State, ald that the title passed to Van Buskirk
by the execution of the mortgage. The cause was then
brought to this court and first considered upon a motion to

COLE v. CU-N-=NGHAMI.
Opinion of 'thel Court.

'dismiss for want of jurisdiction. Mr. Justice Miller delivered
the opinion overruling that motion. The cause then came on
to be heard upon the merits, and the judgment of the Court
of Appeals of New York was reversed. This court held that
as, by the laws of -Illinois, an attachment on personal property
would take precedence of an unrecorded mortgage, executed- in
another State where recording was not necessary, the judgment
in attachment would be binding though the owner of -the
chattels, the attaching creditor and the mortgage creditor
might all be residents of such other State; and -Mr. Justice
Davis, speaking for the court, said
"It should be borne in mind, in the discussion of this case;
that the record in the attachment suit was not used as the
foundation of an action, but for purposes of defence. Of
course, Green could not sue Bates on it, because the court had
no jurisdiction of his person, nor could itoperate on any other
property belenging to Bates than -that which was attached.
But as, by the law of Illinois, Bates was the owner of the iron
safes when the writ of attachment was levied, and as Green
could and did lawfully attach them to satisfy his debt in a
court which had jurisdiction to render the judgment, and as
the safes were lawfully sold to satisfy that judgment,.it follows that when thus sold the right of property in them was
changed, and rhe title to them became vested inthe purchasers
at the sale. And as the effect of the levy, judgment and sale
is to protect Green if sued in the courts of Illinois, and tliese
proceedings are produced for his own justification, it ought'to
require no argument to show that when sued in the court of
another State for the same transaction, and he justifies in the
same manner, that he is also protected. Any other rule would
destroy all safety in derivative titles, and deny to a State the
power to regulate the transfer of personal property within its
7
limits, and to subject such property to legal proceedings'
Wall. 148.
It will be perceived that it was manifestly inadmissible to
hold that after Van Buskirk had permitted Green to go to
judgment in a proceeding sn rem, which appropriated the
property as belonging to Bates, he could then get, judgment

OCTOBER TERA4 1889.
Dissenting Opinion. Miller, Field, Harlan, JJ.

'against Green for the conversion of what had so been adjudged
to him, an adjudication which Vail Buskirk had voluntarily
declined to litigate in the proper forum, and had not sought
in his own State to prevent. It was a contest between two
individuals claiming the same property, and that property
capable of an actual situs, and actually situated in Illinois.
The attachment was not only levied in accordance with the
laws of Illinois, but the laws of that State affirmatively invalidated the instrument under which Van Busicirk claimed.
Clearly, then, the law of the domicil of Van Buskirk, Green
and Bates could not overcome such registry and other positive
laws of Illinois as were distinctively coercive. Iervey v
Rhode Island Locomotive Woks, 93 U. S. 664, Walworth v.
Hfarr, 129 U. S. 355.
In the case at bar, the attachment suits have not gone to
judgment, and the assignees m insolvency have proceeded with
due diligence as against these creditors, citizens of Massachusetts, who are seeking to evade the laws of their own State,
nor is there anything in the law or policy of New York opposed
to the law or policy of Massachusetts in the premises.
We find no infringement of the Constitution m the rendition
of the decree, and it is accordingly
Afrme.
MR. JusTicE MILLER, with whom concurred Mn. JusTicE
FIELD and MR. JUSTIcE HAmLAw, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment and opinion of the court in this
case. I am of opinion that the proceedings in the state court
of New York, whether they be considered as the bona Jde
action of Fayerweather for his own benefit, or as merely representing the interests of Butler, Hayden & Co., were efficient
in establishing a lien on the indebtedness of Aaron Claflin
& Co.. of New York, which by the laws of that State was
superior to any right then held, or which could be acquired
fterwards by the assignees in insolvency of Daniel C. Bird.
Indeed, it is not questioned in the very learned opinion of
the court in this case that if Butler, Hayden & Co. had been
permitted to go on with their proceeding in New York, they

COLE v. CUNDNWGHA_&.
Dissenting Opinion. Miller, Field, Harlan, JJ.

would have secured an order ii,the court in which the proceedings were pending, that the garnishees, Aaron Claflin & Co.,
should pay the amount of their indebtedness- to the plaintiff
in that action. But the whole argument of tie court iq that,
because Butler, Hayden & Co.-were citizens of Massachusetts,
they were under some superior obliga'tion to the law of IMassachusetts, and to be governed by the rights that law conferred,
which prevented them from availing themselves of the law of
New York that gave them this superior right.
I do not deny the general principle that a party found
within the jurisdiction of a court and subject to its process
may be restrained and enjoined from doing certain things in
some other jurisdiction because the thing which he might
attempt to do is opposed to the principles of equity or to the
law of the place where he is found. And such nght be the
law in this case, but for the provision.-of the Constitution of
the United. States and the act of Colngress, both of which
are recited in the opinion of the court, which require that the
' records and judicial proceedings of a State authenticated- as
aforesaid shall have such faith and credit given to them in
every court m the United States as they would have by law or
usage in the courts of the State from whence such records are
or shall be taken." The record introduced from the court of
New, York in this case had the effect in that State to give Butler, Hayden & Co. a lien on the indebtedness of Aaron Claflin
& -Co., to their creditor, Bird, which in that court wouid have
ripened into a judgment and been enforced. That was, the
faith and credit which the laws of New York gave to that
proceeding. It initiated a right. It established a.lien, and
there was no power in the courts of Massachusetts to interrupt
the course of these proceedings to the final result.. That is to
say, there was no power to do. this directly Had it the right
to do it by seizing the persons of Butler, Hayden & Co. in
Massachusetts, and compelling them there to forego the advantage which they had secured in the state courts of New YorkI
When, therefore, Butler, Hayden & Co. were sued in equity in
the courts of Massachusetts, and there was produced the
record of these proceedings in the court of New York, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion. Miller, Field, Harlan, 'JJ.

question was presented to the courts of Massachusetts What
effect they would give to those proceedings. Now they did
not give the effect whicn the laws of New York gave to them.
INbither the law nor the usage in the courts of New York
admitted of such proceeding as that taken in the courts of
Massachusetts.
If tnere was any error in proceedings in the court of New
York, that error was subject to correction in due course of law
in courts of justice of the State of New York, and- Butler, Hayden & Co. had a right to insist on the validity of their proceedings being tested by the courts, and governed by the laws of
the State of New York, and not by those of Massachusetts.
It is no answer to this to say that Butler, Hayden & Co.
were citizens of Massachusetts and were found within its
jurisdiction. The higher law of the Constitution of the United
States places this restraint upon the courts of Massachusetts in
dealing even with her own citizens, and if her citizens ha-e
obtained rights in the courts of New York which have become
a part of the records and judicial proceedings of those courts.
no matter how the law under which those rights are established may be opposed to the law of the State of Massachusetts,
they are to be respected by the courts of Massachusetts because
they are effectual over the parties and subject matter in New
York, and because the Constitution of the United States and
the act of Congress of Mlay 26, 17'l90, assert the principle that
the courts of Massachusetts must give full credit, by which is
meant the same effect to the proceedings in New York which
that State gives to them. The constitutional provision which
makes this declaration is part of Article IV, and it is in immediate connection with its second section, which declares that
"the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all 'the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States." The
meaning of this is to prevent conflicts between courts of
the different States, over the same matters, by establishing
the rule that whatever is done or decided in one State shall
be respected in every other State when properly proved before
it. It is one feature of the general idea which is found all
through the Constitution.

COLE v. CUNNI.NGHAM.
Dissenting Opinion. Miller, Field, Harlan, JJ.,

These are the principles established after .a most vigorous
contest by the case of Green v. 'Fan Buskvr, twice before
this court, and reported in 5 Wall.. 307, and 7 Wall. 139.
In that case both the contesting parties lived in the State-of
New York and were citizens of that State. Each asserted a
paramount title to certain sates which were in the city of
Chicago. Green, although a citizen of New York with Van
Buskirk, levied in the State of Illinois an attachment on these
safes, on which Van Buskirk had a chattel mortgage executed
in the State of New York but not recorded m Illinois. Green
proceeded with his attachment and bought the, safes under it,
which he converted to his own use in Illinois. Afterwards he
was sued by Van Buskirk in the State of New York for this
conversion, and he set up and relied on the proceedings in the
attachment suit in Illinois as a defence. The Supreme Court
of New York held that as between its own citizens, its' law
upon the subject of chattel mortgages, which was the claim
Van Buskirk had on the safes, should prevail, while Green
insisted that the law of Illinois, where the proceedings in the
attachment took place, and where the safes were, should
govern. In the case as it first presented itself in this court a
motion to dismiss 'for want of jurisdiction was made, which
the court overruled on the ground that the case was to be
governed by the law of Illinois under 'the' Constitution of the
United States and the act of Congress already referred,to.
The case afterwards came on in 7 Wall. upon the further
question whether the laws of Illinois were such as to give
Green a right to that proceeding, and the court held that they
were, that the attachment, judgment and sale' n Illinois were
valid, and that the state courts of New York were bound to
give them effect in the proceeding of Van Buswkwk v. Greenv.
The only difference between that case and the one now
under consideration is, that at the time the court in Massachusetts intervened andi undertook to prevent Butler, Hayden & Co.
from pursuing their case in the courts of New York, there'had'
been no judgment in favor of that company But I. am at a
loss ,to see why the right established by Butler, Hayden & Co.
in the courts of New York is not' as much to be respected and

