C0ULVER 'v. UTHK~
Opinion of the Court.

sell for less, then"Fepper has no interest in it, and, I see no
reason why ghe should be compelled to cbmpete with Pepper
or anybody- else in purchasing the efitire property, which is
worth four or five'times as much as her single piece is worth,
in order to make that piece bring its full value on the sale;

CULVER v, UTWE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE' STATE OF ILLINOI]3.'
No. 191. Submitted January 27, 1890.-Decided March 3,1890.

Swamp lands located on a military land warrant prior to the passage of the
swamp land act of September 28, 1850, but patented, to the locator subsequently to the passage of that act, were not included in the lands
granted by it to the several States.
Section 891 of the Revised Statutes, authorizes certified copies of records.
of the land office at Washington, concerning the location of land warrants, to be introduced in evidence.
The delivery of his warrant by, the holder of a land warrant to -the pr6per
officers of the government, with direction that it be located on a designated tract of public land, constituted a sale of that tract within the
meaning of-the act of September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c.84, granting the
swamp lands to the.States.

THE case is stated n the. opinion.
XAr. .Morton Culvelr for plaintiffs in eror..
Mr. H. B. Hurd fordefendant in'error.
M R. JUSTICE MILLER

-

delivered the opinion of the court.

The writ of error in this case brings before us for review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of .Illinois. The
suit was brought originally by the present defendant inerror,
Gertrude Uthe, against Morton Culver and Michael Gormley,
in which she sought' to recover on eleven promissory notes
made by them March 23, 1874, all of, -which wero due and
unpaid at the commencement of this action, and on which shd

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed to recover the sum of $7000. To this the defendants
pleaded, among other defences, that the notes were given as
the purchase price of a: quarter section of land in Cook County
in that State, and that the consideration for which said notes
were given, namely, the title to said quarter section, had
utterly failed, and that plaintiff had no title to the lands
wvhich she sold to the defendants at the time of the sale, or at
any other time.
The plaintiff recovered judgment against defendants, notwithstanding this plea, which was affirmed in the Supreme
Court of the State, upon a writ of error issued by that court,
and it is that judgment which we are called upon to review.
116 Illinois, 643.
The facts out of which the jurisdiction of this court arises,
and on which we are to determine whether there is error in the
judgment of the Supreme Court, are substantially as follows:
The father of the plaintiff Gertrude, in whom the title which
she sold to the defendants originated, had a patent from the
Unktect States for the land in controversy, dated February 10,
1851, which purported on its face to be issued under the act of
Congress of February 11, 184:7, 9 Stat. 123, c. 8, on a military
land warrant that'he had deposited in the General Land Office.
This land warrant was located on the land in question, at
the lahd office of the United States in Chicago, Illinois, on
July 10, 1850, under the authority of Uthe himself, and the
land warrant certificate was delivered up, and the patent
aforesaid issued to him in due time and after the proper course
of proceedings. There does not seem to be any valid objection to-the mode-in which this was done.
The defence relied 'upon the fact that the land in question,
was swamp land within the meaning of the act of Congress of
the 28th of September, -1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84; that by that
statute the title to -the land was transferred to the State of
Illinois betvween the time of the location of the military land'
warrant and the issue of the patent for it to Uthe; and that
therefore 'the title claimed under Uthe utterly failed, being
vested by that statute 'in the State of Illinois, the act being
grant in.,rwsenti, and taking effect at its date.

, CULVER v. UTHE.
Opinion of -the Court.

The.first section of that act, reads as follows:
"To enable the State of Arkansas to construct the necessary levees and drains to reclaim the swamp and overflowed
lands therein, the whole of those swamp and overflowed lands,
made unitt thereby for cultivation, which shall remain unsold
at the pajsage of this act, shall be, and the same are hereby
granted zo said State."
The act is extended by its fourth section to the other States
of thp Union in which there were swamp lands belonging to
the '0nited States, including the State of Illinois, and the arguinent of the defendant in error is that.by reason of the location
of the military land warrant of Uthe on this land on the 10th
day of July, 1850, nearly three months before the passage of
,this act, it, had been sold to Uthe, within the meaning of the
statute; and this is the principal question which we have to
decide.
There does not seem to be any doubt that the land in controversy was swamp land, within the, meaning of the act of
Congress, and if the location by Uthe of his land warrant did
not create a right to the land which excludes it from the grant
to the State by Congress, the plaintiff Gertrude had no title,
and the defence should have been sustained.
The first objection taken to the. claim of Uthe was to the
introduction in evidence of. the certified copy of the records of
the Land Office of the.United States at Washington, concerning the location of the laud warrant by Uthe; , This transcript
is certified by L. Harrison, Acting Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the seal of his office, and contains the
various acts of the register and receiver of the land office at
Chicago and of Uthe, in regard to the locatipn of the land,
showing that it was subject to location at the time, and that
the land warrant was properly delivered up and deposited with
the Commissioner of the Land Office.
The objection ihade in the brief of counsel to the reception
of this copy is not very clearly stated. . It is said that a simple
inspection both of the United States statute and of the Illinois
statute would show conclusively that it could not be admitted
under either of them, and reference, is made to, section 20,
VOL. cxxxu--42

OCTOBER, TERK, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

chapter 51, of the Revised Statutes of fllinois, and section 906
of the Revised Statutes of the United States. But section 891
of the latter statutes is ample authority for the introduction
in,evidence of the transcript of the GenerAl Land Office in the
present, case. It reads as follows:
"Copies of 'any records, books or papers, in the Genera[
Land Office, authenticated by'the seal and certified by the
Commissioner thereof, or, when his office is vacant, by the principal clerk, shall be evidence equally with the originals thereof.
*And literal exemplifications of such records shall be held, when
so int )duced in evidence, to be of the same validity as if the
names of the officers signing and countersigning the same had
been fully inserted in such record."
There is therefore no error in the admission of this transcript
in evidence.
-.As regards its effect upon the rights of the parties, it sems
to us it shows that under an act of Congress which auth6rized
it to-be done, Uthe, by directing his land warrant to be located
upon this land and delivering up the warrant, and by the proceedings of the land office upon that location, which resulted
in issuing a patent to him for the land, had acquired an equitable title to the land, or what may be called a vested interest
in it, prior to the passage of the swamp land act by Congress.
He had done what by the act of Congress of 1847 entitled him
to the land on which his warrant was located. . He had delivered up the land warrant, the evidence of his claim against
the government. He had received in exchange for it the certificate of the receiver and register of the land office, and these
entitled him to a patent after such delay as was necessary to
ascertain the fact that the land had been granted to no one
else, and that all his'proceedings were regular, which facts
were to be determined by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, and which were determined in his favor. He had
paid for this land. He had paid by the delivering up and
cancellation of his land warrant. He had received the certificate of the register and receiver of the land office at Chicago,
which, by the laws of nearly all the Western States, have been
made equivalent to a titld to the land in actions of ejectment,

cULVER .-. t.

-

', 659.

Optnipn of the Court.

-though the strict legal title remained, in the United Stat s at
the date Qf the passage of the 'wamp land. act.Are we to suppose that Congress' intended to givetp tne
State of Illinois the land which it had already, by a contra cfor which valhe was received, promised -to convey to Uthe?As the grant to the' States of the swamp la.i4 -within their
jurisdiction was a gratuity, alth6ugh accompanied with a trust
for the reclamation of said land, it is not easily to be supposedthat Congress intended -to be thus generbus ,at the 4xpense of
parties who had vested rights in any of the lands so donated,
derived from the United States. It would be a matter of considerable d6ubtwhether such an inference, that Congress-intentionally violated its contract, would be-,indulged, if 'there
were no words of reservation in the statute.. -But when we
find the broad deilaration made that .the grant only includes:
those swamp and overflowed lands madd unfit thereby for
cultivation,, which shall remain unsold at the passage of the,
act, we do not have much-difficulty in holding that, this land
was not unsold within the meaning of the statute. It is true
that in a technical sense, and where a due regard to, the intention of the parties using the word "sold" is had, it may mean
a transfer of the title of property for a money consideration.
Yet, it has other meanings which would include the present
transaction, hen it is obvious that such was the intent of the
.party using the phrase. We cannot doubt that'the delivery, by
Uthe of his land warrant-to the proper officers of the government, with a direction that it be located on this land; and the
paper which they issued to him, showing that he had thereby
acquired the right to'a patent for the land, constituted a sale
within the meaningof the act of Congress granting the swamp
lands to the States. The cases of the States of 'Yowa and illinois v. MeAFarland,110 U. S. 471, 482, it is true, give a differ
ent construction to the word "sale" in an act of' Congress
concerning certain sales of public lands.- But the intent of
Congress in that case was relied on as indicating that the word'.
"sale," as applied to a disposal of the public lands by the government,was limited to sales for cash. The following language;
used in the opinion in thit case, indicates this very clearly :.

