OCT6BER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

the same effect given to it according to its nature, as if the
judicial proceeding had ripened into a judgment. It is very
clear that, but for ttle injunction against Butler, Hayden & Go.
they would have got such a judgment and would have obtained
their money, and if they had been sued in Massachusetts for
violating the laws of Massachusetts on that subject, it is equally
clear, according to Green v 'Fan Buskirk, that the proceedings
in the N{ew York court would have been a good defence. I
think, therefore, that the judgment of the court and the prin,ciples of the opmioft are erroneous,, and are opposed to the
former decisions of this court.

MI.

JUSTICE BREWER,

not having been a member of the

court when this case was considered, took no part in its
decision.

KEYSER ;v. HITZ.
ERRQO,

TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMMIA.

No. 42. Argued October 25, 28, 1889.-Decided

January 6, 1890.

After the passage of the act of June 30, 1876, 19 Stat, 63, savings banks
organized in the District of Columbia under an act of Congress, and haying a capital stock paid upin whole or in part, were entitled to become
national banking associations in the mode prescribed by Rev. Stat. § 5154.
A certificate signed by the Deputy Comptroller of the Currency as "Acting
Comptroller of the Currency," is a sufficient certificate by the Comptroller of the Currency within the requirements of Rev. Stat. § 5154.
The record from the trial court must be taken in this court as it was presented to the appellate court below, and an objection to it, not made there,
will not be considered here.
A transfer of stock in a bank to a person without his or her knowledge
or consent, does not of itself impose upon the transferee the liability
attached by law to the position of a shareholder in the association;
but if, after th6 transfer, the transferee approves or acquiesces
in It, or in any way ratifies it, (as, for instance, by joining in an application to convert the bank into a national bank,) or accepts any
benefit arising from the ownership of such stock, he or she becomes liable to be treated as a shareholder, with such responsibility as the law
imposes in such case; and this liabilityas the same whether new certificates have or have not been issued to the transferee after the transfer.

KEYSER v. HITZ.
Opinion of the Court.
The endorsement, by the payee, of a check which appears on its face to be
drawn by the cashier of a bank in payment of a dividend due the payee
as a stockholder, estops him from denying knowledge of its contents or
ownership of the shares.
A marred woman in the District of Columbia may become a holder of stock
m a national banking association, and assume all the liabilities of such a
shareholder, although the consideration may have proceeded wholly from
the husband.
The coverture of a married woman, who is a shareholder in a national bank,
does not prevent the receiver of the bank from recovering judgment
against her for the amount of an assessment levied upon the shareholders
equally and ratably under the statute; but no opinion is expressed as to
what property may be reached in the enforcement of such judgment.
Tim case is stated in the opinion.
_Mr lezgk _o~nson for plaintiff in error.
_'r Enock Totten for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE HA n

delivered -the (pinion of the court.

This action is based upon an assessment made by the Comptroller of the Currency on the stockholders of the GermanAmerican National Bank of the city of Washington, which
suspended business on the 30th day of October, 1878, and of
which the plaintiff in error was appointed receiver. The
assessment was upon the stockholders, equally and ratably, to
the amount of one hundred per centum of the par value of
their shares. It was averred in the declaration filed by the
receiver that the defendant, Jane C. Hitz, held or owned -at
the time of the bank's suspension two hundred shares of its
stock, of the pail value per share of one hundred dollars, and
that by reason thereof, the plaintiff was entitled to recover from
her the sum of twenty thousand dollars, with interest on each
half of that sum from the dates they should have been respectively paid, under the notice given by the receiver.
The defendant pleaded, first, that she was never indebted as
alleged, second, that she never at any -time held or owned
shares of stock in this bank, and if it appeared upon its books
or otherwise that any of the stock stood in her name, the entries to that effect were fraudulent, and were made for the

OOTOBER TERM, 1889.
Oumion of the Court.

purpose of cheating her, third, that since August 15, 1856, she
has been the wife of John Ritz. She filed an additional plea,
averring that therb was not, nor had ever been, any such
national banking association as the German-American National
Bank, of which the plaintiff was receiver, meaning, by this
plea, that no such association was ever organized in conformity
with the statutes of the United States.
There was evidence before the jury tending to establish the
following facts
In the year 1879 certain persons, among whom was John
Hitz, the husband of the defendant, availed themselves of the
provisions of the act of Congress of May 5, 1870, relating to
the creation of corporations in the District of Columbia by
general laws, as amended by the act of June 17, 1870, and
formed a corporation by the name of the German-American
Savings Bank of the city of Washington. 16 Stat. 98, 102,
c. 80, lb. 153, c. 131.
There appears, under date of January "21, 18,76, upon the
books of that bank, labelled "Stock Transfers and Ledger,
German-American Savings Bank," entries showing the assignment and, transfer to Jane C. Hitz of shares of stock, as
follows 173 shares by John Hitz, 10 shares by William F
Mattingly, (the latter acting by Samuel L. Mattingly, attorney,)
10 shares by R. B. Donaldson and 7 sbares by C. E. Prentiss,
in all, 200 shares. At the time these transfers purport to have
been made, John Hitz was president of the bank, Donaldson
vice president and Prentiss cashier, and they, with Mattingly
and others, were its trustees. The stubs in the book of trnsfers state that new certificates for all the above stock were
i8sued'to Mrs. Hitz, but it was not distinctly shown that they
were delivered to her, or were'ever in her possession. It was,
however, proven that the fourth dividend upon these shares,
amounting to $800, was paid by the check of Prentiss, the
cashier of the savings bank, dated May 1, 1876, which was in
these words "Pay to Jane C. Hitz, or order, $800, fourth
dividend, payable this day on stock standing in her name on
the books of this bank, and charge to dividend account. No.
-3300." That check was endorsed. "Pay to the order of John

KEYSER v.. E ITZ.
.Opinion of the Court.

Hitz. Jane C. Hitz." Then follows this endorsement "John
Hitz; Consul-General," showing, as stated by Prentiss, that the
proceeds of the check were deposited by John Ritz to his
account in the bank as consul general. Similar checks weremade for the fifth and sixth dividends on the same stock.
They were payable, respectively, November 1, 1876, and Nbvember 1, 1877, and were endorsed in the same way as was
the first check. As in the case of the first check, their proceeds were placed to the credit of John Hitz as consul general.
Among the original papers on file in the office of the Comptroller of the Currency were the following"
1. A document dated May 7, 1877, purporting to be signed
by the stockholders of the German-American Savings Bank
of Washington, then having a capital of $127,100, and to
authorize the trustees thereof- John Hitz and others named
-to convert that bank into a national banking association,
by the name of the German-American National Bank of
Washington, and make the articles of association and the
organization certificate required by the statutes of the 'United
'States. Under the headings in that document of "1Names of
Stockholders" and "No. of shares owned by each;" appear
among other names those of John Ritz, 130 shares, R, B.
Donaldson, 90 shares; W F -Mattingly, 190 shares, C. E.
Prentiss, 61 shares, John Hitz, trusteae, 25 -shares, John HRitz
and C. E.Prentiss, trustees, 81 shares; and Jane C. Hitz, 200
shares.
2. The organization certificate, sigied by the trustees, and
verified by their oath, stating that, they havegbeen authorized
by the stockholders of, the German-AmercatL Saving lBank
to change it into a national banking association, the stockobwhich shall be divided as it was then divided; in the savings
bank. That certificate contains a statement of the names,
residence and number of shares held by eaclh stockholder of
the savings bank, and in the list appears the name-of- Jane ,.
HRitz, as holding 200 shares. It bears date May 7,.1877,-and
was filed with the Comptroller of the Currenicy May 13, 1877.
3. The articles of association of the Gernan-Ameiican National Bank of Washington, which is accompanied by the cer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tificate of J S. Langworthy, as acting Comptroller of the
Currency, under date of May 14, 1877, stating that that
-bank h~d complied with all the provisions of the Revised
'Statutes, relating to national banking associations, and was
authorized to commence business as provided in section 5169
of the Revised Statutes. The national bank had the same
officers and trustees as the savings bank.
No direct proof was made by the plaintiff, that the signature
purporting to be that of the defendant, on the above checks
for dividends, was her genuine signature.
In -reference to the stock of the German-American Savings
Bank which, according to the entries m its books, was transferred by M[r. Mattingly, the latter, as a witness for the defendant, testified that he owned stock in that bank, but that
he had never transferred any of it, that lhe never owned and
did not himself transfer ten shares of stock to Mrs. Hitz, and
that he did not purchase those shares, and did not know how
they happened to stand in his name, although he supposed his
brother, who executed the transfer in the witness's name,
understood how it all occurred.
Mr. .Donaldson testified for the defendant that, while he
signed a transfer of ten shares of stock to Mrs. Hitz,'he had no
recollection whatever of the transaction, that he never owned
the stock so transferred, and was never paid for it by any one.
Mrs. Hitz testified in her own behalf. The substance of
her testimony was that she never bought, owned or voted any
stock in the German-American Savings Bank or in the GermanAmerican, National Bank, never knew until after the failure
of the national bank that her name appeared among the stockholders on the books of either bank, never received any dividend declared or paid by either, and never received or held
any.certificates of stock in either bank. Being asked as to
whether the signature of Jane 0. Hitz to the paper purporting to be signed by the stockholders of the GermanAmerican Savings Bank, and authorizing its conversion into a
national banking association, was her signature, she answered,
in substance, that she knew nothing of that paper, did not
remember to have signed it, although the signature resembled

KEYSER v. HITZ.
Opinion 'of the Court.

hers, was not aware of the conversion of the sayings bank
into a national bank until after the failure of the latter, and
as she never owned any of this stock, she would not have
signed any paper for such change, if she had been asked to
do so. Being shown the checks for dividends on the stock
standing in her name, she stated that she had no recollection
of seeing them until after the failure of the German-American
National Bank. Again '" Q. What do you say as to the signature-did you write it? A. I cannot say Q. Did you
ever get any money on account of those checks? A. I never
did. Q. Those checks appear to have been paid. Do youremember whether you ever had them in your possession or
not? A. No, sir, I never had them in my possession. Q.
What do you say? A. I am certain I never had them in my
possession. Q. Can you account to the jury for the similarity
of that signature to your own 2 A. I cannot. Q. Do you say
you never wrote your name on the back of those checks2 A.
No, sir, I cannot say that. I have no recollection of having.
done so. I never did so knowing the nature of the checks,
never did so at all, so far as I can recollect."
Upon cross-examination. "Q. You are unable to deny that
that is your signature? A. I cannot positively deny that it
is. Q. Can you deny at all that that is your signature? A.
I can deny having any recollection of having signed them.
Q. Can you deny that it is your signature? A. I cannot deny
it. Q. Now, I will ask you whether when you were m Europe, the salary of your husband as consul general was not
paid to you2 A. It was during part of the time that I was
there. Q. To what did that salary amount? A. I thiiik
$3000."
Upon refxamination the defendant was permitted, against
the objection of the plaintiff, to state that she thoughtit would
be impossible for her to have owned $20,000 of stock in the
German Savings Bank and not have remembered it. Being
asked whether, if she had seen .the checks, she could have' forgotten them, she said "Had I seen them, knowing what they
were, I should not have forgotten them -could not have foD
gotten them."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

The foregoing is substantially the case made before the jury
lBefore entering upon the examinatioi of the questions
raised by the plainiff's assignments of error, it is necessary
to consider certain propositions advanced by the defendant,
which, if sound, might be sufficient to dispose of the case.
It is contended that the conversion of the German-American
Savings Bank into a national banking association was unauthorized by any statute of the United States, and, consequently, that the appoihtment by the Comptroller of the
Currency of the plauitiff as receiver, and the assessment made
by that officer upon the stockholders of the bank -which assessment is the foundation of the present suit -were

abso-

lute nullities.
The privilege of becoming a national banking association is
given by section 5154 of the Revised Statutes to "any bank
incorporated by special law, or any banking institution organized under a general law of any State." These words, it is
argued, do not embrace savings, banks organized in the District of Columbia, and only to refer to banks or banking institutions created under -the authority of some State, either
by a special or general law But all difficulty upon the subject is removed by the act of Congress, entitled "An act authorizing the appointment of receivers of national banks, and
for other purposes," approved June 30, 1876, 19 Stat. 63, c.
156, the sixth section of which is as follows
"That all savings banks or savings and trust companies
organized under authority of any act of Congress, shall be,
and are hereby, required to make, to the Comptroller of the
Currency, and publish, all the reports -which national banking
associations are required to make and publish under the provisions of sections fifty-two hundred and eleven, fifty-two hundred and twelve, and fifty-two hundred and thirteen of the
Revised Statutes, and shall be ubject to the same penalties for
failure to make or publish such reports as are therein provided, which penalties may be collected by suit before any
court of the United States in the district in which said savings banks or savings and trust companies may be located.
And all savings or other banks now organized or which shall

KEYSER v. HITZ.
Opinion of the Court.

hereafter be organized, in the District of Columbia, under any

act of Congress, which shall have capital stock paid up in
whole or in part, shall be subject to all the provisions of the
Revised Statutes, and of all acts of Congress applicable to
national banking associations, so far as the same may be applicable to such savings or other banks Prowded,That such
savings banks now established shall not be required to have
a paid-in capital exceeding one hundred thousand dollars."
19 Stat. 64.
Under that act the German-American Savings Bank was
required to make to the Comptroller of the Currency the
reports which by sections 5211, 5212 and 5213 of the Revised
Statutes were required from national banking associations. It
also became subject to all the provisions of the Revised Statutes
and of the acts of Congress relating to national banking -associations, so far as those provisions were applicable to a savings bank organized in this district.
It is too clear for dispute that, after the passage of zhe act of 1876, savings banks
organized in this district under an act of Congress, and having.
a capital stock paid up in whole or m part, were entitled to
become national banking associations in the mode, and subject
to the conditions, prescribed by section 5154. Surely that section cannot be deemed inapplicable to savings banks of that
class.
Another contention of the defendant is, that the GermanAmerican National Bank could not acquire the powers and
privileges of a national banking association before receiving from the Comptroller of the Currency a certificate ihat
the provisions of the statute relating. to such associations had
been complied with, and that it was authorized to commence
the business of banking, that the certificate given under date
of May 14, 1877, by J S. Langworthy, as "Acting" Comptroller of the Currency, did not meet the requirements of the
statute, because, it is argued, there was no such officer known
to the law Rev. Stat. § 5154. This point was not specifically made m the court below But there is nothing of substance in it, even if it could properly be raised in this collateral
proceeding. There is an officer designated a Deputy CompvOL. Cxxx=-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

troller of the Currency, who may .exercise the powers and
discharge the duties attached to the office of Comptroller,
during a vacancy in that office, or during the absence or inability of the Comptroller. Rev Stat. §§ 178, 327. The certificate alluded to was from the office of the Comptroller,
and was under the seal of that office. Besides, this court
takes judicial notice of the fact that Mr. Langworthy was, at
the date of his certificate, Deputy Comptroller of the Currency And it will be assumed that, at the date of his certificate, he was authorized to exercise the powers and discharge
the duties of the Comptroller, and was therefore, at the time,
Acting Comptroller.
It is further insisted that Langworthy's certificate is no part
of the transcript. And the defendant has made a motion in
this court to strike it .from the record. It is clear from the
affidavits submitted that the certificate was used at the trial
in special term, and that it was accidentally omitted from the
bill of exceptions taken by the plaintiff. This omission being
discovered before the case was heard in general term, application was made to the trial justice, after the special term had
adjourned without day, to amend the bill of exceptions so as
to make this certificate a part of it. The application was
granted - whether upon notice to the defendant or her counsel
is not clearly shown -and the case was heard in the general
term without any suggestion, so far as the record shows, that
the certificate had been improperly made a part of the record
after the bill of -exceptions had been completed and signed.
An objection of that character will not be considered where
itwas not presented to the court whose judgment is here for
review The record must be taken as it was- presented to the
general term.
We now proceed to consider the principal questions arising
upon the requests for instructions and upon the charge of the
court to the jury
At the instance of the defendant the jury were instructed
substantially as follows
That if the stock in controversy was transferred upon the
books of the German-American Savings Bank to and in the

KEYSER v. RITZ.
Opmi=n

of the Court.

name of the defendant without her knowledge and consent,

she was entitled to a verdict, unless she subsequently ratified
and confirmed such transfer,
That if the defendant was procured to sign the application
to the Comptroller of the Currency for the organization of the
German-American National Bank by- fraudulent means and
representations, such application must not be taken as confirming the transfer of the stock to her on the books of the savings
bank,
That if the defendant was induced to endorse the three
checks for dividends by means of fraud or misrepresentation,
or by concealing from her the facts concerning them, -stich
checks cannot be regarded as a confirmation of a transfer- of
the stock to her name, nor as evidence against her;
That if the stock was transferred to the defendant for fraudulent purposes, by or at the instigation of her husband, and
without her knowledge or consent, such transfer was void, and
she was entitled to a verdict, and,
That if, at or before the time of the transfer of the stock to
the defendant on the books of the company, she had not purchased the stock or authorized it to be purchased, either
directly or indirectly, and knew nothing about it, she was not
liable, as a shareholder, to the assessment in question.
These instructions were, in effect, repeated in.-the elaborate
charge to the jury
The testimony of the defendant tended to show that the
stock was originally transferred to her on the books of the
German-American Savings Bank, without her knowledge or
consent, and the issue upon that point was fairlv submitted
to the jury by the first instruction given at her instance. But
some of the instructions given upon her motion, as well as the
charge to the jury, erroneously assumed that there was eviwas procured, by fraudulent
dence tending to show that
means and representations, to sign the application for the
conversion of 'the savings bank into a national bank, that,
by like means, or by concealment of the facts, she was induced
to sign the checks for dividends, and that the transfer of the
stock to her nam,. was for fraudulent purposes, by or at the
-she

OCTOBER TER1, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

instigation of her husband. There was, however, no evidence
as to the circumstances under which her name was signed to
the application addressed to the Comptroller, or under which
the checks were endorsed in her name, absolutely none upon
which to base the theory of fraud or false representations.
It is true, as already suggested, there was evidence tending to
show that the transfers of stock were made originally without
defendant's knowledge, and the jury might reasonably have
concluded, under all the evidence, that the transfers were
made, and caused to be made, by her husband. But these
facts neither proved, nor tended to prove, fraud upon the part
of the husband. There was no proof that he was insolvent,
and, therefore, it could not be presumed that the transfers
were made with any intent to defraud his creditors. Besides,
the intent with which-the husband caused the transfers to be
made to his wife was wholly immaterial. Even if the object
was to conceal his property from creditors, the vital question
remained whether the defendant became the owner of the
stock within the meaning of the statute regulating the individual liability of the shareholders of national banking associations. In other words, the husband may have intended to
commit a fraud upon his creditors, and the transfers of stodkc
ma.y have been made to the wife without first obtaining her
consent, and yet she may have been, at the time of the bank's
failure, liable to be assessed as a shareholder. There was no
connection between her liability to be so assessed, and the
alleged fraudulent intent with which the husband caused the
transfers of stock to be made.
Whether she signed the application for the conversion of
the savings bank into a national bar Cin the capacity of shareholder to the extent of two hundUAL shares, was wholly apart
from any question of her knowledge, at the time of the transfers, of the motive which induced, her husband in making or
causing them to be made. If she became aware of the transfers, after they Ivere made, and thereafter received the dividends, she became a-shareholder for all purposes of individual
liability in respect to: the contracts, debts and engagements of
the bank as fully as.f the transfers had been made originally

K]EYSER v. HITZ.

'149

Opinion of the Court.

with her knowledge and consent. Whether she received the
dividends or not depended upon the inquiry as to whether
the checks for them were endorsed by her. If she endorsed
them, or either of them, she is estopped to say that she did not
know their contents, and was not the owner of the shares of
stock upon which the dividends were declared, for.each check
discloses upon its face that it was payable to her order, and
was for dividends on stock standing in her name on the books
of the bank. This result is not at all affected by the fact that
the proceeds of the checks went to the credit of John Eiitz's
account as consul general. If the defendant endorsed the
checks in blank or to the order of her husband, and delivered
them to him, the mode in which he disposed of the proceeds'
isof no consequence in the present suit.
We must not be understood as saying that the mere transfer
of the stocks on the books of the bank, to the name of the
defendant, imposed upon her the individual liability attached
by law to the position of shareholder in a national banking
association. If the transfers were, in fact, without her knowledge and consent, and she was not informed of what was so
done-nothing more appearing-she would not be held to
have assumed or incurred liability for the debts, contracts
and engagements of the bank. But if, after,the transfers, she
joined in the application to convert the savings bank into a
national bank, or in any other mode approved, ratified or
acquiesced m such transfers, or accepted any of the benefits
arising from the ownership of the stock thus put in her name
on the books of the bank, she was liable to be treated as a
shareholder, with such responsibility as the law imposes upon
the shareholders of national banks.
The arguments of counsel were partly directed to the
question whether new certificates of stock were issued by the
savings bank, and delivered to the defendatnt, after the transfers were made on the books of that bank. It is sufficient, on
this point, to say that the record made of the transfers upon
the books of the bank was sufficient, as between. her and the
bank, to work a change of ownership, and new certificates
were not necessary to her becoming the owner of the sto.ck

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

so transferred. Nor can she escape liability by reason of the
fact, if such be the fact, that no certificates were issued to
her by the German-American National Bank. The statute
expressly declares that the shares of the old bank may continue to be for the same amount each as they were before
the conversion.
One other question raised by the defendant requires consideration. She contends that her coverture, at the time of
the transfers, as well as when the bank failed, protected her
against assessment upon the stock put in her name upon the
books of the bank. The plaintiff's requests for instructions
upon this point having all been granted by the court below, it is
suggested that no question can arise upon the assignments of
error in reference to the individual liability of married women
for the debts, contracts and engagements of national banking
associations of which they are shareholders. But if the defendant's position is correct, the judgment might be affirmed upon
the ground that she was not, under any circumstances, liable
to an assessment by the Comptroller. For this reason, and
because this question will necessarily arise upon another trial,
it is proper to give it some attention.
We do not understand the defendant to say that she was
incapacitated by the laws in force in the District of Columbia
from becoming the owner of bank stock. It was well said by
Mr. Justice Cox, when the present case was first before the
geheal. term, Keyser v Hitz, 2 MacKey, *73, 493, that 1a
married woman "has the legal capacity to receive gifts, may
be the obligee of a bond, or receive a transfer of stock in
moneyed corporations, and this though the consideration may
have proceeded wholly from the husband, and in such case
she may hold against the legatees and heirs, but not against
the creditors of the husband. Fisk v Cushman, 6 Cush. 20."
We speak of gifts, because the reasonable inference from all
the evidence is that the defendant's husband made and caused
to be made the transfers in question as a gift, though not, so
far as the record shows, to her sole and separate use.
Assuming, then, that she was not incapacitated from becoming the owner of stock in a bank, and that she was a

KEYSER v. HITZ.
Opmon of the Court.

shareholder m the savings bank, she became, upon the conversion of that bank into a national bank, a shareholder in
the latter. Rev Stat. § 5154. In that event she became, by
force of the statute, individually responsible to the amount*
of her stock, at the par value thereof, for the contracts, debts
and engagements of the national bank equally and ratably with
other shareholders. Section 5151, which imposes such individual responsibility upon the shareholders of national banks,
makes no exception in favor of married women. The only
persons holding shares of national bank stock, whom the statute
exempts from this personal responsibility, are executors, administrators, guardians, or trustees. § 5152. It is not for the courts,
-by mere construction, to recognize an exemption which Congress has not given. The hardship that -may result where the
ownership of national bank stock by a married woman is
subject to the common law rights of the husband, in respect
to its alienation, cannot control the interpretation of the
statute. Such considerations are more properly for the legislative department. Upon this point, the case of the Reciprocity Bank, 22 iN. Y 9, 15, which involved the liability of
a married woman as a shareholder in a state bank, is instructive. The constitution and statutes of New York made the
shareholders in corporations and joint stock associations, for
banking purposes, issuing bank notes, "individually responsible," etc. The Court of Appeals of that State, speaking by
Chief Judge Comstock, said "It is also said that femes covert
are not liable to suit or judgment at the common law, and in
general, this is true. It is also true that the apportionment of
liability among stockholders in banks, when duly confirmed,
becomes a judgment against each stockholder, to be enforced
by execution as in other cases. But it was competent for the
legislature to depart from the rules and analogies of the
common -law, and to make married women and their estates
liable in this proceeding, as other stockholders in banks are
made liable. This, we think, has been done, and it seems to
us proper to add, that we see no reason why it ought not to
be done, in order to effectuate the policy on which the constitutional provision and the statute are founded. It might go

