OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

lb. 9, 700; 7 1b. 567. Under the act of, 1843 commitment
is not resorted to until other means of collection have failed
and then only upon a showing of property possessed, not
accessible to levy, but enabling the owner to pay if he
.chooses, this constituting such misconduct as justifies the
order. That law had been in existence for more than forty
years at the time of this proceeding. We do not regard the
collection in this way, founded on necessity and so long
recognized by the State of New York as t6 'be- justifiably
resorted to under the circumstances detailed in the act, .and
operating alike on all persons and property similarly situated,
as within the inhibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment is

A jlrned.,

MR. JusTixE BLTcHFOim

did not take any part in the de-

'cision of this case.

PETERS v. BAIN.
GRIFFIN v. PETERS.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT .OF VIRGWIA.
Nos. 87, 198.

Argued November 7, 8, 1889. -Decided

March 3, 1890.

This court accepts the construction given to a state statute against fraudulent conveyances by the highest court of the State as controlling.
It is settled law in Virginia that an assignmet by a debtor for the benefit
of creditors will not be declared void, as given "with intent to delay,
hinder or defraud creditors, purchasers," etc., unless such an inference
is so irresistible as to preclude any other; that the fact that creditors
may be delkyed or hindered, is not, of itself, sufficient to vacate the instrument; and that one creditor may be preferred over another.
When an assignment for the benefit of partnership and individual creditors
includes all the property of the grantors as partners and individually,
it should be construed distributively, partnership assets being applied to
the payment of partnership debts, and individual assets to individual liabilities.
As respects frauo in law, as distinguished from fraud in fact, in a conveyance, if that which is invalid can be separated from that which is valid,

Syllabus.
without defeating the general intent, the maxim "vo'ld In part; void in
toto does not necessarily apply, bfit the instrument may-ba sustained.
notwithstanding the invalidity 'of a particular provision.
An assignment for the benefit of creditors, with preferences, authorized
the trustees to "make sale of the real a d other personal estdte hereby
conve ed, at public auction or private sile, at, such. time or tinges, and.
place .or places, and after such notice as to them shall seem ,best, and
they may make such, sale upon such terms and conditions as to them
shall seem best, except that at any sale of said property,'real or peisonal,
at public auction, any creditor secured by this deed In 'the second class
above enumerated shall have the right to purchase any parb 6r parcel of
said property so sold, and pay the said trustees therefor, at its full faqe
value, the amount found due such purcbaier secured by this deed,' or so
much thereof as may be necessary to enable such creditor to conijlete
the payment of his purchase money, and to enable as many creditors as
pdssible to become bidders pn these terms, the said trustees may have the
real estate hereby -conveyed, or any part thereof, laid off into lots or parcels, as they may think best;" Held, that the deed was not void in lawr
because of the insertion of 'this provision.
The individual members of ,a private banking.house, who werb also the
controlling directors In a national bank, made an assignment of their
propert for the benefit of creditors, which assignm~nt was assafledoas
fraudulent in several matters, among which w;ere'allegbd frauds' upon
the national bank, pnd frauds upop their own depositors previous to thje
assignment; Held, that violations of their fiduciary relations to the
bank, or their treatment of their own depositors did not render the as-;
signment of all their property for the benefit of their creditors, fraudulent for that reason.
The knowledge by a director and stockholder in a national ,bank that the
bank is insolvent, does not Invalidate an assignment of all his property
for the benefit of' his creditors, with preferences, made with sqch
knowledge.
The court below was right in finding no evidence in thi case of a fraudulent intent on the part of the firm or either of its meA )ers to hindek and
delay their creditors.
The individual partners in a private bank were also directors In a national'
bank, and; by reason of their position, became possessed of a large pat
of the means of the national bank which they used in theirown business.
They assigned all their property to trustees for the benefit of their creW
itors. The national bank also suspended, ancl went into the'hands'of a.
-receiver;, HTeld,
(1) That the receiver was entitled to the surrk nder of such of the prop,
erty as bad been actually purchased wit, the moneys of the bank
as he might 6lect; but that purchases made and paid for out of
the' general mass could not be claimed by the receiver -unless It
could be shown that moneys of the bank in the general fund at
the time of the Purchase, were appropriated for that purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
"(2) That the receiver was not estopped by such election and taking,
from receiving the full benefit of the deed of trust in favor of the
national bank.
In Virginia, trustees and beneficiaries in a deed of trust to secure bona fide
debts occupy the position of purchasers for a valuable consideration.
When the counsel of an insolvent debtor draws an assignment of his client's
property to himself as trustee for the benefit of creditors, he may be presumed to have had knowledge of the dealings of the insolvent with his
creditors.
Under the circumstances of this case a decree directing the payment of the
costs of suit out of the trust fund is correct.

THESE were appeals from a final decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia,
*entered on the 15th day of June, 1886, upon a bill in equity
brought by William H. Peters, receiver of the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, against Robert T. K. Bain, George M.
Bain, Jr.) and James G. Bain, late partners under the name
and style of Bain & Brother, survivors of themselves and
Thomas A. Bain, deceased; and John T. Griffin, William W.
Old and John B. Jenkins, trustees under a deed of assignment
from Bain & Brother; and upon a cross-bill filed by said trustees.. The cause, after having been brought to issue, was
referred to a special master, who took evidence and reported
thereon, and was heard by Mr. Chief Justice Waite and the
circuit judge.
The opinion of the court was delivered by the Chief Justice,
and was as follows:

"This is a suit in equity begun by the receiver of "the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, an insolvent national bank,
for a two-fold purpose, that is to say: 1, to set aside an assign.ment, made by the partnership firm of Bain & Bro. and the
several members thereof for the benefit of their creditors, and
to subject the assigned property to the payment of debts due
the bank; and, 2, to charge property in the hands of the assignees with the trust in favor of the bank because it was
bought with moneys of the bank, which certain members of
the firm, who were officers of the bank, had wrongfully used
for that purpose.
"The material facts are these: The Fxchang- National Bank

PETERS v. BAIN:

-673

Statement of the Case.

was organized May 13, 1865, with a capital of $100,000, which
was increased November 13, 1866, to $150,000. Its place of
business was Norfolk, Va.
"The firm of Bain & Bro., composed originally of R. T. K.
and James G. 'Bain, began business in Portsmouth, Va., as,
brokers and private bankers in September, 1865, with an assumed capital of $5000, placed to the credit of the two partners on the books. George M. Bain, Jr., was" admitted as a
partner soon after the business was started and Thomas A.
Bain in 1868 or 1869; but he died in 1877. The capital was
never increased, but, on the contrary, the drafts of the partners
soon exhausted the original credits and much more besides.
At the time of the failure, the balances against the partners
respectively were as follows:
"James G. Bain
.........
"R. T. K. Bain
.....
.
"George M. Bain, Jr. ..
.........
" Thomas A. Bain's estate ..
........
"In all ...

.........

.
...
..

$54,796
.47,369
7,146
20,028

.$129,340

73
23
39
41
76

"Portsmouth is separated from Norfolk by_ the Elizabeth
River; one place being on one side of the river and the other
immediately opposite on the other. On the Tth of July, 1870,
the firm became shareholders in the bank, and the next day
George M. Bain, Jr., was elected cashier. This office he held
until April 2, 1885. R. T. K. Bain has elected a director January 2, 1872, and he served in that capacity all the time there-:
after during the existence of the bank.' James G. Bain was
elected assistant cashier August 11, 1873, and he held that
office until January 11, 1881, when he was made vice-president,
in which capacity he acted until' the end.- Thomas A. Bain '
was elected a director January 11, 1876, and this office he held
until his death.
"On the 9th of 'September, 1873, the capital stock of*the
bank was increased from $150,000 to $200,000. The names
of the subscribers are not given and no money was paid' on,
that day, but the whole amount of $50,000 was carried in'the'
VOL. cxxxM-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
StAtement of the Case.

receivig teller's cash as a caqh item until October i4, 1873,
when the following parties gave their checks on the bank for
the following amounts:
"Bain & Bro .......
"John B. Whitehead ...
"Jtmes H. Toomer ............
George M. Bain, Jr.

.............
...........
..

..
.

$25,000
15,000
5,000
5,000

..

$50,000

......

"In all "............

"Certificates of stock were issued -to these parties, respectively, for the shares represented by their several checks. On
the 10th of May, 1874, the stock was increased to $300,000,
R. H. McDonald, of California, taking and paying for the
whole of the additional amount.
"At the time of the failure of the bank the following persons held shares as follows:
-

"Bain & Bro .................
"George M. Bain, Jr....
"James G. Bain .....

"R. T. K. Bain

.

...

...
.
.....

.........
............

582 shares.
.232
do.
.. 91 do.
91

do.

"Thos. A. Bain's estate ...
..........
.
91
"George M. Bain, Jr., and John R. Whitehead . 100

do.
do.

"In all " .

....

1187

do.

"Very soon after Bain & Bro. became connected with the
bank they began to absorb its funds. As they wanted money
they, got it with or without security, as was most convenient
for them. They had -no direct connection in their own private
banking business with the Bankers' Clearing-house at Norfolk,
but they were represented in that association by the Exchange
Bank, which paid all balances against them, and these at some
times amounted to very large sums. The commercial and
business paper which they took at their banking-house in
Portsmouth was largely rediscounted for them at the bank,
and on the 31st of March, 1885, their indebtedness to the bank
has been stated approximately as follows:

PETERS v. B.At.
Statement of the Case.

"Bain & Bro.'s notes &c., unendorsed and unsecured.... .
... .........
. . $800,000 iI0:
"Notes of others endorsed by them . . . .
593,251.99
-iCash tickets .........
.
.......
211 0
" ..
"Bain & Bro.'s notes endorsed by bank and dis-1
counted in New York .
.......
.
50,000 100
"In all ................

$1,443,462 99

"In addition to this George M. Bain, Jr., and Janmes G."Bain
each owed the bank very considerable sums. Such being the
condition of affairs, the Comptroller of the Currency required.
the bank to reduce at once the unsecured debt of Bain & Brb.,
and to make good the deficiency in its reserve fund. In consequence of this the firm on the 31st of March sold to the
bank the following stocks and bonds:
"Seaboard Compress Company stocks
... $300,000
"Meherrin Valley railroad bonds ........
200,Q00
"Southern telegraph bonds, of the par value of
.
$140,000, at ..............
70,O
"In all ...

...........

....

$570000

and guaranteed that the same should yield the amount' for
which theywere taken whenever put on the market and sold.
This guaranty was secured by a transfer of the.interest bf the
firm in the Richmond Cedar Works, and also in $80,000- of
Southern telegraph bonds held as collateral security. This
being done, and the firm also agreeing not to assign their
Other property for the benefit of creditors with preferences
against the bank, notes of the firm and other indebtedness to
the amount agreed on as the'value of the stocks and bonds
were surrendered and the unsecured debts thereby nominaly
reduced. While some of the stocks and bbnds .thus .trans.
ferred had been before that time in the possession of the-bairk,
or some of its officbrs, the evidence does not establish the'fact
that they had been in any way pledged, or'that they could bb
legally held'by the bank as security. They were al}, so "fhr as
appears, the property of the firm free of 'any specific claim of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the bank. The value of the stocks and bonds thus transferred
falls. between two and three hundred thousand dollars short
of the amount for which they were taken, and the Richmond
Cedar Works stock and Southern telegraph bonds, held as.
collateral to the guaranty against this deficiency, are of but
little value.
"What was thus done did not satisfy the Comptroller,
and on the 2d of April, 1885, he took possession of the bank
for the purpose of winding up its affairs. The bnnking-house
in. Portsmouth closed its doors at the same time.
This
.produced great excitement both in Portsmouth and Norfolk,
and resulted in the assignment which is now attacked. Mr.
Qld, one of the assignees, is an attorney-at-law, and was
retained as counsel for the firm. He advised them in all their
*matters and drafted the assignment. He was informed of
-the agreement which had been made' not to assign with
preferences against the bank, and knew generally of the
large indebtedness of the firm and of its members to the bank.
He also knew of the transaction between, the bank and the
firm on the 31st of March, and, hearing that it was the
intention of the creditors of the bank to enjoin the assignment, he made haste to have it executed and recorded before
anything of that kind was done.
I"The actual value of the property which passed by the
assignment does not exceed five hundred thousand dollars.
The property consists very largely of real estate in Portsmouth
and. Norfolk County, the title to most of which was in
R. T. K. Bain. The books of the firm are entirely unreliable.
In fact, no general ledger was ever kept, and transactions to
enormous amounts can only be traced by memoranda on slips
of paper with the help of the explanations of R. T. K. Bain,
who was the. principal manager. No accounts at all were
kept with the bank, and everything, so far as Bain & Bro.
were concerned, was found in the greatest confusion.
, ."After the death of Thomas A. Bain the business of the
firm was conducted in all respects as it had been before. The
indebtedness of the firm to depositors and otherwise at the
time of tae failure has not been accurately determined, but

I PETERS v. BAIK.
Statement .of the Case.

tcaims of depositors have already ibeen proved against the
trust to more than $750,000, and it is not unlikely that the
entire indebtedness, other than that to the bank, may approach
a million of dollars.
"The money received by the firm from the bank was
.generally mingled with that which was got from other sources,
and it has been impossible to trace it directly into property
now in the hands of the assignees, except in the following
cases:
"Real Eqtate.
.
$650 00
"1. Inventory No.22, bought May, 1876
600 00
"2. Inventory No. 50, bought September, 1881
1,13745
"3. Inventory No. 68, bought April, 1884 .
"4. Inventory Nos. 65, 66, 67, bought August,,
1881, and October, -1882, $768.341 and
2,633 50
$1865.16 ........ . ..........
"Colorado -Hines.

"5. Boomerang, bought August 80, 1884

.

16,333.60
5,000 00

.

"6. Laura Dunmore, bought August 4, 1884

"Personalty,.
"7. Dismal Swamp canal bond, bought December,

1880 ........
'1 8.

....

.........

Seaboard and Roanoke Railroad Co.'s stock, 1
sl~are, bought about 1879.
......

.

100 00

o9

00

"9.- Ocean View Railroad and hotel stock, 122
6)100 00
shares, bought October, 1880 .... ...
"10. Chesapeake and Idaho Gold and Silver Mining Co.'s stock, 625 shares, bought after 1881 7,812.00
"11. Guano 'ex. Mi. Edgecomb,' paid for by Exchange National Bank, February 15, 1884,
$59,725.97, part thereof on hand April 6th,,
1885, and other parts in open accounts due
..
15,03451
for sales thereof ...........
"2. Norfolk and Ouray Mining Co.'s stock, 6114
shares, whereof the assignees hold 3602
shares, which cost $25 per share . . . . 90,050 00
..
1,931 21
('-13. Personal estate of Jas. G. Bain. .......

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"1. As to the trust resulting to the bank by reason of the'
wrongful and unlawful use of its funds by its officers in the
.purchase of property for tle firm or the several members
thereof, this branch of the case divides itself into two parts,
the first relating to property which was purchased with moneys
that can be identified as belonging to the bank; and, second,
-tko that which was bought and paid for by the firm out of the
geieral mass of moneys in their possession, and which may or
may not have been made up in part of what had °been wrongfully taken from the bank.
"As to the first of these classes of property we entertain no
doubt that the trust exists, and that it may be enforced by the
receiver unless the assignees of Bain & Bro. occupy the position of bonctide purchasers for a valuable consideration without notice. The evidence shows beyond doubt that the affairs
of the bank were managed almost exclusively by the members
of the firm. The funds of the bank were under the immediate
control of its officers and agents, and consequently as its
trustees. These funds were converted by them regardless of,
their duty as trustees into. this particular property, which still
exists in specie. No money was used in these purchases other
than such as was taken directly from the bank for that purpose. Under these circumstances the property stands in the
place'of the money used, and it might have been reclaimed by
the bank at its election any time before the rights of innocent
third parties intervened. , This is elementary. The receiver
succeeded to the rights of the bank in this particular.
"The property in the second class, however, occupies a
different position. 'There the purchases were made with
moneys that cannot be identified as belonging to -the bank.
The payments were all, so far as now appears, from the general fund then in the possession and under the control of the
firm. Some of the money of the bank may have gone into
this fund, but it was not distinguishable from the rest. The
mixture of the money of the bank with the money of the firm
did not make the bank the owner of the whole. All the bank
could in any event claim would be the right to driaw out of
the!general, znass of money, so-long as it remained money, an

•

-PETERS v. BAI.

,

Statement of the Vase.

amount equal to that which had been wrongfully taken from
its own possession and put there. Purchases made and paid
for out of the general mass cannot be claimed by the bank,
unless it is shown that its own moneys then in the fund were
appropriated for that purpose. Nothing of the kind has' been
attempted here, and it has not even been shown that when the
property in this class Was purchased, the firm'had in its possession any of the moneys of the bank that could be reclaimed
in specie. To give a cestuigue trust the benefit of purcbaes
by his trustees, it must be satisfactorily shown that they were
.actually made with the trust funds.
"In Virginia an assignee for the benefit of creditors is
deemed a purchaser for a valuable consideration., This, it is
conceded, has been established. by a long line of judicial decisions, and -isnow a rule of property in that State. As such .it
is binding on us as authority, but, we think, in this case the
assignees are chargeable with notice of the equities of the
bank- They may not have had actual knowledge of the wrongful conversion of the moneys of the bank into the property
which has now been identified as such, but it is clear; that Mf.
Old, who alone of the assignees was present during the negotiations which preceded the assignment, had full notice of thd
confusion which existed in the affairs of the bank, as well as,
those of the firm, and of the intimate relations -whi~h for "a
long time existed between the two institutions- The assign-.
ment was hastened to prevent, further complications, and we
have no hesitatioii in holding that the .assignees took title
subject to any equities that might be found to exist in favor of
the bank.. They were' put on inquir'yl which -they avoided -to
save what they could. Under these (ircumstances we hold'
that the receiver is entitled to i surrender by the assigneei' of
-such of the property whiQh' it is found had actually been purchased with the moneys of the. bank as he elects to take, but
of no other.
"2. As to the assignment. By a statite of Virgira, a
creditor may file a bill to set aside a conveyance by his debtor
on the ground of fraud without having first obtained a judgXnent. This suit was, therefore, properly brought. We find

OCTOBER, TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

no evidence whatever, of any actual fraudulent intent' on the'
part of the firm, or either of the partners, to hinder and delay,
their creditors. They devoted all their property, partnership
and individual, of every kind to the payment of their debts.
Nothing whatever was kept back.. It is true some creditors
were preferred over others, but this is allowable in Virginia.
From the case of S7ipwith's .xaecutor v. Cunningham,8 Leigh,

271, decided in 1837, until now, such has been the recognized
law of the State, and this was conceded in the argument.
"It is a matter of no importance in this connection that the
debt to the bank was created by fraud, or that the assignors
were shareholders in the bank and liable, as such, to assessments by the Comptroller of the Currency to meet its debts.
Fraud in the creation of an unpreferred debt is not ground for
setting aside an assignment for the benefit of creditors which
is otherwise valid, and the shareholder of an insolvent bank is
no more prohibited from preferring creditors as against his
liability in that capacity, than he is as against any one else
that he owes. The assignment does not in any respect change
the liability of the shareholders; that was fixed on the failure
of the bank before the transfer was made. As has already
been shown, so much of the property assigned-as is charged
with a trust in favor of the bank can be reached in the hands
of the assignees. The promise not to assign with preferences
against the bank does not of itself avoid such an assignment
for fraud.
"It is claimed, however, that The deed is fraudulent and.
void on its face-1, because it appropriates partnership assets
to the payment of individual debts, in preference .to the debts
of the partnership; and, 2, because of' the peculiar' provision
which is made for bidding by the creditors of the second class
at any public sale that may be made of the assigned property.:
"As to the first of these objections it is sufficient to say
that as early as 1837 the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia decided, in the case of -McCulltough v. Sommerville, 8

Leigh, 418, that a provision like that contained in this deed
did not vitiate the assignment, but that a court of equity
would, if required, so control the administration of the trust

PETERS v. BAIN.
° Statdment of the Case.

is to apply the partnership property to the payment of the
lartnership debts in preference to those of the individual partners, and the individual property to individual debts. This
ruling was followed in Gordon v. Cannon, 18'Gratt. 387, decided in 1868, and its authority was recognized by all the
judges, though there was some difference of opinion as to its
applicability to the particular facts of the latter case. We see
no reason to depart from what seems now to be the recognized
rule of decision in the State, and we.have no hesitation in saying that if there ever can be a case where such an assignment
ought to be sustained it should be in this.
"The evidence discloses such a mingling of partnership and
individual assets, and of partnership and individual debts, as
to make it difficult in some cases to separate the one from the
other. After a long and careful investigation of the whole
matter, a separation may now have been made which approximates correctness, but when the assignment was made it is
not probable that this could easily have been done. All the
property, including that of the firm and that belonging to-the
several partners individually, has been put into the trust, and
in the administration may, if necessary, be so marshalled as to
prevent the creditors of the individual partners from getting.
an illegal advantage over'those of the partnership, and vice
'vrm,; at any rate, Nre find nothing which, under the circumistances of this case, viewed in the light of the decisions of..the
highest court of )irginia, will render the whole assignment
fraudulent and void as to the bank, and subject .the property.
to the payment of its debt'in preference to all others, as .it is
claimed should be done.".
""It will be time enough to consider in what way the trust
ought to be administered When a case is made for that purpose.
"This brings us to-the 6onkideration of the bidding ,'clause
of which complaint is made, and as to this it may be. said
there is no'pr6vision which can -in ny manner result to the
advantage of the assignors in opposition to the creditors,,for,
until the creditors are all paid in full, the assignors' can 'get
nothing. If payment is made, it matters not to the creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement bf the Case.

how it is done. In no event caii any but the first and secondclass creditors be affected injuriously, and they are not here
complaining. Although the bank is named as a creditor in
each of the classes, the object of the present suit is, not to
control the administration: of this branch of the trust, but to
set aside the assignment altogether.
"The only question we have now to consider therefore, is
whether, this particular provision is fatal to the whole assignment. There is nothing, whatever, in the instrument to show
ihat ifit had been supposed this direction to the assignees
could not legally be followed, the assignment would not have
been made in its present form with this provision left out.
On th6 contrary, everything looks the other way, for the assignees are authorized to sell at either public or private sale,
according to their discretion, and it is only when the sale is
.public that the bidding clause becomes operative. The evident
pdrpose was to stimulate bidding, not to give one creditor an
unconscionable preference over, another, nor to secure any
special advantage to the assignors. It is not such an essential
part of the scheme of the trust as to make it vital.
"At most it is a mere appendage which may be lopped off
without ipjqpy to the main purpose of the instrument. Its
only effect, so far as the deferred creditors are concerned,
*must be for their advantage, because the more the property
sells for, the greater will be the 6hances of paying those pre'ferred in full and leaving something for those who are unpreferred.
":No-creditor .can have an assignment for the benefit of
creditors set aside at his suit, except it be on the ground that
he has been-defrauded. If this particular provision operates
as a fraud upon those who ard affected by it, relief can undoubtedly be had in som -appropriate proceeding for that
purpose, but that is'not, as has been seen, the purpose of the
present suit.
"Our concluiioA is that the assignment is valid, but that the,
receiver is entitled to the surrender to him by the assignees of
.such of the r6perty in their hands -bought and paid for with
the mcineys 'of the bank as he elects to take."

PETERS v. BAIN.
Citations for' Plaintiff in Error.

A decree in accordance with the opinion was thereupon
entered, and from it the receiver and the trustees respectively
appealed.
The receiver assigned errors as follows: -That the court
erred (1) in refusing to Let aside the deed of assignment of
Bain & Bro. as fraudulent in fact; (2) in failing to deolare the
assignment void because executed in fraud of sections 6151 and
5234 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ; (3) in holding
that the receiver was entitled "to a surrender by the assignees
of such of the, property which it is found had actually been
purchased with the moneys of the bank, but of no other;"
(4) in holding that the assignment "was made and executed
without any actual fraudulent intent on the part of the said.
grantors or either of them to hinder. and delay their creditors ;"
(5) in holding "that the said deed of assignment is not fraudulent and void on its face."
The trustees assigned as error that the court erred (1) in
finding that the trustees were to be considered as affected by
constructive notice, as to certain of the property held bythem,
that it had been purchased with the money of the bank, and
that the receiver was entitled to receive so much thereof as
he elected to take, and was not, by making such election and
receiving such property, estopped from receiving the benefit
of the said deed of trust in favor of the Exchange National
Bank; (2) in the amount of property decreed to have been
traced; (3) in decreeing that as to property purchased with the
money of the Exchange National .Bank, and traced into such
property, there was a resulting trust in favor of the bank,.of'
which the trustees were 'to be considered as having had constrfictive notice; (4) in decreeing that the costs of the suit be
paid out of the trust funds in the hands of the trustees.
Mr. Theodore S. Garnett and Mr. William J.
eoberton, for
Peters, cited: Rssell v. Wynne, 37 N. Y. 591; S, -. 97 Am.
Dec. 755; Grover v. Wakeeman, 1-1 Wend. 187; S. C. 25 Am.
.Dec. 624; Upiton, v. Tibilcock, 91 U. S. 45; Sanger v. Upton,
91 U. S. 56; Bowden v. Santos, 1 Hughes, 158; Adler v.
Milwaukee BJk
Co., 13 Wisconsin, 57; Rig.towerv. Thorntoni

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Defendants In Error.

8 Georgia, 486; S. C. 52 Am. Dec. 412; Frith v. Cartland, 2
Hem. & Mill. 417; Ward v. Griswoldville Xfg. Co.; 16 Connecticut, 593; 7ievitt v. Bank of Port Gibson, 6 Sm. & Marsh. 513;
Wood v. Dummer, 3 Mason,, 308; Frelinghuysenv. _Ytu.qent, 36
Fed. Rep. 229; Pennell v. Deffell, 4 DeG. M . & G. 372; ]fnatchball v. Hlallett, 13 Oh. D. 696; -JlcLeod v. Evans, 66 Wisconsin, 401, and cases cited; Metzner v. Bauer, 98 Indiana, 425;
_National Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Newman v. Cordelli 43 Barb. 448; BQardman v. -Halliday,10 Paige, 223; Barnum v. Ilemystead, 7 Paige, 568; Averill v. Loucks, 6 Barb. 470;
Sheldon v. Dodge, 4 Denio, 217; Strong V'. Akinner, 4 Barb. 546;
.Kercheisvi Schloss, 49 How. Pr. 284; Hyslop v. Clarke,14 Johns.
458; Seaving v. Brinkerhoff, 5 Johns. Oh. 329 ; Austin v. Bell,
20 Johns. 442; . C. 11 Am. Dec. 297; Gasherie v. Apple, 14
Abb. Pr. 64; Brigham v. Tillinghast, 15 Barb. 618; S. C. 13
N. Y. 215; A. & TV. Sprague Mfg. Co. v. Hoyt, 29 Fed. Rep. 421;
Shanks v. Klein, 104: U. S. 19; Allen v. Withrow, 110 U. S. 119.
Mr. Richard Walk and Mr. James A fred Jones, (with
whom was MAfr. Legh R. Page on the brief,) for Griffin, Old,
and Jenkins, trustees, cited: Wickham v. -Martin, 13 Grattan, 427; Evans v. Greezhow, 15 Grattan, 153; Garlandv.
Rives, 4 Randolph, 282; S. C. 15 Am. Dec. 756-; Sk pwith
v. Cunningham, 8 Leigh, 271; . C. 31 Am. Dec. 642;
Lewis v. Caperton, 8 Qrattan, 148; Phippen v. Durham, 8
Grattan, 457; Dance v. Seaman, 11 Grattan, 778; Sipe v.
Earman, 26 Grattan, 563; Shurtz v. Johnson, 28 Grattan,
657; Williams v. Lord, 75 Virginia,,390; Gordon v. Rixey,
76 Virginia, 694; Foster v. Goddard, 1 Black, 506; .MeQullough v. Sommerville, 8 Leigh, 415; Gordon v. Cannon,
18 Grattafi, 387; Cochran v. Paris,11 Grattan, 348; Ifevan
v. Branch, 1 Grattan, 27-; L'rockenbrough v. Brockenbrough,
31 Grattan, 580; Young v. Willis, 82 Virginia, 291; Darling
v. Rogers, 22 Wend. 483; Salmon v. Stuyvesant, 16 Wend..
321; Curtis v. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 9; Parks v. Parks, 9 Paige,
107; Pigot's Case, 11 Rep. 27; Patterson v. Jenks, 2 Pet..
215; JMackie v. Cairns, 5 Cowen, 547; S. C. 15 Am. Dec.
477; Harrisom'v. Harrison, 36 N. Y. 543 ; Post v. Hover,

-VETERS v. BAINW.
Opinion of the Court.

30 Barb. 312; 33 N. Y. 593; Gote.v. Cook, 7 Paige, 521; De
.Peyster v. Clendining, 8 Paige, 295; Van. VFectemz v. Van
V7echten, 8 Paige, 103; Gilman v. Redington, 24 N. Y.. 9;
Everitt v. Bveritt, 29 N. X. 39; Kane v. 'Gott, 24 Wend.
641 ; S. C. 35 Am.. Dec. 641; I]illiams v.' Williams, 4 Selden
(8 N. Y.) 524; Van ,okuyver v. Xu/ford, 59 N. Y. 426;,
2fanice v. Maniee, 43 N. Y. 303,;- Denny Y.,Benwtt, 128 U. S.
489; Unite-d States' v. -Br&dley, 10 Pet. .343 ; ,Gregb" v. Gates,
30 Grattan, 83; lDixon v. .MeCue, 14 Grattan, 540;' Wilson V.
Townshend, 9 res. Jr. 693; Iatson v. Watson, 128 Mass. 152;
Chapin v. T/wmpson, 89 . Y. 270; Smith v. Smith, 14 Gray,
532; Brown v. Brown, 108 Mass. 386; ffapgood v. iloughton,
22 Pick. 480, 483; -Doev. £avendishi 3 Doug. 48; 55; . C. 4
T. R. 741, 743, note; Birmingham v. Z.Irwan, 2 Sch. &. Lef.
444, 450.
MR. CHIEF JusnoCn. FULLER, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The opinion of the late Chief -ustice clearly delineates the
grounds upon which the -Oircuit Oourt proceeded and minimizes our labors in the disposition of .this case .
The deed of assignment was attacked, as fraudulent in-law
and in fact.
* The statute of Elizabeth, c. 5, against fraudulent conveyances
has been univers.ally adopted in. American law as the basis of
our jurisprudence on that, subject, (Story Eq. Jur. § 353,) and
reenacted in terms, or nearly so, or with some..change of
language, by the legislatures of the several States.
In Virginia the statdte -reads as follows: "Every gift, conveyance, assignment, or-transfer of, or chargc upon any estate,
real or personal, every suit commenced, or decree; judgment,
or execution suffered or obtained, and every bond, br other
writing given with, intent to delay, hinder, or defraud creditors, purchasers, or other persons of or from what they are or
may be lawfully entitled to, shall, as -to-such creditorsj purchasers, or other persons, their representatives or -assigns,-be
void. This section shallnot affect the title of a pucbaser for
valuable consideration, unless it appear that he had notice- of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the fraudulent intent of his immediate grantor or of the fraud
-rendering void the title of such grantor." Virginia Code,
1873, 896, c. 114, § 1.
In controversies arising under this statute, involving, as they
do, the rights of creditors locally, and a rule of property, we
accept the conclusions of the highest judicial tribunal of the
State as controlling. Jafray v. He Gehee, 107 U. S. 361, 364;.
.Iloydv. Fulton, 91U.S.479, 4S5; Allen v. Massey, 1TWall. 351.
We understand counsel to contend that the deed contains
certain provisions which must so hinder, delay and defraud
creditors that fraud in its execution is to be conclusively presumed withbut regard to the intention of the parties.
The doctrine in Virginia, settled by a long and uninterrupted
-line of decision, is that, while there may be provisions in a deed
of trust of such a character as of themselves to furnish
evidence sufficient to justify the inference of a fraudulent
intent, yet this cannot be so except where the inference is so
absolutely irresistible as to preclude indulgence in any other.
Hence provisions postponing the time of the sale and reserving the use of the property to the grantor meanwhile, though
perishable and consumable -inthe use; permitting sales on
credit; for the payment of surplus after satisfaction of creditors secured; the omission of a schedule or inventory;' and
the likei have been regarded as insutitcient to justify the court
in invalidating the deed for fraud in point of law. The fraudulent intent is held not to be presumed even under such circumstances, and in its absence the fact that creditors may be
delayed or hindered is not of itself sufficient to vacate the
' instrument, while the right to prefer one creditor over another
is thor.oughly established. Dance v. Seaman, 11 Grattan, 778;
Brockenbrough v. Brockenb-ougA, 31 Grattan, 580; Young v.
Wilson, 82 Virginia, 291, 293.
When, then, it is claimed iin this case that the deed is fraudulent in law, "because it appropriates partnership assets to
pay individual debts in preference to the debts of the partnership," we should naturally expect to find that the Supreme
Court of Appeals had held that where, as here, the conveyance
included all the' property of the grantors as partners and indi-

PETERS v. BALN.
Opinion of tile Court.

vidu'ally, for the benefit of partnership and individual creditors,
it should be construed distributively, and the partnership assets
be applied to the payment of partnership' debts and the individual assets to individual' liabilities. And such is the fact.
-eCullougA v. ,Sommervile, 8 Leigh, 415 ; Gordon v. Cannon,
18 Grattan, 388. And, as pointed out by Mr. Chief Justice
Waite; the difficulty, at the time the assignment was made,
attendant upon any attempt to separate the partnership and
individual assets, and the partnership and individual debts,
would be considered under the view of the state courts,. in
passing upon the question of intent to defraud in failing to
specifically distinguish between them.,
The only other ground of objection on this branch of the
case relates to the following clauge in the deed:
"And the said trustees, for the purpose of executing this
trust, shall at once take charge of all-the property and effects
hereby conveyed, and rhake an inventory thereof, and proceed
t6 collect the choses in action and all evidences of indebtedness, and to convert the real and personal property into cash
.as soon as possible, and they may make, sale of the real and
other personal estate hereby conveyed, at public auction or
private sale, at such time or times and place or places and after
such notice as to them' shall seem best, and they may make
such sale upon such terms and conditions as to. them shall
seem best, except-that at any sale of Said property, real or
personal, at puqblic auction, any creditor secured by this *deed
in the second .class above enumerated shall have the'right to'
purchase any part or parcel of said property so sold and pay
the aid trustees therefor at its full face value the amount
found due such purchaser secured by this deed, or. so, much
thereof at may be necessary to enable .uch creditor to complete the paynient of his purchase money, and. to enable as
many creditors as possible to become bidders on these terms,
the said trustee may have the real estate hereby conveyed, or
any -part thereof, laid off into lots or parcels, as they .may
think best. And upon the conversion of the said property
hereby conveyed into money the said'trustees shall distribute
the Same to the creditors hereby .secured in the order herein

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

before named with all 'diligence, and in the distribution
between those creditors who may have purchased property
and paid for the same .under the provisions of this deed with
a part of the money found due them respectively, and those
who made no purchase, the trustees shall observe such rule of
equality as will be just and proper."
But can it be properly concluded that this provision is irrecqncilable with any other inference than that of fraud?
And even if so much of it as allows the creditors in the second
class to bid and use -their, claims as purchase money were in'valid, ought the whole instrument to be therefore declared of
"noeffect? 'We agree with the Circuit Court that, as respects
fraud in law as contradistinguiphed from fraud in fact, where
,that which is valid. can be separated from that which is invalid, without defeating the general intent, the maxim, "void
-in part, void in toto," does not necessarily apply, and that the
instrument may be sustained notwithstanding the invalidity
of a particular prpvision. Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S. 489,
496.; Cunningham v. Porton, 125 U. S. T; JMfuller v. .Norton,
132 U. S. 501; Darling'v. Rogers, 22 Wend. 483; -Howell v.
-Edgar,3 Scammon, 417, 419.
Nor are we able, in view of the current of decisions in
Virginia and all the terms of the deed taken together, to conour with the receiver's counsel that fraudulent intent is a
necessary .'deduction from -the permission to the creditors in
the second class to avail themselves of their claims in bidding
in the manner presciibed. The deed expressly stated that it
was given to secure the costs and expenses, and then the payment of the indebtedness 'enumerated in the first class; "and
after the payment of the hereinbefore mentioned sums and
claims, ,to secure, secondly, the following creditors to be paid
equally and'ratably if the property hereby conveyed shall be
insufficient to pay them all, but with the privilege as to bidding on such property as may be sold at auction as hereinafter
provided." This contemplates the payment of the creditors
in the first class before the bidding clause could tak6 effect,
and precludes the operation of that clause to the prejudice of
those creditors. The record discloses that- the total amount

PETERS- v..BAI.

,689'

,Opinion of the Court

secured in the first class was less than fifty thousand dollars,
of which the bank held more than four-fifths, and 'that -the
cash assets were much more than enough to-cover. the costs,
and expenses and this amount,-without any sales; so that the
facts correspond with the intention deducible from the'language of the deed. The first-class creditors are to be paid
before the second-clas creditors can exercise the right to bid
if sales by public auction ever take place. The bank is a
creditor in the first and second classes auid the sole creditor in
the third class, but it has no ground of complaint as a thirdclass creditor, as the operation of the clause can only be for
its benefit as such.
The second-class creditors are all treated alike, and, as the
counsel for the trustees says, are placed in exactly the same
legal relation to the subject matter. If it could be. said that
the clause might operate to create a preference as between
them, the grantors had a right to -prefer; but inasmuch as
each can bid, and the trustees have power to divide the property into parcels to enable as many creditors, as possible. to
become bidders, and are charged with the duty to observe
such rule of equality between those -who purchase and those
who do not, as will ,be just, it is not easy to see how a preference could be obtained. The question is not whether the
trustees might prove unfaithful - a contingency of Which there
is no intimation. here- but whether the provisions of ,the
deed, if carried out according to their. apparent intefit, would
be fraudulent in their operation. It seems to us, as it did to
the Circuit Court, that such is not the reasonable inference,
and that the manifest object was to stimulate bidding, prevent
a sacrifice of the property, and benefit the creditors, and. this
without any advantage to:the assignors other than that involved in having their assefs go as far as possible in payment
of their debts. It is not they-who reap a pecuniary benefit,
but their creditors.
Without further elaboration, we are of opinion that the
deed is not void in law because of the insertion of the provision in question.
It should also be observed 'that the trustees -are rendering
voL. cxxxni-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

their reports under the direction of the court, and ask in their
cross-bill "the aid and direction of this honorable court in the
ascertainment of all and every the copartnership property
and the individual property standing in the names of the
individual members of the said copartnerships, or any of said
members; and in the application of the trust funds to the
payment of the. debts secured; and in the administration of
this their trust; and they are advised that it is their right
and privilege to file this their bill, and to apply to this honorable court as a court of equity for the purpose aforesaid."
So that the receiver, having invoked the interposition of a
court of equity, can find there, either on his own application
or that of his adversary, a remedy for any injurious results
he may apprehend in the administration of the trust. The
court will see to it that, as far as practicable, partnership
assets are applied to partnership liabilities and individual
assets to individual liabilities, and that the bidding clause
shall not be put into operation unless in consonance with
equity and good conscience.
It is earnestly argued, however, that the -deed should be
set aside because fraudulent in fact. We have .patiently, but
without success, examined this record in the effort to discover
what specific acts are made out by the proofs establishing, in
connection with the deed itself, actual fraud in its execution.
The inquiry is not whether the grantors had been previously
guilty of fraud or embezzlement, .but whether this particular
conveyance was made with a fraudulent intent known to the
trustees or beneficiaries. Eawns v. Greenlww, 15-Grattan, 153;,
Emerson v. Senr, 118 U. S. 1. It appears that the Bains were
indebted to the bank and also to their depositors in several hundred thousand dollars. It is said that they indulged in wild
speculations in real and personal estate, stocks, bonds, mines,
railroads, etc.; but that applies as well to the squandering of
the seven hundred thousand dollars and upwards of deposits
with them as a banking firm, as it does to the money that
they absorbed from the bank; and in any view, the violation
of their fiduciary relations to the bank, of which" they were
officers, or their treatment of the depositors in the banking

PETERS v. BAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

firm of which they were members, does not render the assignment of all their property for the benefit of their creditors.
therefore fraudulent.
The bank and the banking house suspended on the second
*day of April, 1885, and the assignment was made on the sixth
day of April. On the 31st day of March preceding, Bain &
Bro. transferred to the bank certain securities of the estimated
value of $570,000 in reduction of their indebtedness, and some
other assets, as collateral to their guaranty of any deficiency
which might result when the securities were realized on. When
they transferred all their property, partnership and individual,
of every kind, by the deed in controversy, they provided for
the payment in the first instance of some $49,881.61, of whieh
the bank held $42,288.49, and then for the payment in full, or
ratably, of their own depositors, and certain notes aggregating
$102,000,held by the bank; and they pit the remaining indebtedness to the bank in a third class. They had a right to
'make preferences, and it is evident that their effort in the
assignment was to equalize as between what they owed their
own depositors and what they owed the bank, taking into consideration what the bank had already obtained. There was
no fraud in this, of which the bank could complain as between
it and the other creditors.
.Counsel contends that the deed'was in contravention of "seotions 5151 and 5234 of the Revised Statutes of the United'
States, which provide that the shareholders of every national
banking association shall be held individually responsible for
its debts to the extent of the amount of their stock, and, addi
tional thereto, and that the Comptroller may enforce that
individual liability. It is insisted that the capital stock is a
trust fund of which the directors are the trustees, and that the
creditors have a lien upon it in equity; that this applies to the
liability uj~on the stock of a national bank; and that no general assignment of his property for the payment of his debts:
can lawfully., be made by a shareholder, certainly not when hp
is a director. Undoubtedly unpaid subscriptions to stock are
assets, and have frequently been treated by courts of equity as
if impressed with a trut sub modo, in the sense that neither

OCTOBER TERM, 1$89.
Opinion of the COurt.

the stockholders nor the corporation can misappropriate such
subscriptions so far as creditors are concerned. 1-?ic/ardson's
Executor v. Green, ante, 30, 44. Creditors have the same right
to look to them as to anything else, and the same right to insist
upon their payment as upon the payment of any other debt
due to the corporation. The shareholder cannot transfer his
shares when the corporation is failing, or inanipulate a release
therefrom, for the purpose of escaping his liability. And the
principle is the same where the shares are paid up, but the
shareholder is responsible in respect thereof to an equal additional amount, There was, however, no attempt here to avoid
this liability, and the fact of its existence did not operate to
fetter these assignors in the otherwise lawful disposition of
their property for the benefit of their creditors.
Some other transactions are referred to in the bill as indicating fraud in fact, but they are not insisted upon in argument
and require no special consideration. One of them relates to
a deed of Wallace & Son to Bain & Bro., executed April 6, 1885,
and referred to by counsel in another connection.
We think the Circuit -Court was right in finding "no evidence -whatever of any actual fraudulent intent on the part of
the firm, or either of the partners, to hinder and delay their
creditors."
The argument is pressed thai the trustees were neither bona
fide purchasers for value nor purchasers without notice, because they must have had knowledge, for the reasons given,
of the previous conduct of Bain & Bro. But, as we have
already seen, that previous conduct did not render the assignment in itself fraudulent, although it is quite true that all the
circumstances should be taken into consideration in passing on
that question. It is urged that the trustees knew that Bain &
Bro. had no right to make the deed, because on the 31st of
March, when they transferred to the bank certain stocks and
bonds of the face value of $640,000 and an estimated value of
$570,000, a member of the concern verbally prokmised that they
would not make an assignment giving preferenoes against the
-bank The transfer of these securities rendered the bank just
so much better off, and counWe1 for the receiver concedes that

PETERS v' BAIN.,
Opinion of the Court.

the advice of the bank's former counsel in regard to it,;( in
the condition of the affairs of the bank at that date
was wise and proper, and-did' secure to the bank whatever ean
be realized from the sale of the securities delivered under the
agreement of MIvarch 31, 1885." The verbal promise" not to
make preferences constituted no lien upon Bain &Bro.'s prop-,
erty, and its disregard did not affect the-validity of the deed.
Nor is any issue in regard to it made up9n the pleadings. It
is noticeable that Bain & Bro. declined to incorporate" that
pledge in the written agreement transferring the
and we are not called upon to examine into the circumstanees
under which the promise so given failed to be carried out.
The receiver assigns for error that the Circuit Court held
that he was entitled to a surrender of sfich of the property
which it was found had "actually been purchased'with th
moneys of the bank as he elects to take, -but of no other." In
other words, it is insisted that the receiver is entitled to' a
charge upon the entire mass of the estate, with priority over
the other creditors-of Bain & Bro.
It was said by Mir. Justice Bradley in Frelinghuyseq, v. Nugent, 36 Fed. Rep. 229, 239-: "'Formerlr the. equitable right of
following misapplied money or other property into the 'hands
of the parties receiving it depended upon: the ability of identifying it;. the equity attaching only- to the very property Misapplied. This right was first extended to the proceeds of. the
property, namely, to that which was procuied in place of it by
exchange, purchase, or sale. * But if it became confused with
other property of the same kind, so as not to b distinguishable, without any fault on the part of the possessor, the equity
was lost. Finally, however, it has been held as the better doctrine thatconfusion ddes not destroy the equity entirely, but converts it into a charge upon the entire mass, giying to the party
injured by'the unlawful diversion a priority . f right over the
other creditors of the possessor. This is as far as the rule has
beeiI carried.
difficulty of sustaining 'the claim in the
present case is, that it does. not appear that the goods claimed-that is to say, the stock on hand, finished and unfinished -were
either in whole or in part the proceeds bf any money unlaw-secuities,

-The

,OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

fully abstracted from the bank." The same difficulty presents
itself here, andwhile the rule laid down by Mr. Justice Bradley has been. recognized and applied by this court, National
-Bankv. Insurance Company, 104 U. S. 54, 67, and cases cited,
yet, as stated by the Chief Justice, " purchases made and paid
for out of the general mass cannot be claimed by the bank,
unless it is shown that its own moneys then in the fund were
appropriated for that purpose." And this the evidence fails
to establish as to any other property than that designated in
the decree, although it is claimed, on behalf of the receiver,
that the sum of $105,000 due to the bank upon certain notes
of Wallace & Son, which had been discounted by Bain & Bro.,
and which were rediscounted for the latter by the bank, should
have been traced into certain property conveyed by Wallace
& Son to Bain & Bro. The circumstances, so far as necessary
to elucidate this claim, 4re as follows: Bain & Bro. owed the
Richmond Cedar Works $31,885.71. The Exchange National
Bank held the interest of Bain & Bro. in these works under
the transfer of Bain & Bro. to the bank, of March 31, 1885.
The Richmond Cedar Works owed the Exchange National
Bank $140,000, upon which Wallace, & Son were endorsers.
Wallace & Son owed Bain & Bro. over $300,000. By a deed
dated April 3, 1885, Wallace & Son conveyed certain property
to the Richmond Cedar Works for $55,000, receiving -in payment the Cedar Work's check on Bain & Bro. for $31,885.71,
due from them to it, and the notes of the Cedar Works for the
balance, which were turned over to Bain & Bro. By this
transaction the indebtedness of Bain & Bro. to the Cedar
Works was extinguished, and Wallace & Son's indebtedness
to Bain & Bro. reduced by the sum of $55,000. This left
Wallace & Son still debtors of Bain & Bro. to the extent of
over $245,000, and on the 6th day of April, 1885, they executdd a deed of their remaining property to Bain & Bro., for
the, expressed consideration of $151,800, which property has
passed under the assignment in this case. None of this property, so far as appears, was purchased with the money of the
bank, but counsel for the receiver contends that because Bain
& Bro. had rediscounted the notes of Wallace and Son to the

PETERS v. BAIN.
Opinion of -the Conrt.

amount of $105,000 at the bank, and because the deed of
Wallace & Son to Bain & Bro. was in payment of their indebtedness to the latter, in whole or in part, therefore it ought to'
be held that the bank's money purchased Wallace & Son's
property for the benefit of Bain & Bro. We do not under-.
stand that the bank was entitled to the assets of Bain' & Bro.'s
debtors, and can perceive. no ground for holding that Bain &
Bro., in receiving the deed from Wallace, & Son, were purchasing property with the money of the bank.
This disposes of the errors assigned on behalf of the receiver,
and leaves for consideration those assigned on behalf -of the
trustees upon their cross appeal. The principal contention is
that it was error to de~ree that the receiver could take "such
of the property hereinbefore set out and found to have been
actually purchased with the moneys of the said bank as he
elects to. take; and by making said election and receiving
such property the said receiver is not to be estopped from
receiving the full benefit of the said deed of trust, or the provisions thereof, in favor of the Exchange N'{ational Bank.'
We do not concur in that view.
The doctrine of election rests upon the principle that lie
who seel equity must do it, and means, as the term is
ordinarily used, that where two inconsistent or alternative
rights or claims are presented to the choice of a party, by a
person who manifests the clear intention that he should not
enjoy both, then he must accept or reject one or the other;
and so, in other words, that 'one cannot take a benefit under
an instrument and then repudiate it.
It cannot be assumed that there was an intention on the
part of Bain & Bro. to dispose of that which was not theirs,
or, even if they lawfully could, to cut the bank off from participating in the property assigned, in the order mentioned, by
imposing the condition that the bank should purchase its share
by parting with its own property; nor does any equitable
implication to that effect arise. The other creditors cannot
claim compensation for being deprived of what did not belong
to Bain & Bro., or of anything transferred in lieu thereof.
There existed no equity on their part which can be held to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

estop the bank from receiving what may come to it under the
,assignment, and in doing so it will not occupy inconsistent
positions. That it sought to have the deed set aside does not
deprive it of its rights under it, upon the failure of its attack.
It was entirely competent for the court to adjust this
matter upon equitable principles, and this it has done in its
decree. Under the assignment the bank gets a preference of
something over $42,000, and then ranks with othgr creditors
to the extent of $102,000, while the balance of a very large
indebtedness due to it is relegated to the third class; and it
appears to be entirely just that it should have in addition the
benefit of that which belongs to it, and to which the other
creditors have no claim. And this, though amounting on its
face to $149,372.21, we are informed by counsel for the trustees,
has only an actual value of $20,177.18, to three items of which,
amounting to $6840, the objection is made of failure of proof
of their having been purchased with the bank's money.
We have examined the record with care, and are satisfied
with the conclusion arrived at by the special master and the
court as to these items, and shall not disturb the decree in
that regard.
The trustees also demur to being held affected with notice
as to the traced property, principally because the affairs of the
debtors were in such a state as to render the task of disentanglement exceedingly onerous. As inquiry would have
conducted" the trustees to the same conclusion as that now
reached, the fact that the conduct of the Bains rendered it
difficult to accurately distinguish" between one class of property and another, should not absolve them from the operation
of the rule as to notice, if otherwise applicable.
While. it is well settled in Vi ginia that the trustees and
beneficiaries in a deed of trust to secure bonajde debts occupy
t~e position of purchasers for a valuable consideration; WickMm v. Lewis -Martin,13 Gratt. 427; Evans v. Gpeenhow, 15
Gratt. 153, 156'; Kesner v. Trigg, 98 U. S. 50, 53; yet they cannot hold with notice of the fraudulent intent of their grantor, or
of the fraud rendering his title void. And it is equally well
settled iii the States of West Virginia and Virginia that notice

