OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

tion when the bank finally went into liquidation; and, of
course, became liable under section 5151 of the Revised Statutes to pay an amount equal to the stock by him so held.
The judgment is
_________

4fmed.

KELLER v. ASHFORD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 3.

Argued October 15, 16, 1888.-

Decided March 3, 1890.

Upon appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia in general term, affirming a judgment in special term, dismissing a bill in equity founded upon a contract bearing interest, the sum in
dispute at the time of the judgment in general term, including interest
to that time, is the test of the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
A recorder's copy of a deed is competent and sufficient evidence of its contents against the grantee in favor of a person not a party to it, after the
grantee and a person who procured it to be made and to whom it was
originally delivered have failed to produce it upon notice to do so.
In a deed of real estate, "subject, however, to certain incumbrances now
resting thereon, payment of which is assumed by the grantee," and containing a covenant of special warranty by the grantor against all persons
claiming under him, the clause assuming payment of the incumbrances
includes existing mortgages made by the grantor, as well as unpaid taxes
. assessed against him.
The grantee named in a deed of real estate, by the terms of which lie
assumes the payment of a mortgage thereon, is liable to the grantor for
a breach of that agreement, although he is not shown to have had any
knowledge of the deed at the time of its execution, if after being
informed of its terms he collects the rents and sells and conveys part of
the land.
An agreement in a deed of real estate, by wlhich the grantee assumes the
payment of a mortgage .made by the grantor, is a contract between the
grantee and the mortgagor only; and does 'not, unless assented to by
the mortgagee, create any direct obligation, at law or in equity, from
the grantee to the mortgagee. But the mortgagee may avail himself in
equity of the right of the mortgagor against the grantee. And if the
mortgagee, after the land has been sold under a prior mortgage for a
sum insufficient to pay that mortgage, and after he has recovered a personal judgment against the mortgagor, execution upon which has been
returned unsatisfied, brings a suit in equity against the grantee alone,
and the omission to make the mortgagor a party is not 5bjected to at
the hearing, it affords no ground for refusing relief.

KELLER v. ASHFORD.
Statement of -the Case.

Tis was a bill in equity by Henrietta C.Keller, the holder
of A promissory note for $2000, made by one Thompson-,
secured by his mortgage of land in Washington, against Fran:
cis A. Ashford as grantee of the land subject to this mortgage,
and who by the terms of the deed to him assumed payment
of incumbrances on the land: The bill prayed for a decree in
the plaintiff's favor against Ashford for the amount of that.
note, and for general relief. The case was heard upon pleadings and proofs, by which it.appeared to be as'follows:
On August 17, 1875, Thompson, being seised in fee of -lot.: 5
in square 889 in the city of Washington, conveyed it to, one
Rohrer, by .adeed of trust in the nature of a mortgage,.to
secure the payment of Thompson's promissory note of that
date for $1500, payable in three years with interest at ten per
cent, held by one Harkness.
On February 21, 1876, Thompson conveyed the same lot by
like deed of trust to one Gordon, to secure the paym~nt of
Thompson's note of that date for $2000, payable in one year,
-with interest at eight per cent yearly until paid, to the order
of Moses Kelly; and Kelly endorsed this note for full value:to
the plaintiff.
On January 1, 1877, Thompson, at the instance and persuasibn of Kelly, executed and acknowledged and delivered to
Kelly a deed, expressed to be made in consideration of -the
sum of $4500 ; conveying this lot, together with -lois 6, -7-and
.8.
in the same. square (each of which three other lots was also
.infact iubject to a mortgage -for $2000) to Ashford in.
fee,
."subject, however, to certain iicumbraices now resting
thereon, ppayment of which is assumed by said party of the
second part;" and containing covenants by the grantor .of
warranty against all persons claiming from, under or through
,him, and for further assurance. At the date of this deed,: the
only incumbrahces on the land conveyed were the five anort*.gages above mentioned, and some unpaid taxe assessed
-against Thompson while owner of the land. On January .Vi
i-877, this deed, together with a notary's certificate of its -ac
•knowledgmentby the grantor, was recorded in the registry.;of
the District of Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

At the taking of the depositions before the examiner, the
plaintiff, having given notice to Ashford and to Kelly to produce the original deed, and both of them having failed to do
so, was permitted, against the defendant's objection, to put in
evidence a copy of the deed and acknowledgment, certified by
the recorder to be a true copy.
No consideration was actually paid for the couveyance.
The value of the lots conveyed was, according to Thompson's
testimony, $4000 each or $16,000 in all, or, according to Ashford's testimony, not less than $3400 each or $18,600 in all.
Thompson testified that he never had any negotiations with
Ashford about the property; and that he was induced to
make, this deed by the assurance of Kelly that the grantee
would assume the. incumbrances upon the land and relieve
him, from liability upon the notes he had given secured by
mortgage.
Ashford testified that he never had any negotiations with
any one about the purchase of the land; and that in February,
18", Kelly, who was his father-in-law, to whom he had lent
much money and for whom he had endorsed several notes,
told him that, in order to secure him from loss, he had procured a conveyance to be made to him of these four lots, in
which he thought "there was considerable equity;" informed
him at the same time that there were incumbrances or mortgages upon the property, but did not specifically mention any
of them, except the $1500 mortgage upon lot 5; told him that
the interest on this was pressing, and that, if he would pay it,
Kelly would relieve him from any further trouble as to the
incumbrances; and advised him to go on and collect the rents
of the property, so a.sto indemnify himself against that -interest and pay the taxes in arrears.
'It was proved that Ashford in March, 1877, entered into
possession of the four lots, and paid the taxes previously
assessed upon them, and also paid interest accruing under the
mortgage for $1500 on lot 5,'and collected the rents, of the
four lots, until- December 4, 1877, when he sold and conveyed
lots 7 and 8'to one Duncan, subject to existing incumbrances
thereon; arid continued to collect the rents of the other two

KELLER v. ASHFORD.
Citations for Appellant.

lots,' and to pay the interest accruing under, the mortgage for
$1500 on lot 5, until March 14, 1878; wheii this lot was sold,
pursuant to the provisions of that mortgage, by public auction
and conveyed to Harkness for the sum of $1700, which was
insufficient to satisfy the amount then due on that mortgage.
On comparing Ashford's testimony with that of Boarman.
the plaintiff's attorney, and with a letter written by Ashford
to Boarman on October 3, 1877, it clearly appears that
Ashford was informed of the clause in the deed to him,
assuming payment of incumbrances, and was. requested to
pay the plaintiff's mortgage, as early as September, 1877, and
then, as well as constantly afterwards, declined to pay it, or'
to recognize any personal liability to do so. There" was no
direct evidence that he knew of this clause before September,
1877.
The plaintiff brought an action at law upon the note against
Thompson as maker and Kelly as endorser on November 13,
1877, and recovered judgment against both in December, 1877,
on which execution issued and was returned unsatisfied, April
15, 1878.
The present bill was filed May 13, 1878. A decree dismissing the bill was rendered in special term, May 9, 1882, -which,
after the death of Ashford and the substitution of his executrix in his stead, was affirmed in general term, February 16,
1885, upon the grounds that Ashford had never accepted' the
deed to him, and also that the plaintiffs remedy, if any, was
at law. 3 Mackey, 455. On the same' day, as the record
states, "from this decree the plaintiff appeals in open court
to the Supreme Court of the United States, which. appeal is
allowed." The appeal bond was approved February 18,.and
the appeal was entered in this court April 10, 1885.
The case was argued upon a motion to dismiss the, appeal
for want of sufficient amount in controversy to give this court
jurisdiction, as well as upon the 'merits.
idge, (with whom was .Mr.
William WTV.
.fr. Walter 1).
Boarman on the brief,) for appellant, cited to the point that,
under the circumstances, Ashford had becdiie personally liable

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellee.

to the holder of the note: Trotter v. Hughes, 12 N. Y. (2 Kernan) 74; S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 137; 8aulding v. Hallenbeck,
35 N. Y. 204; Belnont v. Coman, 22 N. Y. 438; S. C. 78
Am. Dec.. 213; Locke v. Romer, 131 Mass. 93; Pike v. Brown,
7 Cush. 133; Crawford v. Edwalrds, 83 Michigan, 354; Ulruhart v. Brayton, 12 R. I. 169; Huyler v. Atwood, 26 N. J.
Eq. (11 0. E. Green) 504; Bishop '. Douglass, 25 Wisconsin,
696; Ricardv. Sanderson,41 N. Y. 179; Halseyv. Reed, 9 Paige,
446; King v. Whitely, 10 Paige, 465, and cases therein cited,;
Curtis v. Tyler, 9 Paige, 432; Garnsey v. Rogers, 47 N. Y.
233; Pardee v. Treat, 82 N. Y. 385; Lawrence v. -Fox,20
NT. Y. 268; Burr v. Beers, 24 X. Y. 178; S. C. 80 Am. Dec.
327; Thorp v. Keokuk Coal Co., 48 N. Y. 253; Atlantic
Dock Co. v. Leavitt, 54 N. Y. 35; Trooman v. Turner,
69 N. Y. 280; Iof's Appeal, 21 Penn. St. 200; Aoore's
Appeal, 88 Penn. St. 450; leirriman v. .loore, 90 Penn.
St. 78; Townsend v. Long, 77 Penn. St. 143; Justice v.
Tailman, 86 Penn. St. 147; Miller v. Thompson, 34 Michigan, 10; Strohauerv. Voltz, 42 Michigan, 444; Booth v. Conn.
Alut. Life Ins. Co., 43 Michigan, 299; Crowell v. Currier,
27 N. J. Eq. (12 0. E. Green) 152; _Klapworth v. .Dressler,2
Beasley (N. J.) 62; S. C. 78 Am. Dec. 69; _orwood v. Deflart,
30 N. J. Eq. (3 Stewart) 412; Crowell v. Hospitalof St. Barnabls, 27 N, J. Eq. (12 0. E. Green) 650; Thompson v. Bertram,
14"Iowa, 476; Corbett v. Watermann, 11 Iowa, 86; Lamb v.
Tucker, 42 Iowa, 118; Bowen v. Kurtz, 37 Iowa, .239; Sdhrmuc
ker v. Sibert, 18 Kansas, 104; Rogers v. ilerron,92 Illinois,
583; Gautzert v. Hoge, 73 Illinois, 30; Coffin v. Adams, 131
Mass., 133"; Miller v. Billingsly, 41 Indiana, 489; Fitzgerald
v. Barker,70 Missouri, 685; S. C.26 Am. Rep. 660, note, where
some of the above cited cases are discussed; George v. Andrews, 60 Maryland, 26.
A.r. George F. Appleby and Mr. Calderon Carlisle for
.ppellee.
I. The copy from the record would be proof if deed was
delivered of a conveyance of the lots in question by Archie
Thompson to Ashford, - proof of the covenants of Thompson,

KELLER v. ASOIORD.
Argument for AppeUee,

- but it is proof of nothing else. The assumption clause is
urged as either a personal contract or evidence of a personal
contract. There is no law requiring such a contract to be
recorded, and hence a copy from the repord is not evidence;'
the original has not been produced or proved to have been lost,
and if this is offered as proof of such a contract for personal
liability, it has been objected to and is not competent evidence.,
Judson v. -Dada,79.T. Y. 373, 378.
It. But this deed only speaks for the grantor; it purports to be
an indenture but is only a deed-poll, and of itself it cannot bind
Ashford; indeed, if the contract is this clause in the deed, and
not something growing out of transactions between the parties
amounting to a contract of which the recital is a mere mention,
we have an unsigned promise imputed to Ashford to answer
for the debts of Archie Thompson. The cases, which seeming
similar, hold such a promise by a vendee to a vendor to be
without the statute, are all cases where there is a clearly proved
transaction between parties in which the vendee for an equivalent makes a vendor's debt his own before he makes any
promise as to it. Browne on Stat. of Frauds, 214-214 e.
III. But suppose the deed in all its parts to be perfectly
proved before the court, the warranty clause destroys all the
force of the assumption as to complainant, whose lien is not
enumerated nor excepted, and is a claim under the grantor;
"certain," "not all," "incumbrances," cover taxes, which were
claims not under the grantor, and there was both a tax sale
and an unpaid tax resting on the property. Even a mortgage
excepted from covenant against incumbrances, is not excepted
from warranty. Estabrook v. Smith, 6 Gray, 572 ;.S. 6'. 61
Am. Dec. 445; HarZow v. Thomas, 15 Pick. 66; .Maher v.
.Lanfrom, 86 Illinois, 513, 523. Taxes are incumbrances.
Long v. Aoler, 5 Ohio St. 271; .Mitchell v. Pillsbury, 5
Wisconsin, 407.
IV. The complainant is forced, even if the foregoing points
be not well taken, to prove actual notice of and asseht to thjs
assumption clause by Ashford, and this cannot be inferred or
presumed. There is no proof that the deed, was ever delivered
to or seen by Ashford.

OCTOBER TERM, "1889.,
Argument for Appellee.

The recording of it did not amount to a delivery nor did it
chaige Ashford with notice of the assumption clause. Bull v.
,Tisworth, 29 1. J. Eq. (2 Stewart) 73; Cordts v. Ilargrave,
29 N. J. Eq. (2 Stewart) 446; .Mead v. Brun, 32 N. Y. 277.
While assent may be presumed to that which is beneficial,
it is never presumed to that which is detrimental. iligman v.
'Stewart, 38 Mich. 513. There must be an intelligent assent to
fasten a liability such as this upon a man; here is none.
The payment of interest'is not inconsistent with Ashford's
not having assumed the incumbrances. Elliott v. Sackett, 108
U. S. 132; Drury v. Hayden, 111 U. S. 223.
The subsequent conveyance to Duncan at Kelly's request,
under the circumstances, does not fix this liability.
The collection of rents was in pursuance of an understanding
with Kelly and at his request to indemnify Ashford for interest paid out by him, Ashford. Girard Trust Co. v. Stewart,
86 Penn. St. 89.
There is no act of Ashford inconsistent with his ignorance
of the assumption clause up to the early spring of 1878, when
Mr. Boarman read it to him. On discovery that a second trust
was really existent, he repudiated the whole matter and refused to hold the property and.go on paying interest on Harkness' note.
V. The transaction between Kelly and Ashford was really
a mortgage though absolute on its face. Arncud v. Grigg, 29
N.J . 485. Refers to Garnsey v. Rodgers, 47 N. Y. 233.
In Elliott v. Sackeett, the deed was reformed on the ground
of mutual mistake.
In .Kilmer v. Smith, 77 N. Y. 226, the deed was reformed
on account of ignorance of one party and fraud of another.
In .DIuryv. IHayden, suit was by mortgagee and the court
denied relief, and reasoned that deed-might have been reformed.See, also, Albany Savings Inst. v. Burdick 87 N. Y. 40, 44;
Dey Ermand v. Chamberlin,88 N. Y. 658.
VI. This complainant .shows no pretence of a right in a
V
court of equity.. There is nothing whatever-in the record to
charge the conscience of Ashford. He kept back no purchasemoney and assumed no trust.

KELLER' v. ASHFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

If he had known all about the Thompson note, and had
promised to pay it, the complainant's remedy would have been
at law. Ins. Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 620, 621.
If Ashford had made a promise to a third person to pay the
debt due Miss Keller on the authority of this court, she might
have maintained assumpsit. -endrick v. Lindsay, 93 U. S.
143 ;--Lawrence v. Fox, 20 N. Y. 268; Burr v. Beers, 24 N.,
Y. 178; S. C. 80 Am. Dec. 327; Elliott v. Sackett, suyra,
Shepherd v. .May, 115 U. S. 505, 510.
MR.J sTrcE GRAY,

after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the couit.
The motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction must be denied. This appeal was claimed and allowed February 16, 1885
At that time, the act of February 25, 1879, 6. 99, was idL
force,
which provided that "the final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in any case where
the matter in dispute, exclusive.of costs, exceeds -the value of
twenty-five hundred dollars, may be reexamined and reversed
or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States upon
writ of error oi a'ppeal." 20 Stat. 321. The case is not affected
by the act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, § 1, further limiting the
appellate jurisdiction of this court, because that act only provides that "no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed" from any such judgment or decree, unless the- matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of five thoisand
dollars. 23 Stat. 443. The change of phraseology, referring
to the time when the appeal or writ of error is allowed, instead
of to the time when it is entertained by this court, was evidently intended to prevent cutting off appeals taken and allowed before the passage of the act, as had been held to be the
effect of the language used in the act of 1879. Railroad Co.
v. Grant, 98 U. S.398: In a suit founded upon a contract,'the
sum in dispute at the time of the judgment or decree appealed
from, includinganv ipteres then accrued, is the test of appellate jnrisdictiorl: RdlY' o United States v. Danie, 12 Pet.
32, 52; The Patapsco, 12 Wall. 451 ; New York Elevated

"OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Railroadv. .Fifth National Bank, 118 U. S. 608; Zeckendo f
v. Johnson, 123 U. S. 617. -By the express terms of the promissory note sued on in this case, it bore interest at the rate of
eight per cent yearly from its da:te until paid. Computing
interest accordingly, the sum in dispute was much more than
$2500 at the time of the decree in general term, which was the
decree from which this appeal was taken. In Railroad Co. v.
T ,ook, 100 U. S. 112, cited for the appellee, as in District of
Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227, the judgment in special
term was for damages in an action sounding in tort, which
bore no interest, either by the general law, or by the judgment
of affirmance in general term.
N{or can the objection of the defendait, that the original
deed from Thompson to Ashford was not produced, or its
execution proved, be sustained. The deed is admitted to have
keen duly recorded. There is no presumption that it was in
the possession of the plaintiff, who was not a party to it; but
it is to be presumed to have been in the possession, either of
Ashford, the grantee named in the deed, or of Kelly, who
procured the deed to be made, and to whom it was originally
delivered. Both of them having failed to produce it upon
notice to do so, the recorder's copy was competent and sufficient evidence of the contents of the deed, as between the
parties to this suit. Rev. Stat. D. -C. §§ 440, 467; Dick v.
Balch, 8 Pet. 30.
But upon the merits of the case we are unable to concur
with the .views expressed by the court below, in its opinion
reported in 3 Mackey, 455, either as to the effect of the testimony, or as to the rights of,the parties. The material facts, as
they appear to us upon full examination of the record, have
-been already stated. It remains to consider the law applicabld
to those facts.
The questions to be decided concern the extent, the obligation
and the enforcement of the agreement created by the clause
in the deed of conveyance from Thompson to Ashford of this
and three other lots, "subject, however, to certain incumbrances now resting thereon, payment pf which is assumed by said
party of the second part."

KELLER v. ASHFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

The five mortgages made by the grantor, namely, the plaintiff's mortgage for $2000 and a prior mortgage for $1500 on lot
5, and a mortgage of $2000 on each of the three other lots, and
some unpaid taxes which had been assessed against the grantor,
were incumbrances, and were the only incumbrances existing
upon the granted premises at the time of the exeqution of
this conveyance. lRawle on Covenants (5th ed.) §.77. The
clause in question, by the words "certain incumbrances now
resting thereon," designates and comprehends all those mortgages and taxes, as clearly as if the words used had been
"the incumbrances," or "all incumbrances," or had particularly
described each mortgage and each tax. -We give no weight
to Thompson's testimony as to Kelly's previous conversation
with him to the same effect, because that conversation is not
shown to have been authorized by or communicated to Ashford, and cannot affect the legal construction of the deed as
against him.
It was argued that, because the deed contains a covenant
of special warranty against all persons claiming under the
grantor, the words "certain incumbrances" cannot include the
mortgages made by the grantor, but must be limited to the
.unpaid taxes which, it is said, would not come within the
covenant of special warranty. iBut the answer to this argument is that any person claiming title by virtue of a lien
created by taxes assessed against the grantor would claim
under the grantor, equally with one claiming by a mortgage
from him; and incumbrances expressly assumed by the grantee
are necessarily excluded from the covenants of the grantor.
Ashford is not shown to have had any knowledge of the
conveyance at the time of its execution; and a suggestion was
made in argument, based upon some vague expressions in his
-testimony, that the conveyance was intended to be made to
him, by way of mortgage only, to secure him against loss on
his previous loans to and endorsements for Kelly. But his
subsequent acts are quite inconsistent with the theory that the
conveyance did not vest the legal estate in him absolutely. Within a month or two after the conveyance, having been
told that the four lots had been conveyed to him and were

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to incumbrances, (although perhaps not then informed
of the amount of the incumbrances,) he entered into possession
of the lots, and thenceforth collected the rents; and within
nine months after the conveyance he bad notice of the clause
assuming payment of incumbrances, and was requested to pay
the plaintiff's mortgage, and declined to pay it or to recognize
any personal liability for it; yet he afterwards sold and conveyed away two of the lots, and continued to keep possession
and to collect rents of the other two. Having thus accepted
the benefit of the conveyance, he cannot repudiate the burden
imposed upon him by the express agreement therein, and
would clerly have been liable to his grantor for any breach
of that agreement. Bly-er v. Monholland, 2 Sandf. 6h. 478;
Coolidge.v.Smith, 129 Mass. 554; Locke v. HYomer, 131 Mass.
93; Muhlig v. Fiske, 131 Mass. 110.
'The case therefore stands just as if Ashford had himself
received a deed by which he in terms agreed to pay a inortgage made by the grantor. In such a case, according to the
general, not to say uniform, current of American authority, as
shown by the cases collected in the briefs of counsel, the mortgagee is entitled in some form to enforce the agreement
against the grantee; and much of the argument at the bar
,was devoted to the question whether his remedy should be at
law or in equity.
Upon the question whether the mortgagee could sue at law
there is no occasion to examine the conflicting decisions in the
courts of the several States, because it is clearly settlea in this
court that he could not.
This case cannot be distinguished from that of National
Bank v. Grand Lodge, 98 U. S. 123, and clearly falls within
the general rule upon which the judgment in that case was
founded.
It was there held that a contract, by which the Grand Lodge,
for a consideration moving from another corporation, agreed,
with it to assume the payment of its bonds, would not support
an action against the Grand Lodge by a holder of such bonds;
and Mr. Justice Strong, delivering judgment, after observing
that the contra t was made between and for the benefit of the

XELLE R v.AS)IFORD.

621

Opinion of the Court.

two corporations, that the holders of the bonds were not- parties to it, and that there was no privity, between themand the
Grand Lodge, aid: "We do not propose to enter at large
upon a consideration of the inquiry how far privity of contract
between a plaintiff and a defendant is necessary to the maintenance of an action of assumpsit. The subject has been much
debated; and the decisions are not all reconcilable.. No doubt,
tie general rule is, that such a privity must exist. But there
are confessedly many exceptions to it. One of them, and by
far the most frequelit one, is the case where, under a contract
between two persons, assets have come to the promisor's hands
or under his control, which in equity, belong to a third person.
In such a case it is held that the third pergon may sue in his'
own name. But then the suit is founded rather on the implied
undertaking the la v raised from the possession of the assets,'
than on the express promise. Another exception is where the
plaintiff is the "beneficiary solely interested in th6 promise, as
where one person contracts with another to pay money or deliver some valuable thing to a third. But where a debt already
exists from one person to another, a promise by a third person
to pay such debt being priinarily for the benefit of the original
debtor, and to relieve him from liability to pay it, (there-being
no novation,) he has a right of action, against, the -promisor for
his own indemfiity; and if the original creditor can also sue,
the promisor would be liable to two -separate actions, and
therefore the rule is that the original creditor cannot sue. Hig
case is not an exception from the general rule that privity of
contract is required." 98 U. S. 124. See'also Cragin v. covell,
109 U. S. 194.
In -the earlier case of Rend'ick v. Lind-soy, 93 U. S. 143,
cited by the defendant,.a request, accompanied by'a. promise
of indemnity, to one person, to sign an appeal bond, was consrued to include another person who signed it as surety, and
therefore to support a joint action by the principal and the
surety, both of whom had signed the bond relying upon the
promise, so that the only consideration for the promise moved
from them.
In the case at bar, the promise of Ashford was to Thompson

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and not to the mortgagees, and there was no privity of contract between them and Ashford. The consideration of the
promise moved from Thompson alone. The only object of
the promise was to 'benefit him, and not to benefit the mortgagees or other incumbrancers; and they did not know of or
assent to the promise at the time it was made, nor afterwards
do or omit any act on the faith of it. It is clear, therefore,
that Thompson only could maintain an action at law upon that
promise.
In equity, as at law, the contract of the purchaser to pay
the mortgage, being made with the mortgagor and for his
benefit only, creates no direct obligation of the purchaser to
the mortgagee. Parsons v. -Freeman,2 P. Wims. 664, note;
S, C. Ambler, 115; Oxford v. Rodney, 14 Ves. 417, 424; In re
Empress Engineering Co., 16 Ch. D. 125; Gandy v. Gandy, 30

Ch. ID.57, 67.
But it has been held by many state courts of high., ithority,
in accordance with the suggestion of Lord lardwicke in Parsons v. Freeman, Ambler, 116, that in a court of equity the
mortgagee may avail himself of the right of the mortgagor
against the purchaser.
This result has been attained by a development and application of the ancient and familiar doctrine in equity that a
creditor shall have the benefit of any obligation or security
given by the principal to the surety for the payment of the
debt. laure v. Earriso, 1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 93, pl. 5; Bac. Ab.
Surety, D. 4; Wright v. Aorley, 11 Yes. 12, 22; Phillips v.
Thompson, 2 Johns. Ch. 418; Curtis v. Tyler, 9 Paige, 432,
435; New Bedford Institution for Savings v. Fairhaven
Bank, 9 Allen, 175; J-cnipton v. Phips,108 U. S. 260, 263.
In ilamptom v. Phipps, just cited, this court declared the

doctrine to be well settl6d and applicable "equally between
urs&ties, so that securities placed by the principal in the hands
.f one, to operate as an indemnity by payment of the debt,
shall enure to the benefit of all;" and declined to apply the
doctrine to the case before it, because the mortgage in question
-was given. by one surety to another merely to indemnify him
against being compelled to pay a greater share of the debt

KELLER v. ASHFORD.
Opinion of the Court.
than the sureties had agreed bet*een themselves that he
should bear, and he had not been compelled to pay a greatcr
share.
The doctrine of the right of a creditor to the benefit of all
securities given by the principal to the surety for the payment
of the debt does not rest upon any liability of the principal to
the creditor, or upon any peculiar relation of the surety
towards the creditor; but upon the ground that the surety,
being the creditor's debtor, and in fact occupying the relation
of surety to another person, has received from that person an
Qbligation or security for the payment of the debt, which a
court of equity will therefore compel to be applied to that
purpose at the suit of the creditor. Where -the person ultimately held liable is himself a debtor to the creditor, the relief
awarded has no reference to that fact, but is grounded wholly
on the right of the creditor to avail himself of the right of the
surety against the principal. If the. person, who is admitted
to be the creditor's debtor stands at the time of receiving the
security, in the relation of surety to the person from whom be
receives it, it is quite immaterial whether that person is or ever
has been a debtor of the principal creditor, or whether the
relation of suretyship or the indemnity to the surety existed,
or *vs known to the creditor, when the debt was contracted.
In short, if one person agrees with another to be primarily
liable for a debt due from that other to a. third perspn, so that
as between the parties to the agreement the first is the principal and the second the surety, the creditor of such surety is
entitled, in equity, to be substituted in his place for the purpose of compelling such principal to pay the debt.
It is in accordance with the doctrine, thus understood, that
the Court of Chancery of New York, the Court of Chancery
and the Court of Errors of New Jersey, and the Supreme
Court of Michigan have held a mortgagee to be entitled to
avail himself of an agreement in a deed of conveyance from
the mortgagor by which the grantee promises to pay the mortgage. Htalsey v. Reed, 9 Paige, 446, 452 ; Zing v. Whitely, 10
Paige, 465; Blyer v. Monholland, 2 Sandf. Ch. 478; Mlapworth v. P.ressler, 2 Beasley, 62; H.oy v:. Bramhall, 4 C. E.

OCTOBER TER3

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

Green, 74, 563; Crowell v. qurrier,12 C. E.'Green, 152; S. C.
on appeal, nom. Crowell v. St. Barnabas Hospital, 12 C. E.
Green, 650; Arnaud v. Grigg, 2 Stew. Eq. 482; Youngs v.
Trustees of Public Schools, 4 Stew. Eq.. 290; Crawford v.
Edwards, 33 Michigan, 354, 360,; .iller v. Thompson, 34
Michigan, 10; Higman v. Stewart, 38 Michigan, 513, 523;
Hicks v. -McGarry, 38 Michigan, 667; Booth v. Connecticut
Ins. Co., 43 Michigan, 299. See also -Pardeev. Treat, 82
N. Y. 385, 387; Cojffn v. Adams, 131 Mass. 133, 137; Biddel
v. Brizolara, 64 California, 354; George v. Andrews, 60
Maryland, ?6; Osborne v. Cabell, '7Virginia, 462.
The grounds and limits of the doctrine, as applied to such a
case, have been well stated by Mr.- Justice7 Depue, delivering
the unanimous judgment of the Courtof Errors of iNew Jersey,
in Crowell v. St. Barnabas Hosoital, as follows:
" The right of a mortgagee to enforce payment
of the mortgage debt, either in whole or in part, against the grantee of the
mortgagoi. does not rest upon a-ty contract of the grantee with
him, or with the mortgagor for his benefit."
"The purchaser of lands subject tormortgage, who assumes
and agrees to pay the mortgage debt, becomes, as between
himself and his vendor, the principal debtor, and the liability
.of the vendor, as between the parties, is that of surety. If the
vendor pays the mortgage debt, he may sue the vendee at law
for the moneys so paid.
"In equity, a creditor may have the benefit of all collateral
obligations for the payment of the debt, which a person standiug in.the situation of a surety for others holds for his indemnity- It is.in the applicatioA of this principle that decrees for
deficiency in foreclosure suits have been made against subsequent purchasers, who have assumed the payment, of the mortgage debt, and thereby. b16ome principal debtors 'as between
themselves and their grantors."'
"But the right of the mortgagee to this- remedy does not
result from any fixed or vested right in him, arising either
from the acceptance by the subsequent purchaser of the con.veyance of the mortgaged premises, or from-the obligation of
the grantee to pay the mortgage debt as between himself and

KELLER i'. AASFORD.
Opinion -of the Court.

his grantor. Though the assumption' of the moi qgage debt'
by the subsequent purchaser is absolute and unq alified in
the deed of conveyance, it -ill be controlled by a .collateral
contraot made between him and his grantor, which is not embodied in the deed., And it will not in any case be available
to the mortgagee, unless the grantor was himself personally
liable for the payment of the mortgage debt.'.

-

"Recovery of the deficiency after sale of the mortgaged
premises, agait a subsequent purchaser,, is adjudged in. a
court of equity to a mortgagee not in virtue of any original
equity residing in him. He.is allowed, by a mere rule of procedure, to go directly as a creditor against the person ultimately liable, in order to avoid circuity of action, and save the
mortgagor, as the intermediate party, from being harassed for
the payment of the debt, and -then driven to seek relief over
against the person who has indQmnified him, and upon whom
the liability will ultimately fall, -The equity on which his relief depends is the right of the mortgagor against his vendee,
to which he is permitted to succeed by-substituting himself in
the place of the mortgagor." 12 C. E. Green, 655, 656.
The decisions of this court, cited for the defendant, are- not
only quite consistent with this conclusion, but strongly tend to
define the true position of a mortgagee, who- has in no way
acted on the faith of, or otherwise made himself a party to,
the agreement of the mortgagor's grantee to pay the, mortgage; holding, on the one hand, that such a mortgagee has no
greater right than the mortgagor has against the grantee, and
therefore cannot object to the striking -outby a court of equity,
or to the release by the mortgagor, of such an agreement
when inserted in the deed by mistake; Elliott v. 8ackett, 108
U. S. 132; D'rury v. Hayden, 111 U. S. 223; and, on the
other hand, that such an dgreement does not,. without the
mortgagee's assent, put the grantee and the mortgagorjn the
relation of principal and surety towards the mortgagee, so that
the latter, by giving time to the grantee, will discharge the
mortgagor. Shepherd v. Xay, 115 U. S. 505; 511.
The present case is a strong one for the applicition of the
general doctrine. The land, has been sold under a prior mortVOL. cxxx-M-40

