OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Appellants.

ing between a munidipality and a purchaser who took with
notice of the manner in which the bonds had been disposed of.
So that this cannot be considered an authority in the case before us.
These are all the matters we deem necessary to notice, and,
there appearing no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, its
judgment is

UNITED STATES v. WATERS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 95. Submitted INovember 11, 1889.-Decided January 27, 1890.

The amount of counsel-fee to be allowed to a district attorney under Rev.
Stat. § 824, for trial before a jury of. a person indicted for crime, is discretionary with the couit, within the limits of the statute; and the action of the court in'this respect is npt subject to review by the Attorney
General, or by the accounting officers of the treasury.
The supervisory powers of the Attorney General over the accounts of district attorneys, marshals, clerks and other officers of the courts of the
United States under Rev. Stat. § 368, are the same which were vested in
the Secretary of the Interior before the creation of the Department of
Justice.
The powers of an Auditor in the Treasury Department are limited to the
examination and auditing of accounts, to the certification of balances, and
to their transmission to the comptroller; and do not extend to the allowance or disallowance of the same.
A comptroller in the Treasury Department has no power to review, revise or alter items in accounts expressly allowed by statute, or items of
expenditures or allowances made upon the judgment or discretion of
officers charged by law with the duty of expending the money or making
the-allowances.

THIS was an action against the. United States to recover an
allowance to a district attorney by the trial court under Rev
Stat. § 824, disallowed by the Attorney General and by the
accounting officers of the Treasury Judgment for claimant,
from which the defendants appealed. The case. is stated in
the opinion.
Xf

Attorney General and Hr B. Wilson for appellants.

UNITED STATES v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

.

Cha les C. Lancaster for appellee.

MR.JUSTiCE LAxAR delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in the Court of Claims on the 18th
of February, 1885, by-a district attorney of the United States
to recover a balance of $320, alleged to be due him fQr
services performed under section 824 of the Revised Statutes,
and withheld, from him by the' accounting officers of the
Treasury Department, under instructions from the Attorney
General.
The material facts in the case, as found by the court below,
are substantially as follows The claimant, Charles C. Waters,
fbr six years immediately preceding the commencement of the
action, had been United States district attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and in his official capacity, during
that period, had tried twenty-two indictments for crimes, before a jury, securing a conviction in each case. The District
Court before which those causes were tried allowed him $30
counsel fee in each case, in addition to the fees otherwise provided for, in accordance, as is claimed, with -the provisions of
section 824 of the Revised Statutes. When his accounts were
forwarded to the accounting officers of the Treasury Department they were submitted to the Attorney General for his
supervision, Rev Stat. § 368, who reduced the amountsi allowed
claimant $10 in five, $15 in fourteen, aid $20 in three of the
cases -in all $320. The accounting officers of the Treasury
Department followed the action of the Attorney General and
passed the accounts as reduced.
The practice of reducing the allowances made to district
attorneys for counsel fees first began about 1878, when Attorney General Devens issued the following circular
"1DEPAR~mErr Or JUsTicE, WAsHn=GTON, -,

1878,

,Esq.,
"United States Attorney, Distritqf
"Sin: Your.attention is -invited to the concluding clause of
section 8241 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, permitting an allowance not exceeding $30, in addition to the
VOL. cxxxm-14

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

other legal fees of the United States attorney, m proportion to
the importance and difficulty of the cause, when a conviction
is had before a jury on an indictment for crime. Whenever
you have obtained the approval of the court to a special fee
under this clause, you Will forward with your account of the
same to the First Auditor a brief statement of the points and
circumstances in each case, which render it one of the importance and difficulty contemplatea by the statutes. Your account, together with the statement, will be submitted by the
First Auditor (in such cases as he deems necessary) to the
Attorney General, in order to determne from the means
afforded whether such special counsel fees should be allowed
in the final settlement.
CHARLES Drvi.ws,
"Very respectfully,
"Attorney General."
Previous to that time such allowances by the court were
accepted without alteration. The claimant's whole counsel
fees would not exceed the maximum of $6000 in any one year.
It is to recover tins balance of $320 that the suit is
,brought. The Court of Claims, upon the foregoing facts,
rendered judgment in favor of claimant for the amount in
dispute 21 C. Cl. 30. The assignment of errors is a general
one, and is merely to the effect that the court below erred,
upon the facts found, in its conclusion of law, that the appellee was entitled to recover from the United States the sum
of $320.
The fees in question were allowed by the court under sections 823 and 824: of the Revised Statutes. Section 823 provides that "the following and no other compensation shall
be taxed and allowed to attorneys, solicitors and proctors in
the courts of the United States, to district attorneys, clerks,
except in cases otherwise expressly provided
etc.,
for by law" Section 824, after limiting the fees to the district
attorneys for their official services therein named, each at a
specific amount, irrespective of the labor and responsibility
involved, provides in its concluding clause that, "When an
indictment for crime is tried before a jury and a conviction is

-UNITED STATES v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

had, the district attorney may be allowed, in addition to 'the
attorney's fees herein provided, a counsel fee, in proportion to
the importance-and difficulty of the cause, not exceeding thirty
dollars."
The exact amount of the allowance, within the prescribed
limit, thus authorized, is left discretionary, but the section
does not, in so many words, designate the person or tribunal
by whom that discretion shall be exercised. The contention
of the United States is, that this discretionary power is ve§ted
in the Attorney General, and that the fixing of the amount
of a special counsel fee, in the absence of express legislative
provision, is not a judicial but an executive act, to be exercised
by the Attorney General, as the chief of the department to
which district attorneys belong. The view on which the court
below rested its decision was, that this discretionary power
pertains to the judicial functions of the court before which the
cause was tried, and by which Congress manifestly intended
that its importance and difficulty should be determined, and
that, therefore, the allowance by the District Court of the
fees in question was conclusive upon the Attorney General
and the accounting officers of the Treasury Department.
It will be observed that none of the provisions of these
sections have any reference whatever to the matter of rendering or revising accounts, or to the powers and duties of the
Attorney General, or of the accounting 6fficers of the Treasury
Department, in relation to the accounts of district attorneys.
They relate exclusively to the compensation or fees to be taxed
and allowed those officers ;- and the concluding paragraph
applies alone to the allowance of the additional fee to the
district attorney, for services rendered within the court on the
trial of a cause, all the steps and incidents of which, including
the taxation of costs arising in the course of the proceedings,
are within the knowledge and under the jurisdiction of -the
court. They, in express terms, require the district attorney's
fees to be taxed, and no other tribunal can tax them, except
the court having jurisdiction. In the case of [7"ie Baltimore,
8 Wall. 377,referring to the provision of the statute of I February. 26, 1853, 10 Stat. 161, part of the first section of -wbhibh

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

was incorporated zn haec verba into these two sections of the
Revised Statutes, it was held that fees and costs allowed to
attorneys, solicitors and proctors in admiralty cases were taxable as costs,, as an incident to the trial and judgment. Say
the court in that case, page 392
"Fees and costs, allowed to the officers therein named, are
now regulated by the act of the 26th of February, 1853, which
provides in its first section, that in lieu of the compensation
now allowed by law to attorneys, solicitors, proctors, district
attorneys, clerks, marshals, witnesses, jurors, commissioners
and printers, the following and no other compensation shall
be allowed. Attorneys, solicitors and proctors may charge
their clients reasonably for their services, in addition to the
taxable costs, but nothing can be taxed as costs against the
opposite party, as an incident to the judgment, for their services, except the costs and fees therein described and enumerated."
No distinction is made by the court or by the statutes between the fees prescribed in admiralty cases as an incident to
the judgment and those so incident in other cases. All the
costs and fees "therein described and enumerated" are put
on the same footing, as taxable costs, incident to the judgment. The discretionary fee that "may be allowed" to a
district attorney for securing a conviction in a case of indictment for a crime tried by a jury, is none the less an incident
to the trial and judgment because its allowance is contingent
upon a conviction. Both before and since the enactment of
the statute of 1853, courts in the exercise of their discretion
have allowed counsel fees in many cases without question
when reviewed by this court. In T/e A.pollon, 9 Wheat. 362,
379, and in Canter v The Amerwan and Ocean Insurance
Compan'es, 3 Pet. 307, 319, the allowance of counsel fees by
the court below was affirmed by this court as a matter within
the sound discretion of the court before whom the cause was
tried, and those decisions were cited with approval in Elasto
Fabnrcs Co. v. Smeth, 100 U. S. 110, and Paper Bag Cases,
105 U. S. 766,.772. In United States v Ingersoll, 1 Crabbe,
135, suitwas brought, by the United States against a United

UNITED STATES v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

States district attorney, for- money had and received. He
pleaded, as a set-off, among" other items, $5083.20 for costs
taxed and allowed in criminal cases, payment of. which had
been withheld by the Treasury Department. It wag held
that those costs (which were attorney's fees) constituted a fair
and. legal set-off, and the court lbad down the principle, as
concisely stated in the syllabus, that "the allowance of costs
to a district attorney is altogether in the jurisdiction of the
judge, and not within the power of the officers of the Treasury ")
In harmony with those decisions, and in accordance with
the practical construction placed by the courts, by the Attorney General himself, and by the accounting officers of the
Treasury Department, upon the act of February 26, 1858,
(now sections 823 and 824, Revised Statutes,) the judge before
whom the case was tried always exercised the discretion pf
allowing an additional counsel fee to district attorneys, in the
specified cases, without the revision of any executive officer,
from the passage of that act until 1878.
But in 1878 the Attorney General, in the circular letter
hereinbefore set forth, assumed the authority to change the
uniform practice, and to revise and alter the allowances of
those counsel fees made by the judge. In our opiniion this
attempted change was not warranted by law- In allowing
the counsel fee to the district attorney the court acted in its
judicial capacity, and such allowance, being a judicial act of
a court of competent jurisdiction, was not subject to the reexamination and reversal of the Attorney General.- United
States v. O'Grady, 22 Wall. 641, ButterwortA v Hoe, 112
U. S. 50, 67, Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409, 410, note a.
If the Attorney General has the right, upon information
derived from a statement made to him by a district attorney
as to the -facts and circumstances of a trial in court, to reduce
a fee allowed by the court, he may with equal. right and propriety increase such fee should he determine that the judge
had-underestimated the importance and difficulty of the cause
tried before him, and had undervalued the services of such
district attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that the power of the Attorney General to
make the reduction in question is vested in him by. virtue of
section 368 of the Revised Statutes, which provides as follows
"The Attorney General shall exercise general supervisory
powers over the accounts of district attorneys;- marshals,
clerks and other officers of the courts of the United States."
The supervisory powers given in this section are precisely
those which were exercised by the Secretary of the Interior before the Department of Justice was established, and which were
transferred from the Secretary of the Interior to the Attorney
General by the 15th section of the act of June 22, 1870,
c. 150, 16 Stat. 164. That section provides that, "the supervisory powers now exercised by the Secretary of the Interior
over the accounts of the district attorneys, marshals, clerks
and other officers of the courts of the United States, shall be
exercised by the Attorney General, who shall sign all requisitions for the advance or payment of moneys out of the treasury, on estimates or accounts, subject to the same control now
exercised on like estimates or accounts by the first auditor or
first comptroller of the treasury"
It was never claimed by the Secretary of the Interior, nor
considered by the officers of the Treasury Department, that
those supervisory powers over accounts gave him any authority to make an allowance of fees under section 824 of the Revised Statutes, or to review and reverse a judicial order allowing such fees.
A close examination of the statutes by which these supervisory powers are defined shows, as well stated in the opinion of
the court below, that they extend to seeing that the accounts
are in due form, in accordance with the law-and regulations,
that all receipts are properly credited, that all items of payments and allowances are authorized by law, that nothing is.
rdtained beyond the maximum fixed by the statute, and that
in every respect the law relating to the same has been fully
complied with, and does not include the power of reviewing
the discretion of a judge in making allowances, or of altering
his orders, and decrees therein.
We are unable to perceive the pertinence and force of the

UNITED STATES v. WATERS.
Opunon of the Court.

argument drawn from the authority of the Attorney General,
as chief of the Department of Justice exercising the power .of
superintendence and direction over the district attorneys as
subordinate officers belonging to that department. This authority is purely of an executive character, analogous to that of alL
the other chiefs of their respective departments. The superintendence and direction which he exercis s, however "comprehensive and minute it may be, over the duties of those officers
which are purely administrative and executive, cannot by any
stretch of construction be made to extend over the proceedings, the judgments, or the orders of the courts under whose
jurisdiction the district attorneys, under the law, are required
to perform their duties.
With regard to the supervisory power of the accounting
officers of the Treasury Department in this connection, it is to
be observed that, according to the record m the present case,
those officers simply "followed the action of the Attorney
General," which, as we have already seen, was unauthorized
by law The counsel for the United States, while insisting
that the discretion in question is vested m the Attorney General, concedes in his brief that it was not meant to be given to
the accounting officers. In this connection he says
"The accounting officers of the Treasury could never have
been given this discretion in fixing an additional allowance,
for, from the nature of the case, they know nothing about the
difficulty and importance of the work done by a district attorney, and because fixing compensation for services is foreign tttheir ordinary business. The discretion is of a kind they nevel
exercise, and, moreover, when exercised by another, they- cannot alter or amend what is done."
Further discussion of this point is not necessary The powers
and duties of the accounting officers are well described by the
court below in the following language, with which we agree
"Those powers and duties are well understood. The auditor
merely examines and audits accounts, neither allowing nor disallowing the same, certifies balances and transmits the same
to the comptroller for his decision thereon. The comptroller
decides whether or not the items are authorized by statute,-

