SMITH v. LYON.
Opinion of the Court.

SMITH v. LYON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

EASTERN

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF IvSSOURr.

No. 1164. Submitted January 6,1890. -Decided February 3, 1890.
Under the act of March 3, 1887 24 Stat. 552, c..373, as amended by the act
of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433,_q, 866, a Circuit Court of the United
States has not jurisdiction, on the ground of diverse citizenship, if
there are two plaintiffs to the action, who are citizens of and residents in
different States, and the defendant is a citizen of and resident in a third
State, and the action is brought in the State in which one of the plain'tiffs resides.

Tnis action was dismissed by the court below for want of.
jurisdiction, to which judgment the plaintiffs below sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
Hr Jeferson Chand er for plaintiffs in error.
.Afr

?. C. Foster for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a, writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Missouri. It was dismissed in that court for want
of jurisdiction, and judgment rendered accordingly, to which
this writ of error is prosecuted. 38 Fed. Rep. 53.
The facts out of which the controversy arises are found in
the first few lines of plaintiffs' petition. In this they allege
that they are partners doing business under the firm name of
C. H. Smith & Co., that the said C. H. Smith is a resident and
citizen of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, and Benjamin
Fordyce is a resident and citizen of Hot Springs, in the State
of Arkansas, and that the defendant 0. T. Lyon is a resident
and citizen of Sherman, in the State of Texas.
To 'bis petition, which set out a cause of action otherwise
sufficient, the defendant Lyon, who was served with the summons in the Eastern District of Missouri, filed a plea to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

jurisdiction of the court, appearing by attorney especially for
that purpose, the ground of which is, that one of the plaintiffs,
Benjamin Fordyce, is and was at the time of the institution
of this suit a resident and citizen of iHot Springs, in the State
of Arkansas, and the defendant was a resident and citizen of
Sherman, in the State of Texas, and that the suit was not
brought in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff
Fordyce, or of the defendant.
The motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction was sustained
by the Circuit Court, and the soundness of that decision is the
question which we are called upon to decide.
The decision of it depends upon the proper construction of
the first section of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1887,
24 Stat. 552, c. 373, as amended by the act of August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433, c. 866. That statute professes to be an act to
amend the act of March 3, 1875, and its object is "to determine the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of the United States,
and to regulate the removal of causes from the state courts,
and for other purposes." The first section of the act confers
upon the Circuit Courts of the United States original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all
suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity, where the
matter in dispute exceeds the sum of $2000, and arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States or treaties made
or which shall be made under their authority It then proceeds to establish a jurisdiction in reference to the parties to
the suit. These are controversies in which the United States
are plaintiffs, or in which there shall be a controversy between
citizens of different States, with a like limitation upon the
amount in dispute and other controversies between parties
which are described in the statute. This first clause of the
act describes the jurisdiction common to all the Circuit Courts
of the United States, as regards the subject matter of the suit,
and as regards the character of the parties who by reason of such
character may, either as plaintiffs or defendants, sustain suits
in Circuit Courts. But the next sentence in the same section
undertakes to define the jurisdiction of each one of the several
Circuit Courts of the United States with reference to its terr-

SMHTE v. LYON.
Opimon of the Court.

toriallimits, and this clause declares " that no person shall be
arrested in one district for trial in another in any civil action
before a Circuit or District Court, and no civil suit shall be
brought before either of said courts, against any person by any
original process or proceeding in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, but where the jurisdiction is
founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens
of different States, suit shall be brought only in the district
of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant."
In the case before u3, one of the plaintiffs is a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought, namely, the State of Missouri, and the defendant is a citizen of the State of Texas.
But one of the plaintiffs is a citizen of the State of'Arkansas. The suit, so far ashe is concerned, is not brought in the
State of which he is a citizen. Neither as plaintiff nor as cqefendant is he a citizen of the district where the suit is brought.
The argument in support of the error assigned is that it is
sufficient if the suit is brought m a State where one of -the
defendants or one of the plaintiffs is a citizen. This would
be true if there were but one plaintiff or one defendant. But
the statute makes no provision, in terms, for the case of two
defendants or two plaintiffs who are citizens of different States.
In the present case, there being two plaintiffs, citizens of different States, there does not seem to be, in the language of the
statute, any provision that both plaintiffs may unite in one
suit in a State of which either of them is a citizen.
It may be conceded that the question thus presented, if
merely a naked one of construction of language in a statute,
introduced for the first time, would be one of very considqrable doubt. But there are other considerations which must
influence our judgment, and which solve this doubt in favor
of the proposition that such a suit cannot be sustained.
The original judiciary act of 1789, which established the
courts of the United States and defined their jurisdiction, declared in reference to the Circuit Courts, in section 11 of that
act, 1 Stat. 78, that "the Circuit Courts shall have original
cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States,
of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value of five hundred dollars, and the United States
are plaintiffs or petitioners; or an alien is a party, or the suit
is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and
a citizen of another State." The construction of this phrase,
"where the suit is between a citizen of the State where the
suit is brought and a citizen of another State," came before
the Supreme Court at an early day in the case of 8trawbrdge
.v Curtzss, 3 Cranch, 267, and Chief Justice Marshall delivered
the opinion of the court, which was without dissent, in the following language
"The court understands these expressions" [referring to
the words "suit between a citizen of the State where the suit
is brought and a .citizen of another State"J "to mean that
each distinct interest should be represented by persons, all of
whom are entitled to sue or may be sued in the federal courts.
That is, that where the interest is joint each of the persons
concerned in that interest must be competent to sue, or liable
to be sued, in the courts of the United States."
This construction has been adhered to from that day to this,
and, although the statutes have modified the jurisdiction of the
court as regards the amount in controversy and in many other
particulars, the language construed by the court in Strawbrzdge v. Curttss has been found in all of them. This statute,
conferring and defining the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts
of the United States, has been reenacted and recast several
times since the original decision of Strawblidge v Curtss.
The first of these was the general revision of the statutes of
the United States, passed in 1874, in which the language of
the statute of 1789 is supposed to be reproduced accurately
But an act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, undertook
to recast the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, and its first
section, the important one in this connection, contains the
same language in regard to the jurisdiction of the court in
controversies between citizens of different States, and also the
provision that no civil suit shall be brought in either of said
courtq by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant or in which he

SI T

v. LYOI.

Opmion -of the Court.

shall be found at the time of serving process. The statute remained in this condition until the act of 1881, which we are
now considering, as amended by the act of August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433.
During this period, and since the case of Strawbtdge v
Curtiss, this jurisdictional clause has been frequently construed by this court, and that case has been followed. In the
case of New Orleans v Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, the same question arose, and was decided in the same way In the case of
Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172, Yr. Justice Field,
referring to these decisions, states the effect of them in the
following language
"In other words, if there are several coplaintiffs, the intention of the act is that each plaintiff must be competent -to sue,
and if there are several codefendants, each defendant must be
liable to be sued, or the jurisdiction cannot be entertained."
The question was very fully considered in the case of The
Sewing .Mach-&ne Companzes, 18 Wall. 553, where the same
proposition is stated in almost identical language. And in
the case of Penmvnular Iron Company v. Stone, 121 U. S.
631, the Chief Justice reviews all these cases and reaffirms the
doctrine as applicable to cases arising under the act of 1875.
The statute which we are now construing leaves out the
provision that if the party has the diverse citizenship required
by the statute he may be sued in anyfdistrict where he may
be found at the time of the service of process. The omission
of these words, and the increase of the amount in controversy
necessary to the jurisdictions of the Circuit Court, and the
repeal of so much of the former act as allowed plaintiffs to
remove causes from the state courts to those of the United
States, and many other features of the new statute, show the
purpose of the legislature to restrict rather thau-to enlarge the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, while, at the same time, a
suit is -permitte4 to be brought in any district where eitlier
plaintiff or defendant resides.
We db not think, -in the light of -this long-continued con- struction of the statute by this court during a period of nearly
a hundred-years, in which the statute has been the subject of

