SLTNCoL

'COUNTY v. LUNING.

Opinion of the Court.

bonajtk holder, that the conditions prescribed by the popular
vote were not complied with."
Whatever may be the hardships of this particular case, to.
sustain the defences pressed would go far towards destroying
the market value of municipal securities. We see no error in.
the ruling of the Circuit Court, and its judgment is therefore
Afflrmed.

]R.

JusTIoE

FImL took no part in the decision of this case.

LINCOLN COUNTY v. LUNING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEVADA. No.1274. Submitted January 12, 3890. -Decided

March 3,1890.

The Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution does not operate to prevent
counties in a State from being sued in a Federal Court.
No state statute exempting a county in the State from liability to suit except
in the courts of the county can defeat the jurisdiction of suits given by
the Constitution to the Federal courts.
This court follows the Supreme Court of Tevada In holding that the statute
under which the bonds in controversy were issued Was not in conflict
with the Constitution of of that State.
County of Greene v. Daniel, 102 U. S. 187, follored.
When, after default by a municipal corporation in tbe payment of interest
upon its bonds the legislature provides for the creation of a special fund.bythe debtor, out of which the creditor is to be pid, the debtor cannot
set up the statute of limitations to an action on the bonds and coupons,
without showing that the fund has been provided.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. 1. F. Bartine for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Abraham Clark Freeman for defendant in error.
R. JUSTICE BREE~R' delivered the opinion of the -court.
This is an action on bonds and coupons. Judgment was
rendered against, the county and it alleges error. The priVOL. cxxXI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

mary question is as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
This jurisdiction is challenged on two grounds. First, it is
claimed that because the county is an integral part of the
State it could not, under the Eleventh Amendment of the
Federal Constitution be sued in the Circuit Court; and, secondly, inasmuch as the act under wbich the bonds were issued
provided for litigation concerning tie.same, and named a court
of the State in which such litigation could be had, that such
jurisdiction was exclusive and prevented suit in the Circuit
Court.
With regard to the first objection, it may be observed that
the records of this court for the last thirty years are full of suits
against coun.ties, and it would seem as though by general consent the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in such suits had
become established. But irrespective of this general acquiescence, the jurisdiction of the Circuit courts is beyond question.
The Eleventh Amendment limits the jurisdiction only as to
suits against a State. It was said by Chief Justice Marshall,
-in Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
857, that "the Eleventh Amendment, which restrains the jurisdiction granted by the Constitution over suits against States,
is of necessity limited to those suits in which the State is a
party on the record."
While that statement was held by this court in the case of
In re Ayers,. 123 U. S. '443, to be too narrow, yet by that
decision the jurisdiction was limited only in respect to those
cases in which the State is a real, if not a nominal defendant;
and whi.e,the county is territorially a part of the State, yet
politically it is also a corporation created by and with such
powers as are given to it by the State. In this respect it is a
part of the State only in that remote sense in which any city,
towni or other municipal corporation may be said to be a part
of the State. fe tropolitanRailroad Co. v. Districtof columbi., 132 U. S. 1.
. The constitution of the State of Nevada explicitly, provides
for the liability- of counties to suit. Artiol., eight is entitled
"M unicipal and other corporations," and -ts ten" sections contain provisions, some applicable to private and others to both

LINCOLN COUNTY v. LUNIING.
Opinion of the Court.-

l)rivate and municipal corporations. Section five declaresthat
"corporations may sue and be sued in all courts in like manner
as individuals." And that this section is not to be limited. to
private corporations is evident not alone from the generality'
of its language and from the title of the article, but also from
several sections therein in which municipal corporations are
expressly named. Thus the second section subjects the property of corporations to taxation with a proviso "that the property of corporations formed for municipal .. . purposes may
be exempted by law." And section ten expressly recognizes
'the county as a municipal corporation, for its language is "no
county, city, town or other municipal corporation shall become
a stockholder," etc. Thus the liability of counties as municipal
corporations to suit is declared by the constitution itself. Further the act under which these bonds were issued provided for
suits against the county in respect to this indebtedness in one
of the courts of the State; and.this liability of a county to
suit has been affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nevada, in the
following cases: TWaitz v. Ormsby Co., 1 Nevada, 370: Clarke
v. Lyon County, 8 Nevada, 181; Floral Smrngs Water Co. v.
]ives, 14 Nevada, 431.
With regard to the other objection the case of Cowles v.
Mercer County, 7 Wall. 118, 122. is decisive. In that case the
court, by the Chief Justice, expressed its opinion on the very
question in these words: "But it was argued that counties in
Illinois, by the law of their organization, were exempted from
suit elsewhere than in the Circuit courts of the county. And
this seems to be the construction given to the statutes concerning counties by the Supreme Court of Illinois. But that court
has never decided that a county in Illinois is exempted from
liability to suit in national courts. It is unnecessary, therefore, to consider what would be the effect of such a decision.
It is enough for this case that we find the board of supervisors
to be a corporation authorized to contract for the county.
The power to contract with citizens of other States implies
liability to suit by citizens of other States, and no statute lifitation of suability can defeat a jurisdiction given by the Constitution."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

With regard to the objection that the statute under which
these bonds wer issued contravenes the state constitution, it
is enough to refer to the case of Odd -Fellows' Bank v. Quilien, 11 Nevada, 109, in which the Supreme Court of the State
held the act valid; following in that decision the case of
Youngs v. Hall, 9 Nevada, 212.
It is further objected that the complaint was defective in
not showing that the bonds and coupons had been presented
to the county commissioners and county auditor for allowance
and approval, as provided by sections 1950 and 1964-5-6 of
the General Statutes of the State. Those sections, referring
to'claims and accounts, have application only to unliquidated
claims and accounts, and do not apply to bonds and coupons.
This question was presented in the case of County of Greene
v. Daniel, 102 U. S. 187, 194, in which the court observed,
speaking of bonds and coupons, that "the claim was, to all
intents and purposes, audited by the colirt when the bonds
were issued. The validity and amount of the liability were
then definitely fixed, and warrants on the treasury given, payable at a future day."
The remaining question arises on the statute of limitations.
By the general limitation law of the State, some of the cou'pops were barred; but there has. been this special legislation
in reference to these coupons. The bonds were issued under
the funding act of 1873. In 1877 the county was delinquent
in its interest, and the legislature passed an act amendatory to
the act of 1873. This amendatory act provided for the registering of overdue coupons, and imposed upon the treasurer the
duty of thereafter paying the coupons as money came into his
possession applicable thereto, in the order Of their registration.
Statutes of Nevada, 1877,46'.
The coupons, which by the general limitation law would
have been barred, were preseted, as they fell due, to the treasurer for payment, and payment demanded and refused, because
the interest fund was exhlwustd.. Therenpon the treasurer
registered them as presented, in accordance with the act of
1877, and from the time of their registration to the commencement of this sui.t .there was no money fn the treasury appli-

IJ TCOLt- COUITY..

LUNflG.,

-53V

Opinion of th- Court.

.cable to their payment. This act, -providing for registration
and for payment in a particular order, was a iiew provision
for the payment of these bonds, wich 'wa accepted'by the
creditor, and created a new right upon which he might rely.,
It provided, as it were, a special trust fund, to which the coupqn holder might, in the order of registration, look foi payment, and for payment through whicli he might safely wait.
It amounted to a promise on the part of the county to pay.
such coupons as were registered, in the order of their "registration, as fast as money came into the interest fund; and such
promise was by the creditor accepted; and when payment is
provided for out of a particular fund to be created. by the act
of the debtor, he cannot plead the statute of limitations until
he shows that that fund has been provided.
The cases of Underhill v. Sonora, 1.7 California, 173, and
F]'reehillv. ChamberZain,65 6alifornii, 603, are'in point. In the
former case, the court observes that "the legislative acts then
recognized the debt and made provision for its payment. This is'
enough to withdraw the case from the operation of the statute;
it is equivalent to a trust deed by the State setting apart property
out of which the money due was to be paid at a given, time, if
not sooner paid upon a claim acknowledged to be an outstanding debt; and we cannot conceive of any prificiple of law 6r
justice which would hold the claim to be barred by the statute
simply because the creditor-waited after this for his money."
In the other case it was held that " where a statute provides
for the issuing of'bonds of a city with interesi' coupons payable as fast as money should come into the treasury from spe7
cial sources designated by the act, th6 statute of limitation*
does not commence to run against the coupons until the
money is received in the 'treasury in accordance with the
terms of the act."
Both of these decisions were rendered before the act of 1817
was passed, and, being in an adjoining State which has always
had close relations with the StAte of 'evada, may well have
induced the passage of that 'ct.'
These are all the questions presented. We see no error in
the iulings in the Circuit'Couit, and its judgment "is' therefore
Affirmel,

