OCTOBER TERM, 1889,
Syllabus.

"When each of these acts speaks of lands ' sold by Congress,'
'five per cent of .the net proceeds' of which shall be reserved
and be 'disbursed' or 'appropriated' for the benefit of the
States in which the land lies, it evidently has in view sales in
the ordinary sense, from which the United States receive proceeds, in the shape of money payable into the treasury, out of
which the five per cent may be reserved and paid to the State;
and does not intend to include lands promised and granted by
the-United States as a reward for military service, for which
nothing is received into the treasury."
In the present case, the act which we are now construing
does not contemplate the receipt of any money into the treasury of the .United States, nor the payment of any money out
of it, in regard, to these swam* lands. We feel at liberty,
therefore, to construe the statute as intending to exclude from
the grant all the swamp and overflowed lands for which it
-had, by contraat, given a vested right, for a valuable consideration, to individuals before the passage of that act.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois, which affirmed the action of the lower court, founded on this principle,
is sound, in regard to the questions which we have power to
review, and its judgment is therefore
-Affi'med.

PALMER v. McMAHON.
ERROR

TO THE COURT

OF -COMMON

COUNTY

PLEAS. FOR THE

CITY

AND

oF NXEW YORK.

No. 145. Submitted January 24,1890.-Decded Marcb S, 1890.

)V.was a resident in the city of New York and a stockholder in a national
bank situated there. In 1881 his shares in the bank were assessed at a
valuation of $247,635. This valuation was entered by the tax commissioners in the annual Record of Valuations for 1881, a book which was

kept open for public inspection from the second Monday of January,
1881, to May 1, 1881, and a public advertisemeut thereof was made.

Be-

fore April, 1881, P. appeared before the cemissioner4 and claimed a
reductioD, and they r~duced the valuation to $190,635.

On May 1st the

assessment rolls were prepared from that record, with the valuatiou of

I PA-ER -6. McMAHON.
Statement of the Case.
P.'s shares at the latter sum, and he was assessed at that valuation. The
tax rolls wvere completed on this basis, and notice was given that they
would be open for inspection. P.'s tax, upon the reduced -valuation,
was $4991.63. The tax rolls were confirmed, and due notice was given
to all taxpayers that the taxes were due and payable. P. paid $1310 of
this tax, but declined to pay the further sum of $3684.63. The collectorof
taxes thereupon proceeded against him in the Court of Common Pleas for
the city and county of New York, under f- 230 of the laws of New York.
of 1843, for the enforcement of the payment of the sum remaining due.
He.appeared and answered, and judgment was given against him, which
judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and the case was remanded to the Court of Common Pleas. A writ of error was sued out:
from this court to review that judgment; Held,
(1) That this court was bound by the decision of the Court of Appeals
as to P.'s failure to comply with the state statute in relation to'
the method of procedure, form of assessment, etc.;'
(2) That the assessment was not made in contravention of the Constitution or laws of the United States,-and was, therefore, not void
for that reason;
(3) That the mode provided by the statute of New York for the col.
lecion of th6 tax was "due process of lav," and did not -deprive
P. of the equal protection of the laws; but that- it was' a-purely
executive process to collect the tax after the liability of the pfrty
was finally fixed.
When a law provides a mode for confirming or contesting an assessment
for taxation, with appropriate notice to the person charged, the assesment cannot be said to deprive the owner of his property without due
process of law.
Assessors should give all persons taxed an oppprtunity to be heard; but it
is sufficient if the law provides for a board of revision, authorized to
hear complaints respecting the justice of the assessment, and prescribes
the time during which, and the place where, such complaints may be
made.

THIs was a writ of error to the Court of Common Pleas for

the city and county of New York to review a judgment and
order finding Francis A. Palmer guilty of misconduct in neglecting to pay, personal' taxes assessed, imposed and confirmed against him for:the year 1881; and ordering that he
stand 'comniitted until he should have paid the..amount of the
said taxes, with interest and costs, unless the court should see
fit sooner to discharge him, which judgment and order was.
'a proceeding brought'under the provisions of
rendered in'
chapter 230 of the laws of the State of New York of 1843,
Art. 2, § 12 and 13, which sections ire as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"§ 12. In case of the refusal or neglect of any person to
pay any tax imposed on him for personal property, if there
be no goods or chattels in his possession upon which the same
may be levied by distress and sale according to law, and if
the property assessed shall exceed the sum of one thousand
dollars, the said receiver, if he has reason to believe that the
person taxed has debts, credits, choses in action, or other personal property, not taxed elsewhere in this state, and upon
which levy cannot be made according to law, may thereupon
in his discretion make application, within one year, to the
Court of Common Pleas of the county, or the Supreme Court,
to enforce the payment of such tax.
I' § 13. The court may impose a fine for the misconduct mentioned in the next preceding section, sufficient in amount for
the payment of the tax assessed, and of the costs and expenses
of the proceedings authorized by this act to enforce such payment, or to punish such misconduct; and the amount of such
tax shall be paid out of such fine to the said receiver, who
shall pay the same in like manner as the tax was required to
be paid; and costs and expenses of such proceedings shall be
paid out of such fine t 9 the said receiver who made the application to enforce the payment of the tax."
The record showed that on the 17th day of April, 1882,
Martin T. M cMahon, the receiver of taxes of the city of New
York, filed a petition against Francis A. Palmer iu. the Court
of Common Pleas, stating that in the year 1881 Mr. Palmer
was a resident of the twenty-first ward in the city of New
York and a stockholder in the National Broadway Bank,
located in the third ward of said city; that the shares of
stock in said bank owned by Mr. Palmer were duly assessed
for the year 1881 at the valuation of $247,635, which valuation was entered by the tax commissioners in "The Annual
Record of the Assessed Valuation of Real and Personal Estate"
for the year 1881, which record was open for examination and
correction from the second Monday of January until the first
day of May, 1881, and the fact that the books were so open
was-duly advertised; that before April 30, 1881, Palmer applied for a reduction of the valuation, and it was reduced by

Statement of the Case.

the conmissioners to the sum of $190,635; that on May 1,
,.1881, the assessment rolls were prepared from the books, upon
which his name was entered, with an assessmehit against him
for his. shares at the valuation last mentioned, which rolls
were duly certified to the board of aldermen of the city of
New York, and immediately afterwards the tax commissioners
gave public notice that the tax rolls had been completed and
delivered to the board, and would be open to public inspection
.for the period of fifteen days from the date of the notice,
which notice was duly published in several newspapers in fhe
city of New York *for fifteen days consecutively, commencing
July 5, 1881; that thereafter the tax upon such valuation of
Palmer's shares of stock was estimated and set down upon
said. roll at the sum'of $4994.63, and oh October 13, 1881, was
duly confirmed by the board of aldermen, and corrected assessment rolls showing the amount of said 'tax' were delivered
to cMahon, ag receiver of taxes, with a warrant for the collection thereof; that notice was duly published in twelve New
York newspapers that said assessment rolls had been delivered
and that the taxes were due and payable thereon; that thereafter notice was again published in twelve newspapeis that
unless the taxes were paid the receiver would proceed -to collect them according to law; and a fourth notibe was likewise
published requiring payment; that Palmer had neglected to
pay the sum of $3684.63 of the tax assessed against him; l hat
subsequently to the 15th of January, 1882, a warrant was
issued by the receiver to a marshal of the city' for the collec
tion of said tax, which was returned unsatisfied, except as tio.
the sum of $1310, after demand of payment from Palmer,
which was refused as to $3684.63; that there were no goods'
or chattels in Palmer's possession upon which said tax might
be levied by distiess and sale; that one year had not elapsed
since said refusal or the return of the warrant; and that the
receiver had reason to believe that Palmer had debts, credits,
choses in action, or other personal property, not taxed elseWhere in the State of New York, upon which levy could n ot
be made according to law; and he applied for the enforcement of payment of the tax pursuant to the statute.

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Defendant Palmer was ordered, upon the foregoing petition,
to show cause why he should not be punished for his misconduct in neglecting and refusing to pay said, personal property
tax, and he appeared and interposed an affidavit, in which he
set up various matters in resistance to the order, and among
other things insisted that his shares of stock were not lawfully
assessed for the year 1881, for reasons stated in a 'demand
theretofore served upon the commissioners of taxes in the
city of New York, of which a copy was attached to the
affidavit, dated April 25, 1881, and whereby the tax commissioners were requested to strike from the record the names
of all the shareholders in said bank upon various grounds, and
in case the foregoing demand was refused, further demanding
that the assessed value of each share, which had been fixed
by the commissioners at $45, be reduced to $10, by deducting
the value of United States bonds held by the bank, and in
the event of a refusal, that the valuation of each share should
be reduced to the amount of $27, being sixty per cent of the
assessed value of each share of stock exclusive of real estate,
In support of the petition affidaviits of the tax commissioners
were presented to the court. It appeared that a deduction
of $57,000 on account of debts due by Palmer had been made
from the original valuation of the shares, on his application.
The Court of Common Pleas thereupon made the order complained of, an opinion being given by Van Brunt, J., 11 Daly,
214, in which all the objections made by Palmer were carefully considered and overruled. From this order an appeal
was taken to the general term of the Court of Common Pleas,
by which said. order was affirmed, the opinion of the court
being delivered, by Beach, J., and reported in 12 Daly, 362.
From the judgment of the general, term aft appeal was taken
to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, tlie judgment affirmed, and the proceedings remitted to. the Court of
Common Pleas. The opinion of the Court of Appeals by
Ruger, C. J., is to be found in 102 N. Y. 176, and is quoted
from with approval by this court in .MercantileBank v. New
S.York, 121 U. S. 138, 158. To the judgment of the Court of
Common Pleas this writ of error was sued out.

PALMER v. XcfA.ON.
-Opinion of the Court.

.M1r. William RilJretkaFieldand Mr. William H. Clark for
plaintiff in error.,
-Y. David J. Dean for defendant in error.

AIR

CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLr.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We are bound by the decision of the Court of Appeals of
the State of New York adversely to the plaintiff in error, as
to-failure ,to comply with the state statute in relation to the
method, of procedure, form of assessment, oath of assessors,
ejc., in respect to which it may be further reijarked that ,the
attack in this casejs in its nature collateral. Sanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S. 535; SuPerVi ors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305.
We proceed to examine, therefore, whether the assessment was
invalid because the statute under which it was laid contravened
the Constitution or laws of the United States, and whether
the proceedings athorized by' chapter 230 of the laws of 1843,
operated to deprive the citizen of liberty or property without
due process of law.
Section 5219 of the Revised Statutes,, Title LXII, "National
Banks," reads as follows:
"1Nothing herein shall prevent all the shares in any association from being included in the valuation of the personal property of the owner or holder of such shares, in assessing taxes
imposed by authority of the State within which the association is located; but the legislature of each State may determine and direct the manner and place of. taxing all the shares
of national banking associations located within the State, supject only to the two restrictions, that the taxation shall not lie
at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moieyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of such State, and that -the"
shares of any national banking association owned by non-residents of any State shall be taxed in the city or town .where
the bank is located, and not elsewhere. Nothing herein shall
be construed to exempt the real property of associations from
either state, county, or municipal taxes, to the same extent,
according to its value as other real property is taxeo."

OCTOBER TERM, '1889. "
Opinion of the Court.

Chapter 596 of the laws of New York of 1880, is entitled
"An act to provide for the taxation of banks and of 'moneyed'
capital engaged in the business of banking, receiving deposits
or otherwise," and it' third section reads thus:
"The stockholders in every bank, banking association or
trust company, organized under the authority of this State, or
'.of the United States, shall be assessed and taxed on the value
of their shares of stock therein; said shares shall be included
in the valuation of the personal property of such stockholders
in the assessment of taxes at the place, city, town or ward
where such bank, banking association or trust company is
located, and not elsewhere, whether the said stockholder reside
in said place, city, town or ward, or not, but in the assessment
of said shares, each stockholder shall be allowed all the deductions, and exemptions allowed by law in assessing the value of
other taxable personal property owned by individual citizens
of this State, and the assessment or, taxation shall not be at a
greater rate than is made or assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of this State. In
making such assessment there shall also be deducted from the'
value of such shares such sum as is in the same proportion to
such value as is the assessed value of the real estate of the
bank, banking association or trust company, and in which any
pprtion 6f their capital is invested, in which said shares are
held,'to the whole amount of the capital stock of such bank,
banking association br trust company; nothing herein contained'shall be held or construed to exempt the real estate of
banks,, banking associations or trust companies from either
state, county or municipal taxes; but -the. same shall be subject to state, county, municipal and other taxation, to the
same extent and rate,.and in the same manner, according to
its value"as other real estate is taxed." 1 Laws of New York
of -1880, pp. 888, 889.
We have decided that so much of the capital of national
and state banks as'is invested in United States secu'rities cannot be subjected to state taxation, People v. (onzmissioners of
Taxes for iVew York, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax CaSe, 2 Wall.
00; but that shares of bank stock may be taxed in the hands

PALMER-~ v. McKAHOM{

6
"667

OpinionL of the Court.

of 'their individual owNiners at their actual instead of their pr
yalue, People v. Commisioners of Taces &c., 94 U. S. 415;
REburn v. School, Directors,23 Wall. 480; without regard to'
the fact that part or the whole of the capital of the, corp9ra-,
tion might be so invested; Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall.'
573; Bradley v.- People, 4 Wall. 459; People v. ComAissigners, 4 Wall. 244; and that under acts permitting the deduction
of debts from the value of all a person's taxable property, sich
deduction must be permitted from the value of sudh shares,,
People v. Weaver, 100 U, S. 539, 546,; but that a statute is not
void'because it does not provide for a deductibn, nor is the
assessment void if deductions are not made, but voidable only.
Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305. We have also held that
individual instances of omission or undervaluation cannot be
relied on to invalidate an -assessment, Supervisors v. Stanley,
suprdi and that because a state statute does not provide for
the taxation of shares in corporations other than banks, it does
not follow that the tax on moneyed capital invested in 'bank
shares is at a greater rate than that of the moneyed capital of
individual citizens invested in other corporations, nor are the
shareholders in national banks discriminated against, because
the taxation of such other corporations is arrived at under a
separate system. .Mercantile Bank v. -New York, 121 U. S.
138. In this last case the assessment was "made in pursuance
of section 312 of an act of the legislature of the State of New
York, passed July 1, 1882, entitled "An act to revise the statutes of this State relating to banks, banking and trust companies," which section is identical with section 3 of the act of
1880, except that trust companies are omitted in the act,,bf
1882, and a provision in relation to notice is added at the ed
of the section. The court held as follows: "The main putpose of Congress in fixing limits to state taxation on invest.
ments in shares of national banks was, to render it impossible
for the State, in levying such a, tax to create and foster an,
unequal and unfriendly competition, by favoring institutions
or individuals carrying on a similar business, and operations,
and investments of like character. The term I moneyed. capital,' as u sed in Rev. Stat. § 5219, respecting state taxation of

OCTOBER TERM, 188"9.:
Opinion of the Court.

shares in national banks, embraces capital employed in national
banks, and capital employed by individuals when the object of
their business is the making of profit by the use of their moneyed capital as money-as in banking as that business is
defined in the opinion of the court; but it does not include
moneyed capital in the hands of a corporation, even if its business be such as to make its shares moneyed capital when. in
the hands of individuals, or if it invests its capital in securities
payable in money. The mode of taxation adopted by the
State of New York in reference to its corporations, excluding
trust companies and savings banks, does not operate in such a
way as to make the tax assessed upon shares of national banks
at a greater rate than that imposed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens." The conclusions there
announced and the reasoning by which they are supported,
are decisive in the disposition of the errors assigned on behalf
of the plaintiff in error, on the first branch of this case. The
assessment was not void because in contravention of the Constitution or laws of the United States.
But it is argued that chapter 230 of the laws of New York
of 1843 is unconstitutional, as depriving the plaintiff in error
of liberty and property without due process of law, and of
the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. That
amendment provides, that no State "shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,.
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." It is insisted that Palmer had no notice
and no opportunity to be heard or to confront or cross-examine
'the witnesses for the taxing authorities or to subpcena withesses in his own behalf; and had not otherwise the protection
afforded in a judicial trial upon the merits. The phrase "due
process of law" does not necessarily mean a judicial proceeding. "The nation from whom we inherit the phrase due
process of law,'" said this court, speaking by Mrr. Justice
Miller, "has never relied upon the courts of justice for the

PALMfER v. McMAHON1
Opinion .of the Court.

collection of her taxes, though she passed through a uccessful
revolution in resistance to unlawful taxation." McftcAillen, v.
Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, 41.
-The power to tax belongs exclusively to the legislative
branch of the government, and when the law provides for a
mode of confirming or contesting the chargie imposed, with
such notice to the person as is appropriate to the naturie
of the case; the assessment cannot be said to deprive the
owner of his property without due process of law. Spencer
v. .Merchat,125 U. S. 345; Wdaston v. Nevin, 128 U. S, 578.
The iniposition of taxesis in its nature admifnistrative and not
judicial, but assessors exercise quasi judicial powers in arriving at the value, and opportunity to be heard should be and
is given under all just systems of taxation according to value.
It is enough, however, if the law provides for a board of
revision authorized to hear complaints respecting the justice
of the assessment, and prescribes the time during which and
the place where such complaints may be made. Hagar v.
Reclamation District,111 U. S. 701, 710.
The law of New York gave opportunity for objection
before the tax commissioners, Laws of New York, 1859,
c. 302, § 10, p. 681, and the- plaintiff in error appeared and
obtained a large deduction from the original valuajion. It
dissatisfied with the final action of the commissioners, he
could have had that action reviewed on certiorari.. Laws of
New York, 1859, c. 302, § 20, p. 684; People v. Comrmissioners,
4 Wall. 244. But'he did not avail hmself of this re"nedy.
The proceeding here was purely an executive process to
collect the tax after the liability of the party was finally
fixed.
Collection by distress and seizure of person is of very
ancient date, Array's essee v. Hoboken Land Uo., 18 How.:
272; and counsel. for defendant in error cites' many English
statutes, commencing with the twelfth year of Henry V iI,
c. 3,. which in the*' essential features resemble the New
York law upon the subject, one in 6 Henry VIII, c. 26, being
strikingly like it. 2 Statutes of the Realm, 644; 3 1b. 156,
230, 516, 812- 4' Ib. 116, 331, 385, 144, 991, 1108, 1247; 5

