BURT'

.

"EVORY.

•3 =9"

Opinion 'of the Court.

BURT v. EVORY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOB

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 164. Argued December 16,1889.-Decided February $, 1890.

The claim in letterspatent No. 59,375, granted to Alexander F. Elvory and
Alonzo Heston, November 6, 1866, for an "improvement in boots and
shoes" was for a manufactured article, and not for the mode of producIng it; and, as it was merely a carrying forward of the original idea of
the earlier patents on the same subject-simply a change in form and
arrangement of the constituent parts of the shoe, or ga improvement in'
degree only - it was not a patentableinvention.
Not every improvement in an article is patentable, but the improvement
must be the product of an. original-conception; and if it i.s a mere carrying forward, or more extended application of, an original idea, an improvement in degree only, it is not an invention.
The combination of old devices into a new article, without producing any
new mode of operation, Is not invention.

IN EQu'ITy to restrain an infringement of letters patent. Decree in complainants' favor. Defendants appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. George D. Noye for appellants.
_Yr.

-MR.

-Frederic-H BeMt for appellees.
JUSTICE

LAAR delivered the Opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of thA
United States *forthe District of Massachusetts, by Alexander
F. Evory, Alonzo Heston and J. B. Belcher against John W.
Burt and Fred. Packard, composing the firm of Burt & Packad,
for the-alleged infringement of letters patent No. 59,375, issued
to said Evory and Heston, November 6, 1866, for an "improvement in boots and shoes."
The bill filed December 9, 1880, alleged '-he issue of said
letters patent to the plaintiffs Evory and Hesto ; the assignnient of a one-half interest therein to the plaintiff Belcher;

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.,

the granting of an exclusive license to the National Rubber
Company to manufacture rubber goods containing the invention patented; and the infringement by the defendants, which
was said to'consist in their having made and sold shoes and
gaiters constructed in accordance with the specification and
drawings contained in letters patent No. 205,129, granted to
the defendant Packard June 18, 1878, and also other shoes
and 'aiters, all of which contained the invention in the plaintiffs' patent. The bill prayed an injunction, an accounting and
damages.
The defences pleaded in the answer were non-infringement,
an anticipation of the plaintiffs' invention by certain English
patents dated in 1856 and 1860, respectively; and want .of
novelty in the invention, because, long prior to the issue of
plaintiffs' patent, one Jacob 0. Patten of Philadelphia had
manufactured and sold shoes constructed on the same plan as
described in that patent. Issue was joined, proofs were taken,
and on the 3d of February, 1883, the Circuit Court entered a
decree sustaining the plaintiffs' patent, and adjudging that
there had been an infringement of it by the defendants; and
accordingly referred the case to a master for an account of
profits, and for the determination of damages, if any, by reason
of such infringement. Evory v. Burt, 15 Fed. Rep.- 112.
October 13, 1884, the master filed his report, in which he
found that the defendants had made and sold 41,297 pairs of
shoes which infringed the plaintiffs' -patent, but that, as they
made. no 'difference in price between shoes containing the
invention of the plaintiffs and those without it, they therefore
made no profit from such infringement; that Belcher was the
only one of the plaintiffs who ias engaged'in making or selling shoes,: and, as he made and sold less than 1000 shoes containing the invention in the patent, he was not damaged by
reason of defendants' infringement; but that, as -the evidence
showed that the plaintiffs had an established royalty of three
cents a"pair, for shoes made under that patent, and had issued
licenses and sold stamps to persons desiring to use their patent,
the licensees paying such royalty, the defendants should pay
the plaintiffs that royalty on the number of shoes made by

351

BURT w. EVORY."
Opinion of the Court.

tjiem containing the infringing device, to wit, 41,297 pairs,that is, the sum of three cents a pair, or $1238.91. Exceptionswere filed to this report, but they ivere overruled by the court,
and on the 29th of January, 1886, a final decree was entered
confirming it and assessing damaged in tho sum of $1238.91,
that being the amount of the royalty found due by,the master. An appeal from that decree brings the case here.
The material parts of the specification of the plaintiffs'.
patent and the drawings are 'as follows: "Our said invention
consists~in a novel mode'of' constructing shoes and gaiters,
whereby the ordinary elastic goring at the sides and the

Fig.2.

OCTOBER TERM: 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tedious lacing up at the front are both dispensed with, while
at the same time the tops will expand to receive the foot, and
fit neatly and closely around the ankle when the shoe is on,
being also water-tight to the extreme top of the shoe.
Figure 1 represents a side elevation of our invention; Fig. 2
a plan or top view of the same; and Figs. 3 and 4 represent
detached views or patterns of the -several parts. Similar
letters of reference in the several figures indicate like parts of
our invention. A represents the front of the shoe, and has,
attached to its rear edge a, as shown, a gore flap (marked D).
B represents the back of the shoe, and has attached to its front
edge b, as shown, a corresponding gore flap (marked C). The
front and back are sewed together at those parts of their contiguous edges marked a' and ', and the flap C is arranged
upon the flap D, bringing their corresponding edges c and d
upon each other, which are then sewed together, the two flaps
thus arranged forming a double extension gore upon each side
of the shoe, which readily expands to admit the foot, and
which may then be folded forward over the instep, and be
secured by a buckle or knot, or by a suitable lacing, as desired.
.

.

.

We do not claim broadly, for an extension-gore flap

inserted in the ankle of gaiter shoes, for this is fully covered
by the broad claim of Samuel Babbit's patent, issued March
7, 1865, to which our patent will be subject; but our mode of
construction is an improvement upon that, and all the other
modes since patented, in the following particulars, viz, : First,
it requires less stock in its construction, and is therefore cheaper
than those in which the gore is inserted in the heel; second,
it is neater in appearance, and, being adjustable to the ankle,
it may be fitted even where there is a variation in the size of
the shoe, thus rendering it more available in the construction
of shoes for sale at wholesale; third, it avoids the wrinkle in
the heel in Babbit's construction of shoes, which, being exposed
to the friction of the leg of the pantaloon, soon wears into a
hole; ,fourth, by giving expansion forward to the vamp in
front ofthe ankle it admits of the more easy introduction of
the foot, and allows a neater fit than is attainable when the
goreis in the heel. What we do claim as our, invention, and

BURT v.

OEVORY.

Opinion of the Court.

desire to secure by letters patent, is -A shoe when constructed
with an expansion-gore flap, C D, the external fold, C, of which
is attached to and in front of the quarter B, and the internal
fold, D, of which is attached to and in rear of the vamp A,
the said several parts and pieces being respectively constructed
and the whole arranged for use substantially in the manner
and for the purpose set forth."
In construing this patent the court below followed.the decision of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut (Judge Shipman) in Evory v. Candee, 2
Fed. Rep. 542; and seemed to assume that no question was
presented here touching its validity. After referring to the
fact that the patent had been held valid in .Evory v. Caidee,
supra, the court said: "Its validity is not now assailed, unless
a wide construction is given, to the claim; and this, as is most
usual, is the difficult point."
The. assignments of error are seven in number; but in the
view we take of the case it is necessary to examine only the
first three of them, which are, that the court erred (1) in holding that the patent is valid; (2) in holding that,.in view of the
antecedent state of the art, the patent had been infringed by
the defendants; and (3) in construing the patent.
These assignments may be properly considered together.
In construing the patent it will be necessary to consider
the state of the art when the application for it was made.
The object sought to be accomplished was to make improvements upon ordinaky shoes so that they would be water-tight
and would exclude dirt. It is shown by the record that long
prior to the time when the application for the patent was
made there had been a number of efforts made in the direction
of accomplishing the same result. 'As early as 1856, Stephen
lorris, of England, received a patent there for "improvements
in the manufacture of boots and shoes and other coverings for
the human feet;" and in 1860, lNorris and Robert Rogers
obtained another patent in England relating to the same
subject matter, and intended to be an improvement upon the
invention in the prior patent. These patents were broad in
their claims, and were intended to cover any device by which
VOL. cxxxm-23

OCTOBER TERMA 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

boots and shoes could be made water-tight by means of the

cut of the various pieces composing them. Various designs
were adopted and used by the patentees in those patents for
the manufactured article to which the patents related
In his specification to the patent of 1856, Norris says:. "My
improvements consist in adapting to boots, shoes and other
boverings for the human feet, gussets of novel and improved
construction, in combination with ordinary fastenings, for the
purpose of enabling boots, etc., to be readily 'adapted and
secured to and detached from the feet, and at the same time
preserved water-tight at such parts when necessary. The
following are a few examples of the mode of adapting my
said improvements to certain descriptions of boots, shoes and
other coverings for the human feet. First, as regards ladies'
boots, I propose to employ side gussets of cloth or leather, so
combined with elastic material as that the said gussets shall
always be preserved flat, instead of wrinkling or overlapping,
as heretofore. Another mode is to secure folding side gussets
and fastenings, composed either by interlacing into two rows
of hooks strips of elastic or eyelets. The openings for the
gussets I propose to make at each side of the boot, and to
extend it from the top in an ornamental direction, either
towards the toe of the boot or the sole thereof, or towards the
heel. And as regards gentlemen's boots and other similar
coverings, I propose, in manufacturing boots known and distinguished as Bluchers, to form the side seams thereof, or close
the 'fore' and 'back' parts, somewhat after the manner of
Wellington boots, so as to resemble the same when on the
feet, and to enable Blucher boots to be more readily put on
and taken off than heretofore, by employing the aforesaid
gussets in combination with boots of the above description.
In order to explain my said invention as completely as possible,
I now proceed to describe the best means I am acquainted
with for carrying the same into practical effect, reference
being had to the illustrative drawings hereunto annexed, and
to the numeral figures and letters of reference marked thereon
respectively, as follows." Then follows the description of the
drawings relating to. the patent, and, in conclusion, the speci-

BURT v. EVORY.
Opinion of the Court.

fication says: "I would remark that the principal points to be
attended to in these improvements are to have the gussets the
proper size, and to connect them to the front and back parts
of the boot, or to the back part only thereof, by sewing and
stabbing, or other known means, so that they may, when
necessary, be rendered water-proof; and this -applies more
particularly to men's boots. And as regards the fastenings
for securing the boots on the feet, I employ any of the known
means for that purpose." And again he says: "'I-.hereby
declare that I claim as my invention: Firstly, the modes
above particularly described, set forth, and represented at
figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, of sheet 1, -of manufacturing Blucher boots, and more particularly the cutting of the
back part of such boots in the manner exhibited at figures 5,
6, 15, 16, 18, Tor the purpose set forth. Secondly, the inserting of the gusset at the back part of the boot, as at figure 14.
And lastly, as regards the boots exhibited at the several other
figures of the drawings, I claim the adapting thereto of two
gussets, as above described."
In the patent of 1860 some minor changes were made, in
the shape of several of the parts composing the boot or shoe,.
but the object of the invention remained the same, namely, to
make the boots and shoes to which it related water-tight and
capable of excluding dirt, etc.
An examination of the drawings accompanying the applications for those patents shows that several of their shoes
,differ very little, if any, in their essential features from those
manufactured under the Evory and Heston patent. The shoes
under the English patent, as do those under the Ev6ry and
Heston patent,. consist of quarters, the vamp, and a folding
gusset or gore flap uniting the vamp and the quarters. It is
contended on behalf of the appellees, and the testimony of
their expert, Mr. Brevoort, is to the same effect, that the
material point of difference between their shoe and the Norris
shoe is, that in the latter the gusset or gore flap folds in -such
a manner that it lies within the shbe proper next to the foot,
while in their shoe the gore or gusset folds outside of the sh' '
thus rendering their shoe more comfortable to the foot a.td

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court:

more easily worn than the English shoe. But we do not think
it can be safely averred that the specifications and drawings
of the English patents require the gore or gusset to be folded
so that. it will lie inside of the vamp, next to the foot. It is
true that Norris does not say in so many words that the folds
of the gore will lie wholly outside of the shoe proper; but
neither does he say that they shall lie wholly within the shoe.
'We think a fair construction of Norris's patents leaves the
question of where the folds of the gussets of his shoes shall
lie, within the discretion of the manufacturer of them, who, if
he be a skilful mechanic, will be enabled to so arrange the gores
or gussets that they will accomplish their object without interfering with the comfort of the wearer of them.
On the 7th of :March, 1865, Samuel Babbit of Kokomo,
Indiana, obtained a patent, No. 46,622, for an "improvement
in gaiter boots." In his specification Babbit says: "The
object of this invention is to dispense*with the use of the
ordinary gore or elastic webbing in the manufactuie of
gaiter boots, and at the same time so construct the shoe as
that the purposes of such webbing shall be subserved. To
this end the invention consists in forming that part of the
*shoe which covers the anlile with an extension which enlarges
the opening to such a degree as to permit the foot to be readily
inserted, and which, after the shoe is on the foot, is folded and
buckled or fastened against the ankle after the manner of a
flap, and this shoe is made -without the formation of a joint
and is perfectly water-tight." Babbit's shoe had the quarters
extended at the heel about one-half the width of the shoe at
the ankle, thus- enlarging the opening in the top of the shoe
-through which the foot is inserted to an extent commensurate
with guch extension. When the shoe was on the foot those
elongated, quarters were folded against the sidq, of the shoe
and buttoned to it, and the shoe was thus rendered water-tight
clear to the top.
• Another patent, No. 49,076, for the same sort of an invention, was granted to David Brown and William S. Wooton,
of Kokomo, Indiana, on the 1st of August, 1865. That invention is thus described -in the specification: "The. present

B3 RT v.. EVORY. .5

357

Opinion of the Court.

invention consists in attaching to the back portion of the
boot or shoe in which a vertical slt or opening has been
made a folding flap or piece of su-ici-nt sizeand shape that,
,when the-boot or shoe is put on the foot, it can be folded or
passed entirely around the instep, and there fastened by buckling, buttoning, or in any other proper manner, said flap being
connected therewith by means of two wings or sectional
pieces, each fastened by sewing, or in any other suitable way,
at one edge to one side of opening or slit in the boot or shoe
and at the other to the inner surface of the folding flap, and
which wings, when the folding flap has been buttoned, as
described, lie 'and are held -between it and the exterior surface
of the boot or shoe upper." The advantages claimed for the
Brown and W6oton patent were the ease with which' the
shoe could be put on and'taken off, the absence of eyelet
holes or any kind of apertures communicating with the interior
of the shoe, and the.peculiar construction and arrangement of
the flap, whereby the counter of the shoe .was prevented from
being broken down.
Such was the -tate of the at when Evory and Heston made
their applicatioi for the patent in suit. L~t us now carefully
examine the Evory and Heston patent to see what patentable
improvements are embraced by it. In the first part of the
specification it would seem that they were seeking a patent
for a mode of constructing a shoe, for they say: "Our said
invention consists in a novel mode of constructing shoes and
gaiters," etc. And in another part of their sp 9cificatiow they
say; "Oar mode -ofcontruotion is an improvement upon" the
Babbit patent, etc. But the concluding part of their specification would seem to negative the idea that they were claiming
a patent for a mode of construction, and not for a manufactured article; for they say; "What we do claim as our
invention and desire to secure by letters patent is a shoe
when constructed with an expansion-gore flap," etc. In the
brief of counsel for appellees it is conceded that the patent is
for a. shoe, and not for a mode of constructing it.' Counsel
says, after quoting the concluding paragraph of the specification: "This is a claim for a shoe having on each side an
expansion-gore flap," etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

We think, therefore, the claim in this case must be regarded
as being for a manufactured article, and not for a mode of
producing it. This being true, it is difficult to see. any patentable device or function in the Evory and Heston shoe. It is a
mere aggregation of old paits with only such changes of form
or arrangement as a skilful mechanic could readily devise the natural outgrowth of the development of mechanical skill
as distinguished from invention. The changes made by Evory
and Heston in the construction of a water-tight shoe were
changes of degree only, and did not involv any new principle.
Their shoe performed no new function. In the construction
of it the vamp, the quarters and the expansible gore flap were
cut somewhat differently, it is true, from like parts of the shoes
constructed under the earlier patents referred to, but they subserved the same purposes.
It is Well settled that not every improvement in an article is
patentable. The test is that the improvement must be the
product of an original conception. Pearce v. .fu~ford, 102
U. S.112, 118; Slawson v. Grand Street Raili.oad, 107 U. S.
649; Munson v. HTew York City, 124 U. S. 601, and many
other cases. And a mere carrying forward -or more extended
application of an original idea -a mere improvement in
degree- is not invention. In Smith v. Nichols, 21 Wall.
112, 118, 119, Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the opinion of
the court, said: "A patentable invention is a mental result.
It must be new and shown to be of practical utility. Everything within the domain of the conception belongs to him who
conceived it. The machine, process, or product is but its
material reflex and embodiment. A new idea, may be ingrafted upon an old invention, be distinct from the conception which preceded it, and be an improvement. In such
case it is patentable. The prior patentee cannot use it without
the consent of the improver, and the latter cannot use the
original invention without the consent of the former. But a
mere carrying forward or new or more extended application of
the original thought, a change only in form, proportions or
degree, the substitution of equivalents, doing substantially the
same. thing in the same way, by substantially the same means,

BURT v. EVORY.
Opinion of the Court.

with better results, is not such invention as will' sustain, a
patent. These rules apply alike, whether what preceded was
covered by a patent or rested only in public knowledge and
use. In neither case can there be an invasion of such domain
and an appropriation of anything found there. In one case
everything belongs to the prior patentee; in the other, to the
public at large."
Neither is it invention to combine old devices into- a new
article without producing any new mode of operation. StiMPson v. Woodman, 10 Wall. 117; HeaZd v. Rice, 104 U. S. '737;
Rail v.'
wwale, 107U. S. 90.
In the recent case of Bill v. Wooster, decided January 13
of this year, 132 U. S. 693, 700, it is said: "This court, however, has repeatedly held that, under the Constitution and the
acts of Congress, a person,, to be entitled to a patent, must
have invented or discovered some new and useful art, machine,
ifianufacture or composition of matter, or some new and useful
improvement thereof, and that 'it is not enough that a thing
shall be new, in the sense that in the shape or form in which
it is produced it ihall not have been before known, and that it
shall be useful, but it must, under the Constitution and the
statute,' amount to an invention or discovery;'
citing a long
list of authorities.
We are of the opinion that the patent in suit does not meet
the requirements of the itiles deduced from the decisions to
which we have referred. We do not think there is any patentable invention in it; but, on the contrary, that it is merely a
carrying forward of the original idea of the earlier patents on
the same subject - simply. a change in form and ariangement
of the constituent parts of the shoe, or an improvement in
degree only.
For these reson8 the decree of the court below is reversed,
with a direction to dismis the bill.

