STUBR v. BECK.
Syllabus.

would not have affected their rights. That demand was not
then reduced to judgment, and created no lien upon the property of the company, nor any restriction upon the company's
right to use it for any lawful purpose. The bonds were given
to raise the necessary funds to complete the road of the company, and the mortgage was -executed to secure their payment.
They were negotiable instruments, and in the hands of the
purchasers cannot be impeached for any neglect of the company issuing them to pay the demands of other creditors. We
are, unable to perceiva any ground upon which their priority
over the claim of the appellant can be in any way impaired.
We do not question the general doctrine invoked by the
appellant, that the property of a railroad company is a trust
fund for the payment of its debts, but do not perceive any
place for its application here. That doctrine only means that
the property must first be appropriated to the payment of the
debts of the company before any portion of it can be distributed to the stockholders, it does not mean that the property is
so affected by the indebteuness of the company that it cannot'
be sold, transferred, or mortgaged to bona)fd purchasers for a
valuable consideration, except subject to the liability of being
appropriated to pay that indebtedness. Such a doctrine has
no existence. The cases of Curan v State of Arkansa8, 15
How 30, 307, and Wood v. Dummer, 3 Mason, 308, give no
countenance to anything of the kind.

Jdm t ajrned.

STURR v. BECK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COU*T OF THE TERRITORY OF DA3KOTA
No. 1172. Submitted December.9, 1889.-

Decided March 3,.1890.

No judgment or decree of the highest court of a Territory can be reviewed
in tns court in matter of fact, but only in matter of law.
The fling of a homestead entry'of a tract across which a stream of water
runs in its latural channel with no right or claim of right to divert it
therefrom; confers a right to have the stream continue to run in that
channel, without diversion, which right, when completed by full corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
pliance with the requirements of the statutes on the part of the setler,
and the issue of a patent, relates back to the date of the filing, and cuts off
Intervening adverse claims to the water.
The legislation of Congress upon this subject reviewed.

THIS suit was commenced by Daniel Sturr against Charles
W. Beck by a complaint filed in a district court of the Territory of Dakota, seeking an injunction against the defendant
from interfering with an alleged water right and ditch of the
complainant and the use of the water of a certain creek
-through the same, and for damages alleged to have been sustained by interference which had already taken place. The
allegations of the complaint were denied in the answer of the
defendant, so far as inconsistent with its statements; and the
facts in regard to the matters set up in the complaint were
averred by the defendant as he claimed them to be, with a
prayer for an injunction against the complainant from trespassing upon his land and 'diverting the water of the creek,
and from keeping and maintaining the ditch on his land,
and for damages and costs. The cause was tried by the court
upon an agreed statement of facts, it being stipulated that the
court might make its findings of fact and conclusions of law
on such agreed statement with the same effect as if the facts
therein contained had been proven in court. The court thereupon proceeded to make its findings of fact and conclusions
of law as follows:

"Findings of Fact.

"1st. That the plaintiff, Dahiel Sturr, made a homestead
filing or entry of the S. E. I N. W. -, E. J S. E J, and S. W. J
S. E. J of sec. 35, town. 7 N., of range 3 E., B. H. M., on the
15th day. of May, 1880, and thereafter at the United States
land office at Deadwood, D. T., made final proof or entry
thereof on the 10th day of May, 1883, having settled thereon
in June, 18'7, and he has resided thereon continuously ever
since, cultivating at least seventy acres thereof, and has
received a patent for said land from the United States.
"2d. That one John Smith made a homestead filing or
entry of the W. J S. E.

, S.

W. I N. E. , and lot 2 of sec. 2,

STURR v. BECK
Statement of the Case.

town. 6 I.,of range 3 E., LB. H. Mf., on the 25th day of March,
1879, and thereafter at the United States land office at Deadwood, D. T., made final proof or entry thereof on the 10th day
of May, 1883, having settled thereon in March, 1877, and resided thereon until he sold the same to defendant Beck, in
May, 1884, and has received a patent for said land from the
United States.
"3d. That on or about the 15th day of May, 1880, the
plaintiff, Daniel Sturr, with6ut any grant .from John Smith,
the occupant and claimant, as above stated, went upon tho
homestead claim of John Smith, above described, and located
a water right on said Smith's homestead, claiming the right
to divert 500 inches, miner's measurement, of the waters of
False Bottom Creek then and long prior thereto flowing over
and across said land in its natural channel, and to carry the.
same by means of a ditch to and upon his own homestead
claim, immediately adjacent.
"4th. That said plaintiff posted a written notice at the point
of said proposed diversion, claiming the right to divert said
water, and caused a copy of the same to be filed in the office of
the register of deeds in and for Lawrence County, Dakota, on
the 9th day of May, 1881, and the same was recorded in Book
14, page 468, of the records of said county.
"5th. That immediately thereafter the plaintiff constructed
a ditch from the point of such diversion across the John Smith
homestead and diverted and conveyed not less, than 300 inches
of the waters of said False Bottom Creek to and upon his said
land adjacent, and there used the same for irrigating hiscrops
growing thereon whenever the same was necessary, until intprfered with by the defendant, in the surr'ner of 1886.
"i6th. That on May first, 1884, John Smith conveyed his
said homestead to the defendant, Charles W. Beck, by wai-ranty deed purporting to convey the fee without any reservation; whereupon the plaintiff entered into the .possession
thereof and has so remained ever since.
"7th. That in the spring of 1886 the defendant Beck notified the plaintiff Sturr to cease diverting the waters of False'
Bottom Creek from their natural channel, upon defendant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

said land, and forbade him maintaining his said ditch upon de.
fendant's said land for that purpose.
"81th. That the custom existing and which has existed in
Lawrence County ever since its settlement recognizes and acknowledges the right to locate water rights and -to divert, appropriate and use the waters of flowing streams for purposes of
irrigation when sdch location, diversion and use does not conflict or interfere with rights vested and accrued prior thereto.
"9th. That neither John Smith nor the defendant Beck
ever made any water-right location claiming the waters of
False Bottom Creek, and had not prior to the said location
thereof by the plaintiff, Daniel Sturr, ever diverted the said
waters from their natural channel where they had been accustomed to flow.
"10th. That said John Smith, on the second day of February, 1882, recited in the written contract of that date made
with the plaintiff, Daniel Sturr, that the latter was the owner
of the .Elm Tree water right, which was the said water right
located as aforesaid by said Sturr on the 15th day of May,
1880.
"11lth. That the use of said water for irrigation is beneficial and valuable to the person or persons owning or possessing the same.

Conclu on8 of law.
"1st. That at the time of the location of the water right
made upon John Smith's homestead by the plaintiff, Daniel
Sturr, in May, 1880, a prior right to have the waters of said
False Bottom Creek flow in the regular channel of said creek
over and across said land had vested in John Smith by virtue
of his homestead filing or entry made on the 25th day of
March, 1879, he having made final proof or entry thereafter.
"2d. That said vested right so acquired by said John Smith
was. conveyed to the defendant, Charles W. Beck, by 'warranty deed on May first, 1884. "3d. That the plaintiff, Daniel Sturr, by his location and
diversion of the waters of False Bottom Creek, so made by
him upon the homestead of said John Smith on the 161h day

,-.STURR v. BECK.
6

545

pinion of the Court.

of-May, 1880 i acquired no-right -as against-the defendant, BLok
to divert said waters or to maintain a; ditch upon defendant's
land for that purpose.
"4th. That the patent issued to John Smith for, the premises mentioned related back to the date -of hip making his .
homestead filing or entry of said premises on the 25th day of
March, 1879.
"5th. That the plaintiff can take nothing by this action."
Judgment in favor of the defendant was'entered dismissing
the complaint upon the merits and awarding costs.
,Tothe tenth finding of fact and to conclusions of law Nos.
1,,2 3 and 4 plaintiff duly excepted, and also to the judgment
and decree, and filed his motion to set aside certain of the
findings of fact and conclusions of law, apd to adopt -others
named in their places, "nd also for a new.trial which motibns
wyere 'severally overruled, -and he -excepted., .Plaintiff there,upon prosecuted an appeal to the. Supreme Court of. the Territory, and assigned as error-that the court erred "in. its finding'
of fact No. 10, and in not correcting the sam6 as requested by
plaintiff in his motion to correct gaid finding;" in the conclusions of law Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively; in denying the
motion for a new trial; and. "because the decision of the
court isagainst law." The judgment of- the District CotLrt
was affirmed by the Supreme Court, which rendered thN fol
lowing opinion: 11The judgment of the l6wer court is affirmed.
The court holds that. the homesteaderwas the prior appropriator of the water right, and. the plaintiff -has no right to enter
upon the prior possession -of the defendant under his H. E. -for
of. the- running
the purpose of .appropriating any portion
streams and creeks thereon." An appeal was then taken to
this court.
-

A,. .Danig, if.

Uin and Afr.. Wi'mm R. SteeZe for

appellat.
Arr. B. A. Burtoo for appellee.

Mn. Cr FJusTI FuLEnP, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
-

YC,L. exxxm-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

With the notice of appeal and appeal bond appellant filed
his own affidavit and that of another that the ditch and water
right ii controversy were reasonably worth $7500. After the
record was filed here a motion was made by appellee to dismiss,
accompanied by several affidavits, to the effect that such value
was far less than $5000. And upon this motion counter-affidavits have been presented. We have carefully examined all
these papers and conclude that the motion'should be overruled.
No judgment or decree of the highest court oT a Territory
can be reviewed by this court in matter of fact, but only in
matter of law; and we are confined in this case to determining whether the court's findings of fact support the judgment.
Idaho and Oregon Land Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509; 18

Stat. 27, 28.
John Smith settled on the tract of land described in March,
1877, and continued to reside thereon until he sold and conveyed it by warranty deed to Beck, the appellee. He made
'his homestead filing or entry March 25, 1879, and his final
proof May 10, 1883, and received a patent from the United
States. The waters of False Bottom Creek flowed in its
natural channel over and across Smith's homestead, and in
May, 1880, Sturr, the appellant, went upon that homestead,
located a water right thereon and constructed a ditch which
diverted the waters of the creek to his own adjacent land.
Beck went into possession under the deed from Smith, and in
1886 notified. Sturr to cease diverting the water and miintaining the ditch, and this suit the'reupon followed.
It is not contended on behalf of Sturr that he is entitled to
maintain the ditch because he constructed and used it, or that
Smith's acquiescence amounted to anything more than a revocable license. There was no grant nor an adverse enjoyment
so long continued as to raise a legal presumption of a grant.
But it is insisted that the doctrine of prior appropriation of
water on the public land and its beneficial use protects him
from interference because neither Smith nor Beck made any
water-right location claiming the waters of False Bottom
Creek, and had never diverted those waters prior to Sturr's
location.

STURR v. BECI(.
Opinion 6f the Court.

If, however, Smith obtained a vested right to have the creek
flow in its natural channel by virtue of his homestead entry of
March 25, 1879, and possession thereunder, or if his patent
took effect as against Sturr by relation as of that date, then it
is conceded that Sturr cannot prevail and the judgment must
be affirmed.
The right of a riparian proprietor of land bordering upon a
running stream to the benefit to be derived from the flow of
its waters as a natural incident to, or one of the elements .of;
his estate, and that it cannot be lawfully diverted against his.
consent, is not denied; nor does the controversy relate to the
just and reasonable use as between riparian proprietors.. The
question raised is whether Smith occupied the position of a
riparian proprietor or a prior appropriator, as between himself
and Sturr, when the latter undertook to locate -his alleged
water right. At that time Smith had been in possession for
three years, and his homestead entry had been made over a
year.
IA claim of the homestead settler, such as Smith's, is initiated by an entry of the land, which is effected by making an
application at the proper land office, filing the affidavit and
.paying the amounts required by sections 2238 and 2290 of the
Revised Statutes. Under section 2291 the final certificate
was not to be given ,orpatent issued "until the expiration of
five years from the date of such entry." But under the third
section of ,the act of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 141, c. "89, § 3,
providing that "any settler who has settled, or who bhall
hereafter settle on any of the public lands of the United State,
whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with the intention: of claiming the same under the homestead laws, shall be allowed the
same time to file his homestead application and perfect his
original entry in the United States land office as is now
allowed to settlers under the preemption laws to put their
claims on recoird, and his right shall relate back to the date :of
settlement, the same as if he settled under the preemption
laws," the ruling of the Land Department has been that if the
homestead settler shall fully comply with the law as to continuous residence and cultivation, the settlement defeats all

549,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinioil of the Court.

claims intervening between its date and the date of'filing his
homestead entry, and in making final proof his five years of
residence and cultivation will commence from the date of
actual settlement.
Under section 2297 of the Revised Statutes it is provided
that upon change of residence or abandonment as therein
mentioned, before the expiration of the five years, "then and
in that event the land so entered shall revert to the government." It was held by Attorney General MacVeagh, in an
opinion to the Secretary of War, July 15, 1881, that "where
a 'homestead entry of public land has been made by a settler
the land so entered cannot, while such entry stands, be set
apart by the President for a military reservation, even pfior
,to the completion of full title in the settler;" that "upon the
entry the right in favor of the settler would seem to attach
to the land, which is liable to be defeated only by failure on
'his part to comply with the requirements of the homestead
This right
law in regard to settlement and cultivation.
amtSunts to an equitable interest in the land, subject'to the
future performance by the settler of certain conditions (in the
event of which he becomes invested with full and complete
ownership); and until forfeited by failure to perform the conditions, it must prevail not only against individuals, but against
the government." 1 Land Dec. 30. And many rulings of
the Interior Department sustain this view. These official
utterances 6re entitled* to great respect at the hands of this
.court, as remarked by Mr. Justice Lamar in Hastings.& -Dakota
RailroadCo. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357, 366.
In Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, 218, it is 'said by
Mr. Justice Davis, speaking for the court, that "in no just
sense can lands be said to be public lands after they have been
entered at the land office and a certificate of ' entry obtained.
If public lands before the entry, after it they are private property.
. .
The contract of purchase is complete when the
certificate of entry is executed and delivered, and thereafter
the land ceases to be a part of the public domain. The government agrees to make proper conveyance as soon as it can,
and .inthe meantime holds the naked legal fee in trust for the

, STURR v. BECK.
Opinion of the' Court.

purchaser who has the equitable title." It may be said that
this language refers to the certificate issued on final, proofs,
but if, the word "entry," as applied to appropriations of land,'
"means that act by which an individual acquires an inceptive
right to a.portion of the unappropriated soil of the countryi.
by filing his claim," Chotardv. Pope, 12 Wheat. 586, 588, the
principle has a wider scope.
I In Hastings & Dakota Railroad Co. v. Witney, abi supra,an
affidavit for the purpose of entering land as a homestead was filed,
on behalf. of one Turner, in a local land office in Minnesota,. on"
May 8, 1865, Turner claiming to act under section 1 of the act.
of March 21, 1864, 13 Stat. 35, c. 38, now section 2293 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States.- -As a matter of' fact,
Turner was never on the land, and no member of his family was
then residing, or ever did reside on it, and no improvements
whatever had ever been made thereon by any one. Upon being
paid their fees,' the register and receiver of. the land office
allowed -the entry, and the same stood upon the records'of thee.'
local land- office, and upon the records of the General Laud'
,Office, uncancelled, until September 30, 1872. Between May,.
1S65, and September, 1872, Congress made a grant to te
State.of Minnesota for the purpose of aiding in the. construction of -a railroad from Hastings, through certain counties, to
a point on 'the western boundary of the State, which grant
was accepted by the legislature of the State of Minnesota, p nd
transferredto the Hastings and-Dakota Railroad Company,,
which shortly thereafter definitely located its' line of road-by
filingits map in tlhe office of the Commissioner of the General
tand "Oa .AM ths prdceedings occurred prior to the.SOth
of Septgriber, 1872. -''his c6urt declared that the almost unifor n praotice of the. da4rtment has been to. regard land upon:.which an e'nt.iy of recol, -valid upoirAU9,face, has been. -made,
as appropriated and wIthfcfawn fron 'subsequent homestead.'
entry, prefrption, settlement, sale ;or. 'grant, until the origina'. entry -be cancelled, or be -dec1Ar.edt'forfeited, in '.whi.IlL
case the land reverfs to the government as part of the .public
•domain, and becomes hgain subject to- entry uider the- l)iud
law§; and it was held that whatever defects there might be Jn.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of -the Court.

an entry, so long as it -remained a subsisting entry of record,
whose legality had been passed upon by the land authorities
and their action remained unreversed, it was such an appropriation of the tract as segregated it from the public domain,
and, therefore, precluded it from subsequent grant; and that
this entry on behalf of Turner "attached to the land" in
question, within the meaning of the act of Congress making
the gTant, 14 Stat. 81, c. 168, and could not be included within
it. And as to mere settlement with the intention' of obtaining
title under the pre~mpion laws, while it has been held that
no vested right in the land as against the United States is
acquired until all the prerequisites for the acquisition of title
have been complied with, yet rights in parties as against each
other were fully recognized as existing, based upon priority in
the initiatory steps, when followed up to a patent. "The patent which is afterwards issued relates back to .the date of the
initiatory act, and cuts off all intervening claimants." Shepley
v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330, 337.
Section 2339 of the Revised Statutes, which is in substance
the ninth section of the act of Congress of July 26, 1866, 14Stat. 253, c. 262, provides : "Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of water for mining, agricultural, manu-_
-facturing, or other purposes, have vested and accrued, and'the
same are recognized and a,-knowledged by the local customs,
laws, and the decisions of courts, the possessors and owners of
such vested rights shall be maintained and protected in the
same ; and the right of way for the construction of ditches
and canals for the purposes herein specified is acknowledged
and confirmed." This section, said Mr. Justice Miller, in
Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S. 274, 276,." was rather a voluntary recognition of a preixisting right of possession, constitut-

ing a valid claim to its continued use, than the establishment
of a new one."
By section 17 of the act of July 9, 1870, amendatory of the
ac of July 26, 1866, it was provided, among other things, that
"all patents granted, or prefnption or homesteads allowed,
shall be subject to any vested and accrued water ri-'hts, or
rights to ditenes ant reservoirs used in conheotion with such

STURR ,v.BECK.
Opinion ;of the Court;

water rights, as may have been -acquired under or recognized.
by the ninth section of the act of which this act is amendatory." , 16 Stat. 218, c. 235, § 17.. And this was carried forward into section 340 of the Revised Statutes, and Smith's
patent was subject to that reservation.
'The 9th, section of the act 1866 is referred to by Mr. Justice
Field in Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507, 512, and in the
opinion it is said that "the government being the sdle proprietor of all the public land§, whether bordering on streams or
otherwise, there was no occasion for the application of the
common law doctrine" of riparian proprietorship with respect,,
to the waters of those streams."
When, however, the government ceases to. be thesole proprietor, the right of the riparian owner attaches, and cannot
be subsequently invaded. As the riparian owner has the right,
to have the water flow ut ourrere solebat,.undiminished except
by reasonable consumption of upper proprietors, and no subsequent. attempt to take the water only can override the priorappropriation of both land and water, it would seem reason-able that lawful riparian occupancy with intent to appropriate
the land should have the sailie effect.
The Dakota Civil Code contains this section:
"SEC. 255. The owner of the land owns water standing.
thereon, or flowing over or under its surface,- but not forming
a definite stream. Water running in a definite stream, formed
by nature over or under the surface, may be used by him as
long as it remains there; but he may not prevent the nathral
flow of the stream, or of the natural spring froni which' it
commences. its definite course, nor pursue nor pdllute the
same." Levisee's Dakota Codes; 2d ed. 781.
By section 527, which is section 1 of an act relating to water
rights, passed in February, 1881, Sess. Law, 1881, c. 142; .1§,
it is provided: "That any person or persons,- corporation or
company, who may have or hold a title or.possessory right or
title to any mineral or agricultural lands within the limits of
this Territory, shall be entitled to the usual enjoyment of the
waters of the streams or creeks in said Territory for mining,
milling, agricultural or domestic purposes: Provided, That'

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion

f -the Court.

the right to- such use shall not interfere with any prior right
or claim to such, waters whqn the law has- been complied with
in doing the necessary work." Levisee's Codes, 861.
BSction 650 of tle Code of Civil Procedure is as follows:
C".Any person settled upon the public lands belonging to the
United States, on which settlement is not expressly prohibited
by Congress; or some department ofthe general government.
may maintain an action for any injuries done the same; also
an action to recover the possession thereof, in the same manner
as if he possessed a f~e simple title to said lands." Levisee's
Codes, I'll.
The local custom is set forth in the findings to have consisted in the recognition and acknowledgment of "the right
to locate water rights, and to divert, appropriate and use the
waters of flowing streams for purposes of irrigation when such
location, diversion and use does not conflict o.r interfere with
rights vested and accrued: prior thereto."
Thus, under the laws of Congress and the Territory, and
under the applicable custom, priority of possessi6n gave priorityof right. The question is not as to the extent of Smith's
interest in the homestead as against the government, but
whether as against Sturr his la-ful occupancy under settlement and entry was not a prior appropriation which Sturr
could not displace. We have no doubt it was, and agree with
the brief and comprehensive opinion of the Supreme Court to.
that effect.

YTkejudgment is affirmed.
aR.
JsTie BR wRwas not a member of the court when
this case was submitted, and took no part in its decision.

