BER NARDS TOWNSHIP v. M011RISON.'
Syllabus.

competent to show by extrinsic evidence the identity of the
demands in the two cases, if this does not appear on the face of
the pleadings. Washington, Alexandria & Georgetown Steam'
Pacet Co. v. Sickles, 24 How. 333; Miles v. Caldwell, 2 Wall.
35; Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 355.
If it had been necessary to limit the effect of the award of
the commission in the present case, we do not perceive any
valid objection to extrinsic evidence for that purpose. The
brief of counsel for the claimants .would show the character
and extent of their contention before, that body. But letters
of counsel and the letter of one of the commissioners can
hardly be considered as competent evidence. Their declarations, if receivable at all, could only be so in the form of testimony given by them as witnesses in the case, and not ift any
ex _parte written communication. But, though received as
evidence, they could not have had any effect upon the decision as to the claim of the plaintiffs in error. Their claim
.rested on the treaty, which authorized no award in favor of
any other parties before the commission. It is therefore immaterial that such evidence was received. Tht nature and
extent of the award, and the parties entitled zto it, depended
upon considerations which such evidence could in no way'
affect.
It follows that the judgment of the. Supreme Court of Lou:.
isiana must be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to take
furtherproceedings in accordince with tAhi opinio ; "nd
it is so ordered.

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. MORRISONg.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIr

COURT: OF T kE UNITED STATES FOR THE

I)ISTRIoT OF 1q9W JERSEY.
No. 195. Argued January 30, 31, 1890. -Decided

March 3,1890.

1 the questions presented and argued in this case have been often considered and decided by this court, and the court adheres to the decisions in'

OCTOBER -TERMf, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
Montclair v. RamsdZell,107'U. S. 147; Bernards Township v. Stebbins, 109
U. S. 341; and New Provldence v. Halsey, 117 U. S. 336.
Cotton v: NewProvidence, 47 N. S. Law, 401; and Mutual Benefit Life Co. v.
-.Elzabeth, 42 N. J. Law, 235; approved.
The organization of townships and the number, character, and duties of
their various officers are matters of legislative control.
Officers duly appointed under statute authority represent a municipality as
fully as officers elected.
When the legislature has declared how an officer is to be selected, and the
officer is selected in accordance with that -declaration, his acts, within
the scope of the po3vers given him by the legislature, bind the municipality.

Iw comNCTA&, to recover on bonds issued by a municipal corporation. Judgment for the plaintiff, to review which this
writ of error was sued- out.. The case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Alva h.
tiffs in error.
.r.

ark and Mfr. Jamem R. English for plain-.

Cortlan* Parkerfor defendant in error.

MRx.JUsTmE BREw_'delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action on township -bonds. Judgment was rendered against the township, and it alleges error. The bonds
were issued under an act approved April 9, 1868, and found
in the session laws of New Jersey for that year, pages 915, etc.
Outside of the obligatory words, this was the form of the bond:
"This bond is one of a series of like tenor, amounting in the
whole to the sum of one hundred and twenty-seven thousand
dollars, issued on the faith -and credit of said township in bursuance of an act entitled ' an act to authorize certain towns in
the counties of Somerset; -Morris, Essex and Union to issue
bonds and take stock in the Passaic Valley and Peapack Railroad Company,' approved April 9, 1868.
"In testimony whereof, the undersigned, commissioners of
me said township of Bernards, in the county of Somerset, to
carry into effect the purposes and provisions of the said act,
duly appointed, commissioned and-sworn, have hereunto set

BERNARDS, TOWINTSHIP v. kORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

-our hands and seals the first day of January, in the -year of
our ,Lord one thousand eight hundried and sixty-nine.

"Joiax H.

AwDE~soN, .[L. sJ

"JoinT Gunnnw,
"OMER R. STEELE,

[L' Bs.1
[L. s.]

"Registered in the county clerk's office.
"WnTXIAI Ross, JR.

"County Clerk."
The first section of the act provides that, upon the application in writing of twelve or more resident freeholders, the Circuit Oourt of the county shall appoint three resid'ent; freeholders
t6 be commissioners.
Section two reads as follows:
"That it shall be lawful for said commissioners to borrow,
on the faith. and credit of their respective townships, such sums
of money not exceeding ten per centun of the valuation of the
real estate and landed roperty of such township, to be ascertained by the assessment rolls thereof respectively for the year
eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, for a term not exceeding,
twenty-five yearss--at a rate of interest not exceeding seven
per centum per annum, payable semi-annually, and to execute
bonds therefor under their bands and seals respectively; the.
bonds so to be executed may be in such sums and payable at
such times and places as the said commissioners and their successors may deem expedient;. but no such debt slall--be coitracted or bonds issued by said commissioners of or for either of said townships, until the written consent shall have .been
obtained of the- majority of t-je taxpayers of such township,
or their :legal representatives appering upon the last. assessment roll as shall represent a major'ity of the janded property
of such township (including-"lands owned by non-residents),
,appearing upon the last assessment roll of such township :
such consent shall state- th,. amouht of money authorized to,
be raised in such township, and that the'same is to be invested
in the stock of the said rairoad company, ktd the, signatures
shall be proved by one or more.of the comnissonees-- t66 faQt

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion ,of the Court.

that the persons signing such consent are a majority of the
taxpayers of such township, and represent a majority of the
real propertyof such township, shall be proved by the affidavit
of the assessor of such township endorsed upon or annexed to
such written consent, and the assessor of such township is
hereby required to perform such service; such consent and
affidavit shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county
in which such township is situated, and a certified copy thereof
in the town clerk's office of such township, and the same or a
certified copy thereof shall be evidence of the facts therein
contained, and received as evidence in any court of this State,
and beforg any judge or justice thereof."
- By section three these commissioners were authorized to dispose of the bonds, and invest the money in railroad stock'in
the name of the township, to subscribe for and purchase stock
in the railroad company, and to act at stockholders' meetings.
Section fourteen provides "that all bonds issued in accordance with the provisions of th.is act shall be registered in the
office of the county clerk of the county in which the township
-is situatel issuing the'same, and the words 'registered in the
county clerk's office' shall be printed or written across the
face of each bond, attested by the signature of the county
,,clerk when so registered, and no bond shall be valid unless so
registered."
It is conceded that the commissioners were duly appointed;
that the issue of bonds was not in excess of the amount
authorized by the statute; that a paper purporting to contain
the consent of the requisite number of taxpayers, duly verified
',by the affidavit of the township assessor, was filed in the
office of the clerk of the county; and that the plaintiffs were
bonajfd holders. But the contention is that the consent roll
did not in fact contain the 'requisite number of taxpayers, and
that the affidavit of the assessor was nob true; also that the
commissioners did not borrow any money on the bonds, but
disposed of them without lawful consideration. The Circuit
Court held thMt these defences were unavailing against bon a
ft&-holders of .the bonds; and with that ruling we concur.
!tdeed, all the questions which were 'earnestly presented and

BERNARDS

TOWNSHIP v.* MKORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

trgued by counsel for plaintiffs in error have been often con;idered and decided by this court. The act. gave the commissioners power, under certain conditions, to issue the bonds.
The recitals therein show that they were issued "in pursu.
ance" of the act; and the bonds were all duly registered as
required. The case of .Montclairv. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147,
158, was. a suit on bonds in form like tho .ones in suit, and
issued under a statute practically identical. The validity of
those bonds was sustained; and in the course of his opinion,
speaking for the court, Mr. Justice Harlan says: 1'Legislative
authority for an issue of bonds being established by reference
to the statute, and the bonds reciting that they were issued in
pursuance of the statute, the utmost which plaintiff was bound
to show, to entitle him primafacie to judgment, was the due,
appointment of the commissioners and the execution by them
in fact of the bonds. It was not necessary that he should, in
the first instance, prove either that he paid value, or that the
conditions preliminary to the exercise by the commissioners of
the authority conferred by statute were in fact performed
before the bonds were issued. The one was presumed from
the possession of the bonds; and the other was established
by the statute authorizing an issue of bonds, and by proof of
the due appointment of the commissioners, and their execution.
of the bonds, with recitals of compliance with the statute."
See, also, the cases of Bernards Township v. Stebbins, 109
U. S. 341, and _Zew Providence v. Halsey, 117 U. S. 336, in
which bonds issued either under the act before us, or that
referred to in 107 U. S. suyra, were considered by the court.
Reference also may be made to two New Jersey cases, Cotton
v. New Providence, 47 N. J. Law, 401, and Mutual L-ife Co.
v. Elizabeth, 42 N. J. Law, 235.
It were useless to refer to the long list of cases in which
recitals, like these, have been held sufficient to sustain bonds
in the hands of bona fide holders. It is urged that these commissioners were not elected by the people; that they were not
the general officers of the township, but were special officers
appointed by the Circuit Court -special agents, as it were,,
for the specific purpbse; that the statute does not in terms

•528

OCTOBER rERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

give them authority to determine whether the preiminar
conditions have been complied with; and that this case is
therefore, to be distinguished in these respects from those cases
where similar recitals have been held conclusive. ]But though
not the ordinary officers of the township, they were the ones
to whom by legislative direction was given full authority in
the matter of .issuing bonds. The organization of townships,
the number, character and duties of their various officers, are
matters of legislative control;' and it is not doubtful that officers appointed represent the municipality as fully as officers
elected. When the legislature has declared how an officer is
to be selected, and the officer is selected in accordance with
that declaration, his acts, within the scope of the powers given
him by the legislature, bind the municipality. But these special
commissioners were not the only officers of the township wbos;
acts gave currency to these bonds. If inquiry had been directed
to the county and tow-Pship records, the affidavit of the township assessor to the consent required would have been found;
and on the face of the bonds it appears that the county clerk
of the county has added his official certificate to their validity;
so that the acts of general as well as of special officers and
agents of the township are the foundation upon which rests
the validity of these bonds.
While it is true that the act does not in terms say that these
commissioners are to decide that all preliminary conditions
have been complied with, yet such express direction and authority is seldom found in acts providing for the issuing of
bonds. It is enough that full control in the matter is given to
the officers named. In the case of Oregon v. Jennings,"119
U. S. '4, 92, the rule is thus stated by Mr. Justice Blatchford:
"Within the numerous decisions by this court on the subject,
the supervisor and the town clerk, they being named in the
statute as the officers to sign the bonds, and the 'corporate
authorities' to act fgr the town in issuing them to the company, were the persons entrusted with the duty of deciding,
before issuing thp bonds, whether the conditions determined
at the election existed. If they have certified to that effect in
the bonds, the town is estopped from asserting, as against a

