SUPREME COURT.

GEORGE PETER, EXECUTOR OF DAVID PETER DECEASED, THE BANK
OF COLUMBIA AND THlE BANK
LANTS V. JAMES

B.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

BEVERLY AND WIFE,

APPEL-

AND WILLIAM RAMSAY

AND WI.FE, AND OTHERS; HEIRS OF DAVID PETER DECEASED.

David Peter, of the District of Columbia, by his will, declared it to be his intention that
all the proceeds of all his estate should be vested in his wife, fbr her support and for
the maintenance and education of his children: that no appraisement or valuation
should be had of any part of the property attached to his dwellinghouse.: that his
children should receive good educations. He provided for the payment of his debts
by the following clause in his will: "I wish all my debts to be as speedily paid as
possible, for which purpose I desire that the tract of land on which Dulin lives, together with all personal property thereon, may be sold and applied to that purpose;,
and in aid of that, as soon as sales can be effected, so much of my city property as
may be necessary to effect that object." He appointed his wife, Johns, and George
Peter his executors. The whole of the 'personal property attached to the dwellinghouse, went into the hands of Mrs Peter; and she maintained her family and educated
her children out of the proceeds of the estate. At the time of the decease of David
Peter, he was largely indebted to the banks in the District of Columbia; and the
executors, to obtain a continuance of the loans, and considering it advantageous to
the estate to do so, gave their individual notes for the debts, and received the notes
of their testator. This was done, under the understanding that the arrangement
was to continue as long as the banks should be willing to indulge the estate; or
until the executors could make sales of the estate for the payment of the debts.
In the settlement of the accounts of the executors, in the orphan's court, the notes
of the testator, received from the banks, were charged by the executors. The Dulin
farm was sold, but no title made to the purchaser, he having paid a part of the
purchase money, and given his notes indorsed for the balance. His notes were not
paid, and an ejectment was brought for the recovery of the estate, which has not
been decided. George Peter survived the other executors; and he was called
upon by the banks to sell the real estate of David Peter directed to be sold: to pay
the debts. The children of David Peter obtained a perpetual injunction in the circuit court to prevent tile sale of tile city property of their father, for the payment of
the debts; alleging that no debts were due, as the notes of'tbe executors had been
received by tile banks for the debts'of the testator, and they had charged them in
their accounts with the estate : and also alleging negligence in not collecting the
balance due for the sale of "the Dulin farm ;' and that the executors were liable.
as for a devastavit for the money which went into the hands of their mother, for the
support of the family, and the education of the children: and it was denied that
the power to sell the estate of- tile testator survived to the surviving executor,
George Peter. The court held: that the direction of the will of David Peter to sell a
portion of his real estate for payment of his debts, created a power coupled with an
interest that survives. That the surviving executor is, by necessary implication,
the person authorized to execute that power and fulfil that trust. That the debt
due the banks has not been extinguished, by the notes substituted by the executors,

JANUARY TERM 1836.

5338

[Peter v. Beverly.]

as renewals in the bank, or the estate of the testator in any way discharged'from
the payment of the debt.' That the executors are not chargeable with negligence
or misapplication of the personal estate' that ought to render them personally
responsible for these debts: and that satisfaction of these debts should be had out
of the lands appropriated by the testator for that purpose. The perpetual injunction granted by the circuit court was ordered to be dissolved.
If executors have paid a debt to banks, or the banks. have accepted their note
in payment, in place 'of the notes of the testator, so that the executors became.
the debtors, and personally responsible to the banks; the only effect of this is,
that the executors became the creditors of the estate instead of the banks, and
may resort to the trust fund to satisfy the debt.
The testator had a right, unquestionably, so far as respected his children, to charge
the.payment of his debts upon any part of his estate, real or personal, as he might
think proper and most advantageous to his family. And if the creditors were willing to look to the fund so appropriated to that object, no one would have a right to
counteract or control his will in that respect. And lie having thought proper to
constitute his widow the trustee of the proceeds of all his estate, for the maintenance and' education of his children, thereby vesting in her an unlimited discretion in this respect, so far as the proceeds of his estate would go; the surviving
executor is not accountable for any thing applied by her for that purpose, not even
if she wuld lie chargeable with a devastavit.
It is a well settled rule, that one executor is not responsible for the devastavit of his
co-exec.utor, any farther than he is shown to have been knowing and assenting at
the time to such devastavit or misapplication of the assets: and merely permitting
his co-executor to possess the assets, without going farther and concurring in the
application of them, does not render him answerable for the receipts of his co-executor. Each executor is liable.only for his own acts, and what he receives and
applies i unless lie joins in the direction and misapplication of the assets.
It is a well settled rule in clianeery, in the construction of wills as well other instruments, that when land is directed to be s6ld and turned into money, or money is
directed to be employed in the purchase of larids; courts of equity in dealing with
the subject will consider it that species of property into which- it is directed to be
converted.
The general principle of the common"law, as laid down by lord Coke and sanctioned
by many judicial decisions, is, that when the power given to several persons, is a
mere naked power to sell, not coupled with an ihterest, it must be executed by all,.
and does not survive. 'But where' tle power is coupled with an interest, it may
be executed by the survivor. It is not a power coupled with an interest in executors,
because they may derive a personal benefit from the devise. For a trust will survive, though no way beneficial to the trustee. It i the possession of the legal estate, 6r a right in the subject over which the power is to be exercised, that makes
the interest in question. And when an executoi , guardian, or other trustee, is
invested with the rents and profits of land, for the sale or use of another; it is still
an authority coupled with an interest, and survives.
The courts of America have generally applied to the construction of such powers,
the great and leading principle which applies the construction of other parts of the
will, to ascertain and carry into execution the intention of the testator. When
the power is given to executors, to be executed in their official capacity of executors, and there are no words in the will warranting the conclusion that the testator intended, for safety or some other object, a joirt exec'ution of the power; as the

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]
office survives, the power ought also to be construed as surviving.

And courts of

equity will lend their aid to uhold the power, for the purpose of carrying into
execution the intention of the testator, and preventing the consequences that might
result from an extinction of the power: and where there is a trust, charged upon
the executors in the direction given to them in the disposition of the proceeds, it
is the settled doctrine of courts of chancery, that the trust does not become extinct
by, the death of one of the trustees. It wyill be continued in the survivors, and not
be permitted, in any event, to fitl for the want of a trustee.
It is a settled doctrine, that the acceptance of a negotiable note for an antecedent
debt, will not extinguish the debt; unless itis expressly agreed that it is received
as payment.
The auditor to whom the accounts of the executors were referred, made an estimate of the expenses of the fulily of Mrs Peter for twelve years, without having
called for vouchers for all the items of the expenditures. The court held, the allowance of 6000 dollars for the expe.nscs of the family fbr twelve years, must certainly be
.a very moderate charge. It was a proper subject of inquiry for the auditor, and there
is no ground upon which this court can say the allowance is exceptionable. From
the nature of the expenditure for the daily expenses of the family, it could hardly
be expected that a regular account would be. kept; and especially, under the large
discretion given by the testator in his will in relation-i D the maintenance of his
family.
The amounts paid by the executors for the curtails and discounts on the notes running in the banks, were properly allowed to their credit. These were debts due
from the estate, and whatever payments, were made were for and on account of the
estate.

APPEAL from the circuit coturt of the United States for the District
of Columbia, in the connty of Washington.The appellees filed their bill in the court below, to enjoin a sale of
certain real estate, being lots in Washington, which had belonged to
David Peter deceased ; which sale was about to be made by George
Peter, his surviving executor, for the payment of debts due from his
estate to the other appellants.
The following is a copy of his will
In the name of God, Amen. I, David Peter, of Georgetown and
District of Columbia, do hereby make and establish this my last will
and testament, revoking all heretofore made by me.,
1. It is my intention that the proceeds of all my estate shall be
vested in my dear wife Sarah Peter,-for the maintenance and education of my.children.
2. I wish all my debts.to be as speedily paid as possible, for which
purpose I desire that the tract of land on which Dulin lives, together
with all personal property thereon, inay be sold and -applied to that
purpose : and in aid of that, as soon assales can be effected, so much
that object.I
of my city Property as may Ie necessary to effect

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

3. 1 desire Lhat the corner lot on Bridge and Congress streets shall
be given to my son William, and the corner lot oi Water and High
streets to my son Hamilton, and the storehouse and lot adjoining
the last named corner, devised to my son Hamilton, to my youngest
son James.
4. I desire that no appraisement or valuation shall be had of any
part of the property attached to my dwellinghouse.
5. I desire that my sons shall receive as good educations as the
country will afford, and my daughters the best the place can furnish;
and I desire that in the general distribution of the residue of my
estate on the division between my sons and daughters, my sons may
receive in the proportion of five as to three.
I constitute and appoint mydear wife Sarah Peter, captain George
Peter, Leonard-H. Johns, my executrix anid executors of this-my last
will and testament.
In witness. whereof, I have hereunto set ny hand and seal th'is
30th day of November 1812.
DAVID PETER, [L. S.].

The will was executed in the presence of three witnesses.
They charged in their bill that George Peter was about to sell
certain real estate of the testator, whose heirs and devisees they are,
for the payment of debts alleged to be de to the Bank of Columbia
and to the Bank of the United States; the said debts having been
assigned .to him : that a very large real and personal estate came to
the hands of the executors of said David Peter; and that if they had
used due and reasonable diligence in respect to the trust confided in
them by the said will, and had properly applied the assets arising'from
the sales of the real and personal estate of said. David, in a lawful
course of administration, all the debts of the.said David would have
been fully paid, without any further application to the real estate to
raise money for that purpose.
They charged them with having received moneys which they
have not accounted for; that they sold the land in Maryland, mentioned in the will, and received about one-half the purchase money,
and that the whole ought to have been received, if the executors had
used due diligence. , They state that the executors have settled
accounts in the orphan's court which they had exhibited, whereby
it appeared that they have overpaid tie personal estate more than
12,000 dollars; and they contended, that. if "by the neglect of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

executors they have not received and applied the whole of the purchase money of the land sold, to indemnify and reimburse them for
the advances made towards the payment of the debts, they, the complainants ought not to be affected by such negligence." They deny
"that there is any debt due to the banks, or any other debt whatsoever, -for Lhe'payment of which it is necessary, proper, or lawful for
the said George :Peter to make sale of the said city lots." They
prayed for injunction and general relief.
The answer of George Peter stated that he was the brother of the
leslator,and that of the other executors appointed by his will, one
was his widow, nd the other, Leonard H. Johns, her brother ; that
at the death of the testator in 1812, he resided -in Georgetown, and
in 1816 removed to the country, in Maryland, where he has ever
since resided; that although he consented to qualify as executor,
he did not deem it necessary that he should interfere.in the managemerit or settlement of the estate with the widow and her brother; and
that excent in attending to. a farm and the stock thereon, and a few
inconsiderable tenements in Montgomery county, Maryland, w hich7
were neat his own property, he did not so interfere: that believing
Mr Johns to be fully competent, and that he .would attend to the
business in the way best calculated to promote the interest of 'his
sister and her children, he left it to them to settle the estate, and
collect and dispose of the proceeds thereof, and provide for the support and education of the family as they'might think best.
That all this was well'known to the complainant Beverly; who
married the oldest daughter of the testator in 1819, and who and his
wife-lived with her mother, till within a year or two of her death; and
he exhibited a letter of said Beverly to prove this'
He stated. that he had nothing to do with the settlement of'
accounts in the' orphan's court; "further than that it was explained
to him to be necessary in order to comply.with the rules of the banks,
and thus to continue the debts, and save the pioperty from sacrifice
by a sale, to put in by way of renewal the notes of the executors for
those of the testotor, and'hat the accounts should be settled in the
orphan's court, so as to show those debts in the banks, thus paid %y
the executors; they having substituted their own notes; aid that this
a rangementshould continue as long as the banks would be willing
to indulge the estate, or until the executors should be able-to make.
sales for the paymeht of said debts: and he avers that thi§ arrangement was explained and understood, and assented to by the said

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v., Beverly.]

executors and the said banks, and he presumes was explained to

the orphan's court. '
That this arrangement was well understood by Beverly, the
widow and all the children, who were old enough to understand any
thing of their affairs: was often talked of by the complainants, Beverly and Ramsay, who always spoke of the estate as liable to the
banks ; and he exhibits numerous letters from Beverly, showing his
knowledge of and acquiescence in it ; and shows that said Beverly
was, for a considerable time, acting, as agent for the estate', under
the authority of the executors, and paying discounts on these substituted notes to the banks out of the rents of the estate, and some-times from partial sales of lots, and at other times attempting to
make sales for the purpose of paying interest to the said banks. He
admits the sale of the land, called Dulin's in the will, to George
Magruder; that he paid part of the money, was sued and became
insolvent ; and that an ejectment was brought to recover the land,
that it might be re-sold; that the ejectment was removed .to the
court of appeals of Maryland, where he believes it is still pending;
that if there was any neglect or delay in recovering this land, it was
the neglect of the complainant Beverly, who undertook to attend to it,
being then agent for the estate, who also employed counsel to file a
bill in chancery.in Maryland, for a re-sale of the land.
The defendant, under these circumstances, considering this business in the hands and under the care of complainant, did not suppose it necessary for him to interfere in it. He admits that he received some small sums of money from the farm in Maryland, which
he always sent to Mrs Peter or Mr Johns; and which, with the
other money they received, he believes were faithfully applied in
paying the debts, and supporting and educating the children. He
knows that great expenses were incurred in this way; that the
family continued to be supported in the way they had been accustomed to live; and that the income of the estate, which had greatly
diminished, must have been insufficient for these purposes; that
rents bad greatly fallen, and most of the city property was unproductive, and the taxes were consi'derable. Under these circumstances, the executors exercised their discretion, honestly and fairly,
in withholding the city property from forced sales at very low prizes;
and became responsible t6 the banks, who consented to the arrangement made to save the estate from sacrifice. He avers -that considerable advances were made by the executors, particularly by himVOL. X.-3 S

538

SUPREME COURT.

[Peter v. Beverly.]
self and Johns, for the payment of debts, and the necessary support
and education of the family.
He exhibits statements with his answer, showing what, upon the
lowest estimates, must. have been the annual expenses for maintaining the family and educating the children; and what was the
annual income of the estate, showing its great inadequacy to meet
those objects.
He contends, that under the arrangement with the banks, with
the perfect understanding of the complainant, the estate remained
liable to the banks: but that if this were not so, yet if the executors
had made themselves liable, they would have an undoubted right to
resort to the estate for their indemnity or re-imbursement ; and might
use and apply this right for the benefit of the banks, to whom the
said debts are still due.
The answer of the banks refers tothe answer of the surviving
executor, for the facts stated as to the arrangement between the
executors and the bank ; which they aver was entered into to save
the estate of testator from sacrifice, and to continue the accommodation ; and that the executors and the bank, and the agents of the
executors, one of whom was the complainant Beverly, always so
understood it, and looked to the trust estate as still liable to the
banks.. They exhibit statements showing the situation of these
debts at the death of the testator ; and the various renewals by the
executors afterwards, with the payments made by them and their
agents, and the balance now due.
An amended bill was filed, calling for an account of another sum
of money alleged to have been received by the executors, or some of
them; and charging, more particularly, negligence in the executors,
in not suing the indorsers on the notes of George Magruder, the
purchaser of Dulin's farm, in time, and the consequent loss of the
balance of the purchase money, by such neglect.
To.this amended bill the surviving executor, answered, stating his
knowledge and belief as to the further sum charged to have been
received and unaccounted for by the executors : and he denies, as
before, the negligence imputed to the executors; and avers, if there
was any negligence, it was that of Beverly the complainant ; who,
being interested in the estate and being a lawyer, undertook to
attend to the recovery of the balance of the purchase money ; that
the indorsers were in very doubtful circumstances ; that the laud
was looked upon by all interested as a sufficient security for the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

balance of the purchase money, and that the counsel employed in
recovering the balance of the purchase money advised a resort to a
re-sale of the land, as the best remedy to recover said balance ; that
for this purpose an ejectment was brought, and a bill in chancery
filed in Maryland, under the direction and superintendence of said
Beverly; and that if any delay or negligence occurred in the prosecution of these suits, it was caused by said Beverly.
On the coming in of this answer, the cause was referred to the
auditor, to make a report and account, and take depositions, &c.
The following report was made by the auditor:
." This cause having been referred 'to the auditor, with directions
to take and report an account of all sums received by the.executors
from the real and personal estate of David Peter" deceased, and of
the sums paid by them, &c., and to take depositions and report all
evidence 'and testimony by him taken, the auditor, after having notified the parties, proceeded to examine the accounts and vouchers of
the executors, and the several statements made by the counsel of the
complainants and defendants; and now begs leave of this honourable
court to report :
"That he has examined the several statements made by the executors with the orphan's court, and has extracted therefrom the
several sums received and paid by them. In making the statement
now submitted, the auditor has omitted the charges made'by the
executors, and for which they obtained credit in their settlement
with that court for payments stated to have been by them made to
the Bank 61f Columbia, and the Union Bank of Georgetown, because
it does not appear that these debts were, at that time, paid by them.
"When David Peter died, he was largely indebted to these banks
upon indorsed notes, discounted in them. A proposition was made
by the executors and acceded to by the banks to prevent these notes
from lying under protest, to substitute notes to be drawn by Mrs Sarah Peter, executrix, and indorsed by Leonard H. Johns and George
Peter, executors. These notes of David-Peter were retired by this
substitution, and passed as credits to the executors in the orphan's
court as paid, when in truth and in fact they were not paid. Whether the bank by this arrangement released the estate of David Peter
or not, the auditor does not undertake to determine. In the account
with the orphan's court, the executors are charged with the amount
of the inventory of the personal estate, both in the District of Columbia and in Maryland: in the present stdtement these charges are

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

omitted. As far as any proceeds of the personal estate came into
their hands, they are charged in this audit; but they are not charged
with what the widow and heirs retained in their own hands, and for
their own use; the object being to ascertain whether the executors
are indebted to the estate, or the estate to them. It will be seen,.
that by, an account stated by the counsel for the heirs, and annexed
to the auditor's statement, that he has charged the executors with
20,250 dollars, being the amount of sale of land to George Magruder.
It appears from the papers, that the first payment for this land,
amounting to 6895 -dollars 96 cents, and interest thereafter, in all
8000 dollars, is all that has ever been paid or received by the executors on that account ; the balance.has not been paid, under the plea
by the representative of Magruder, that the will. ofDavid Peter did
not sufficiently authorize the executors to sell and make
a good title
to the land. Under these circumstances, this charge.for the balance
of the pnrchase money is rejected by the auditor.
"The counsel for the bank and executors has also made, a statement, which is also annexed. The auditor rejects both statements,
and presents one of his own. It appears that when David Peter
died, he possessed. a large estate, with a suitable establishment, in
Georgetown. He'left a widow, three sons and two daughters, mi.nors. His estate, although large, was not proportionably productive.
It consisted of land in Montgomery county, Maryland, and lots and
houses in Georgetown and the city of Washington: most of the lots
were unimproved. The land in Maryland was tenanted out, except
one farm, which, being stocked, was reserved 'for the management
and support of the family, and so remains to this day... The income
arising from the esate annually, after paying taxes, was insufficient
to defray the expenses of the establishment in Georgetown in the
manner they had been accustomed to live, and to educate-the three
sons and two.daughters. The auditor has, therefore, estimated the
family expenses at 1500 dollars per annum, or 500 dollars over and
above the produce of the stocked farm, and the small amount of
rents received in Montgomery. In addition to these expenses, the
estate 'was bound by the will of David Peter's father, to contribute to,
his mother's support during her life, five hundred dollars in money,
with a proportion of wood and provisions,.1er annum. These heavy
charges upon the estate, and the accumulation of interest and discounts on debts, has caused the estate to fall largely indebted to the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

executors, while the Bank of the United States, as assignee of the
Bank of Columbia, and other claimants, remain unpaid.
"The claims upon the estate by Richard West, Thomas P. Wilson
and the Union'Bank, were recoveied by judgments against George
Peter, as executor and indorser, and have been fully paid by him.
"By the statement.now presented, it appears that .the estate is
indebted to the executors 17,539 dollars- 61 cents, arising from the
above causes: the larger part, if not the whole, is in justice due to
George Peter : in addition to which he has an account for a considerable amount which is suspended in this audit, on account of some
ch.rges in blank,, for sundry payments to managers and overseers,'
blacksmith's bills, &c. &r.; which charges may be considered when
the claims generally shall .be presented for final settlement.
' The death of the executrix, the subsequent death of Leonard H.
Johns, who was the acting executor, and the surviving executor not
residing in the District, and knowing little about the manner in which
the estate has been managed, the want of papers and confused state
of the whole concern, renders it a laboriousand difficult task to do
exact justice to all parties; but with the materials within his reach,
the auditor has made the best report in his power, which he hopes
will be received. It cannot be very material to the -heirs, whether
they still owe .the bank or not; because if they do not owe the bank,
they will be by the' same amount more indebted to tl~e executors.
"December 10, 1833."
The.complainants excepted to the report of the auditor. The following is-a summary statement of the exceptions:
1 and 2. That the auditor has not .charged the said surviving
executor with the amount of the inventories of the personal estate of
the testator,, filed by the said executors in'the orphap';court of
Washington County, District of Columbia, -on the 12th of December
.in the year 1812, and'on the 12th of January 1813.
3. That the auditor has not recharged the surviving executors with
the sum of 4552 dollars, .bing the value of certain personal effects,
part of the assets of the testator's estate, applicable to the payment of
his debts, whiph was improperly delivered to Sarah Peter, -widow
and executrix ot the said David, as a.legacy, and for.which said
execuiors haveobtained improperly a. credit on the settlement of
their accounts with the said orphan's court.
'4.and 5. That the 'auditor has not eharged the said surviving
executor with the amounts. respectively, of two promissory notes of

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

George Magruder, and interest on one to the 1st of January 1815,
ani the other to the 1st of January 1816, which said notes were received by the said executors of said Magruder,.for the second and
third instalments of the purchase money of the tract of land called
Dulin's farm, devised to be sold, and sold by sai d executors, to aid in
the payment of testator's debts, which said sums of money were lost
by the gross neglect and fault of the said executors.
7. That the auditor has given credit to said executor in said account current, for the sum of 5809 dollars and 92 cents, being the
estimated amount of taxes on the real estate devised by said David
Peter to the complainants, (the appellees) and supposed to have
accrued prior to the year 1829, without any evidence that the said
executors had ever paid that or any other sum of money on account
of such taxes.
8. That the auditor has given credit to the executors for the sum
of 6000 dollars, being, as he says, the estimated amount of the expenses of Mrs Sarah Peter's family for twelve years, without evidence to show that that, or any other sum of money was expended
by the said executors for such purpose.
9, 10 and 11. That the auditor has given credit to the said
executor, for the sum of 8931 dollars and 12 cents, for discounts
and curtails paid in the Union Bankof Georgetown, and 1430 dollars and 75 cents, for discounts and curtails paid, in the Bank of
Columbia, since the 25th of September 1.815 ; after which time no
debt was due from the estate of David Peter to either of the said
banks, and after the said executors were in possession of assets of
the said estate, sufficient to pay all the debts of the said David.
12. That the auditor has rejected the statement and account
presented on the part of the complainants, the -appellees, and refused
to charge the said executors as they are therein charged.
In January 1835, the circuit court overruled the exceptions, and
on the 25th of May 1835, the following decree was made.
"This cause having been set for hearing upon the bill, answers,
exhibits and evidence, and having been argued by counsel, it is this
25th day of May 1835, upon further hearing of the parties and their
counsel, ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the auditor's report
heretofore excepted to by the complainants, be and the same.is
hereby- confirmed and the exceptions thereto overruled.
"And the court, further considering the said cause, do order, adjudge and decree, that the said injunction, granted as aforesaid, on

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.)

same is hereby made
the prayer of said complainants be, and the
perpetual, and that the defendants pay to the complainants their
costs of suit."
From this decree the defendants appealed to this court; and the
complainants appealed from so much of the decree as confirmed the
auditor's report.
The case was argued by Mr *Key, and Mr Sergeant, for the appellants, George Peter, executor, and others; and by Coxe and
Mr Marbury, for James B. Beverly, and others.
The counsel for the appellants submitted the following points to
the court.
1. Thai under the arrangement made between the banks and the
executors, the trust estate in their hands continued still liable to the
bank for the testator's debt, notwithstanding the substitution of the
executor's notes.
2. That if not,.still the trust estate was liable for the indemnity
and reimbursement of the executors, who had assumed the responsibility of these debts.
3. And if so, the proof shows that they had largely overpaid the
estate, even beyond the amount of the responsibility thus incurred:
the allowance made by the auditor, for the support and education
of the family, excepted to by the complainant, being correct, and
his disallowance of the charge on the executors for negligence, for
the unpaid balance of the purchase money, for Dulir's farm, also
excepted to, being also correct.
4. That under the will the power to sell survives to the remaining executor.
5. That the decree of the court below is repugnant, erroneous,
and contrary to equity, inasmuch as confirming the auditor's report,
and thereby admitting the equity of the defendants, to the extent
before stated ; it nevertheless grants a perpetual injunction against
the appropriate legal mode of effectuating that equity, without. affording them any other relief.
Mr Key, for George Peter and others.
The facts of the case are these :
The testator, D. Peter, died in 1812, leaving a widow and five
children, all young ; the eldest about twelve years old. They conVOL W-3 s"

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v,. Beverly.]

tinued to live in the mansionhouse, in Georgetown, till i825, when
the widow died. The eiecutors were the widow, her brother Leondrd Johns, and George Peter, the testator'si-brother, the surviving
executor.
The family were supported and educated ; and the income of the
estate was -insufficient for that purpose, as is averred in the answers
and proved. The principal debts were due to the banks: some
discounts were paid, but a large amount of interest is still due on the
debts.
The executors made an- arrangement with the banks, by which
their own notes were substituted for the testator's, and were to be so
continued as long as the bank would indulge, or until the executors
could make sales. This atrrangement was understood by Beverly
and Ramsay and all the family, as is proved by the answers, by
Beverly's letters and. by Kurtz.
In 1827 the banks file a bill against the heirs, to sell, the real
estate to pay these debts. Beverly and the other heirs answerj that
the debts are paid by the executors' notes, and plead limitations.
In themeantime, the surviving executor, having judgments against
him by one of the banks, levied or. about to be on his own property,
is, advised, that he has a right to sell the city lots, as 'surviving executor, and advertises a sale in 1828. The bill is then filed by Beverly
and the heirs, and'injunction obtained, which the court below has
decreed shall be perpetual.
In .1814 the'executorssold Dulin's farm to Magruder, and receive'd
about -one third of the purchase money.
The will shows that the testator intended the property specifically
devised for that purpose, should be. applied to pay his debts : that the
other property, the personal, estate, should be.kept for his fampily.;
that in his house not to be inventoried;.and that the children should
be maintained and educated. The city lots to be Sold, in aid of
Dulin's farm, to pay his.debtsi as soon as sales could be effected.
These intentions the executors have fulfilled : and it is not creditors who had a right to do so, that are complaining of this,'and that
their debts have not been paid out of the personalty; but the -heirs,
who have received all the benefit of the estate, as intended' by the
testator, who have had all the personal-estate, and who now seek to
throw the debts on the executors, and take from them, for'their
own. Use, the' trust property,.which they were to sell to pay the debts.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

Their bill charges misapplication and negligence. What is the
misapplication . Not that they have applied the estate to their own
.use, or to the use of any one but the heirs ; 'but that they have'not
"duly administered" the estate, by-applying the personal estate to:
pay the debts. Nor is the misapplication charged on the surviving
executor. It may have been that of the widow and her brother.
The same as to'the negligence: and the answer and Beverley's
own letter, and his bill, filed in 1821, and dismissed ; show that-the
defendant, George Peter, came into the trust merely to attend to a
farm or two in Maryland ; and that he left the whole management
and settlement of the estate, and the maintaining and educating the
children, to the widow and her brother, the other executors. If
they misapplied the assets to the children's use, instead of the creditors', it would be bad enough for the children to complain of this
against them. But to complain of this, or of their negligence against
the defendant, the surviving executor, who had nothingto do with
it; would be still more unreasonable. The effort is to make him
pay the testator's debts, because the other executors gave the property to the children ; and it is made by the children, who have had
all the benefit of the property. 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 23.
First point. Were the debts paid to the banks ?
Payment of one note by another, is never presumed an extinguishment ; it must be proved to have been so received.
All the answers and evidence, and Beverly's letters to 1827, and
his bill filed against the executors in 1821 and dismissed in 1824,
show it was not so received ; that the trust property still continued
liable for the debts.
The notes of the testator were given up, not to be cancelled, but
in confidence, to be preserved ; to be filed, with the executor's account, in the orphan's court; that account was not finall y settled: the
notes are there. I1 Johns. Rep. 513 ; 14 Johns. Rep. 404, 414 ; 7
Har. & Johns. 92; 2 Gill & Johns. 493.
Second point. But if it was a payment, still the trust estate would
be liable for the indemnity and reimbursenienf of the executors. The
executors would be substituted for the creditors, and could sell. 7
Har. & Johns. 134; 4 Gill & Johns. 303; 2 Pick. 517; 1 Conn.
Rep. 51.
Third point. And so thd proof shows that they had largely overpaid the estate, to an' amount far beyond the amount of the bank
debts.
VOL. x.-3 T

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

The accounts taken by the auditor all show this; and the exceptions were properly overruled by the court below. As to the first,
second and third exceptions, the auditor was right in not charging
the executors with the inventories, and in allowing them what they
gave the widow. He charges them with 'what they sold ; all the
rest the family had.
As to the fourth and fifth, the charge of negligence in not recovering the balance of the purchase money from Magruder: the
executors are proved to have acted by advice of counsel ; to have
brought an ejeetment to recover the land and re-sell it. If there was
any delay in that point, the fault was Beverly's, who undertook to
superintend it. 2 Johns. Ca. 376; 4 Gill & Johns. 323; 1 Har. &
Gill 88; 4 Gill and Johns. 453; 4 Rawle 148.
As to the sixth, the tax lists show the amount paid ; there was
no other way of being paid but out of the estate by executorsthis is proved also by Beverly's letters.
As to the other exceptions, the auditor was right in allowing for
the discounts paid on their notes, and in allowing 600 dollars a year
for twelve year's maintenance of the family ; the proof, and Beverly's
letters show this. He married in 1819, and lived with his wife,
with the widow, her mother, till shortly before her death. Wire v.
Smith and Buchanan, 4 Gill & Johns. 303; Billington's Appeal, 3
Rawle 48.
As to the fourth point, the power of the surviving executor to sell:
he cited, Lock v. Locket, 1 And. 145; 3 Dyer 371 ; Moore's Case,. 2
Leon.; Pow. on Dev. 239; Sug. on Powers 157, and note; 6
Rand. 600;. 2 DalI. 223; 3 Binn. 69; 1 Yeates 422; 3 Yeates 163;
4 Hen. & Munf. 444; 5 Mtnf. 150; 4 H. & M'H. 455: and
contended that this will created a trust, not a naked power, which
survived, and to-the executors virtute officii; cited, Sug. on Powers
11, and note.
Fifth point. The court confirnicd the auditor's report, admitting
thereby that the estate was overpaid by the executors, and yet prohibit the sale: this is repugnant and erroneous. If the court thought
the surviving executor had no power to sell, why enjoin him ? Why
not, as the parties were all before the court, appoint a trustee'and
decree a sale ? This they could have done with a cross-bill. But
if a cross-bill had been necessary, the court should have directed it.
Coop. Eq. 7, pl. 34, 84 ; 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 250, 251 ; Mit. 6I.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

The counsel for Beverly, and the other appellees, insisted
1. That at the date of the advertisement of the sale of the lots,
there was no debt due the banks, or either of them, or any other
debt whatsoever, for the payment of which it was either necessary,,
proper or.lawful for George Peter to sell the city lots.
2. That the balance of debt appearing, by the auditor's report, to
be due from the heirs of David Peter to the executors, is made up of
charges which, if they-have any valid existence, have arisen since
the death of David Peter, ai'd are not embraced within the provisions'
contained in his-will for the payment of his debts; and, consequently,
that tThe real estate is not liable to be sold for the payment of the
same.
3. That the surviving executor, George Peter, has no legal right
or authority, as executor, to sell the land in the said will devised to
be sold for the payment of the testator's debts.
4. That the city lots, advertised to be sold as aforesaid, are not by
the will devised to be sold, until the proceeds of the sale of the farm
on Which Dulin lived, and the personal estate, has been applied, and
a deficiency appear.
5. And ift order that the Whole controversy between the parties
may be closed without further appeal to this court; the appellees
further insisted, that the circuit court erred in overruling the several
exceptions aforesaid to. the a'uditor's report, and in ratifying and
affirming the said report.
Mr Marbury, for the appellees
The executors claim a right under the Will of David Peter to sell
the land devised for the payment of his debts ; they have been enjoined from so doing until it shall be ascertained that there are debts
existing, for the payment of which it would be right to make such
sale : the debts alleged to be unpaid are those which were owing by
the testator at the time of his death to the Bank of Columbia, and
the Union Bank of Gec.rgetown. On the part of the appellees, it is insisted, that these debts have been paid since the death' of David Peter;
not in fact with money,, but by the substitution of the private .notes
of the executors, and the simultaneous surrender by the banks to
the executors of the original notes of their testator, with the design
that the executors might exhibit those. notes as paid, and obtain a
credit for the amount in the settlement of their account with the
orphan's court. As a sufficient consideration for their assumption to

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

pay these debts, the executors had in their control an estate amply
sufficient for payment of all the debts of the testator, whenever they
should please to apply it ; their notes given in lieu of the testator's
have been renewed by the banks from time to time for the term of
fifteen years. The object of their arrangement had been accomplished-;
their'account has been settled in the orphan's court ; they have obtained a credit for the amount of David Peter's debts to the banks; his
notes are there filed as vouchers by which'the executors are discharged from liability to account for an equal amount of the assets
in their hands. Having thus dealt with the executors, the banks'
cannot now claim to be creditors of the estate-of David Peter.
If one deal with another's agent, and give him a receipt for a sum of
money which the agent had a right to pay-; and on the faith of that
receipt the agent obtains a credit in settlement with his principal,
the debt is thereby discharged. 15 Johns. Rep. 276.
It is conceded that the acceptance of a promissory note will not
pay a debt, unless it be so agreed; but the acceptance of such a
note, and the siimultaneous surrender of that in lieu of which it is
given, are necessarily conclusive of the fact that'it was given and received in payment. 16 Johns. Reo. 273:12 Johns. Rep. 409; 1
Dane's Ab. 126.
It is said, if the debts have been paid by the executors, they stand
in the place of the creditors, and are entitled to sell for their own
indemnity. It cannot be denied that a trustee who advances his
bwn money, before sale', to pay the debt of his principal, may make
the trust fund available to himself for his indemnity. In this case,
however, the executors had the control of an ample personal estate,
including the proceeds of the land 'sold by them under the will, to
pay the debts. If it has become a matter of account between executors and heirs, this personal estate must be first accounted for.
What has become of it? Why have the executors not applied it to
discharge the debts? They -ought not to be allowed to appropriate
other parts of the estate before this has been accounted for. The
land devised to be sold for the payment of debts is in equityregarded
as personal estate. I Har. & Gill 96.
A full and satisfactory account has not been taken ; the auditor
has refused to charge the executors with the amount of the inventory
of the testator's estate, made out by themselves, and returned to the
orphan's court and this, under the pretext that the property therein
inventoried and appraised, never came to the possession of the exe-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

cutors. This is at variance with the evidence in the cause, and the act
of the executor- ; who, in their settlements in the orphan's cotirt,
have charged themselves viih Htie s u e properiy. The act of 1798,
ch. 101, requires executors and aduiniisratours to relurnl itiventories
only of propeuty whicihdoes come to their possession ; and such return is prima facie evidence against them. .' The inventory is the
basis bf the admi nistration account the act requires, in terms, .4iat
the executors shall be charged with the amount of it ;they. mu'st discharge themselves.
The auditor has also refused to charge the executo'rs with the
notes taken by them of the purchaser of Dulin's farm, sold underthe authority in the will ; alhhough it is made manifest that the
money secured by those notes, has. been lost by their gross negligence. Near five'years were sufllired to elapse, after the notes had
fallen due, before any step was taken to enforce the payment of
.the money ; a suit was then brought against the drawer, but no suit
was ever instituted against the sureties ; the remedy against them
was voluntarily abandoned by the "executors. .They re chargable
with. the amount of the notes and interest to the period of their maturity ; from that day the amount mnust be taken to be assets in
hand for the payment of debts. 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 552'; 4 Johns.
Ch. Rep. 284; 1 Har. & Gill 88 ; 2 Brown's Ch. Rep. 156; 5 Ves.
839 ; I IWend. Rep. 361.
It has been said, die executors are not chargeable with the personal estate, because the testator has chaiged his ieal estate with
the payment of his debts, and thereby exewpted the pc'rzonal estate,
and given it to his f(tnily.. The. personal estate is tlif primary fund
for the payment of debts, and must be first applied In order to exempt it, the testator must express his intention .o that eff--.ct: it . .
not sufficient merely to charge the ical ectate ; he must show expressly his intention to be, that the personal estate htiAl obt be applied in discharge of his debts. I Brown's Ch.'Rep. 144; 1 Chi. Ca.
296.
There is nothing in the will of the testator to support the construction of the opposite counsel. The real estate is charged only
to aid in the speedy payment of the debts, but the personal.estate is
not exempted, either direetly or indirectly.
The auditor has not only refused to debit Iie executors with the
-precedi.ng charges, but lie has allowed then credits which can be
suslailted nieir!tlr by like evid ce or law: in his account, th(n exe-

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

cutors are credited by the sum of 5809 dollars; being, as he says,
the estimated amount of taxes on the real estate of David Peter, from
his death in 1812 to 1829. That such taxes became due, and have
been paid, is proved ; but by whiom, and out of what fund, paid, is
not proved. It was not the duty of the executors, or even proper for
them to pay such charges, and more particularly' while debts were
outstanding and unpaid : it is not, therefore, to be presumed, that
this sum was paid from the personal estate and by the executors.
They have also been credited by the sum of 6000 dollars, alleged
to have been expended by them in the maintenance of Mrs Sarah
Peter's family ; and hins has been done without any evidence that
the executors ever expended one cent for any such purpose.
The income of their estate is the proper fund for the education
and maimtenance of heirs, during their minority. The law indicates
this ; and guardians are not permnitted to exceed it without necessity,
and then, only with the sanction of the judge of the orphan's court.
Acts of Assembly, 1785, ch. 80, sec. 9-1798, ch. 101, sub. ch. 12,
sac. 10; 2 Har. & Gill 126.
The testator, in his will, sets apart the indome of his estate for this
very purpose ; the executors had no right to exceed it : if they have
done so, they should show that necessity required it; that the
orphan's court sanctioned it ; and that they actually expended tle
money for the purpose. They show neither : this credit ought not
to be allowed. I Har. & Johns. 227 ; 8 Mass. Rep.
If the account be remodelled, and the principles contended for be
admitted, it is apparent that the executors in 1816 were in possession of abundant means, at pleasure, to pay all their testator's debts ;
it was their duty to apply the assets to that purpose, and save the
estate from the accumulation of interest. Whether they applied the
money to their own use, or only neglected to apply it properly, is of
no consequence ; they are chargeable with the interest. If they have
suffered the debts to stand unpaid, and have, themselves, subsequently- paid them, with itierest, they ought not to be allowed in
their account for the interest so paid ; it was created by their neglect, and they should bear the burthen thenselves: all discouints
and interest paid after the year 1816, and credited by the auditot',
oughit to be disallowed.
The surviving executor is equally chargeable with the others
he joined in the return of the inventoiies : that fact shows hitn in
possession of the propeLty included in them ; it was not oniy his

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

right,.but his duty, to retain that possession and apply it to the purposes of the estate. Dick. 356 ; 1 Russ. & Mylne 64.
He joined also in the sale of the land, and in the- receipt for the
cash paid, and notes given for the purchase money ; and although
the money may have been paid to another,-yet he is responsible.
Prec. in Ch. 173.
Coxe followed on the same side.
Mr Sergeant in reply
It is argued on the part of Beverly and others
1.. That there was no debt due to either of the banks, nor any other
debt due by the estate of George Peter, for which it was proper, lawful and necessary to make a sale of lite real estate.
The inquiry then is, was there a debt due to the Bank of Columbia, and to the Bank of the United States. This is the first branch
of the question.
It is not denied or disputed that at the time of the decease of
David Peter, debts were due to both those banks.. Have those debts
been paid ? For their payment provision was made by the will;
a trust accompanied with a power to sell particular portioIs of
the estate, was created by it. The proof of the payment of the
debts lies on those who now seek to obtain the estate of the testator,
aud to restrain the executor from selling the same for their payment.
Unlil payment, the debts remain a lien on fle trust; and nothing
cart affect the lien but a failure of the trust, or a failure of power to
execute it.
Have the complainants in the circuit court proved that these debts
have been paid ? They do not pretend that an actual payment has
been made. It is well known to them that the executors never had
the means of payment ; and this is ainnifest friom the accounts which
were exhibited to the anditor, and which are in the record.
But, without even an allegation of actual. paynient of the debts, an
attempt has beei made to show a constructive payment: and while
the surviving executor would, by the success of this effort, reniain
personally liable for the debts, and the whole of his private estate
will be absorbed ; the estAte of his testator, David Peter, will be enjoyed by his devisees.
The discharge of the estate of the testator from the debts due at
the time of his decease to the banks, is asseited, and claimed, because

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

the notes given by him were surrendered to the executors, and their.
private notes given to the banks in lieu of them.
"The acceptance of a negotiable note for an antecedent debt, will
not extinguish such debt, unless it is expressly agreed that it is
received as payment.' Spencer, Justice; in James v. Hackley, 16
Johns. Rep. 278. It was expressly agreed in this case, that the
surrender of the notes should not be so considered ; and the parties
interested always acted in the spirit of the arrangement. It -was
known to Mr Beverly, that the debts to the banks continued, and
had not been paid. In his correspondence he refers to the payment
of a part of the funds of the estate to the discharge of the discounts,
and to the peculiar liability of Mrs Peter for some part- of the. debt,
by notep, given by her. This is also proved by evidence in the case ;
and in a bill filed by Mr Beverly in 1821, the debts are stated to be
unpaid. In support of the position that giving up a note is not an
extinguishment of a debt: cited, Arnold v. Camp, 12 Johns.
Rep.
409 ; 16 Johns. 298 ; Glen v. Smith, 2 Gill & Johns. Rep. 493.
The legal, presumption is, that it is not an extinguishment of a
.pre-existinig debt; but there are cases where the court vill intend it
to have been in satisfaction of such a debt. Arnold v. Camp, 12
Johns. 409; Cheever v. Smith, 15 Johns. 276 ; James v. Hackley, 16
Johns. 273.
Has the principle any application to the case before the court?
The contrary is arserted, and the record furnishes abundant evidence
to.support the assertion. Every one interested in the estate knew
the real situation of the case. The whole of the resources were insufficient to support Mrs Peter, as she was authorizet to claim to be
supported by the will; and the executors had no neans to pay the
debts. The family of the testator were maintained, and Mr Beverly
resided in the family mansion, after his marriage with one of the
children. He was well acquainted With the affairs of the.estaie, and
acted in reference to them.
•The executors were always creditors of the estate. In 1814 the
estate owed the execulors 9148 dollars and 40 cents. li 1821 the
balance due them was 24,131 dollars and 10 cents. The report of
the.auditor fully establishes the fact, that the 6state was always indebted to them ina large anint. Upon his report, 11,539 dollars
and 61 cents were due tojiIent, exchsive of the bank debts. if these
estimnates are denied; it will still be admitted that, in any-form of'
stating the accounts, the.v were creditors.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverfy.)

It was perfectly consistent with-the trust in the executors, to make
the arrangements they did for the postponemel'It of the bank debts:
.and they did it in good faith. The' bank, to give time, required
notes from the executors individually: aud notes were accordingly
given. But the agreement was also made, that the banks were to
continue their claim on the trust. The equity is therefore against
the extinguishment asserted.
There are collateral proofs that this was the a'rangement. Tle
discounts paid are charged to the estate, and the cOst of a protest is
charged. Beverly always admitted the charge for discounts on the
notes, after the original notes had been given up. - The first objection ever brought forward, was presented on filing the exceptions to
the master's report. It is, ii fact, ti ordinary case.of putting vouchers in the hands of the trustee, under a special agreement. Cited,
2 GilI & Johns. 510.
2. But suppose the facts were that the estate of David Peter was
no longer indebted, to the banks.; that by the surrender of his notes,
and taking the private notes of, the executors, they were no longer
creditors of the estate: would the debt be thereby extinguished! It
would only be transferred; and would be, and remain until paid by
the estate, due to- the executors. In equity, they would be the creditors of the estate; and would be entitled to the benefits of the security in the will. .The surviving executor would still b6 a trustee;
and have all the rights over the estate to provide, by its sale, for the
satisfaction of the debts which were originally given by the will.
To the authorities cited, may be added Greiner's case, 2 Watts's
Reports 414.
The executor agrees that the original creditor shall still have the
security. This he has a right to do; and no one can interpose to
prevent his carrying this purpose into effect. There is a plain equity
in favour of this.
But there is a further equity in this case, supporting all that has
been urged for the consideration of the court. It answers also the
second point made by the appellees. That point is, that if any balance is due to George Peter, as stated in the auditor's report, it is
made up of charges arising since the date of the will', not embraced
in the provisions thereof for the payment of the same; and therefore that the real estate of the testator is not liable to be' sold for the
payment of that debt.
The facts stated in this proposition are not sustained. There
voL. x.-3u

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

never was in the hands of the executors, or under their control, the
means of paying the debts. After making the provision for Mrs
Peter, the whole, and more than the available means of the estate,
were consumed. The debts due the executors grew out of advances
made for the estate, for taxes, expeinses and interest.
Who are the parties before the court? The executor, and the
only remaining creditors on one side ; and the children of the testator,
his legatees, on the. other. It is the duty of the executor to execute
the will ; and, independently'of the creditors, he had no other law,to
regulate his action, and no other powers but those given by the will.
Creditors may defeat the purpose of the testator, and control the
action of the executors ; but in this case they submit to it, and ask
the executor to perform his trust.
What then is the will which the executors were to execute? What
are its provisions ?
1. As to a portion of the personal property, which was not to be
appraised or valued. This amounted to 4552 dollars; and was
part of the personal estate in the dwellinghouse at Georgetown;
and was given to Mrs Peter.
2. Certain specified portions of real estate, and personal est,."e
on
part of it, are set apart for the payment of debts.
3. All the rest of the estate is given for the maintenance Of the
family of the testator, and for the maintenance of the children.
Such a will may be wise, or it may be unwise, but it is a good
will and lawful ; and it is the duty of an executor to execute it if
he can. The power to do so depends on the creditors; and they
have agreed; they take the trust, and ask its performance. Can
the legatees object to this ? If they do, they object not to the proceedings of the eiecutor, but to the direction of the testator. The
testator marshalled the assets. The will has been executed in the
spirit, and according to the directions of the testator. The will made
the real estate personal estate.
If it shall be said that the estate has not been administered according to law ; it, is. answered, that they have not administered it
as the'law would have required of them if there had been no will:
but they have conformed to the will in the administration ; and this
the creditors, now before the riourt, have permitted them to do.
The family !ave every part of the estate but that Which is now
claimed by the creditor, and by the executor, to pay the debts ; and
now they want this because they have had tile rest. They would

J1 NUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

leave the creditors unpaid, and would deprive the executor of all
his property ; obliging the creditors of their parent to take his estate
for the satisfaction of debts, which, by the will of their parent, were
to be paid out of his estate.
Against the claim of the surviving executor, a claim founded on
his assumption of the debt of their father, the appellees, his legatees,
would now plead the statute of limitations !
The creditors now ask to have the fund provided by the testator,
applied to the payment of their debts. This is resisted 1y the children of the testator, The equity of the claim is too plain to admit
of a doubt.
It is altogether unnecessary here to'inquire what would be the
effect of the executors having misapplied the other funds of the estate.
They have not done so. The evidence ; the true purpose and intent of the will ; and the report of the auditor, clearly prove this.
But if they had done so, on whom ought the loss to fali
It ought
not to fall on the creditors, or upon their fund. Their forbearance
should not be visited by such a penalty. There is no construction
of thewill which will sustain such a suggestion. The purpose of
the will was to designate and set apart a portion of the estate for
the payment of the debts of the testator. The will gives the executors
a power to sell those portions of the estate to satisfy the debts.. It
creates a trust; Sugden 392, 393 ; and equity will not 'permit the
trust to fail for want of a trustee. In this case, it survives to the
present executor, the appellant. Not being a naked power, but one
created far a special and expressed purpose; being a trust; it will not
be permitted to fail. Cited Wilmot 23; Williams on Executors
626, 627.
The construction of the will which is asserted for the appellant is
strongly supported by the judgment of the court of appeals of Maryland. 4 Gill & John. Rep. 328, 329.
Upon the exceptions to the auditor's report, Mr Sergeant argued:
as to the first and second exceptions, the property in the inventories was not sold, nor eptverted to the use of the creditors. It remained with MrsPeter and her family, and remains still with them.
Are the amounts of the inventories of that property to be charged to
the executors, who never received any of the property; or to the
creditors, by whose forbearance the family of the testator was permitted to enjoy it? These observations also apply to part of the
matter in the.fourth and fifth exceptions.

SUPREME COURT..
[pater v. Beverly.]

It.
is denied that, on'the part of George Peter, the appellant, there
was ever a neglect of duty. It does not appear that at any time
until the filing of the amended bill in this case, it was ever alleged
or mentioned. It is now brought forward, after. one of the executors
is dead, and'his papers have been destroyed ; and after Mrs Peter's
death. It is now charged against the only surviving executor, and
who did not at alny time take any other part in the business of the
estate, but collecting rents ; and who never appropriated a dollar of
the estate to his own use.
In reference to the charge of neglect in not collecting the balance
of the debt from the Dulin farm; no imputation of this kind can be
sustained.: It mig!t well be-supposed that the pr6"'erty sold was a
security for that balance and the purchaser had -acquired no title.
The necessity of suing out the notes is not admitted, for the executors might have thought their recovery doubtful ; or have thought a
suit unnecessary. But as to this, there is f clear protection from
personal liability by the executors, as they put the claim into the
hands of counsel; and Mr Beverly was well acquainted with the
whole proceeding.
As to the seventh exception, the auditor, in giving the credit complained of in it, was perfectly right. Vouchers, sufficient, under the
circumstances of the case, and considering t-he nature'of the expenditures, were furnished to support the credit. Of the eighth exception
it may also be said, that the vouchers were such as ought to have
satisfied and did satisfy.the auditor. -It coul4 only be by an estimate
of the family expenses of Mrs Peter, that the auditor could arrive-at
any particular sum. For such expenses r'eceipts are not kept. -The
decision of the auditor on the amount is sufficient to sustain it.
The.exceptions which go to the rejection of the debts for bank curtailments, and the payment of the discounts on the notes, cannot
prevail ; either if -th debt was set down by the estate to -the banks,
Or to the executors. There were no means of miaking these payments,
in th.: hands of the executors, derived from the estate; and the funds
must therefore have been provided. out of their private means.
Mr Sergeant wen( into a particular statemeni of the accounts of
the executors, for tWe purpose of answering the twelfth exception:
and contended, that the auditor was right in rejecting the'statelient
and account presented by the appellees; and refusing to charge the
executors as charged by them.

JANUARY TERM 1836.

557

[Feter v. Beverly.]

He contended, that no fair account could be made, which would
not show a balance in favour of the executors to a very large amount.
To prevent this balance, there are but two ways of stating the account. One, to apply certain inapplicable rules to the conduct of
the executors, which, when thcy ought to apply, are very well: the
other, to invoke and apply the statute of limitations. One mode
makes the executor pay what the legatees have had, whai the family
has subsisted upon; the other deprives the creditors of what they
ought to have had.
It is said they had no right to apply the personal 'estate to the support of the family of Mrs Peter, and to the education of the children.
That this was not a lawful course of administration.
This position is true, to a great extent, where there is no will; but
even in such a case, the rule is not universal. Some allowance is
always to be made, and is always made. So it may be trie, when
the will does not contain a-provision to the contrary.
A mere charge of the real estate with debts, does not, it is said, discharge the personal estate; and the counsel for the appellees have cited
cases to show this. Be it so; for in the case before the court it is of no
moment. It is sufficient, if there be an intention of the testator declared in the will, that the personal estate shall_.be applied for 'the
benefit or for the use of his family. If this has been done, the family
cannot complain. 2 Conn. 681. We have in this case 'the plain
and evident purpose of the testator, declared in his will ; and no more
is required.
As to the attempt to set up the statute of limitations. This course
is of doubtful morality ; and in the record, there is sufficient to show
that Mr Beverly cannot set it up. He was himself the cause of the
delay, and many of the acts of the executors were direfted by him;
and he had in charge a portion of the estate, during a part of Ite t'me
since the decease of the testator. In 1,827, by a bill filed by him, he
acknowledges the existence of the debts, and he says nothing of the
statute.
But it is'unnecessary to dwell on these matters, as the statute of
limitations has no application to the case.
The statute does not run in case of a trust; this is such a case:
and if it was required for the protection of the claims of the appeljants, there has been a continual acknowledgement up to this day.
It has never been denied that the staiute does not run in case 'of a
trust. 2 Ves. & Beam. 278. But admitting this to be a trust in

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

England, it is denied to be so here. Has any authority been produced to sustain this denial ? and it would require the gravest authority to support it. But the direct contrary can be maintained by
authorities. These will be found in Sugden 111, 165, in a note.
But what is a trust? It is, quoad hoc, distinct from a mere power
to be exercised or not. In this case there was a fund set apart, and
subjected to a power for payment of debts. Is it not then a trust in
the executor, and a fund to which the creditor trusted ? The debt
fastens to the fund, and continues till the trust is executed.
As to the remark about the trustee connecting himself with the
cestui que trust; Sugden 224 ; it means that the trustee shall not
buy any of the estate.
Is there any reason for enjoining the appellant not to sell ? The
decree is repugnant to itself. It establishes the title of the appellant to relief, and then denies all relief.
Mr Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on appeal from the circuit court of the District
of Columbia for the county of Washington. The bill was filed by
the appellees in the court below, to enjoin the appellants from proceeding to sell certain lots of land in the city of Washington, belonging to the estate of David Peter, for the payment of debts alleged to
be due to the Bank of Columbia, and the Bank of the United States.
David Peter made his will bearing date the 30th of November 181.2,
and shortly thereafter departed this life; and by his will he declares
and directs as follows:
"It is my intention that the proceeds of all my estate shall be
Vested in my dear wife Sarah Peter for the maintenance and educa.tion of my children.
"I wish all my debts to be as speedily paid as possible; for which
purpose I desire that the tract of land on which Dulin lives, together
with all personal property thereon, may be sold and applied to that
purpose; and in aid of that, as soon as sales can be effected, so much
of my city property as may be necessary to effect that object.
"I desire that no appraisement or valuation shall be had of any
part of the property attached to my dwellinghouse.
"I desire that my sons shall receive as good educations as th'e
country will afford, and my daughters the best the place can furnish."
And he apppointed his wife Sarah Peter, his brother. George

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

Peter, and .his brother-in-lw Leonard H.- Johns, the executrix and
executors of his will; of whom George Peter is the only survivor.
The bill charges that George Peter; the surviving executor, under
colour of the directions in the will, was about to sell that part of the
real estate of David Peter which lies in the city of Washington, and
has actually offered the same for sale at public auction. The bill
further charges, that there came to the hands of the executors personal estate of the said David Peter to the amount of more than
25,000 dollars. That they had sold the Dulin farm for 20,688 dollars 90 cents to George Magruder, in the year 1813, and received
one-third of the purchase money, and took for the balance, divided
in equal sums, two promissory notes, one payable the 1st of January
1815, and the other the 1st of January 1916 one indorsed -by Patrick Magruder and the other by Lloyd Magruder: That the purchaser, George Magruder, was put into possession of the farm, and
still holds it; and that the notes given for the balance of the purchase money have been lost by the negligence of the executors.
The complainants deny the existence of any debt, due from the
estate of David Peter to the said banks, or either of them ; or any
other debt, whatsoever, for the payment of which it is either necessary, proper or lawful for the said George Peter to sell the said city
lots. And the bill prays-that the executor may fully account for the
real and personal estate of the said David Peter, and show how the
same has been disposed of; and that the banks may be required to
produce the notes or other evidence of their pretended debt, and*
prove the sarwe ; and praying an injunction to restrain the said
George Peter, and his agents, frorh selling or in any way disposing
of, or incumbering the real estate of the said David Peter in the
District of Columbia: concluding with a prayer for general relief.
The itijunction was granted : and, on the coming in of the answer,
was ordered to be continued until the final hearing of the cause.
The answer of George Peter, the surviving executor, alleges that.
the principal management of the business of the estate was assumed
by his co-executors; that believing Johns fully competent, and that
he would attend to the business in a way best calculated to promote
the interest of his sister and her children, he left it to them to settle
the estate, and to collect and dispose of the proceeds thereof, and
provide for the support and education of the children, a8 they might
think best; and that all this Was well known to the complainant Beverlv, who married the eldest daughter of the testator in the. year

'560

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.] .

1819. That le and his wife lived with her mother until within a
year or two of her death.
That the debts due to the banks had been continued by renewed
notes, from time to time, drawn and indorsed by the executors, in
compliance with the rules of the banks; and with the understanding
that such arrangement was to continue as long as the banks were
willing to indulge the estate, or until the executors should be able
to make sales for the payment of those debts:' that this arrangement
was well understood by Beverly and all the children, who were old
enough.to understand any thing of their affairs; and was often talked
of by Beverly and Ramsay, who always spoke of the estate as liable
to the banks for these debts. The surviving executor, to the charge
of neglect, in relation to the balance of the purchase money for (he
Dulin farm ; alleges that Magruder, the purchaser, was sued upon
the notes given for the balance, and became insolvent. That an
ejectment was brought to recover possession of the land that it might
be re-sold, no title having been given for the land, but only a bond
for a deed, according to the terms of the sale. That the ejectment
was removed to the court of appeals in Maryland, where he believes
it is still pending. That if there was any neglect or delay in irecovering this land, it was the fault of the complainant Beverly ; who
undertook to attend to it, being then agent for the estate.
The. answer of the banks refers to the answer of the surviving
executor for the facts stated, in relation to the arrangement between
the executors and the banks ; which it is averred was entered into to
save the estate of the testator from a sacrifice, and to continue the
.accommodation. That the executors and the banks, and the agents
of the banks, one of whom wds the complainant Beverly, always so
understood it, and looked to the trust estate as still liable to the banks.
They exhibit statements showing, the situation of the debts at the
death of the testator, and the various renewals by the executors afterwards, in their private calpacity, with the various payments which
had been made, and showing the balance now due..
An amended bill was aiterwards filed, calling for an account of
other moneys alleged to have been received by the executors ; and
charging more particularly negligence in the executors in not having
sued the indorsers of the notes of Magruder for the balance of the
purchase money of the Dulin fain, and the loss- thereof by reason
of such neglect.
To this amended bill, the surviving executor answers, stating his

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

knowledge and belief respecting the moneys for which he is called
upon to account, denies the negligence imputed to him, and avers
that if there was any negligence it was that of the complainant
.Beverly, who, being interested in the estate and being a lawyer,
undertook to attend to the recovery of the balance of the purchase
money. That the indorsers were in very doubtful circumstances;
that the land was considered by all parties interested as sufficient
security for the balance of the purchase money; and that the counsel
of the executors advised the resort to a re-sale of the land as the best
remedy for the recovery of such balance ; and for that purpose an
ejectment was brought to recover the possession, and a bill in chancery filed in Maryland under the direction and superintendence of
Bevely ; and tlhat if any negligence occurred in the prosecution of
these suits it was attributable to him.
The cause was referred to the auditor to take and repoit an account of all sums of money received by the executors from the real
and personal estate respectively, and of the sums paid by them in
the due course of administration; arid of any other sums paid by them
for the maintenanance of the family and the education of the children; stating them separately. The auditor reports a large balance.
due the' executors, allowing them for the maintenance of the
family and the debts paid by them. To this report the complainants
excepted, and- the exceptions were overruled: and at the March term
of the circuit court in 1835, a final decree was entered confirming
the report of the auditor, and decreeing a perpetual injunction.
From this decree of a perpetial injunction, the defendants in the
court below appealed ; and from so much of the decree as confirmed
the report of the auditor, the complainants appealed; and upon these
cross appeals the cause comes here for review.
In examining the various questions which have been made in this
case, the most na'tural order seems to be to consider, in the first place,
the will of David Peter. Upon this depends, in a great measure, the
rights of the banks as creditois of the estate, and the rights, duties
and responsibilities of the executois ; and particularly those which
devolve upon George Peter, the surviving executor.
David Peter died ii tfim year 1813, shortly after nmking his will,
leaving his widow with-a family of five children, two daughters amd
thr'ee sons, the eldest about Ihirteen years of age, livinhg in case amid
supposed afllttence, as appyea's, not oily from the pleadimgs and proofs
in the case, but as 14111y to be iifeted frowm the proviioms made Ir
VOL. X.

3 V

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

them by his will, and the disposition made of his property. His primary-object seemed to be that his family should remain together, and
live as they had been accustomed to live. And he 6ccordingly, in the
first place, directs that the proceeds of all his estate should be vested
in his .wife, Sarah Peter (who is made one of his executors), for the
maintenance and education of his children. He directs, that no appraisement or valuation, should be had of any part of his property
attached to his dwellinghouse, and that his sons should receive as
good educations as the country would afford, and his daughiers the
best the place could furnish. The family accordingly remained together, except Mrs Beverly, and were maintained and educated
according to the directions of the will, until the death of the said
Sarah Peter, in the. year 1825. The testator directed his debts to
be paid as speedily as possible; and for that purpose declared, that
the tract of land on which Dulin lived, together with all the personal property thereon, should be sold, and applied to the payment
of his debts; and in aid of that, as soon as sales could be effected, so
much of his city property as should be necessary for the payment of
his debts.
The testator had a right unquestionably, so- far as respected
his chiidren, to charge the payment of his debts upon any part
of his estate, real ur personal,. as he might think proper, and most
advantageous to his family. And if the creditors were willing to
look to the fund so appropriated to that object, no one would
have a .right to counteract or control his will in that respect.
And he having thought proper to constitute his widow the trustee
of the proceeds of all his estate, for the maintenance and education
of his children, thereby vesting iti her an unlimited discretion in
this respect, so far as the proceeds of his estate would go; the surviving executor is not accountable for any thing applied- by her for
that purpose, not even if she would be-cliargeable with a devastavit.
For it is a well settled rule, that one executor is not responsible for the
devastavit of his co-executor, any farther than he is shown to have
been knowing and assenting at the tinid to such devastavit or misapplication of the assets: and merely pcrmitting his co-executor to possess the assets; withont going farther, and concurritlg inl the application of them; does not render hiLi answerable for the receipts of his
co-executor. Eachi excoutor is liable only for his own acts, and what
he receives and applies, unless he joins in the direction and misapplication of the assels. Cro. Eliz. 348 ; 4 Ves. 596 ; 4 Johns. Ch.
23 ; 19 Johns. Rep. 427.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

It is not intended to intimate that there was any devastavit or
waste of the estate by Mrs Peter. There is, indeed, no pretence in
the bill of any misapplication of the estate, by her or any other of
the executors ; and for the very purpose for which the proceeds of the
estate were vested in her, to maintain and educate a family of young
children, it was necessary to clothe her with. a large discretion ; and
for this reason the testator directs, that there should be no appraisement or valuation of any part of his property attached t6 his dwellinghouse. The proceeds of all his estate being vested in his widow,
would render it necessary, independent of any express direction in
the will, that recourse should be had to the real estate for the payment of his debts.
And this leads, in the next place, to the inquiry, whether George
Peter,.the surviving executor, has authorit.y to sell the lots in the
city of Washington.
With respect to the Dulin.farm, no doubt can exist. The testator gives -positive directions for that farm to be sold, and the
proceeds applied to the payment of his debts. The executors in
the sale to Magruder only gave a bond for a deed: the title was
not to be given until the purchase money was all paid; and that
not having yet been done, no title has been conveyed, and it yet
remains subject to be applied to the payment of debts; and a resale is necessary in order fully to carry into effect the will of the
testator. It is a well settled rule in chancery, in the construction of
wills as well as other instruments, that when land is directed to be
sold, and turned into money, or money is directed to be employed in
the purchase of land, courts of equity, in dealing with the subject,
will consider it that species of property into which it is directed to be
converted. This is the do)ctrine of this court in the case of Craig v.
Leslie, 3 Wheat. 577; and is founded upon the principle, that courts
of equity, regarding the substance, and not the mere form ofcontracts
and other instruments, consider things directed, or agreed to be
done, as having been actually performed. But this principle may
not perhaps apply in its full force and extent to the city lots. They
are not posilvely directed by the vill to be converted into money;
but the sale of them was contingent, and only in aid of the proceeds
of the Dulin farm, if a sale of them should become necessary for the
payment of debts. But independent of this principle, thereis ample
power in the surviv'img execulor to sell. We find, in the cases decided in the English courts, and in the elementary treatises on this
subject, no little confusiov, and many nice distinctions.

SUPREME COURT.
EPeter v. Beverly.]

The general principle of the common law, as laid down by lord
Coke, (Co. Lit. 112, b) and sanctioned by many judicial decisions,
is, that when the power given to several persons, is a mere. naked
.power to sell, not coupled with an interest, it must be executed by
all, and does not survive. .But when the . power is coupled with
an interest, it may be executed by the survivor. 14 Johns. Rep.
553 ; 2 Johns. Ch. 19.
But the difficulty arises in the application of the rule to particular cases. It may, perhaps, be considered as the better conclusion to be drawn from the.English cases on this question, that
a mere direction, in a will, to the executors to sell land, without
any words vesting in them an interest in the land, or -creating a
trust, will be only a naked power, which does not survive. In
such co se, there is no otie who has a right to enforce an execution of the power. But when any thing is directed to be done, in
which third persons are interested, and who have a right to call on
the executors to execute the power, such power survives. This becomes necessary for the purpose of effecting the object of the power.
It is not a power coupled with an interest in executors, because they
may derive a personal benefit from the devise. For a trust will survive though no way beneficial to the trustee. It is the possession of
the legal estate, or a right in the subject over which the power'is to
be exercised, that makes the interest in question. And when an
executor, guardian, or-other trustee, is invested with the rents and
profits of land, for the sale or use of another; it is still an authority
coupled with an interest, and survives. I Caines's Ca. in Er. 16
2 Peere Wins.
In the American cases, there seems to be less confusion and
nicety on this point; and the courts have generally applied to
the construction of such powers, the great and leading principle
which applies to the construction of other parts of the will, to
ascertain and carry into execution the intention of the testator.
When the power is given to executors, to be executed in their official capacity of executors, and there are. no words in the will warranting the conclusion, that the test'ator intended, for safety or.some
other object, a joint execution of the power ; as the office survives,
the power ouglit also to be construed as surviving. And courts of
equity will lend their aid to ulphold the power, or the purpose of
carrying into execution the intention of the testator, and preventing
the consequences that might result from an extinction of the power:
and where there is a trust, charged upon the executors in the direc-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

tion given to them in the disposition of the proceeds, it is the settled
doctrine of courts of chancery, that the trust does nottbecome extinct
by the death of one of the trustees. It will be continued in the survivors, and not be permitted, in any event, to fail for want of a
trustee. Thip is the doctrine of chancellor Kent, in the case of
Franklin v. Osgood, 2 Johns. Ch. 19, and cases there cited; and is
in accordance with numerous decisions in the English courts. 3
AtW. 714; 2 Peere Wins 102. Arid is adopted and sanctioned by
the court of errors in New York, on appeal, in the case of Franklin
v. Osgood. And Mr Justice Platt, in that case, refers to'a class of
cases in the English courts, where it is held, that although, from the
terms made use of in creating the power, detached frori other parts
of the will, it might be considered a mere naked power to sell; yet, if,
from its connexion with other provisions in the will, it clearly appears
to have been the intertion of the testator, that the land should be
sold to'execute the trustq in the will, and such sale is necessary for
the purpose of executing such trusts, it will be construed as creating
a power coupled with an interest, and will survive. This doctrine
is fully recognized by thd supreme court of Pennsylvania, in the
case of the Lessee of Zebach v. Smith, 3 Biiney 69. The court
there considered it as a settled point, that if the authority to sell is
given to executors, virtute officii ,asurviving exechtor may sell and
that the authority given by the will, in that case, to the executors to
sell, was to them in their character of executors, and for the pur,pose of paying klebts, an object • which is highly favoured itthe. law.
I Althdugh the clause in the will now under 'consideration,
does not
name the executors as the persons' who are to sell the land, yet it is
a power vested in them by necessary implication. The land is to be
sold for the purpose of paying. the debts, which is a duty devolving,
upon the executors ; and it follows, as a matter of course, that the
testator intended his executor's should make the sale, to enable them
to discharge the duty and trust of paying the debts. Mr Sugden,
in his Treatise on Powers, page 167, on the authority of a case cited
from the year books, lays it down as a general rule, that when a testator directs7 his land to be sold for certain purposes, without declaring by whom the sale shall be made, if the fund is to be distributed
by the executors, they shall have, by implication, the power to-sell.
And this is the doctrine of chancellor Kent, in the case of Davoux
v. Fanning, 2 Johns. Ch. 254. The wi.ll, in that case, as in this,
directed the real estate to be sold for ccrt'ailr put poses therein speci-

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

fled, but did not direct expressly by whom the sale should be made;
and he held, as lord Hardwicke did in a case somewhat similar, I
Aik.. 420, that it was a reasonable construction, that the power was
given to tile executors ; that it. was almost impossible to mistake the
testalor's mcaning on that point. So, in the present case, it is impossible to draw any other conclusion, than that it was the. testator's
intention, that. the sal,e should be made by his executors. Jackson
v. Hewitt, 15 Johns.. 349,is a case very much in point, on both questions. - That. the power in this case, is coupled with an interest, and
survives, and that by implication, it. is to be executed by the surviv-.
ing executor. The testator, say the court, in that case, directed
that in case of a deficiency of his personal estate to pay his debts,
some of his real estate should be sold, without natmiug by whom
and one of the executors only undertook tiLe exccution of the will,
and sold the land ; and the court. held, that this was a power coupled
with an interest, and might be executed by one of the executors, it
being a power to sell for the payment of debts.
It. has been thought proper to dwell a little more at large upon the
construction of this Nvill, and tile powve r given to the executors to sell,
t1~n would :have been deemed necessary, had it not been supposed
andurged at the baT, that the court of appeals in Maryland had
given a different construction to the will than the one we have
adopted. This ill was brought under the consideration of that
court, in the ejectment suit for the recovery of the Dulin farm already
referred to (4 Gill & Johnson 323); and it is true, the court does say
that the power given in the will to sell is a mere naked power. But
this was not the main point before the court. The questi6n seemed
to turn upon the demises in. the declaration, and whether the legil
estate in the land was- in Mrs Peter andher children, so as to enablethem to maintain an-action of ejetrnent. As the clause in the will
directing a sale of the land, did not direct it to be made by the executors, it became a question whether the'executors had that power
by implicati6n; or whether it was a case coining Within the Maryland law of,1785, which provides, that if a person shall die leaving
real or personal. estate to be sold for the payment of debts, or other
purposes, and shall not appoint a person to sell and convey the property, the chancellor shall have the power to appoint a'trustee for
that purpose. And the court seemed to think, the will now in question came within that provision. I But this .case, however respectable
the authority may be, cannot be admitted to control the decision in

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

the case now before the court,.where the lands in question lie in the
city of Washington : and we entertain a very decided opinion, that
the power to sell given by this will, is a power coupled with an interest, which survives, and may be executed by the surviving executor.
The next inquiry is, whether there is any subsisting debt due from
the estate of David Peter to the banks. It is contended on the part'
of the compiainants in the court below, that this debt has been
extinguished, by the notes given by the executors ; and no longer
remains a debt due from tie estate. There is no pretence that these,
debts have, in point of fact, been paid : and if not, the trust has not.
been' executed, and the land still remains charged with it. If the
executors have paid the debt to,.the banks, or the banks have accepted their notes in payment in place of the notes of the testator,
so that the executors became the debtors, and personally responsible
to the banks; the only effect of this is, that the executors became the
creditors ot the estate instead of the banks, and nmayresort to the
trust fund to satisfy the debt. 2 Peere Wrs 664, note ; 7 Har. &
John. 134; 4 Gill & Johns. 303; 2 Pick. 567.
But there is no ground for considering the debt of the banks extinguished. David Peter, at the time of his death, was largely indebted
to these banks upon indorsed notes discounted by them: and to prevent these notes friom lying under protest, an arrangement was made
between the banks and the executors to substitute notes drawn by
Sarah Peter, and indorsed by Leonard H. Johns and George Peter
and the notes of David Peter were retired by this substitution, and
passed as credits to the executors in the orphan's court as paid, when
in truth 'and ii fact they were not paid. The substitution of the
notes o f the executors was only by way of renewal,, and to comply
with the rules of the banks ; and thus to continue the debts by the
indulgence of (lhe banks, until the executors should be able to make
sales for the payment of them, without any intention or understanding b# any of the pxrties, that the substituted notes were offered or
received as.payment of the debts. That such was the arrangement
made respecting these debts, and so understood by Beverly at least,
is established by the most clear and satisfactory evidence; and there
is good reason to believe, that this was well understood in time family
by all the chi'ldren who were of an age sufficient to understand- the
business and concerns of the estate. This arrangement under such
circumstances, cannot, in any manner, be considered an extinguishment of the debt. The law on this subject is well settled, and the

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

principle well and succinctly laid down in the case of James v.
Hackly, 16 Johns. 277. -Itis, say the cou rt, a settled doctrine,
that the acceptance of a negotiable note for an antecedent debt, will
not extinguish such debt, unless it is expressly agreed that it is
received as payment. It isunnecessary in the present case to carry
the principle so far as to say there must be an express agreement for
that purpose, in order to operate as payment; but the evidence must
certainly be so clear and satisfactory, as to leave no reasonable doubt
that such was the intention of the parties. And the rule'to this
extent is settled by the most unquestioned authority. 11 Johns. 513;
14 John. 404; 2 Gill & John. 493; 7 Har. & John. 92.
In the original bill, the complaint against the executors for'not
having collected the balance of the purchase money, can hardly be
considered a charge of negligence ; and much less of that gross negligence. which ought to make the executor personally'responsible. It
barely alleges, that this balance ought to have been received if the
executors had only lsed reasonable diligence in regard to the collection. But after the answer and explanation of the executor to this
charge came in, an amended bill was filed, charging the executor
with gross negligence in ihis-respect. This seemed to be an after
thought, and rather a stale allegation. But the answer and explanation of the executor, uncontradicted in any manner, fully exonerates
the executors frofi all culpable negligence. Magiuder was prosecuted for the balance of the purchase money : he became insolvent,
and no further payment could be obtained from him. An ejectment
was.brought to recover possession of the land, that it might be again
sold : the cause was tried in the county dour't, and removed to the
court of appeals, where the judgment was reversed' and a procedendo
awarded. This business was principall.y under the care and direction
of the complainant, Beverly : and if there wrs any Want of due
diligence in prosecuting the suit, it is chargeable to him, and. not to
the executor. And belsides, the executor in the whole of this business acted under the advice of counsel, -which shvows satisfactorily
that he acted in entire good faith, and would go very far to exonerate
him from the charge of negligence, even if there were circumstances
leading to a contrary conclusion. 2 John. Ca. 376.
From this view of the case, we are satisfied that the direction in
the will of David'Peter to sell a portion of his real estate for l)aynent
of his debts, created a power coupled with an interest that survives.
That the surviving executor is, by necessary implication, tie person

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

authorized to execute that power and fulfil that trust. That the
debt due the banks has not been extinguished, by the notes substituted by the executors as renewals in the bank, or the estate of .the
testator in any-way discharged friom the payment of the debt. That
the executors are not chargeable with negligence or misapplication
of the personal estate, that ought to render them personally. responsible for these debts : and that no reason has been shown why satisfaction of these debts should not be had out of the lands appropriated
by the testator for that purpose.
It remains only very briefly to notice the exceptions which were
filed to the report of the auditor: and most of these have been disposed of by the, principles laid down in the foregoing opinion. It is
.proper here to observe, that from thereport of the auditor upon the
accounts exhibited by the executors and allowed byhim, there has
at all times been and now is a considerable balance in favour of the
executors against the estate.
With respect to the first and second exceptions, it is.
true that the
auditor has not charged the executors with the inventories ; and lie
ought not, according to the principles upon which he makes his statement: the object of the reference to him being to ascertain, whether
the executors were indebted to the estate, or the estate to them:
and for this purpose he examined the several statements made by the
executors with the orphan's court, and extracted from them the several sums received and paid by them. In the account with the
orphan's court, the executors are charged with the amount of the
inventory of the personal estate, both in the District of Columbia and
in Maryland ; and as far as any proceeds of the personal estate came
into the hands of the executors, they are charged in the statement
of. the auditor: but they are not charged with what the widow and
heirs retained in their hands, and f6r-theiir own use ; and this was'
correct, according to the provisions in the will, for the maintenance of
the family and the education Of the children.
The 4552 dollars, mentioned in the third exception, were properly
omitted in the statement of the account against the executor.. Itwas
a portion of that part of the estate which was put into the hands of the
widow, attached to the dwellinghouse, and with respect to which
the testator directed that no appraisement or valuhtion should be
made.
. The fourth and fifth exceptions relate to the notes taken from Magruder for the balance of the purchase imoney of the Dulin farm.
VOL. x.-3 w

SUPREME COURT.
[Peter v. Beverly.]

The executors, as has been already shown, are not chargeable with
those notes. No negligence is imputable to them, which ought to
make them personally responsible. No title has been given for the
farm, and it may yet be resorted to for payment of this balance of the.
purchase money.
The auditor has properly given credit to the executbrs for the
taxes on the real estat6. There is no suggestion that the taxes were
not due, and paid by somebody. The amount appears tohave been
paid according to the account of the register; and it is fairly to be
presumed that they were paid by the executors, although no regular
vouchers are produced for such payment. This may be accounted
for, in some measure: at least, by the circumstances stated in the
answer of George Peter, of the destruction by fire of the books and
accounts of his co-executor, Leonard H. Johns; who had the principal management of the estate.
The allowance of 6000 dollars for the expenses of the tamily for
twelve years, must certainly be a very moderate charge. It was a
proper subject of inquiry for the auditor, and there is no grounds upon
which this court can say the allowance is exceptionable. From the
nature of the expenditure for the daily expenses of the family, it
could hardly be expected that a regular account would be kept; and
especially under the large discretion given by the testator in his will
in relation to the maintenance of his family.
The amount paid by the executors for the curtails and discounts
on the notes running in the banks, were properly allowed to their
credit. These were debts due from the estate; and whatever payments were made were for and on account of the estate.
These are all the exceptions taken to the report of the auditor, and
we think they were all properly overruled by the court below. Butthe court erred in decreeing a perpetual injunction.:
The decree of the circuit court must accordingly be reversed, the
injunction dissolved,-and the bill of the complainants dismissed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled. And

JANUIARY TERM 1836.

571

(Peter v. Beverly.]

this court, proceeding to render such decree as the said circuit court
ought to have rendered in the premises, doth order, adjudge and decree, that the injunction in this cause be, and the same is hereby dissolved; and that the bill of the complainants be, and the same is
hereby dismissed; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby
remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to said court to
carry this decree into effect.

