SUPREME COURT.

SAMUEL PACKER AND OTHERS V.

HENRY

OF MATTHIAS ASPDEN

NIXON, ADMINISTRATOR

DECEASED.

Questions respecting the practice of the circuit court in equity causes, which depend

upon the exercise of the sound discretion of the court, in the application of the
rules which regulate the course of equity proceedings, to the circumstances of
such particular case; are not qucstions which can be certified on a division of opin-

ion of the judges of the circuit court, under the act of 1802,chap. 32.

ON a certificate of division of opinion from the circuit court of the
United States, for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
At January term, 1835, this case was before the court, (9 Peters
483) on an appeal; and the decree of the circuit court was reversed,
without a decision on the merits, for the purpose of amending the
proceedings by entering an allegation of the domicil of the testator, the construction of whose will was the subject of controversy;
and introducing proof in relation thereto ; and also to allow the introduction of other parties claiming the estate of the testator.
After the coming in of the mandate of this court, certain other
proceedings took place in the circuit court; an..amended bill was
filed by the original complainant, containing the allegation ofdomil-.
cil, which-was considered necessary by the supreme court; and numerous petitions, to be'allowed to become parties, were presented by
other persons.
Among these, Janet Jones, and Mary Poole, filed their bill, claiming
the whole estate of the testator; as heirs at law and next of kin of
John Aspd'en of London; whom they aver to have been heir at law
of the testator, and as such, entitled to his Whole estate, real and
personal, inder his will.
John A. Brown also filed a bill, claiming the whole personal
estate of the testator, as the administrator of John Aspden of Lbndon.
He took out letters of administration in Pennsylvania, upon the
estate of John Aspden, as the attorney of the children. of John Aspden of London.
Henry Nixon, the defendant, filed an answer to all these bills; and
subsequently, under limve to amend hi5 answer and plead, filed an
amended answer, with certain pleas thereunto annexed.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Packer v. Nixon.]

In these pleas he averred certain proceedings to have t k~u place
in the court of chancery and court of exchequer in England; in which
he alleged, inter alia, that Janet Jones and Mary Poole instituted
those suits, for the same subject matter; and that John A. Brown's
bill was in the same right, and also for the same matter.
No affidavit was made to these pleas by the executor, as they were
filed at the instance of the counsel of'one of the parties; in the execution of a purpose to allow all matters which were claimed as important to the full consideration and proceedings in the case, to be
brought forward and exhibited for the consideration of the court.
On the 14th of November 1835, the counsel for Mrs Poole and
Mrs Jones, and the counsel for John A. Brown, administrator of John
Aspden of London; moved for a rule to show cause why the pleas in
bar should not be atrickep off, as containing-averments of matter in
pais not verified by affidavit.
On the same day the counsel for John Aspden of Lancashire, moved
for a rule on Mrs Poole and Mrs Jones, and on John A. Brown, administrator of John Aspden of London, to .show cause why they
should.not be required to. elect on which bill or. petition they will
proceed; and to abide by the one elected and a 6andon the other...
On the 6th of January 1836, on the hearing of these motions, the
following questions occurred, upon which the ooininns of the judges
were opposed:
•1st. Whether it is necessary that an affidavit be made, to .the pleas
in bar to the petition of John A. Brown, or to any part thereof; and
if so, to what part?
2d. Whether the rule moved for by Mr Ingersoll and Mr Sergeant on the 14th day of November 1835, in the following words:
"Mr Sergeant, for John Aspden of Lancashire, moves for a rule on
Mrs Poole and Mrs Jones, and on John A. Brown, administrator of
John .Aspden of London ; to show cause why 'they should not be
required to elect on which petition or bill they will proceed, and to
abide by the one elected and abandon the other: Mr J. R. Ingersoll,
for the executor Mr Nixon, makes the same motion as Mr Serigeant :"
ought to be granted or not.
"And the said judges being so opposed in opinion upon the questions
aforesaid, the same were then and there, at the request of Mr In ersoil, counsel for HenryNixon,.and Mr Sergeant, counsel for John
Aspden of Lancashire, fitated under the direction. of the judges, and
VOL. x..-3 B

SUPREME COURT.
[Packer V.Nixon.]

ordered to be certified under the seal of the court, to the supreme
court at their next session to be held thereafter; to be finally decided
by the said supreme court."
The case was argued on the questions presented in the certificate
by Mr H. J. Williams, for Mrs Poole and Mrs Jones ; and by Coxe,
for John A. Brown, administrator. Mr Ingersoll appeared for the
executor, and disclaimed any other interference in the case but for
his protection. Mr Rawle argued the case for John Aspden of Lancashire. The decision of the court upon the questions presented in
the argument was not given ; as the court considered it could not
entertain jurisdiction of the questions certified. The arguments of
the counsel are, therefore, not given.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was the case of certificate of 'division of opinion from the
circuit court for the district of Pennsylvania, certified to this court
under the act of congress of the 29th of April 1802, ch. 32, sec. 6.
The case Was formerly before this court, and the decision will be
found.reported under the name of Harrison and others v. Henry
Nixon, in the ninth volume of Mr Peters's Reports (p. 483, &c.).
Upon the mandate in that case being returned to the circuit court,
further proceedings were had in conformity thereto; and in the
course of Chose proceedings the questions now propounded to this
court upon the certificate arose. They are as follows:
1. Whether it is necessary that an affidavit be made to the pleas
in bar to the petition of John A. Brown, or to any part thereof; and
if so, to what part 1
2. Whether the rule moved for by Mr Ingersoll and Mr Sergeant,
on thel 14th day of November 1835, in the following words : "Mr Sergeant, forJohn Aspden of Lancashire, moves for a rule on Mrs-Poole
and Mrs Jones, and on John A. Brown, administrator of John Aspden of London, to show cause why they should not be required to
elect on which petition or bill they.will proceed; and to abide by the
election and abandon. the other: Mr J. R. Ingersoll, for the executor
Mr Nixon, makes the same motion as Mr Sergeant :"ought to to
be granted ?
We are of opinion that the questions are not of such a nature as are
conternplatcd to be certified to this court, under the act of 1802, ch.
32. They are (Iuestions respecting the practice of the court in equity

JI NUARY TERM 1836.
[Packer v. Nixon.]

causes; and depend upon the exercise of the sound discretion of the
court, in the application of the rules which regula e the course of
equity proceedings' to the circumstances of each particulhr case.
But it is to be understood, that in the present case this general discretion is subject 'to the former order of this court, in regard to the
making of parties, ana other proceedings contained in the mandate;
when. the cause was remanded at the last. Januarly term of this court,
as stated in 9 Peters's Rep. 640.
We shall accordingly direct this opinion to be certified to the circuit court.

This cause came on -to be heard on the transcript of. the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Pennsylvania ; and on a certificate of-division in opinion between the judges
of the said circuit court upon the following questions.: viz. 1st.
Whether itis necessary thataan affidavit be made to the pleas in bar
to the petition of John A. Brown, or to any part thereof; and if so,
to what part? 2d. Whether the rule moved for by Mr Ingersoll
and Mr Sergeant, on the 14th day of November 1835, in the following words : "Mr Sergeant, for John Aspden of Lancashire, moves for
a rule on Mrs Poole and Mrs Jones, and on John A. Brown, administrator of John Aspden of London, to show cause why they should
not be required to elect on which petition.or bill they will proceed,
and to abide. by the one elected and abandon the other: Mr J.
R. Ingersoll, for the executor Mr Nixon, makes the same motion as
Mr.Sergeant." And these questions were argued by counsel ; on
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that neither of
these questions is of sucha nature as are contemplated to be certified to this court under the act of the 29th of April 1802, ch. 32.
That they are questions respecting the practice of the court in the
application of the general rules which regulate the course of equity
proceedings to the circumstances of each.particular case; and therefore ihis court have no jurisdiction to answer the same. But it is
to be understood, that in the. present case this general discretion is
subject to the former order of this court in regard to the making of
parties, and other proceedings contained in the mandate, whemn the
cause was remanded at the Iist January term of this court. It is
therefore ordered and adjudged that this opinion b6 ,ertified to the
said circuit court; and that the cause be. remanded for further proceedings.

