SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS LELAND AND CYNTHIIA B. LELAND HIS WIFE, LEMUEL
HASTINGS, GEORGE CARLTON AND ELIZABETH WAITE CARLTON
HIS WIFE, WILLIAM JONES' HASTINGS, JONATHAN JENKS HASTINGs, LAMBERT HASTINGS, JOEL HASTINGS, HUBBARD HASTINGS
AND

HARRIET MARIA

HASTINGS,

PLAINTIFFS

V.

DAVID WIL-

KINSON.

Cynthia Jenks, on a petition to the general assembly of Rhode Island, representing that she was the executrix of the last w'll and testament of Jonathan Jenks,
late of Winchester, in the state of New Hampshire, deceased; and the personal property being insufficient to pay the debts of the estate ; obtained authority
from the judge of probate to make sale of so much of the real estate of the deceased
as should be necessary to pay the debts. Under this authority she sold and con.
veyed certain lands in the state of Rhode Island, as beloi ging to the estate, and
received a part of the consideration money, and the balance was to be paid when
the deed executed by the petitioner should Be ratified by the general assembly.
The residue of the purchase money was represented to be absolutely necessary to
pay the debts of the estate, and a ratification of the deed, &c. was prayed. In the
lower house, June 1792, "it was voted and resolved, that the said 'petition be received, and that the said deed and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed, so
far as respects the conveyance of any right or interest in said estate, mentioned in
said deed, which belonged to the said Jonathan Jenks at the time of his decease."
And in the upper house this resolve was read the same day, and concurred in.
By the Court, The purchasers, under the deed sanctioned, received all the interest
in the premises which had been vested in Jonathan Jenks, and which on his death
vested in his heirs or devisees. The act of the legislature and the deed are unconditional, and neither the heirs of Cynthia Jenks, nor any other persons can impeach the deed by evidence of facts prior to the act of confirmation.
The power of the legislature of Rhode Island in relation to the confirmation of such
sales of real estate, is greater than the strict judicial power. They may sanction
past transactions, where vested rights are not disturbed; while the court can only
authorize a title to be made in future.

ON a certificate of division in opinion betweer the judges of the cir-

cuit court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
The case was submitted to the court by Mr Whipple, for the defendant, on. a printed argument. No counsel appeared for ihe plaintiff.

Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the'opinion of the Court.
The matters in controversy in this case are contained in certain
points, on which the judges of the circuit court for the district of

JANUARY TERM 1836.

295"

[Leland et a. v. Wilkinson.]

Rhode Island were divided; and which have been certified for decision to this court, under the act of congress.
The plaintiffs brought their action of ejectment against the defendant, to recover possession of the land in controversy; and they
claim as the heirs at law of Cynthia Jenks. It was proved that
Jonathan Jenks, who was seised of the premises, and who died in
January 1787,-devised the land to his daughter Cynthia, a few dayR
before his dece ase.
The defendant's counsel gave in evidence a ,certain deed, executed
by Cynthia Jenks, executrix,' to Moses Brown and Ariel Wilkinson,
dated the 12th of November 1791, and a certain bond or warrant of
the same date.
Also the petition of Cynthia Jenk# to the general assembly of
Rhode Island, *representing that she was executrix of the last will
and testament of Jonathan Jenks, late of Winchester, in the state of
New Hampshire, deceased; and that the personal property-being insufficient to pay the debts of the estate, she obtained authority from
the judge of probate to make Sale of so much of -the real estate of the
deceased as should be necessary to pay the debts. • And that under
this authority she sold and conveyed certain lands in the state of
Rhode Island, as belonging to the estate, and received a part of the
consideration money; and the balance was to be paid when the deed
executed by the petitioner should be ratified by the general assembly.
The residue of the purchase money was represented to be absolutely
necessary to pay the debts of the estate, and a ratification of the deed
&c. was prayed.
In the lower house, June 1792i "it was voted and resolved, that
the said petition be received, and that the said deed and the same is
hereby ratified and confirmed, so far as respects the conveyance of
any right or interest in said estate, mentioned in said deed, which
belonged to the said Jonathan Jenks at the time of his decease."
And in the.upper house this resolve was read the same day, and concurred in.
The questions adjourned to this court are as follows:
1. Whether the confirmatory act, above stated, is sufficient to
divest the title of the plaintiffs, if the sale of Cynthia Jeuks, the executrix, confirmed by that act, was not necessary to pay the debts of
her testator, Jonathan Jenks.
2. Whether the burthen of proof of the existence of such debts,
and the insufficiency of the personal estate, and also of the real

SUPREME COURT.
[Leland et al. v. Wilkinson.]

estate, which the said Jonathan Jenks, by his said will, authorized
his executors to sell, and pay the same, or of either of said points, is,
on the defendant.
. 3. Whether the said confirmatory act is prima facie evidence of
the existence of such debts, and of such insufficiency of personal
estate and real estate, so authorized to be sold as aforesaid.
4. Whether the defendant is to be deemed and held to be a pur.
chaser for a valuable consideration, bona fide, and without notice ; so
that he can protect.himself under his title aforesaid ; notwithstanding
there might have been no d-diciency of assets, and no debts of the
testator remaining unpaid at the time of the sale of Cynthia Jenks,
executrix as aforesaid, and the passage of the confirmatory act afore.said.
5. Whether the description of the demanded premises in the said
deed of Cynthia Jenks, taken in connexion with the confirmatory
act, issufficient in law to divest the plaintiff's title to the same, and
convey'the same to the grantees.
6. Whether the recital of the license of the judge of probate in
New Hampshire, contained in the deed of Cynthia Jenks, dated
November 12th 1791i and the recital of and reference to said license
in the petition of the said Cynthia to the legislature, and the act
passed, is prima facie evidence of such license.
The whole of these questions, with the exception of a part of the
fifth, that refers to a description of the premises, and which is not so
stated as to enable the court to decide it, may be included in the
simple irquiry, whether the grantees in the deed, confirmed by the
legislature,, took an absolute title to the premises in dispute. If
this inquiry be answered in the affirmative, there is an end to all further inquiries; and if in the negative, it follows that the title and all
the proceedings referred to, could only be considered as prima facie
evidence of the facts represented.
In 1829 this case was brought before this court by -writ of error;
and the court then decided, that the legislature of Rhode Island had
the power to pass the above act. -2 Peters 647. And the only question which remains for consideration is, the eflect of such legislh.tiye
act.
If the legislature had power to confirm the deed in question, isit
not made absolute by the confirmatory act? That such isthe cha-,
racter of a title,. made by ati executor under an order of court, is admitted; and is it not clear, that the sanction of*the legislature Imust
produce the same effect ?

-JANUARY TERLM 1836.
[Leand et al. v. Wilkinson.]

In this respect the power of the legislature .of Rhode Island is
greater than the strictly judicial power; for they may sanction past
transactions, where vested rights are not disturbed; while the coxirt
can only authorize a title to.be made in future.
No fratid is alleged between the purchasers and executrix ; and
the presumption is, that they acted in good faith. Nor does it appear that the rights of strangers were affected by the sale.
The purchasers. then, under the deed sanctioned, received all the
interest in the premises which had been vested in Jonathan Jenks,
and which on his death vested in his heirs or devisees. The act of
the legislature and the deed are unconditional; and neither the heirs
of Cynthia Jenks, nor any other persons, can impeach the deed by
evidence of facts prior.to the act of' confirmation. The legislature
would have. investigated. he facts and confirmed the deed, to but
little purpose, if it -is to be considered only as prima facie evidence
of title. In this view.it would be necessary, in order to.resist the
title set up by the plaintiffs, to show that the administratrix proceeded regularly .inher acts of administration ; and that the sale of
the real estate of the, deceased, in Rhode Islandiwas necessary to
pay debts. But this is not. the nature of the title received by the
purchasers. So far as the deed, under the sanctions given to i
lj1rports to convey ; all ithe right to the premises, of which Jonathan
Jenks was seised at the time of his decease, was conveyed absolutely.

This cause came on to:
be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit.court of the United States for the district of Rhode
Island; and on the points and questions on which the judges of the
said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which were certified
to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of congress in such
case made and p~ovided ; and was argued by counsel : on consideration. whereof, it, is the opinion.of this court that the grantees in the
deed confirmed by the legislature of Rhode Island, took an absolute
title to the premises in dispute in this cause ;-which opinion answers
the first, second, third, fourth and sixth questions so certified ; and
also the fifth question, except that part of said fifth question which
refers to a description of the premises, and which is not so stated as
to enable this court to express an opinion; all of which is hereby
ordered and adjudged, by this court, to be certified to the said circuit
court.
VOL. x.-2 N

