SUPREME COURT.

80

WILLIAM

H.

TRACY AND JOHN

B.

BALESTIER, PLAINTIFFS -IN

ERROR V. SAMUEL SWARTWOUT.
Certain tasks of sirup of sugar-cane were imported into the port of New York, and
the agent of the importers offered to enter them, and bond the duties at the rate of
fifteen per cent. ad valorem; but the collector, acting in entire good- faith, under
instructions of the secretary of the treasury, refused to allow the sirup to be entered, unless bonds were given. at the rate of three cents per pound. The consignee
refused to give the bonds for the higher duty, and the sirup remained in the possession of the collector for a long time, by which its value was greatly deteriorated.
On the trial of the cause, evidence was offered; and rejected by the court, to show
that the importer was not able to give bonds for the higher duty ; but this inability
wa.s not made known to the collector at the time they offered to -make the entry.
The treasury department became afterwards satisfied that the legal 'rate of duties
was fifteen per cent. ad valorem, and on the payment of rhe duty at that rate, the
sirup was delivered to the owner. An action was instituted against the collector,
to recover damages for the loss sustained by the deterioration of-the sirup, and a
verdict, in conformity with the charge of the court, was given for nominal damages
only.
The circuit court properly rejected the evidence of the plaintiff's inability to give the
bond demanded by the collector. The fact of inability ought to have been made
known to the collector, at the time the bond was required.
The secretary of the treasury is bound by the law; and although in the exercise of
his discretion he may adopt necessary forms and modes of giving effect to the law;
yet, neither he nor those who act under him, can dispense with, or alter any of its
provisions. It would be a most dangerous principle to establish, that the acts of a
ministerial officer, when done in good faith, however injurious to private rights,
and unsupported by law, should afford no ground for legal redress.
W'here a ministerial officer acts in good faith, he is not liable to exemplary damages
for an injury done ; but he can claim no further 6xemption, where his acts are
clearly against law.
The collector has a.right to hold possession of imported goods until the duties are
paid, or secured to be paid, as the. law requires. But, if he shall retain possession
of the goods, and refuse to deliver them after the duties shall be paid, or bond given,
or tendered, for the proper rate of duties; he is liable for the damages .which may
be sustained by this refusal.
A court may not only present the facts proved, in their charge to the jury, but give
their opinion, as to those facts, for the consideration of the jury. But, as the jurors
are the triers of fact, such an expression of opinion by the cdurt should be so
guarded as to leave the jury free in the exercise of their own judgments. They
should be made distinctly to understand, that the instruction was not given as a
point of law, by which they were to be governed; but as a mere opinion, as to tho
facts, and to which they should give no more *eight than it was entitled to.
The correctness of every charge must depend upon the phraseology used by the court;
and, ofcourse, but little aid, from adjudicated cases, can be expected in a case like
the present.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
The collector, in point of law, had no right to demand a bond for more than the duties at the rate of fifteen per cent. ad valorem; and the plaintiffs were under no obligation to give bond in a greater sum. And the fact of having failed to give such
illegal bond was not a circumstance which should have Icssened the plaintiff's damages: nor, in point of law, should the good faith in which the defendant seems to
have acted, exempt him from compensatory damages.
On the argument of the case, the counsel for the defendant objected to the proceediir
by writ of error, alleging that, as the jury had found for the plaintiffs in the circut
court, the proper course would have been to move the court for a new trial, on the
ground of. the insufficiency of the damages; and that error would not lie, as th's
was no more than an application to the court for a new trial on that ground.
By the Court. The objection that the proper remedy of the plaintiffs was by a mo.
tion for a new trial, and that the question now made on this writ of error, is. substantially a motion for a new trial, seems not to be well founded. The amount of
damages found by the jury are only referred to, as showing that they considered
their verdict as controlled by the'direction of the court.
Some personal inconvenience may be experienced by an officer who shall be held
responsible in damages for illegal- acts done under instructions of a superior; but,
as the government in such cases is bound to indemnify the officer, there can be no
eventual hardship.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York.
This action was commenced by the plaintiffs in error in the
superior court of the city of New York, and on the suggestion of
the defendant, that the suit was instituted against him for acts
done by him under the revenue laws, as collector for the district
of the city of New York, and praying that the same should be
removed to the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York; the cause was so removed to October term,
1833.
The declaration was in trover for certain casks of sirup of
sugar-cane.
Special counts were added, setting forth that the plaintiffs had
imported certain casks of sirup of sugar-cane, on which the duty
was fifteen per cent. ad valorem; that the plaintiffs were ready
and willing, and offered to enter the goods at the legal rate of
duty, and to give bonds accordingly, and to do every act necessary to making such entry. Nevertheless, the defendant, although
he declared himself satisfied with the sufficiency of the offer or
tender of the plaintiffs, except 'as to the amount of duties, for
which he required bonds in a much larger amount, over three
cents per pound, for every pound of said sirup; and, although
VOL. X.-L

SUPREME COURT.
.
defendant then waived any further tender, nevertheless, he refused to allow plaintiffs to enter and secure the duties on the
sirup at the rate requited by law, and refuseu to deliver the
sirup for a long time, over eighteen months, when it was delivered upon payment of the duties, at fifteen per cent. ad valorem; whereby plaintiffs were damaged by the deterioration of the"
property, &c., stating the damage specially. The defendant
pleaded the general issue.
On thetrial, it was proved that the goods were consigned by
plaintiffs to one F. A. Tracy, of New York, to sell for plaintiffs.
That F. A. Tracy, by his attorney, J. S. Carpenter, the witness, offered to enter the goods shortly after the arrival, .at fifteen per cent. ad valorem.
The collector said he had instructions from the department
not to permit the entry at less than three cents per pound. The
witness adds, "he said he would permit the entry at fifteen per
cent. ad valorem, but should require bonds at three cents per
pound."
Some time after this, Balestier, one of the plaintiffs, arrived
in this country, and he went, to the collector in company with
the witness, E. A. Weeks, and then delivered him the letter set
out in the bill of exceptions, making an offer of bonds at fifteen
per cent. ad valorem, inquiring whether a formal tender of a
bond or bonds as aforesaid was re~juired. He exhibited the bills
of lading, invoices, &c. The collector said " he could not act,
he could not permit him to enter the goods upon the terms and at
the rate of duty mentioned in the letter, because it was contrary
to instructions from the department." " The collector did not
refuse an entry to be made, but insisted that the goods should
pay a higher rate of duty."
It appeared that the duties demanded were equal, if not
greater than the value of the goods; the consignee would not
bond them, and plaintiffs offered to prove that they were unable
to furnish bonds at the rate demanded by the collector.
The goods were put in a public store, and remained there a
long time ; they were finally delivered to the plaintiffs on their
bonds, at the rate of fifteen per cent. ad valorem. " The department" having in the mean time changed its views of the law of
July 14, 1832. See. 17
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.1

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tracy and Balesticr v. Swartwout.]

After the foregoing evidence had been given, the plaintiffs
-procured several witnesses to prove that the sirup was worth
from eight to ten cents per gallon less, When given up by the
collector, than when the bonds were offered, in consequence of
necessarily growing acid by standing.
The court charged the jury, "that admitting the merchandise
in question to be subject to a duty of only fifteen per cent. ad
valorem, yet the circumstances under which the dispute about
the rate of duty arose, ought not to subject the collector to the
payment of more than nominal damages; that the collector
was pursuing what he believed to be his duty, and whatever injury the plaintiffs sustained in not receiving fheir goods at an
earlierday, grew out of their own conduct, in not entering the
goods in the manner 6ffered by the collector, at fifteen per cent.
ad valorem, taking the bond, however, to secure the payment of
three cents per pound ; merely placing the case in a situation to
have the question judicially decided as to the rate of duty ; no
intimation being given that it wobld occasion any inconvenier ce to
the plaintiffs, to give the bond so required by the collector." To
this charge the plaintiffs' counsel excepted; and the jury found
for plaintiffs six cents. The plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of
error.
The case was submitted. to the court on printed arguments by
Mr. Sedgwick for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Price, district attorney of the United States, for the southern district of
New York, for the defendant.
Mr. Sedgwick for the plaintiff presented two points for the
consideration of the court :
1st. The plaintiffs had a good cause of action against the colxector for damages, actually sustained.
2d. The judge erred in charging the jury as to the rights of
the plaintiff.
As to the first point, it was argued that the doubts which previously prevailed as to the responsibility of the collector for
wrong done, in such a case as the present, no longer existed.
The great principle is stated by Chief Justice Spencer, in Bartlett v. Crozier, (15 John. 254,) " whenever an individual has
sustained an injury by the mis-feasance or non-feasance of an of-

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

ficer who acts or omits to act, contrary to his duty, the law affords
redress."
Cited also, 8 Wentworth 462 ; Olney v. Arnold, 3
Dalt. 308. In Conard v. The Pacific Ins. Company, 6 Peters
281, the precise doctrine contended for is laid down by the court,
that the possession of the collector is a mixed possession, for the
benefit of the ow;ner and the government, and " that when the
duties are paid or tendered, if the collector retains the goods, it
is a tortuous conversion."
There is nothing in this case which should protect the collector from the operation of this rule. The judge seems to suppose
that the plaintiffs unnecessarily involved themselves in the situation in which they were placed; that they might have given
bonds for the duties as claimed. But if this were so, still they had
a right to refuse giving bonds for more than the actual duties; and
they had, on tendering such bonds, a full right to the goods ; and
the detention of them by the collector, afterwards, made him responsible.
But the facts of the case do not authorizd any charge against
the plaintiffs. An offer was made of the actual duties ; and it
was, in the opinion of the attorney of the consignee, doubtful
whether the goods would have sold for the duties claimed. Evidence was offered to prove the inability of the plaintiffs to procure bonds for the amount of the claimed duties, but this was not
permitted. The communication of this would not have induced
the collector to change his course.
It is said the loss of the plaintiffs arose from not having entered the goods, in the manner offered by the collector, at fifteen
per cent. ad valorem ; and giving bonds at the higher duty. But
the offer is denied,and if it had been made, it would not diminish
the plaintiffs' claims in this case. But the offer was to allow an
entry at fifteen per cent. when bonds for three cents per pound
were insisted upon ; and this is the grievance : for the goods could
not be obtained until these bonds were afterwards given. But
suppose a party, under such circumnstances, could give a bond ;
how is it possible that a man could be bound in law to give a bond
which the law says he ought not to pay ? If lawyers can surmount this paradox, merchants would be very apt to find, in the
uncertaintY of all legal disputes, a substantial reason against

JANUARY TERM, 1836.

85

[Tracy-and.Balestier v. Swartwout1

signing a bond, and trusting to law for avoiding it afterwards.
It has been shown that the plaintiffs had a clear cause of action
to recover their actual damages; which, in point of fact, amounted
to a large sum of money.
11. The next inquiry is, whether his honor the judge .misdirected the jury.
It is submitted to the recollection of the judge who tried this
cause, that after he expressed an opinion that the case of the
plaintiffs was one of damnum absque injuria, as the bonds-might
have been given, an offer was made.to prove inabilty; which was
rejected by the court, no notice of this having been given to the
collector. The jury were,' therefore, not addressed by the counsel on the question of damages.
The court will, however, look only at the bill of exceptions.
The inquiry is, whether the exception here is as to matter of
law or matter of fact. Exceptions are doubtless confined to
matters of law, and extend "to every case in which the judge,
in his directions or decisions, misstates the' law." (3 Black. Com.,
372.) The question on this point ought to be decided with reference to the impression which the charge was calculated to
make upon the jury ; and .if they gave their verdict in compliance with what they had reason to suppose the judge charged
the law to be, and in consequence of that charge ; the verdict
ought to be set aside. The judge charged the jury, that-the
circumstcndes under W¢hich the dispute about the rate of duty
arose, ought not to subject the collector to the payment of more
than n*ominal damages.
it might be supposed that the judge, by admitting the case to
be one of nominal damages, plainly intimated that the law was
With the plaihtiffs. But it is.submitted, that the idea which thh
jury must have received, was that the right of the case, in point
of law, was with the defendant. They always regard a verdict
of six cents as mere matter of form ; and so it is in point of fact,
'unless it be.a case taken out of the general rule as to costs by
a special provision of the statute The judge declared that the
pJaintiffs ought not to recover, under the circumstances of thecase. The jury must have understood that it was their duty to
render a verdict for nominal damages. They most assuredly

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

did, in point of fact, render their verdict, because they considered themselves bound to do so by the charge of the judge.
His honor the judge proceeded to state the principal circumstances on which his opinion rested, and the first was that the
collector was pursuing what he believed to be his duty. This
was a good reason why we should not receive smart-money, or
any thing beyond our actual damages ; hut the jury must have
supposed, that this circumstance, taken in connexion with the
fact, that if bonds had been given for the amount claimed by the
collector, the obligors might have defended themselves against
the suit on those bonds, constituted a good defence in this suit
against the recovery of any thing but nominal damages. Both
these circumstances, especially that relating to the quo animo'
of the collector, were such as would naturally give rise to a
question of law which very naturally and neces: arily presents
itself; viz. : does the law in such a case allow a recovery, against
an inno.cent collector ? The jury must have seen that this was
a question of law ; and when the judge said the plaintiffs ought
not to recover, it was equivalent to saying that they ought not
in judgment of law to recover.
If we consider the proper province of the court and jury respectively in this case, the error of the charge will be apparent.
The questions for the court were, 1st, whether the bona fides
of the collector was a defence; 2d. Whether the right of an
obligor on such bonds to contest the duties, makes it the duty of
the party to give the bond; or in case of his omission, deprives
him of his action ? 3d. The rule of damages, viz: Whether we
were to recover for any difference in the mlrket at the respective periods of the offer to bond, and the delivery of the property ; or only for the deterioration and necessary .leakage.
The question for the jury'was, whatwas the amount of damages according to the rule which the court should lay down.
In consequence of the opinion of the judge, expressed to the
counsel, they did not sum up. The court told the jury they
ought to find nominal damages; in short, that was their rule of
damages, and of course, they had nothing to inquire about; and so
they understood it, for they rendered their verdict immediately.
It appears to follow, that the charge of the judge was, in point

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

of fact, what the jury understood it to be, a charge as to the
law; and not as it is now interpreted, an opinion upon the facts
of the case.
But whether it was so in fact, or -was so understood by the
jury, to be a charge on the law; in either case, the verdict and
judgment must be set aside.
Mr. Price, for the defendant, contended that the only question in the case, as it is presented by the bill of exceptions, is
the relevancy of certain evidence. The plaintiffs had not made
a case in the declaration to which the evidence would apply;
and it was, therefore, impertinent, and was properly rejected.
It is, however, agreed, that the charge of the court shall be open
to examination.
After an examination of the pleadings, with a view to show
that the charge of the court was entirely correct on the questions raised by them, as well as on the facts of the case ; he argued that the judgment in favor of the plaintiffs ought not to be
reversed.
1. The plaintiffs had already a verdict in their favor; and it is
not competent for them upon a writ of error to disturb a verdict
in which the defendant acquiesces.
2. The evidence offered by the plaintiffs was properly overruled by the court; and properly rejected.
3. The charge of the circuit court was in every respect
correct.
4. If the cause should be remanded for another trial, there is
nothing apparent on the record which would place the plaintiffs
in a more favorable position than they held on the first trial.
On the first point, that as the plaintiffs have had a verdict in
their favor, it is not competent to them to prosecute a writ of
error; it was argued that this is essentially an application for a
new trial. Having already obtained a verdict, no question on the
amount of the verdict can be raised upon a writ of error. That
was exclusively a question for the court below. If the damages
assessed by the jury were insufficient, an application should have
been made for a new trial. The refusal of the court to grant this
is not the subject of a writ of error, 5 Cranch 11, 187 ; 4 Wheat.

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v,Swartwout.]

213: and in the circuit court, a new trial was moved for and
refused. Will this court correct the error of the circuit court in
refusing a new trial? An appellate court will render such a
judgment as ought to have been rendered by the inferior court.
If the circuit court would not allow the plaintiffs to speculate on
the chance of heavier damages, this court will not do it.
A new trial is never granted for inadequate damages, but under special ci cumstances; and still less will this court do what
will be entirely equivalent to a new trial, by awardinga venire
de novo. Cited on this point, Graham on New Trials 411, 450;
'Hayward v. Morton, 2 Strange 940; Barker v. Dixie, 2 Strange
1150; Beardman v. Carrington, 2 Wills 244.
,The jury, in assessing the damages, must have taken into consideration the amount of the injury which the plaintiffs had sustained, by reason of the illegal conduct of the defendant. The
counsel for the plaintiff admitted, on the trial, that the defendant
acted. in good faith, and under instructions from the treasury department. It was therefore a case in which the jury were limited-to damages actually sustained, fully proved to them ; and they
could not give damages as' a penalty.
2d., The evidence offered by the plaintiffs was properly overruled. No notice of the difficulty or inconvenience to the plaintiffs, in entering into the bonds, was given to the collector. Such
evidence could only be admitted under a special consent', if admitted at all. A party is not to be brought into court to answer
to matters of which he is not apprized ; of which he has not had
notice, that it was incumbent upon him to inform himself.
3d and 4th. The charge of the court was correct; and if the
cause shall be remanded, there is nothing in the record which
will place the plaintiff in a better position than on the former
trial.
Upon these points the counsel for the defendants urged that,
on a new trial, no other result than that which had occurred
could be-expected. If the evidence offered was properly refused, there would be an end of the question between the parties, and the verdict would stand. If it was to bQ admitted, as
the charge of the court was correct, no other result would follow.
The liability of the goods for duties is not deiiied ; the rate of

JANUARY TERM 1836
[rracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.1

the duties payable was the only question;,and had the plaintiffs
accepted the proposal of the collector to giVe bonds for the duty
claimed, protesting against the amount of the claim, no injury
would have been suffered. They would have had possession of
their goods; and as the claim for the higher duties was afterwards
abandoned, no loss would have arisen.
The plaintiffs cannot, under any circumstances, sustain a -recovery in this action. They have not shown, in themselves, possession, or property in the goods. The collector was lawfully
in possession,,under the laws of the United States; and he had
a right to retain possession until. he was relieved of the custody
by the partyclaiming the same, and having conformed to'.the
law. He did no'act, while in possession, which would render
him liable as a trespasser. His possession was that of a bailee;
and a bailee is never responsible for the natural and inevitable
deterioration of the subject bailed. But he was not even a bailee,
but the servant of the government, bound to execute legal orders. Acting.in good faith, and under orders, how can he be
liable personally?
That question is easily answered. 1. He had the possession
lawfully in the first instance ; we say, merely as the servant of
the government.
2. He has done no intermediate act, which could retrospectively.vary the character of his possession. The doctrine of
trespass ab initio is a doctrine.arising out of equitable principles;
and was intended to give aparty advantages which he could not
have under the strict technical rules of pleading. It was intended
to permit a party under the general form of a declaration in trespass, to give evidence of matters which it would be difficult or
hazardous to plead specially. Thus far, it is a substitute for a
special action on the case, But let'it be remembered that it is
not pretended that the plaintiffs, in this instance, should have
brought their action in trespass; on the contrary, it is admitted
that the action on the case is their only remedy: but there is the
further consideration, that in an action of trespass, the lawful
possession of the defendant is a pre-requisite, before he can be
made a trespasser, ab initio. It must be the possession of the
principal, and not the possession of the servant.
VOL. X.-M.

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

If a man directs his servant to take my goods, and the servant
seizes them, it is clear that they are both trespassers: but if
goods are delivered to a man to keep, and he destroys these
goods, he may be a trespasser by relation ; but, if the act was
committed by his servant, without his order or authority, it is the
direct trespass of the servant, who alone is liable. If goods are
delivered to the master to keep, and they are kept so negligently
that the goods are lost, the master is responsible, in some form
of action, for his negligence. If the master intrusted the custody
of the goods to the servant, and they were lost.through the negligence of the servant, the master must be called on for redress.
The collector is a mere servant or clerk, and cannot be rendered liable to a third person for any negligence or omission for
which any other servant or clerk would not be responsible.
The act organizing the treasury department, September 2,1789,
would seem to put this question out of all doubt. It is there made
the duty of the secretary of the treasury.!' to superintend the collection of the revenue;" thus, in the broadest terms, subjecting
every person connected with the collection of the revenue, to
the supervision and control of the head of the treasury department. And here let it be recollected, that the collector was, in
this instance, acting under the instructions of the treasury department.
If any thing further were wanting to show the merely subordinate character of the collector, it is made manifest from the
circumstance, that it was found necessary expressly to authorize
by law the collector to act through a deputy, (act to reglate tl
collection of duties, &c., March 2, 1799, 3 Laws U. S. 157, § 22,)
and by a subsequent law, (act of March 3, 1817, § 7,) a collector can only appoint deputies, with the approbation of the secretary of the treasury.
The collector cannot appoint inspectors of the customs, without the approbation of the treasury department; (act further to
provide for the collection of-duties, &c., March 3d, 1815, § 3,)
and "the number and compensation of clerks to be employed" in
his office, may be limited and paid'by the secretary of the treasury.' (Act of March 7, 1822, further to establish the compensation of officers-of the customs, &c., § 15.)

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

Hence the law does not regard him as the agent of the government, but as a'mere subaltern, or servant of .the secretary of
the treasury; who is the proper.and immediate agent of the law
"to superintend the collection of the revenue."
In reply to some points of the opening argument of the plaintiffs' counsel, it was submitted to the court, that the decision in
Baitlet v. Crozier, 15 John. Rep. 254, was reversed; and the
opinion of Chancellor Kent was adopted by the court of error of
New York, 17 John, Rep. 439. The authority in 8 Wentworth's
Pleading, 462, is directly in conflict with the case of the plaintiff
in error. The declaration in that case was against the collector
for raliciouslyintending to injure the plaintiff by preventing his
exporting certain goods, &c.
The counsel also referred to Olney v. Arnold, 3 Dallas 308;
which does not meet the present case. It is not pretended but
that cases may occur in which an action may be sustained against
a collector; but the case of Olney v. Arnold decides no principle whatsoever.
It is asked if the plaintiff was bound to give bonds which the
law did not authorize, and then set up a defence to a suit on
these bonds. It would be difficult'to establish that the law did
not authorize the taking of the bonds. The condition of the
bond to be given under the 65th section, is always to pay a sum
certain, on the amount of the duties to be ascertained as due and
arising on certain goods, &c. This shows the authority of the
collector to take the bond.
The law says that, to obtain goods imported, the duties must
be paid in cash, or a bond given ; and until a judgment is passed
on the bond, all errors in the liquidation of the duties may be
corrected. 3 Laws U. S. 198, sect. 66 ; ex parte Davenport, 6
Peters 661.
Mr. Sedgwick, in reply to the position that the plaintiffs cannot
disturb a verdict in their favor in which the defendant acquiesces, stated: If by this it be meant to say, as in the authorities
referred to, that the refusal of a new trial because against evidence, is not ground for error, that is not denied. If it be
meant to say, that if the judge charges contrary to law, and plain-

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.1

tiff recovers six cents, when, if a right charge had been given,
he might and probably would have recovered $3,000, and an
exception be taken, that error cannot be brought ; the proposition
iA too manifestly erroneous to require refutation.
It was stated in the argument in chief, that it was a paradox to
say "the plaintiffs were bound to give a bond which the law did
not authorize." This has been answered by saying that the collector was authorized to take the bond, because the condition in
it is to pay duties to be ascertained, &c. This case strongly exemplifies the unsoundness of the argument.
The duties at fifteen per cent. ad valorem amounted to less
than one-sixth part of the duties at three cents per pound. The
proposition of the defendant's counsel is, that as the collector
has a right to require a bond for the duties to be ascertained, it
is what he may estimate the duties to be. In other words, that
it is the same thing for the collector in this case to demand a
bond at three cents per pound, or at fifteen per cent. ad valorem.
If this be so, then it would make no difference if the collector
demanded a bond for duties one hundred times greater than the
real duties, supposing him to act innocently and by order of the
department.
• If the proposition laid down by the defendant's counsel be
sound, why would not the collector be equally justified in cases
of malice ? It might be said the malice could do no harm, because the bond is only for such duties as may be ascertained.
The mischief is precisely the same in both cases.
But to take the present case. The claim of the collector is
matter of substance, and not of form. It may be ruinous.
It is the duty of the collector to endorse the estimated amount
.upon the entry. He then requires a sufficient security; and a bond
in a penal sum sufficient to cover the estimated duties, and generally twice their amount. The surety, before signing the bond, or
course examines the entry to see what he may be called upon to
pay. Finding that the claim against him will be for the duties according to the principle assumed by the collector, he must decide
beforehand to pay them or to contest the bond. If he pays them,
he must take his chance of recovering them back.. The defendant's counsel will not pretend he should be subjected to this, for

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

he says that in that case he could not recover them back. But he
must defend to the bond. He cannot do this without the inconvenience of being denied a credit at the custom-house during the
controversy ; which may last till all his credit is gone.
But it is not necessary to go thus far. The owner has this
unanswerable objection, that he ought not to be required to give
a bond in an unreasonable penalty; such a bond, indeed, as he
may not be able to give. The collector has a right to actual and
valid security for the estimated duties, and to make it sure for
the amount named on the penalty of the bond. He has a right
to require sureties, amply able to pay that amount ; and that is all.
Now suppose the duties to be in fact $500, he may ask security
in $1,000. Suppose, instead of this, he estimates the duties,
without any fault in the importer, and from a wrong assumption
as to the rate of duties, at $5,000; and demands security in
$10,000.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought into this court by a writ of error to the
circuit court for the southern district of New York. The suit
was prosecuted in that court to recover damages from the defendant, who, as collector of the customs, had refused to allow
the plaintiffs to enter and receive the payment of the lawful duties, on certain casks of sirup of sugar-cane; which they had imported into the port of New York.
It is admitted that the law imposed no more duty on the article
than fifteen per cent. ad valorem ; although the collector, acting
under the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury, required.
bond for the payment of the above duty, or, should it be required, a duty of three cents per pound. No bond' was given, and
the sirup remained in the possession of the collector for a long
time; by which means its value was greatly deteriorated.
The question for consideration arises out of a bill of exceptions, in which the evidence is stated at large; showing the
quality of the sirup, the number of gallons imported, and the
refusal of the defendant to take bond for the fifteen per cent. ad
valorem duty.
It was admitted by the counsel of the plaintiffs, that the de-

94

SUPREME.COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

fendant acted throughout with entire good faith; and under instructions from the treasury department.
The plaintiff's counsel offered to prove that they were unable
to give bonds for duties at three cents per pound ; though they
did not state that fact, to the defendant, at the time they offered
to make the entry.
Thee court overruled this testimony, and instructed -the jury,
"that, admitting the merchandise in question was only subject
to an ad valorem duty of fifteen per cent., yet the circumstances
under which the dispute about the rate of duties arose, ought not
to subject the collector to the payment of more than nominal.
damages ; that tl.e collector was pursuing what he believed to
be the true construction of the law; and whatever injury the
plaintiffs may have sustained in not receiving their goods at an
earlier day, grew out of their own conduct in not entering the
goods in the maqner offered by the collector, at fifteen per cent.
ad valorem, takiug the bond, however, to receive the payment
of three cents per pound, if such should be the legal rate of duties
demandable ; merely placing the case in a situation to have the
question judicially decided, as to the rate of duty, no intimation
at the time being given that it would occasion any inconvenience
to the plaintiffs to give the bond so required by the collector."
Under this instruction the jury found a verdict for six cents
damages and six cents costs.
There can be no doubt that the circuit court decided correctly
in overruling the evidence of inability in the plaintiffs to give the
bond demanded by the defendant. The materiality of this evidence is not perceived; and if it had been material, it ought not
to have been received ; unless the fact of inability had been made
known to the defendant at the time the bond was required.
In the argument, objections were made by the defendant's
counsel, to the sufficiency of the counts in the declaration ;but
these do not necessarily come before us in the present posture
of the case ; and should the judgment of the circuit court be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings; if the
pleadings be deemed defective, the parties, with the leave of the
circuit court, may amend them.
The collector of the customs is a ministerial officer: he acts

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

under the instructions -of the secretary of the treasury, who is
expressly authorized to give instructions, as to the due enforcement of the revenue laws.
Do these instructions, when not given in accordance with the
law, afford a jusification to the collector, or exonerate him from
the payment of adequate damages for an injury resulting from
his illegal acts ?
The circuit court in their charge to the jury, did not consider
these instructions as a justification. to the defendant; and in this
they were unquestionably correct..
The secretary of the treasury is bound by the law; and although ih the exercise of his discretion he may adopt necessary
forms and modes of giving effect to the law : yet, neither he nor
those who act under him, can dispense with, or alter any of its
provisions. It would be a most dangerous principle to establish,
that the acts of. a ministerial officer, when done in good faith,
however injurious to private rights, and unsupported by law,
should afford no ground for legal redress. The facts of the case
under consideration, will forcibly illiustrate this principle. The
importers offer to comply with the law, by giving bond for the
lawful rate of duties; but the collector demands a bond in a greater amount than the full value of the cargo. The bond is not
given, and the property is lost, or its value greatly reduced, in
the hands of the defendant,. Where a ministerial officer acts in
good faith, for an injury done, he is not liable to exemplary
damages; but he can claim no further exemption, where his
acts are clearly against' law.
The collector has a right to hold possession of imported goods
until the duties are paid or secured to be paid, as the law requires. But, if he shall retain possession of the goods, and refuse to deliver them after the duties shall be paid, or bond given,
or tendered, for the proper rate of duties, he is liable for the
damages which may be sustained by this refusal. On the part
of the defendant it is insisted that the charge of the circuit
court was on the facis of the case, and was limited to an expression of an opinion on those facts, without any direction as to any
matter of law.
A court may not only present the facts proved, in their charge

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout]

to the jury ; but give theitf opinion as to those facts, for the consideration of the jury. But, as the jurors are the triers of facts,
such an expression of opinion by, the court should be so guarded
as to leave the jury free in the exercise of their own judgments.
They should be made distinctly to understand,- that the instruction was not given as a point of lawi by which they were to be
governed; but as anmere opinion, as to the facts, and to which
they should give no more weight than it was entitled to. And
if a fair construction of the charge complained of shall amount to
no morethan this, it isliable to no valid objection.
The correctness of every charge must depend upon the
phraseology used by the court; and of course but little aid, from
adjudicated cases, can be, expected in a case like the present.
in 3 Burr, 1742, a charge of Lord Camden-, when chief justice of the C. B. is given, as follows: "And the said chief .justice did then and there 'declare and deliver hisopinion to the
jury, that the said several matters so produced and proved, on
the part of the defendants, were not upon the whole case sufficient to bar the action, and with that opinion left the same tothe jury."
This instruction, in the language of Chancellor Kent, 12
John. 518, has always been " taken and'received as a direction
in a point of law."
In the instruction under consideration the court say to the
jury that, "admitting the merchandise in question was only
subject to an ad-valorem duty of fifteen per cent., yet the circumstances under which the dispute about the rate of duties
arose ought not to subject the collector to the payment of more
than nominal damages." "That the collector was pursuing
what he believed to be the true construction of the law, and
whatever injury-the plaintiffs may have sustained in not receiving their goods at an earlier day, grew out of their'own conduct
in not entering the goods in the manner offered by the collector,
at fifteen per cent. ad ,valorem, taking the bond, however, to secure the payment of three cents per pound," &c. This language seems to be susceptible of but one construction, and that
is, that as the plaintiffs refused to give the bond required by the
collector,, who acted in good faith, they ought to recover no more

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

than nominal damages. That the jury considered this direction
-as controlling their verdict; is clearly shown by the damages
which they assessed. And, indeed, it is. not perceived how
they could have given any other effect to the charge. It covered the whole case, and must have been received by the jury as a
direction on the law of the case. In what 6ther light could they
have considered it. The court did not say that exemplary damages ought not to be given ; but that, under the facts and circumstances of the case, no more than nominal damages should be
assessed. The facts of the case were clearly established, and,,
indeed, were not controverted; and the amount of damages was
the only matter for the investigation of the jury. On this point
the jury should have exercised their own discretion, aided, if
necessary, by the opinion of the court in relation to matters of
fact; and controlled by their direction, in matters of law. But
the jury were told, as the effect of the whole evidence, that
they ought to give nominal damages only.
The collector, in point of law, had no right to demand a bond
for more than the duties at the rate of fifteen per qent. ad valorem ; and the plaintiffs were under. no obligation to give bond
in. a greater Sum. And the fact of having failed to give such
illegal bond was not a circumstance which should have lessened
the plaintiffs' damages ; nor, in point of law, should the good faith
in which the defendant seems to have acted, exempt him from
compensatory damages.
In the case of Greenleaf v. Berth, 9 Peters 299, the counsel.
prayed the court to instruct the jury that "the evidence was not
sufficient to prove that the said contract between Nicholson and
Greenleaf, on the one part, and W. Stewart, on the other, had
been annulled or rescinded between the parties, at any time
prior to the execution of the deed by the plaintiff to Morris and
Nicholson in May, 1796."
And this court say, "if this instruction be considered as asking the court to determine on the effect of the evidence, it was
properly refused. It is the province of the jury to weigh and
decide on the sufficiency of the evidence; and from the words
of the instruction it would seem to be conceded there was some
VOL. X.-N

SUPREME COURT.
[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

evidence of the recision of the contract, as the court were asked
to instruct the jury that the evidence was not sufficient to prove
the fact. Where there is no evidence tending to prove a particular fact, the court are bound so to instruct the jury when requested; but they cannot legally give any instruction which
shall take from the jury the right of weighing the evidence, and
determining what effect it shall have. In this view the circuit
court did not err in refusing the above instruction."
And again, in the case of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company v. Knapp, and others, 9 Peters, 567, this court say,
"but it is insisted that in their instruction, the court lay down
certain facts as proved, which should have been left to the jury.
If this objection shall be sustained, by giving a fair construction
to the language cf the court, the.judgment must be reversed ;
for the facts should'be left with the jury, whose peculiar province it is to weigh the evidence and say what effect it shall
have."
In some cases it may he difficult to determine whether an instruction was given on the facts or the law of a case: but where the
jury are instructed what their virdict should be ; it is a direction
on the effect they should give to the evidence, and they cannot
fail to consider the instruction as the law applicable to the facts.
This must have been the light in which the jury viewed the
charge under consideration; and we think- it is the true construction of the language used by the court. In their address
to the jury the circuit court may have qualified by words not reported, the sentences contained in the bill of exceptions; but
the legal question arises, and must be decided from the face of
the bill.
The objection that the proper remedy of the plaintiffs was by
a motion for a new trial, and that the question now made on this
writ of error, is substantially a motion for a new trial, seems not
to be well founded. The amount of damages found by the jury
are only referred to, as showing that they considered their verdict as controlled by the direction of the court. And this court
consider that direction erroneous in point of law.
Some personal inconvenience may be experienced by an offi-

/JANUARY TERM 1836.

99

[Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout.]

cer who shall be held responsible in damages for illegal acts
.done under instruetions of a superior ; but, as the government in
such cases is bound to indemnify the officer, there can be no
eventual hardship.
The judgment of the circuit court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded to that court, for further proceedings.

