SUPREME COURT.

LESSEE Or ENoCe

TUCKEk AND

RICHARD THOMPSON,

TIFFS 'N ERROR V. ELIZA

G.

PLAIN-

MORELAND.

Ejectment. B. being seized of a fee incertain real estate in the city of Washington,
on the 1st of December 1831, executed a deed to R. W. The deed recited, as the
consideration, that B. with one Bing, was indebted to T.-&-T. in the sum of 3,23S
dollars, for which a promissory note had been given, to secure the payment of which
the conveyance was made to W'., in trust, to selh the property in case of the norpayment of the debt; and the same was sold on the 7th of March 1833 for that purpose, by W. as trustee, and was by him conveyed to T. & T., the purchasers. B
continued in possession of the property until February 8, 1833, when he conveyed
it, with other property, to his mother, E. G. M., in consideration of 1,138 dollarf.
due to her; for which a suit had been instituted; and of other advances made to
him. At the time of the sale by W. notice was given of the title of E. G. M. to
the premises, and she publicly, dlaimed the 'same as her absolute right. Evidence,
at the trial of an ejectment .brought by T. & T. against E. G. M., was given to
prove that, at the time of the execution of the deed by B. to W., B. was an infant
under twenty-one years of age; "and that at the time the deed to E. G. M. was made
he was of-full age.
The decision of Lord Mansfield, in Zouch v. Parsons, 3 Burrow 1804, was perfectly
correct. The act of the infant which was held valid by the court, was precisely
such an act as the infant was bound to do, and would have been compelled to do
by a court of equity.
The deed given by B. to E. G. M. was a complete disafirmance and avoidance of his"
prior, deed -' W.; and the deed of W. to T. & T. did not convey such a title to
them, as would enable them to sustain an action of ejectment for the property.
To assume as a matter of law, that a voluntary and deliberate recognition, by a person after his arrival at age, of an actual conxeyance of his right, during his nonage,
amounts to a confirmation of such conveyance ior to assume, that a mere acquiescence in'the same conveyance, without objection for several months after his arri.val at age, is also a confirmation of it, are not maintainable. The mere recognition
of the fact, that a conveyance has been made, is not, per -, proof of a confirmation
of it.
It is apparent, upon the English authorities, that however true it may be, that an infant may so bind himself by deed in certain cases, as that in conseq'aence of the solemnity of the instrument, it is voidable only, and not void ; yet that thb instrumentf
however solemn, is held to be void, if upon its face it is apparent that it is to the
prejudice of the infant.
There is no doubt that ark infant may avoid -his act, (Ieed, or contract, -by different
means, according to the nature of the act, or the circumstances of the case. He
may sometimes avoid it, by matters in pals, as in case of a feofftient by an entry, if
his entry is not tolled; sometimes by plea, as when heis sued upon his bond or
other contract; sometimes by suit, as when he disafflirms -a contract made for the
sale of his chattels, and sues for the'chatels; sometimes by a writ of error, as w.hbu
he has levied a fine during his nonage; sometimes-by a writ of audita quereha, a.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
when he has acknowledged a recognizance, or statute, staple, or merchant; sometimes, as in the case of an alienation of his estate, by a writ of entry, dum suit
infra tetatem, after his arrival at age.
Where the act of the infant is by matter of. record, he must avoid it by some act of
record (as, for instance, by a writ of error, or an audita querela) during his minority.
But if the act of the infant is a matter in paie, it may be avoided by an act in pais
of equal solemnity or notoriety: and this, according to some authorities, either
during his nonage, or afterwards ; and according teojthers, at all events, after his
arrival of age.
The deed of B. to E. G. M., being of as high P nature as the original deed to W.,
was a valid disaffirmance of the first deed
In many cases, the disaffirmance of a d~d, made during infancy, is a fraud upon the
other party. But this has never zeen held to be sufficient to avoid the disaffirmance; for it would otherwise zake away the very protection, which the law intends
to throw around him toguard him from the effects of his folly, rashness, and misconduct.

IN error to the circuit court of the District of Columbia, in the
county of Washington.
An action of ejectment was instituted in the circuit court, for
the recovery of certain real estate in the city of Washington,
claimed by the plaintiffs in error, under a deed executed by
Richard N. Barry, on the first day of December I831, to Richard
Wallach.
The deed recited that Richard N. Barry and George Bing
stood indebted to Tucker and Thompson, of the city of Washington, in the sum of $3,238, for which they had passed to them
their joint and several promissory note, payable in six months;
and to secure the payment of which note, with the interest, in
twelve months, Richard N. Barry had agreed to execute the same.
The deed, then, conveyed to Richard Wallach and his heirs, the
property in controversy ; in trust, to sell and dispose of the same,
and after appropriating the proceeds of the sale to the payment of
the debt and interest, and expenses of sale, to pay over the residue
to the grantor. It also contained covenants on the part of Barry to
keep the buildings on the premises ensured against loss by fire,
and to transfer the policies to the trustee; and for further or
other deeds of conveyance to the purchasers of the premises, in
order to carry the purposes of the trust into complete effect.
The defendant derived title to the same property under a deed
of indenture, executed by the same Richard N. Barry, on the 8th
of February 1833, by which the premises in controversy and

SUPREME COUIRT.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

other lots of ground were conveyed to-her, she being the mother
of Richard I Barry, "in consideration of the sum of $1,138 61,
which he owed to the said Eliza G. Moreland, for the recomery
of which she chad instituted'a suit in the circuit court of the
United States for tht District of Columbia, and of other sums of
money by her to him Imm time to time paid and advanced, a
particular account of which had not been kept."
On the trial of the cause, it vqs admitted that Barry was seized
in fee of'the premises, when he txecuted the deed to Richard
Wallach; and that after the executioh. thereof, he continued in
possession until the 8th of February 1833, when the deed to the
defendant was made, and which deed was duly recorded.
Evidence was also given by the defendant, tending to prove
that under the deed to her, she took possession of the premises,
and continued to hold possession of the same up to the time of
the trial of the cause.
The plaintiffs gave evidence to the jury to prove that Richard
Wallach, the trustee mentioned in the before-mentioned deed ot
trust, duly advertised the sale of the lot and premises in the
declaration mentioned, and sold the same to the plaintiffs on the
23d of February 1833; and made to them a deed for the same
on the 7th day of March 1833.
The defendant-gave evidence to prove that at the time of the
sale made by Richard Wallach as aforesaid, the said defendant
gave puL ic notice of her title to the sald lot And premises, and
there publicly claimed the same as of. her absolute right.
Upon which said evidence, so admitted .and given, the counsel
for the dIefendarnt prayed the court to instruct the jury ; that if
they believed the evidence so admitted and given as aforesaid to
be true, that then they ought to find their verdict for the defendant: which instruction the court refused to give.
To this refusal the defendant excepted.
In addition to the evidence given as aforesaid, the defendant gave evidence to the jury to prove that at the time the said
Richard Barry made and executed his deed -as herein before
mentioned to Richard Wallach, of the 1st of December 1831,
he the said Richard Barry was an infant under the age of twentyone years, and that at the time he made his deed to the defend-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

ant of the 8thof February 1833, before mentioned, lie the said
Richard Barry was of full age, that is to say, upwards of twentyone years of age.
Whereupon the counsel for the defendant prayed the court
to instruct the jury; that if, upon the whole evidence aforesaid, so
given to the jury, they should believe the facts to be as stated as
aforesaid ; then the deed from the said Richard Wallach to the
plaintiffs, as herein before mentioned, does not convey to the
said plaintiffs any title which would enable them to sustain this
action.
Which instruction the court gave, and to which the plaintiffs,
by their counsel, excepted.
The plaintiff, further to maintain and prove the issue on his
side, then gave in evidence, by competent witnesses, facts tend
ing to prove that the said Richard N. Barry had attained the
full age of twenty-one years on the fourteenth day of September
1831 ; and that in the month of November 1831, the said defendant, who was the mother of the said Richard,.did assert and
declare that said Richard was born on the 14th day of September 1810; and that she did assert to. Dr. McWilliams, a competent and credible witness, who deposed to said facts, and who
was the accoucher attending on her at.the period of the birth of
her said son, that such birth actuaily occurred on the said 14th of
September 1810; and applied to said Dr. McWilliams to give a
certificate and deposition that the said day was the true date of
the said birth. The counsel of the plaintiffs requested the court
to instruct the juryI. That if the jury shall believel from the said evidence, that
the said Richard N. Barry was of full age and above the age
of twenty-one,.years at' the time of the execution of said deed to
said Wallach, or if the defendant shall have failed to satisfy the
jury from the evidence that said Barry was, at the said date, an
infant under twenty-one years, that then the plaintiff is entitled
to recover.
2. Or if the jury shall believe, from the said evidence, that
if said Richard was under age at the time of the execution of said
deed, that he did, after his arrival at age, voluntarily and deliberately recognise the same as an actual conveyance of his

SUPREME COURT.
[Tucker et a]. v. Moreland.]

right, or during a period of several months acquiesce in the same
without objection; that -then said deed cannot now be impeached
on account of the minority of the grantor.
3. That the said deed from the said Richard N. Barry to the
defendant, being made to her with full notice of said previous
deed to said Wallach, and including other and valuable property;
is not so inconsistent with said first deed as to amount to a disaflirmance of the same.
4. That, from the relative positions of the parties to said
deed to defendant, at and previous to its execution, and from
the circumstances attending it, the jury may infer that the same
was fraudulent and void.
5. That if the lessors of plaintiff were induced, by the acts
and declarations of defendant, to give a full consideration for
said deed to Wallach, and to accept such deed as a full and
only security for the debt, bona fide, due to them, and property
bona fide advanced by them, and to believe that the said security was valid and effective; that then it is not competent for
said defendant, in this action, to question or deny the title of
said plaintiff under said deed; whether the said acts and declarations were made fraudulently, and for the purpose of practising deception ; or whether said defendant from any cause wilfully misrepresented the truth.
Whereupon, the court gave the first of the said instructions
so prayed as aforesaid, and refused to give the others.
To which refusal the council for the plaintiff excepted.
The court having refused the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th instructions
prayed by the plaintiff, and the council, in opening his case to
the jury, contending that the questions presented by the said instructions were open to the consideration of the jury, the counsel
for the defendant thereupon prayed the court to instruct the jury,
that if, from the evidence so as aforesaid given to the jury, and
stated then, prayers for the said instructions, they should be of
opinioin that the said Richard was under the age of twenty-one
years at the time he made his deed, as aforesaid to the said
Richard Wallach, under whom the plaintiffs claim their title in
this case; and that at the time he made his deed, as herein before
mentioned to the defendant, he-was of full-age, that such last-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

mentioned deed was a disaffirmance of his preceding deed to
him, the said Richard Wallach; and that, in such-care, the jury
ought to find their verdict for the defendant; and that the evidence upon which the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th instructions were
prayed by the plaintiff as aforesaid, which evidence is set forth
; n the instructions so prayed, is not competent in law to authorize
the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiff upon any of the grounds,
or for any of the reasons set forth in the said prayers; or to
authorize them to find a verdict for the plaintiff, if they should
be of opinion that the said Richard Barry was under the age of
twenty-one years, at the time he made his deed as aforesaid to
the said Richard Wallach.
Which instruction the court gave,-as prayed ; and the counsel
for the plaintiffs excepted thereto.
The plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Coxe for the plantiff in error, and
by Mr. Swann and Mr. Bradley for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs, it was contended that the circuit court erred
in giving the instructions prayed by the defendant, and in refusing the instructions prayed by the plaintiff. That the deed of
an infant is not void, but merely voidable. That there was
competent and sufficient evidence before the jury from which
they might infer that if the grantor, Richard N. Barry, was in
fact an infant at the date of the deed to Richard Wallach, he
had affirmed the deed after he camne of age. If the grantor,
Richard N. Barry, was at the date of the deed to Richard Wallach an infant, the defendant was guilty of a fraud.; of which he
could not avail himself to defeat the recovery of the plaintiffs in
this action.
The circuit court erred in considering the acts of an infant,
which are voidable by him on attaining full age, absolutely void
in themselves. The acts of an infant are voidable, not void
cited 3 Burr. 1794 ; S. C. I Sir Wm. Black. 575.
If an infant does an act which is voidable, he cannot recall it
without repaying the consideration he received for the first conveyance. He can only reinstate himself, by reinstating the person from whom he claims what he had conveyed to him in all he

SUPREME COURT.
tTucker et al. v. Moreland.]

had obtained from him. The disposition of court to restrain the
power of infants within this rule, has been manifested by the later
decisions of courts, in which such questions have been decided.
The protection of infants which courts have given is a shield of
defence, and is not to be used as a weapon to injure others;
cited 7 Cowan. 179, 181 ; 15 Mass. 359; 13 Mass. 37 ; 2 Evan's
Pothier, note 26.
But whatever may be the power of Barry over the deed executed to Mr. Wallach ; the defendant cannot avail herself of the
infancy of her son to sustain a title derived from him against one
held under the deed of trust. She had excluded herself from denying the full age of her son, by asserting that it existed before
he made the deed of trust, and procuring it to be admitted by the
orphans' court; when Barry claimed, and, under the authority of
that court, obtained the possession of his property, as being of full
age.
The plaintiff-had a right to submit these facts, and to have the
benefit of them before the jury ; and this wab denied to him by
the circuit court.
Mr. Bradley and Mr. Swann, for the defendant, denied that
the case of Zouch v. Parsons, (3 Burr. 1794,) sustained the
principle claimed under it by the plaintiffs? counsel. That case
had no application to such a conveyance as was made to Mr.
Wallach; which was a deed creating a trust, with covenants into
which an infant cannot enter. The authority of the case of
Zouch v. Parsons has been questioned and denied, (2 Preston
on Conveyancing, 24.)
But if thc deed to Mr. Wallach was only voidable, full evidence of its disaffirmance is given by the execution of the deed
to the defendant; which contains a covenant of warranty, as well
as a covenant of title. He was in possession when he executed
this conveyance. To show how a deed given by an infant can
be avoided when hc attains full age, cited 14 John. Rep. 124.
In all cases of affirmance of his acts while an infant, on his attaining full age, his affirmance must be express: cited I John. Cases
127. The cases show that a deed of bargain and sale given by
an infant, may be disaffirmed by a deed of bargain and sale when

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

he attains full age. In the case before the court, more has been
done: a deed has been executed with covenants of warranty and
title; the grantee has had possession even since the conveyance.
The charge of fraud could not be sustained. At the time of the
application to the orphans' court, a mistake was made as to the
age of Richard N. Barry, which was afterwards discovered. But
the plaintiffs cannot avail themselves of those circumstances. The
validity of the deed: of trust depended on the age of the grantor;
and this was the question properly before the court and jury.
The deed to the defendant was given for a fair and valuable
consideration, and it is a valid deed; if, when the prior deed was
executed, the grantor was an infant. To this extent, and no more,
were the instructions of the circuit court given; and they are sustained by the soundest principles of law.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This. is a writ'of error to the circuit court for the county of
Washington, and District of Columbia.
The original action was an ejeetment brought by the plaintiff
in error against the defendant in. error; and both parties
claimed title 'under Richard N. Barry. At the trial of the
cause upon the general issue, it was admitted, that Richard N.
Barry, being seized in fee of the premises sued for, on the first
day of December 1831, executed a deed thereof to Richard
Wallach. The deed, after reciting that Barry and one Bing
were indebted io Tucker and Thompson in the sum of three
thousand two hundred and thirty-eight dollars, for which they
had given their promissory note, payable in six months after
date, to secure which the conveyance was to be made, conveyed the premises to Wallach, in trust to sell the same in case
the debt should remain unpaid ten days after the first day of
December then next. The same were accordingly sold by Wallach, for default of payment of the note, on the 23d of February 1833, and were bought at the sale by Tucker and Thompson, who received a deed of the same, on the 7th of March of
the same year. It was admitted, that after the execution of the
deed of Barry to Wallachi the former continued in possession
of the premises until the 8th of February 1833, when he exeVOL. X.-I

SUPREME ,COURT.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.J
the same and other parcels of land, to
a
deed,
including
cuted
his mother, Eliza G. Moreland, the defendant, in consideration
(as recited in the deed) of the sum of one thousand one hundred and thirty-eight dollars and sixty-one cents, which he
owed his mother; for the recovery of which she had instituted
a suit against him, and of other sums advanced him, a particular
account of which had not been kept, and of the further sum of'
five dollars. At the time of the sale of Wallach, the defendant
gave public notice of her title to the premises, and she publicly
claimed the same as her absolute right. The defendant further
gave evidence at the trial, to prove that at the time of the execution of the deed by Barry to Wallach, he, Barry, was an infant under twenty-one years of age; and at the time of the execution of the deed to the defendant, he was of the full age of
twenty-one years.
Upon this state of the evidence, the counsel for the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if upon the whole
evidence given as aforesaid to the jury, they should believe the
facts to be as stated as aforesaid, then the deed from the said
Wallach to the plaintiffs, did' not convey to the plaintiffs any
title, which would enable them to sustain the action. This instruction the court gave; and this constitutes the exception now
relied on by the plaintiff in error in his first bill of exceptions.
Some criticism has been made upon the language, in which
But, in substance, it raises the
this instruction is couched.
question, which has been so fully argued at the bar, as to the
validity of the plaintiffs' title to recover ; if Barry. was an infant
at the time of the execution of his deed to Wallach. If that
deed was originally void, by reason of Barry's infancy, then
the plaintiff, who must recover upon the strength of his ownd
title, fails in that title. Ifi on the other hand, that deed was
voidable only, and not .void, and yet it has been avoided by the
subsequent conveyance to the defendant by Barry ; then the
same conclusion follows. And these, accordingly, are the considerations, which are presented under the present instruction.
In regard to the point, whether the deed of lands by an infant is void or voidable at the common law, no inconsiderable
diversity of opinion is to be found in the authorities. - That

JANUARY-TERM, 1836.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

some deeds or instruments under seal of an infant are void, and
others veidable, and others valid and absolutely obligatory, is
not doubted. Thus, a single bill under seal given by an infant
for necessaries, is absolutely binding upon him; a bond with a
Fenalty for necessaries is void, as apparently to his prejudice ;
and a lease reserving rent is voidable only.(a) The difficulty
is in ascertaining the true principle, upon which these distinctions depend. Lord Mansfield, in Zouch v. Parsons, (3 Burr.
1804,) said, that it was not settled, what is the true ground upon
which an infant's deed is voidable only; whether the solemnity
of the instrument is sufficient, or it depends upon the semblance
of benefit from the matter of the deed upon the face of it.
Lord Mansfield, upon a full examination of the authorities on
this occasion, came to the conclusion (in which the other
judges of the court of King's bench concurred) that it was the
solemnity of the instrument, and delivery by the infant himself, and not the semblance of benefit to him, that constituted
the true line of distinction between void and voidable deeds of
the infant. But he admitted, that there were respectable sayings the other way. The point was held by the court not necessary to the determination of that case ; because in that case the
circumstances showed, that there was a sembrance of benefit
sufficient to make the deed voidable only, upon the matter of
the conveyance. There can be little doubt, that the decision in
Zouch v. Parsons was perfectly correct; for it was the case of
an infant mortgagee, releasing by a lease and release his title
to the premises, upon the payment of the mortgage money by a
second mortgagee, with the consent of the mortgagor. It
was precisely such an act as the infant was bound to do ; and
would have been compelled to do by a court of equity, as a
trustee of the mortgagor. And certainly it was for his interest
to do, what a court of equity would by a suit have compelled
him to do.(b)
Upon this occasion, Lord Mansfield and the court approved -f
(a) See Russell v. Lee, 1 Lev. 86; Fisher v. Mowbray, 8 East. R. 330; Baylis
v. Dineley, 3 M. & Selw. 470. Co. Litt. 172. a.
(b) See .-.
v.'Handcock, 17 Ves. 383. 1 Fonbl. Eq. B. 1. ch. 2. S. 5. and
Notes. Co. Litt. 172. (a.) Com. Dig. Infant, B. 5.

SUPREME COURT.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

the lar as laid down by Perkins, (Sect. 12,) that "all such gifts,
grants, or deeds made by infants, which do not' take effect by
delivery of his hand are void. But all gifts, grants, or deeds
made by infants by matter of deed or in writing, which do take
effect by delivery of his hand are voidable by himself, by his
heirs, and by those who have his estate." And in Lord Mansfield's view, the words "which do take effect," are an essential part of the definition; and exclude letters of attorney, or
deeds, which delegate a mere power and convey no interest.(a)
So that, accoi-ding to Lord Mansfield's opinion, there is no difference between a feoffment and any deeds which convey an interest. In each case, if the infint makes no feoffment or delivers no deed in person, it takes effect by sucl delivery of his
hand, and is voidable only. But if either be done by a letter of
attorney from the infantit is void, for it does not take effect by
a delivery of his hand.
There are other authorities, however, which are at variance
with this doctrine of Lord Mansfield, and which put a different
interpretation upon the language of Perkins. According to the
latter, the semblance of benefit to the infant or not, is the true
ground of holding his deed voidable or void. That it makes no
difference, whether the deed be delivered by his own hand or
not; but whether it be for his benefit or not. If the former,
then it is voidable ; if the latter, then it is void. And that Perkins, in the passage above stated, in speaking of gifts and grants
taking effect by the delivery of the infant's hand, did not refer
to the delivery of the deed, but to the delivery of the thing
granted; as, for instance, in the case of a feoffment to a delivery
of seisin by the infant personally; and in case of chattels, by a
delivery of the same by his own hand. This is the sense in
which the doctrine of Perkins is laid down in Sheppard's Touchstone, 232. Of this latter opinion., also, are seine other highly
respectable text writers;(b) and, perhaps, the weight of author(a) See Saunders v. Mann, I H. Black, 75.
(b) See Preston on Conveyancing, 248 to 250; Com. Dig. Enfant. c. 2; Shep.
Touch. 32, and Acherly's note; Bac. Abridg. Infancy. I. 3; English Law Journal
for 1804, p. 145; 8 Amer. Jurist, 327. But see I Powell on Mortg. by Coventry,
note to p. 208 i Zouch v. Parsons, 1 W. Black. 575; Ellsley's notes, (h) and (v) ;
Co. Litt. 51. 6i Harg. note, 331 ; Holmes v. Blogg. 8 Taunt. 50b; I Fonbl. Eq. b.
1. ch. 11. s. 3, and notes (y) (z) (a) (b.)

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Tucker et at. v. Moreland.]

ity, antecedent to the decision in Zouch v. Parsons, inclined in
the same way, Lord Chief Justice Eyre, in Keane v. Boycott,
(2 Hen. Black. 515,) alluded to this distinction in the following.
terms. After having corrected the generality of some expressions
in Litt. s. 259, he added: "We have seen that some contracts
of infants, even by deed i shall bind them; some are merely
void, namely, such as the court can pronounce to be to their prejudice; others, and the most numerous class, of a more uncertain nature as to benefit or prejudice, are voidable only; and it
is in the election of the infant to affirm them or not. In Roll.
Abridg. title Enfants, (1 Roll. Abridg. 728,) and in Com. Dig.
under the same title, instances are put of the three different
kinds, of good, void, and voidable contracts. Where the contract is by deed, and not apparently to the prejudice of the infant,
Comyns states it as a rule, that the infant cannot plead non est
factum, but must plead his infancy. It is his deed; but this
is a mode of disaffirming it. He, indeed, states the rule generally ; but I limit it to that case, in order to reconcile the doctrine of void and voidable contracts." A doctrine of the same
sort was held by the court in Thompson v. Leach, 3 Mod. 310;
in Fisher v. Mowbray, 8 East 330; and Baylis v. Dineley,
3 M. & Selw. 477. In the two last cases, the court held, that an
infant cannot bind himself in a bond with a penalty, and especially to pay interest. In the case of Baylis v. Dineley, Lord
Ellenborough said: " In the case of the infant lessor, that
being a lease, rendering rent, imported on the face of it a benefit
to the infant; and his accepting the rent' at full age was conelusive that it was for his benefit. But how do these authorities
affect a case, like the present, where it is clear upon the face of
the instrument that it is to the prejudice of the infant, for it is an
obligation with a penalty, and for the payment of interest ? Is
there any authority to show, that if, upon looking to the instrument, the court can clearly pronounce, that it is to the infant's
prejudice, they will, nevertheless, suffer it to be set up by matter
ex post facto after full age ?" And then, after commenting on
Keane v. Baycott, and Fisher v. Mowbray, he added: " In
Zouch v. Parsons, where this subject was much considered, I
find nothing, which tends to show, that an infant may bind himself

SUPREME COURT.
[Tucker eta]. v. Moreland.]

to his prejudice. It is the privilege of the infant, that he shall
not; and we should be breaking down the protection, which the
law has cast around him, if we were to give effect to a cohfirmation by parol of a deed, like this, made during his infancy."
It is apparent, then, upon the English authorities, that however true it may be, that an infant may so far bind himself by
deed in certain cases, as that in consequence of the solemnity of
the instrument it is voidable only, and not void; yet that the
instrument, however solemn, is held to be void, if upon its face
it is apparent, that it is to the prejudice of the infant. This distinction, if admitted, would go far to reconcile all the cases; for
it would decide, that a deed by virtue of its solemnity should be
voidable only, unless it appeared on its face to be to his prejudice, in which case it would be void. (a)
The same question has undergone no ineonsiderable discussion
in the American courts. In Oliver v. Hendlet, 13 Mass. Rep.
239, the court seemed to think the true rule to be, that those acts
of an infant are void, which not only apparently but necessarily
operate to his prejudice. In Whitney v. Dutch, 14 Mass. Rep.
462, the same court said, that whenever the act done may be for
the benefit of the infant, it shall not be considered void ; but.that
he shall have his election, when he comes of age, to affirm or
avoid it. And they added, that this was the only clear and definite proposition, which can be extracted from the authorities. (b)
In Conroe v. Birdsall, 1 John. Cas. 127, the court approved of
the doctrine of Perkins, ยง 12, as it was interpreted and adopted
in Zouch v. Parsons; and in the late case of Roof v. Stafford,
7 Cowen's Rep. 180, 181, the same doctrine was fully recognised. But in an intermediate case, Jackson v. Burehin, 14 John.
Rep. 126, the court doubted, whether a bargain and sale of lands
by an infant was a valid deed to pass the land, as it would make
him stand seised to the use of another. And that doubt was well
warranted by what is laid down in 2 Inst. 673, where it is said,
that if an infant bargain and sell lands, which are in the realty,
by deed indented and enrolled, he may avoid it when he will,
for the deed was of no effect to raise a use.
(a) 'Se Bac. Abridg. Infancy and Age, 1. 3., I. 7.
(b) See Boston Bank v. Chamberlain, 15 Mass. Rep. 2-20.

JANUARY T1ERM 1836.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

The result of the American decisions has been correctly stated
by Mr. Chancellor Kent, in his learned Commentaries, (2 Com.
Lect. 31,) to be, that they are in favor of construing the acts and
contracts of -nfants generally to be voidable only, and not void,
and subject to their election, when they become of age, either
to affirm or disallow them; and that the doctrine of Zouch v.
Parsons has been recognised and adopted as law. It may be
added, that they seem generally to hold, that the deed of an infant 'conveying lands is voidable only, and not void; unless, perhaps, the deed should manifestly appear on the face of it to be
to the prejudice of the infant; ahd this upon the nature and
solemnity, as well as the operation of the instrument.
It is not, however, necessary for us in this case to decide
whether the present deed, either from its being a deed of bargain and sale, or from its nature, as creating a trust for a sale of
the estate, or from the other circumstances of the case, is to be
deemed void, or voidable only. For if it be voidable only, and
has been avoided by the infant, then the -same result will follow,
that the plaintiff's title is gone.
Let us, then, proceed to the consideration of The other point,
whether, supposing the deed to Wallach to be voidable ony, it
has been avoided by the subsequent deed of Barry to Mrs. Moreland. There is no doubt, that an infant may avoid his act, deed,
or contract, by different means, according to the nature of the
act, and the circumstances of the case. He may sometimes
avoid it by matter in pais, as in case of a feoffment by an entry,
if his entry is not tolled; sometimes by plea,as when he is sued
upon his bond or other contract ; sometimes by suit, as when he
disaffirms a contract made for the sale of his chattels, and sues
for the chattels; sometimes by a writ of error, as when he has
levied a fine during his nonage; sometimes by a writ of audita
querela, as when he has acknowledged a recognizance or statute
staple or merchant;(a) sometimes, as in the case of an alienation
ofhis estate during his nonage by a writ of entry, dum'suit infra
wtatem, after his arrival of age. The general result seems to
be that where the act of the infant is by matter of record, he
(a) See Com. Dig. Enfant, B. 1, 2, C. 2,3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11 ; 2 Inst. 673; 2 Kent
Comm.sect. 31 ; Bac. Abridg. Infancy and Age, I. 5, 1. 7.

SUPREME COURT.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

must avoid it by some act of record, (as for instance, by a writ of
error, or an audita querela) during his minority. But if the act of
the infant is a matter in pais, it may be avoided by an act in pais
of equal solemnity or notoriety; and this, according to some authorities, either during his nonage or afterwards ; and according
to others,'at all events, after his arrival of age.(a) In Co. Litt.
380, b., it is said, "Herein a diversity is to be observed between
matters of record done or suffered by an infant, and matters in
fait; for matters in fait he shall avoid either. within age or at
full age, as hath been said ; but matters of record, as statutes,
merchants, and of the staple, recognizances acknowledged by him,
or a fine levied by him, recovery against him, &c. must be avoided by him, viz. statutes, &c. by audita querela; and the fine and
recovery by a writ of error during his minority, and the like."
In short, the nature of the original act or conveyance generally
governs, as to the nature of the act required to be done in the
disaffirmance of it. If the latter be of as high and solemn a nature as the former, it amounts to a valid avoidance of it. We do
not mean to say, that in all cases the act of disaffirmance should
be of the same, or of as high and solemn a nature as the original
act; for a deed may be avoided by a plea. But we mean only
to say, that if the act of disaffirmance be of as high and solemn
a nature, there is no ground to impeach its sufficiency. Lord Ellenborough in Baylis v. Dineley, (3 Maule and Selw. 481, 482,(
held a parol confirmation of a bond given by an infant after he
came of age to be invalid; insisting that it should be by something
amounting to an estoppel in law, of as high authority as the deed
itself; but that the same deed might be avoided by the plea of
infancy. There are cases, however, in which a confirmation
may be good without being by deed ; as in case of a lease by an
infant, and his receiving rent after he came of age.(b.)
The question then is, whether, in the present case, the deed
to Mrs. Moreland, being of as high and solemn a nature as the
original deed to Wallach ; is not a valid disaffirmance of it. We
think it is. If it was a voidable conveyance which had Dassed
(a) See Bac. Abridg. Infancy and Age, 1. 3, 1. 5, 1. 7 ; Zouch v. Parsons, 3 Burr.
1794; Roof v. Stafford, 7 Cowen R. 179, 183; Com. Dig. Enfant, C. 9, C. 4, C. 11.
(b) See Bac. Abridg. Infancy and. Age, 1. 8.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker et al.v. Moreland.]

the seisin and possession to Wallach, and he had remained in
possession, it might, like a feoffment, have been avoided by an
entry by an infant after he came of age.(a) But in point of fact
Barry remained in possession; and-therefore he could not enter
upon himself. And when he conveyed to Mrs. Moreland, being
in possession, he must be deemed to assert his original interest
in the land, and to pass it in the same manner as if he had entered upon the land and delivered the deed thereon, if the same
bad been in an adverse possession.
The cases of Jackson v. Carpenter (11 John. R. 539,) and
Jackson v. Burchin (14 John. R. 124,) are directly in point,
and proceed upon principles, which are in perfect coincidence
with the common law, and are entirely satisfactory. Indeed,
they go farther than the circumstances of the present case require ; for they dispense with an entry where the possession was
out of the party-when be made the second deed. In Jackson v.
Burchin the court said, that it would seem not only upon principle but authority, that the infant can manifest his dissent in the
same way and manner by which he first assented to convey. If
he has given livery of seisin, he must do an act of equal notoriety

to disaffirm the first act; he must enter on the land and make
known his dissent. If he has conveyed by bargain and sale,
then a second deed of bargain and sale will be equally solemn
and notorious in disaffirmance of tie first.(b) We know of no
authority or principle, which eontradiets this doctrine. I.t seems

founded in good sense, and follows out the principle of notoriety
of disaflirmance in the case of a feoffment by an entry ; that is, by

an act of equal notoriety and solemnity:with the original act.
The case of Frostyv. Wolverton, (I Strange 94,) seems to have
proceeded on this principle.
Upon these grounds we are of opinion, that the deed of Barry
to Mrs. Moreland was a complete disaffirmance and avoidance of
his prior deed to Wallach ; and consequently, the instruction given by the circuit court was unexceptionable. To give effect to
(a) See Inhabitants otr Worcester v. Eaton, 13 Mass. R. 375; Whitney v. Dutch,

14 Mass. R. 462.
(b) See the same point, 2 Kent. Comm. cect. 31.
.VOL. X.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Tucker et a]. v. Moreland.]

such disaffirmance, it was not necessary, that the infant. should
first place the other party in statu quo.
The second bill of exceptions, taken by the plaintiff, turns
upon the instructions asked upon the evidence stated therein,
and scarcely admits of abbreviation. It is as follows:
"The plaintiff, further to maintain and prove the issue on his
side, then gave in evidence, by competent witnesses, facts tending to prove that the said Richard N. Barry had attained the full
age of twenty-one years on the fourteenth day of September
1831 ; and that in the month of November 1831, the said defendant, who was the mother of the said Richard, did ass rt and
declare that said Richard was born on the fourteenth day of
September 1810; and that she did assert to Dr. McWilliams, a
competent and credible witness, who deposed to said facts, and
who was the accoucheur attending on her at the period of the
birth of her said son, that such birth actually occurred on the
said fourteenth of September 1810, and applied to said Dr.
McWilliams to give a certificate and deposition that the said day
was the true date of the birth ; and thereupon the counsel for
the plaintiff requested the court to instruct the jury"1. That, if the said jury shall believe, from the said evidence,
.that the said Richard N. Barry was of full age, and above the
age, of twenty-one years, at the time of the execution of said
deed to said Wallach, or if the defendant shall have failed to
satisfy the jury from the evidence that said Barry was, at the
said date, an infant under twenty-one years, that then the plaintiff is entitled to recover.
" 2. Or if the jury shall believe, from the said evidence, that if
said Richard was under age at the time of the execution of said
deed, that he did, after his arrival at age, voluntarily and deliberately recognise the same as an actual conveyance of his right,
or during a period of several months acquiesce in the same without objection, that then the said deed cannot now be impeached
on account of the minority of the grantor.
" 3. That the said deed from the said Richard N. Barry to the
defendant, being made to her with full notipe of said previous
deed to said Wallach, and including other and valuable property,
is not so inconsistent with said first deed as to amount to a disaffirmance of the same.

TANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker et al.
v. Moreland.]

"4. That, from the relative position of the parties to said deed
to defendant, at and prievious to its execution, and from the circumstances attending it, the jury may infer that the same was
fraudulent and void.
" 5. That if the lessors of plaintiff were induced, by the acts
and declarations of said defendant, to give a full consideration
for said deed to Wallach, and to accept said deed as a full and
only security for the debt bona fide due to them, and property
bona fide advanced by them, and to believe that the said security was valid and effective, that then it is not competent for said
defendant in this action to question or deny the title of said
plaintiff under said deed, whether the said acts and declarationF
were made fraudulently, and for the purpose of practising decetion, or whether said defendant, from any cause, wilfully
misrepresented the truth.
"Whereupon, the court gave the first of the said instructions so
prayed as aforesaid; and refused to give the others.
"To which refusal the counsel for the plaintiff excepted."
T7he first instructiou, being given by the court, is of course excluded from our consideration on the present writ of error. The
second instruction is objectionable on several accounts. In the
first place, it assumes, as matter of law, that a voluntary and deliberate recognition by a person after his arrival at age, of an
actual conveyance of his right during his non-age, amounts to a
confirmation of such conveyance. In the next place, that a mere
acquiescence ia the same conveyance, without objection, for
several months after his arrival at age, is also a confirmation of
it. In ow judgment, neither proposition is maintainable. The
nere recognition of the fac that a conveyance has-been made,
is not, per se, proof of a confirmation of it. Lord Ellenborough,
in Baylis v. Dineley (3 M. & Sehw. 482,) was of opinion, that
an act of as high a solemnity as the original act was necessary
to a confirmation. " We cannot (said he) surrender the interests
of the infant into such hands as he may chance to get. It appears to me, that we should be doing so in this case, (that of a
deed,) unless we required the act after full age to be of as great
a solemnity as the original instrument." Without undertaking
to apply this doctrine to its full extent, and admitting that acts

SUPREME COURT.
[Tucker et al. v. Moreland.]

in pais may amount toa confirmation of a deed, still we are of
opinion, that these acts should be of such a solemn and unequivocal nature as to establish a clear intention to confirm the deed, after a full knowledge, that it was voidable. (a) A fortiori,mere
acquiescence, uncoupled with. any acts demonstrative of an intent
to confirm it, would be insufficient for the purpose. In Jackson
v. Carpenter, ( 11 Johns. R. 542, 543,) the court held,'that an acquiescence by the grantor in a conveyance made during his infancy, for eleven years after he came of age, did not amount to a
confirmation of that conveyance; that some positive act was
necessary, evincing his assent to the conveyance. In Austin v.
Patton, (11 Serg. & Rawle. 311,) the court held, that to constitute a confirmation of a conveyance or contract by an infant, after he arrives of age, there must be some distinct act, by which
he either receives a benefit from the contract after he arrives at
age, or does some act of express ratification. There is much
good sense in these decisions, and they are indispensable to a
just support of the rights of infants according to the common law.
Besides ; in the present case, as Barry was in possession of the
premises during the whole period until the execution of his
deed to Mrs. Moreland, there was no evidence to justify the
jury in drawing any inference of any intentional acquiescence
in the validity of the deed to Wallach.
The third instruction is, for the reasons already stated, tn maintainable. The d.eed to Mrs. Moreland contains a conveyance of the very land in controversy, with a warranty of the
title against all persons claiming under him, (Barry,) and a covenant, that he had good right and title to convey the same and,
therefore, is a positive disafllrmance of the former deed.
The fourth instruction proceeds upon the supposition, that if
the deed to Mrs. Moreland was fraudulent betwe n the parties to
it, it was utterly void, and not merely voidable. But it is clear,
that between the parties it would be binding, and available
however, as to the persons whom it was intended to defraud, it
might be voidable. Even, if it was made for the very purpose
of defeating the conveyance to Wallach, and was a mere con(a) See BosLou Bank v. ChawberliU,

15 Mass. Rep. 2'20.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker ctal. v. A\Iorcland.]

trivance for this purpose, it was still an act competent to be done
by Barry, and amounted to a disaffirmance of the conveyance to
Wallach. In many cases, the disaffirmance of a deed made during infancy, is a fraud upon the other party. But this has never
been held sufficient to avoid the disafirmance, for it would otherwise talke away the very protection, which the law intend, to
throw round him to guard him from the effects of his folly, rashness, and misconduct. In Saunderson v. Marr, (1 H. BI. 75,)
it was held, that a warrant of attorney, given by an infant, although there appeared circumstances of fraud on his part, was
utterly void, even though the application was made to the equity
side of the court, to set aside a judgment founded on it. So, in
Conroe v. Birdsall, (1 John. Cas. 127,) a bond made by an infant; who declared at the time, that he was of age, was held void,
notwithstanding his fraudulent declaration ; for the court said that
a different decision would endanger all the rights of infants. A
similar doctrine was held by the court in Austin v. Patton, (11
Serg. & Rawle. 309, 310.) Indeed, the same doctrine is to be
found affirmed more than a century and a half ago, in Johnson
v. Pie, (I Lev. 169; S. C. I Sid. 258; 1 Kebb. 995, 913. (a)
But what are the facts, on which the instruction relies as
proof of the deed to Mrs. Moreland being fraudulent and void ?
They are " the relative positions of the parties to said deed, at
and previous to its execution :" that is to say, the relation of
mother and son ; and the fact that she had then instituted a suit
against him, and arrested him, and held him to bail, as stated in
the evidence ; and " from the circumstances attending the execution of it;" that isto say, that' Mrs. Moreland was informed
by Barry, before his deed to her, that he had so conveyed the
said property to Wallach, and that subsequently, and with such
knowledge, she prevailed on Barry to execute to her the same
conveyance. Now, certainly, these facts, alone, could not justly
authorize a conclusion, that the conveyance to Mrs. Moreland
was fraudulent and void ; for she might be a bona fide creditor
of her son. And the consideration averred in that conveyance
showed her to be a creditor, if it was truly stated, (and there
(a) Sc Bac. Abridg. Infancy and Age. H. 2 Kent. Comment, Lect. 31.

SUPREME COURT.
(Tucker et al.v. Moreland.]

was no evidence to contradict it;) and if she was a creditor, then
she had a legal right to sue her son, and there was no fraud in
prevailing on him to give a deed to satisfy that debt. Itis probable, that the instruction was designed to cover all the other
facts stated in the bill of exceptions, though in its, actual terms
it does not seem to compmiehend them. But, if it did, we are
of opinion, that the jury would not have been justified in inferring, that the deed was fraudulent and void. In the first place,
the proceedings in the orphans' court may, for aught that appears, have been in good faith ; and under an innocent mistake
of a year of the actual age of Barry. In. the next place, if not
so, still the mother and the son were not estopped in any other
proceeding to set up the nonage of Barry, whatever might have
been the case as to the parties and property involved in that
proceeding. In the next place, there is not the slighest proof
that these proceedings had, at the time, any referen!e to, or intended operation upon the subsequent deed made to Whllach;
or that Mrs. Moreland was party to, or assisted in, the negotiations or declarations on which the deed to Wallach was founded.
Ceitainly, without some proofs of this sort, it would be going
too far to assert, that the jury might infer, that the deed to Mrs.
Moreland was fraudulent. Fraud is not presumed either as a
matter of law or fact, unless under circumstances not fairly susceptible of any other interpretation.
The fifth instruction was properly refused by the court, for the
plain reason that there was no evidence in the case of any acts
or declarations by Mrs. Moreland to the effect therein stated.
It was, therefore, the common case of an instruction asked upon
a mere hypothetical statement, ultra the evidence.
The third bill of exceptions is as follows :
" The court having refused the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th instructions prayed by the plaintiffs, and the counsel, in opening his
case to the jury, contending that the questions presented by
the said instructions were open to the consideration of the jury,
the counsel for the defendant thereupon prayed the court to instruct the jury that, if, from the evidence so as aforesaid given
to the jury, and stated in the prayers for the said instructions,
they should be of opinion, that the said Richard was under

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Tucker et al. v. Moieland.]

the age of twenty-one years at the time he made his deed as
aforesaid to the said Richard Wallach, under whom the plaintiffs
claim their title in this case, and that at the time he made his
deed -as hereinbefore mentioned to the defendant, he was of
full age,,that such last mentioned deed was a disaffirmance of
ihis preceding deed to him the said Richard Wallach; and that
in that case the jury ought to find the" verdict for the defendant, and that the evidence upon which the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th
instructions were prayed by the plaintiff as aforesaid, which
evidence is set forth in the instructions so prayed, is not competent in law to authorize the juryto find a verdict for the plaintiff upon any of the grounds or for any of the reasons'set forth
in the said prayers, or to authorize them to find a verdict for
the plaintiff, if they should be of opinion, that the said Richard
Barry was undei the age of twenty-one years at the time he,
made his'deed as aforesaid to the said Richard Wallach.
,-Which instruction the court gave as prayed, and the counsel
for the plaintiff excepted thereto."
It is unnecessary to do more than to state, that the bill of exceptions is completely disposed of by the considerations already
mentioned. It contains no more than the converse of the propositions stated in the second bill of exceptions, and the reassertion of the instruction given by the court in the first bill of'
exceptions.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court, that the judgment of the circuit court ought to be affirmed with costs.

