JANUARY TERM 1836.

THE UNITED STATES,

APPELLANTS V. CHARLES

F.

SIBBALD, AP-

PELLEE.
A petition was presented to the governor of Florida, before the cession of the territory to the United States, setting forth that the petitioner was desirous of erecting
s i6
machinery for sawing timber, &c., and asking " permig
n for thaipurpose, with
the corresponding survey of the grant of land of five miles square, sixteen thousand acres, or its equivalent, in the event that this situation will not permit the
'said form; which land will insure the continued supply of timber. The permission was granted, without injury to third persons, under the express condition that until the establishment of the mill, the grant of the land, which
will be a square of five miles, in order that he may use the timber, shall be of no
effect." A survey was made of tea thousand acres, but no more than that quantity could be had at the place described; and the residue of the grant, six thousand
acres, was afterwards surveyed in other placer, at distances of twenty and thirty
miles. In 1819, the grantee commenced the erection of amill, which was afterwards
carried away by floods. In 1827, another mill was commenced, which was destroyed
by fire in July 1828; and in October 1828 another mill was commenced, which went
into operation in 1829. The superior court of East Florida confirmed the survey
of ten thousand acres, and rejected the two surveys amounting to six thousand
acres. Held: that the grantee was entitled to the whole sixteen thousand acres.
By the eighth article of the treaty of cession of Spain to the United States, the
same time is allowed to the owners ofland granted under the authority of Spain,
to fulfil the conditions of their grants, after the date of the treaty, as was limited in
the grants. It has been decided by this court, in the case of Arredondo, that as to
individual rights, the treaty is to be considered as dated at its ratification.
It has been decided, in Arredondo's case, that that provision of the treaty as to the performance of the conditions in 'grbnts, is not confined to owners of land by occupancy or residence ; but extends to persons who have a legal seisin and possession of land, in-virtue of a grant; and that, in the situation of the province, and the
claimants to land at the time of the cession, it was enough that they should show
a performance of the condition cy pres.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
. This was a claim to land in East Florida, presented to the su.
perior court of East Florida, by the appellee, founded on a concession for sixteen thousand acres of land, made by Don Jose Coppinger., governor of the province of East Florida, to Charles F Sibbald,
the claimant, on the'2d day of August 1816 ; for five miles square, or
sixteen thousand acres of land.
On the 16th day of July 1816, the petitioner, Charles F. Sibbald,
presented his petition to governor Coppinger,'supplicating his per-

mission to construct. a water saw-mill on'the creek called Six Milesi

ICL.

X.-2 P

314

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Sibbald.]

alias Little Trout creek, on the north side of the river St John's and
that of Nassau, the creeks of which empty their waters into the said
St John's river ; with the corresponding surety for the grant of
lands embraced in a line of two and a half miles to each wind, making a square of five miles, or its -equivalent, in the event that this
situation will not permit the same form; which land,,he says, will
insure the continued supply of-timber.
On the 2d of August. of the same year, the governor made his decree, granting the permission solicited ; .under the express condition
that, until the establishment of the mill, the grant cf the land, which
will be of two miles and a half to-each wind, making. a square of
fi'e miles, in order that he may Use the timber, &c., shall be, of no
effect.
Ten thousand acres of this land were surveyed upon Little.Trout
creek, agreeably to the calls of the grant. '•Four thousand acres
were surveyed by George J. F. Clarke, public surveyor, on the 8th
day of February 1820, in Turnbull's swamp, at Mosquito, more than
one hundred m?*ilesto the southwaid from the first location, and between which and it there is no water communication except by the
open sea; and the remaining two thousand acres were, on the 20th
of February 1820, surveyed by said Clarke, at Bow Legs hammock,
about the same distance to the west, and from the first survey, between which and those two thousand. acres, there is no water communication at all.
The petitioner alleges, that in compliance with the condition of
said grant, he, in the year 1819, expended ix or eight thousand
dollars in the erection of a water saw-mill, which was nearly'completed ; but that, owing -to various difficulties, and the embarrassments of said province, the mill did not go into operation.
That, since the cession of the Floridas to the United States, he has
expended upwards of twenty tlhousand dollars in the erection of a
steam saw-mill on the tract of ten thousand acres, which was cornpleted, a'nd some time in full operation ; but that in the month of
July .1828, it was entirely destroyed by fire, and that he has since
commenced another, upon a much more extensive scale. This last
hias been completed since the filing of the petition in'this case.
The answerff 'the district attorney denies the power of the governor to •make this grant; and puts the claimant to the proof of all
the allegations contained in his petition, and insists that :he has not
complied with' th condition of the concession.

IANUARY TERM 1836.
(United States v; Sibbald.]

That by a decree of governor Coppinger, bearing.date the 29th of
October of the same year (White's Compilations), the term of six
months was limited for the performance cf the conditions of all grants
of this nature ; and that it was theit especially decreed by said governor, that all those grants, the conditions of which were not performed at the expiration of said six months, should be null and void,
and that the lands should be annexed to the class of public land;
which decree was subsequently, to wit on the 18th day of January
1819, by another decree of the same governor, fully iffirmed : and
that the said Charles F. Sibbald did not erect the. said saw-mill
within the said term of six months, and that consequentl3 said concession, at the expiration thereof, became null and void, and the lands
were annexed to the class of public lands.
The original concession in this case was not to be found in the
archives; but a copy certified by, Thomas de Aguilar, late secretary
of the government of the province, was produced and proved.
The proof in relation to the building of the mills, is substantially.
as stated .in the petition, and a duly certified copy of the'survey was
also produced.
Points submitted on the part of the United States in the court
below.:
1. AsIto the power of the governor to make the grant.
This question is considered, by thc court bel6w, as 'settled by the
several decisions of the court.
2. As to the validity of the-surveys of four thousand and two
thousand acres.
This was also considered as settled against the claimant by the
decision of this court ; and the clainlbrant has appealed as to this part
of the decree.
3. Did Sibbald, the grantee, perform the condition of this concession, eitther literally or substantially?
The superior court decided in favour of the petitioner, for ten
thousand acres; and against the claim 9f the petitioner to tho six
thousand acres.
Both parties appealed1 to this court.
Mr White, for appellee.
This is what is called a mill grant; i'agrant of a prescribed quantity of land, on the. express condition of establishing a water saw-

316

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Sibbald.)

mili on the river St John,.and Cofie's, or watercourse, called Six
Mile or Trout creek. No specific time is limited 'in the decree within
which the mill was to be erected and put in operation. The governor contented himself with declaring that,.until the memorialist

should "settle (establisb) the said mill, this grant shall be of no
effect."
The evidence in ihe record- is ample to show that this condition
was fully complied with. The first millwas built in 1819, and carried away by a freshet. The second was built in 1827, and was in
operation until 1828, when it was destroyed by fire, in July 1828.
The third, and last, was built and went into operation in 1829.
United States v. Richard, 8 Peters 470. This is a case of a similar grant made by the same governor, which was confirmed by the
supreme court, of a later date than this. In that case, as in this,
the condition was not complied with until after the 24th of.January
1818. That case also decides that these grants conveyed the lands,
and not the timber merely. The grant to the claimant was made
on the 2d of August 1816 ; and the certificate of the secretary bears
date on the succeeding day.
The memorial asks for an order of survey,-" together with suitable warrants to survey the ground ;" and this is granted by the decree, "concedo su permisso." Under this authority, the surveyorgeneral surveyed the prescribed quantity of lands in detached parcels,
on the 2d of May 1819, and on the 8th and 20th of February 1820.
In Richard's case, above referred to, the surveys were made in detached parcels, and at a later period than this. United States v.
Clarke, 8 Peters 436. This, and the other- cases decided at the
same term, all affirm the authority of -the governors of, East Florida
to make these. grants.
Where the grants had issued before the 24th of January 1818,
they recognise the authority of the governors to make orders of sur-

vey (or the lands granted ; and of the surveyor-general to execute
thema after that date. But the court, in that case, rejected a claim
to land, taken up under an order of survey, changing,, asto a part of
the land, the location specified in the original grant, which order
was made on the 25th of January 1819 ; considering it as equivalent
to a new grant: and the supposed analogy between That case and'
the one now under consideration presents the only question which
can arise here.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Sibbald.)

A brief examination of thtit case, in its application to the one at
bar, will show the want of analogy between them.
On the 3d of April 1816, George F. Clarke obtained a grant of
five miles square, with a specific location, "on the west side of St
John's river, above Black creek, at a place called White Spring." It
was an absolute title for so much land at a specified place, with the
usual proviso, " without prejudice to others." But Mr Clarke was
not satisfied with the land granted to him. Although there was
sufficient vacant or public land at. the specified place to make up the
qua'ntity granted, yet-it "did not answer his expectation ;" and stating this fact in his petition, to the governor, on the 251h of January
1819, he asked that the surveyor might be authorized to survey the
one half of the quantity specified in the first grant at another place,
viz. "on the Hammock, called Lang's and Cone's, on Mizzel's lake."
And the governor so ordered it. This raised the question in that
case.
The court held that this change of location could not be authorized
by the governor after the 24th of January 1818 ; that the grant to
Clarke conveyed the land described in it, and no other ; and that a
permit to survey other lands was, in effect, a new order of survey,
which the governor had not power to make on the 25th of January
1819. The principle 's not questioned ; but 'that is not the case of
the present claimant.
The memorialist, Charles Sibbald, applied for .a situation on which
to erect his mill, which he specified, and for a grant of land of five
miles square, "together with suitablewarrants, for the survey of
ground, which occupies two and a half miles on every side, making
a square of five miles, or an equivalent quantity, in case this situation may not allow of the said figure." And "the same is granted"
by the governor-Concedo su permisso.
The reference in the decree to the memorial makes the latter in-.
strument part of the decree itself. Then it is a grant or concession
of a tract of land two and a half miles on every side, making a square
of five miles, on Trout creek, or an equivalent quantity elsewhere;in case that situation may not allow of the said figure. In other
words, the grant, quoad the location, was alternative. It was to be.
surveyed on Trout creek if that situation should allow of the said
figure ; that is, if a sufficient quantity of vacant or public land should
be found there : but-if not, authority was given to take up the deficie'ncv, "its equivalent," elsewhere.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Sibbald.]

It was apprehended at the time the grant was issued (August 2,
1816), that the requisite quantity of vacant or public land would not
be found on Trout creek.. This is manifest by the language of the
meAnurial, and the decree which adopts it.
The power to change the location, as to such deficient quantity,
to search for an equivalent elsewhere, .was therefore given by the
grant itself. It is not a new order of survey granted by the governor
after the 24th of January 181"8, authorizing a change of location,
as in Clarke's case.; but it is a contingent authority to change the
location embodiedin the grant givefi on the 2d of August 1816 ; at
a time when the powers of the governor were not restrained by the
limitations in the treaty. The total want of analogy between it and
the case of the-United States v. Clarke will therefore be obvious.
The governor, in this case, grants to Charles Sibbald a tract of
land of five miles square, to.be siirveyed at the-place specified in his
memorial, Trout creek, if a sufficient quantity of vacant or public
land should be found there; but if not, then to be surveyed elsewhere, where an equivalent quantity of vacant land 'could be found.
It was, in other woris, (sofor as regards the quantity which might
be deficient at Trout creek,, from the want of a sufficient.quantity of
vacant lands there) a grant of land without a specific location ; and
the objection resolves itself into the inquiry "W lhther the governor
had power to make such a grant on the 2d 0f August 1816 ." If
the question were now of first impression, it would seem to be free
from difficulty.
The governor grants to the petitioner a certain prescribed quantity
of the public domain. What part of this domain would be embraced
in the grant was uncertain at the date of the concession, because of
the uncertainty whether the prescribed quantity of public land could
be found in the place where the petitioner desired, and the governor
was willing that the grant should be laid : sed id certum est quod
certum reddi potest; and the governor provided the means by which
this certainty should be attained. The memorial asks for, and the
decree grants, a certain quantity of land, at a particular place; and,
contingently, that a part of it may be surveyed elsewhere, "together
with suitable warrants for a survey" of this land, or its equivalent.
The decree allows the prayer, and' directs the issue of "the appropriate certificate from the secretary's office in customary form." That
certificate in customary form was the copy of the memorial and decree; and these were the warrant to the surveyor to determine the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Sibbald.]

contingency on which the authority to change the location would
arise.
The power was properly delegated to the surveyor, because the
contingent authority to change the location depended upon a fact,
(whether there was a sufficient quantity of vacant land on Trout
creek) which it was the appropriate duty of that officer to ascertain.
The execution*of the warrant by the survey of land, in pursuance of
the authority thus given, rendered certain that (the location of t he
land) which was before uncertain, and thus completed the petitioner's title.
But looking to the decision heretofore made'on the-various c,,ses
fi'om Florida, even this argument seems unnecessary.. The treaty
declares valid all grants made "by his catholic majesty, or his'lawful
authorities." That the governor of East Florida was one of these
lawful authorities, was decided in Clark's case. The governor of
East Florida, who, it is thus ascertained, was authorized to grant
lands in that territory, did, in point of fact, make this grant ; with
this contingent authority to change the location, in due form.
And the court say in that case, "a grant made by a governor, if
authorized to grant lands in his province, is prima facie evidence that
his power was not exteeded. The connexion between the crown
and the governor justifies.the presumption that he'acts according to
his orders. Should he disobey them, his hopes are blasted,1and he
exposes himself to punishment. His orders are known to himself
and those from whom they proceed, but may not be known to the
world."
This was but a reiteration of the principle decided in the case of
Arredondo ; and the court add, " he who would controvert a grant
executed by the lawful authority with all the solemnities required
by law, takes upon himself the burthen of showing that the officer
has transcended the powers conferred upon him, or that the transaction is tainted with fraud." The time was, when these principles
were resisted with the utmost confidence; but they have now the
sanction of judicial authority.
This grant by governor Coppinger, with the contingent authority
to change the location, then, is prima facie evidence that he did not
exceed his power in making it. But still further, it is entitled to the
same consideration in this court as it would have received, "if the
territories had remained under the jurisdiction of his catholic majesty," by the authorities of Spain

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Sibbald.]

"We have an opportunity to know what that consideration was.
The grant was made in 1816; the exchange of flags took place in
1822. During the intervening time, the territories remained "under
the jurisdiction of his catholic majesty."
The surveyor is entitled to the benefit of the principle which is
common to all officers charged with the performance of public duties.
Under the grant of governor Coppinger, the lands were surveyed
so far as vacant lands were found at the spot designated by the
grant ; and, when these were exhaused, the surveyor sought, as he
was required to do by the terms of the grant, an equivalent elsewhere.
and returned his surveys to the proper office, as he was bound to do.
The presumption that he did these things, in. al. verb., that he* did
his duty, is the necessary result of the principle. How it corresponded .with the fact, is manifest from thei conduct of the Spanish
authorities.
The memorialist took possession of his lands, built and rebuilt his
mills; and his title was never questioned by those authorities.
It seems wholly unnecessary to extend these remarks.
The attorney-general, for the United States, contended that there
were some material words in the granit to Richard, 8 Peters 407,
which are not to be found in the grant under the consideration of
the court. The words are, in Richard's case, "a grant of an equiva-,
lent quantity."
This grant is also of a. square of five miles; and the plain import of
the terms is, that the surveys shall not be disconnected.
The grant is made on the limited application for land at a place
designated, for sixteen thousand acres. Under this grant ten thousand acres were surveyed at this place ; and afterwards two tracts
one hundred miles off, one of four thousand, and one of two thousand
acres., The court of Florida on this account properly refused to confirm the two last surveys.
There is another ground of objection. Sibbald had not performed
the condition of:the grant. It is expressly declared, that until the
condition is peiformed it shall have no effect. The saw-mill was
not constructed until three years after the grant was made. In
the interval, on the 29th of October 1819, governor Coppinger had
made an order limiting the execution of all such grants to six months.
Whte's Compilations 250.
Ihwas entirely competent for governor Coppinger to make an order

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(United States v. Sibbald.]

limiting the performance of such a condition to six months; Arredondo's case, 6 Peters 691-; and no title vested under the grant
until the condition was executed ; or, if he had, until performance,
an equitable title, he was bound to comply with the condition.
If the petition of Sibbalki had prayed for an equivalent in land
elsewhere, in the event of his not being able to obtain the requisite
quantity at one place'; no objection on the ground of the severance
of the .surveys would be made. But the petition is for, an equivalent
at the place.
No permission from governor Coppinger to take the land in any
other place is shown ; and the act of the surveyor without such authority is of no avail.
In Clarke's case the words are, "or its equivalent." 8 Peters 440.
But the court decided that the land described in the petition, and no
Wtfore, vas granted.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
These are cross appeals from th 9 decree of the judge of the superior court of East Florida, on the petition of Sibbald ; praying for a
confirmation of his claim to sixteen thousand acres of land, pursuant
to the acts of congress for adjusting land claims in Florida.
The petition was in the form prescribed by law, presenting a case
proper for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court below. On
the 16th of July 1816, the petitioner applied to the gowrnor of East
Florida, setting forth that he was desirous of erecting machinery for
sawing timber on Little Trout creek, on the north side of the river
St John's and that of Nassau: "he asks permission for that purpose,
with tile corresponding surety of the grant of land of five miles square,
or its equivalent, in the event that thissituation will not permit the
said form; which land will insure, the continued supply of timber."
On the 2d of August 1816, the governor decrees, "the permission
solicited by this party is granted, without injury to third persons;
under the express condition that until the establishment of the mill,
the grant of the land, which will be a square of five miles, in order
that he may use the timber, shall be of no effect," &c. Pursuant
to this grant, a survey was made on the 2d of May 1819, of ten
thousand acres, at the place catted for in.the grant. In February
1820, four thousand acres were. surveyed in another place, called
TurnbulPs Swamp, at the distance of thirty miles from the first survey; and afterwards, the residue, two.thousand acres, was surveyed,
VOL. X.-2 q

$22

SUPREME COURT.
[lnited States .v. Sibbald.]

at a place called'Bow Legs Hammock, at the distance ot twenty or
thirty miles. It 1819, Sibbald commenced the erection of a sawmill on the ten thpusand acre tract, and continued it till its completion, except the dam; which would have been completed had not
the negroes and horses employed:- been stolen.:, and while the millwright was absent in pursuit of them, the dam was carried away by
a freshet. The work was then abandoned, after an expenditure of
more than '5000 dollars. In September 1827, another mill was
built and in operation; which was destroyed by fire in July 1828.
Another was commenced in October 1828, which went into operacion in June 1829, and so continues to the present time; is of
seventy horse powe, and calculated to saw twenty thousand feet of.
lumber a day.
By the decree of the court below, the claimof the petitioner was
confirmed as to the ten thousand acre survey on Trout creek, and
rejected as to the two remaining surveys of four thousand, and two
thousand acres; from whiah decree both parties appealed. Various
objections to the claim were made on the hearing, but only two were.
relied on here.
1. That the grant was on a condition precedent which was not
begun to be performed till the grant became, forfeited by the order of
the governor, made the 29th of October 1818, declaring all grants
made in consideration of mechanical improvements to be made, to
be void if the conditions were not performed in sixg months. It is
unnecessary to decide on the effect of this order; or whether by the
acts which authorize the courts of Missouri and Florida to decide on
claims to lands therein, congress intended to assert a right by forfeiture for condition broken, to lands which had been once legally,
granted. The evidence in this and the other cases which have been
decided, is very full and clear, that no grant has ever been annulled
or revoked by the Spanish authorities for any cause ; and that there
is no instance of a g0ernor having granted land which had been
before granted on condition: and it may well be doubted, whether it
would have been re-annexed to the royal domain had the province
remained under the dominion of the king of Siin: nor is there any
provision of any law of congress, which specially requires the court
to inquire into the performance of conditions on which grants were
made.
By the eighth article.of the treaty of cession by Spain to the United
States, the same time is allowed to the owners of land so granted, to

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Sibbald.]

fulfil the conditions of their grants after the date of the treaty, as was
limited in the grants. -Wehave heretofore decided, in the case of
Arredondo, that as to individual rights, the treaty is to be considered
as dated at its ratification; 6 Peters 748, 749 : the erection of a mill
in 1819 or 1820 would, therefore, be in time to save a forfeiture. No
time was limited in the grant; and no greater effect can be given to
the governor's order fixing the time for the performance of conditions,
than if the limitation had been contained in the grant. We have
also decided, that this provision of the treaty is not confined to owners in possession of lands by occupancy or residence, but extends to
.all persons who have a legal seisin and possession of land in virtue
of a grant; 6 Peters 743 : and that in the situation of the province
and the claimants to land at the time of the cession, it was enough
if they would show a performance of the condition cy pres. We are
therefore of opinion that the petitioner began the erection of the mill •
in time to save the forfeiture; and that he has shown the performance
of such acts as amount to a compliance with the condition, according.
to the rules of equity which goverrk these cases.
2. It is objected that the terms of the grant do not authorize
a survey of any part of the sixteen thousand acres, in any other than
in the place called for. The petition was for a grant of sixteen
thousand acres, or its equivalent, if its situation would not admit of
this form ; the permission solicited was granted, which by reference
makes the petition a part of the grant. It is.
in full proof that the
quantity could not be surveyed at the place designated without in.
terferingwith land which had been previously granted ; which would
have been contrary to the'express words of the grant, "without injury'to third persons." It is also in proof, without contradiction, that
in order to obtain the ten thousand acres on Trout creek, it was necessary to go round one or two different tracts, and that no more
could have been obtained any where near it of any value ; the shape
of the survey'is irregular, and not at all in conformity with the rules
prescribed to urveyors; which require the surveys to be in rectan-.
gular parallelograms, the front of which on rivers, creeks and roads
not to exceed one third of the depth. It was certainly the intention
of the petitioner and the governor, that there should be a grant of five
miles square, which was the usual quantity granted in consideration
of the erection of mills : and we think that taking the petition and
grant, together with the manifest intention of both parties, the equivalent for any deficiency on.Trout creek may be referred to quatitity

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Sibbald.]

rather than to the form of the survey. It would be a very rigid construction of the grant, to make the privilege of altering the shape of
the survey, an equivalent, for the loss of six thousand acres of land.
That such was not the intention of the governor is e rident from the
evidence of Mr Fernandez ; who testifies, 'that ou- ascertaining that
part of the land had been previously granted, he informed the governor, who gave Sibbald the right to locate his grant at any vacant
place suitable for the erection of a saw-mill. The surveyor-general
of the province testified, that he. filled that office in East Florida from
1811 to 1821, that he located grants by surveying any land which
was designated by the grantee, to which no objection was made by
any of the authorities under the Spanish government; and which
was considered an inherent privilege of the grantee without any order
from the government. We are therefore of opinion, that the title of
the petitioner to the whole quantity of land specified in the grant is
valid by the law of nations, of Spain, the United States, and the
stipulations of the treaty between Spain and the United StatesAor
the cession of the Floridas to the latter; and ought to be confirmed
to him ; according to the several surveys made as returned, with the
record. We do therefore order, adjudge and decree, that the decree
of the court below, confirming the title of the petitioner to the ten
thousand acres on Trout creek, be, and the same is hereby aflirmhed.
And proceeding to render such decree as the court below ought to.
have rendered, this court doth further order, adjudge and decree that
the decree of the court below, rejecting the claim of the petitioners
to the land embraced in the surveys of four thousand acres, and of
two thousand acres, as returned with the.record, be, and the same
is hereby reversed and annulled. That the claim of 'the petitioner
to the same be, and the same is hereby confirmed and declared valid ;
and that the surveyor of public lands in the eastern district of Florida be, and is hereby directed to do and cause to be done, all the
acts and things enjoined on him by law in relation to the lands
within said surveys.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript ol the record
from the superior court for the district of East Florida, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said superior court
confirming the title of the petitioner to the ten -thousand acres on

JANUARY TERM 1836.

325

[United States v. Sibbald.]

Trout creek be, and the same is "hereby affirmed; and that the residue of the decree of the said superior court be, and the same is hereby
reversed and annulled.- And this court, proceeding to render such
decree as the said superior court ought to have rendered, doth order,
adjudge and decree, that the claim of the petitionerto the land embraced ini.the surveys of four thousand acres, and of two thousand
acres, as returned with and contained in the record, is valid, and that
the same be,. and is hereby confirmed. And it is further ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this court, that the surveyor of public
lands in the eastern district of Florida. be, and he is hereby directed
to do, and cause to be done, all the acts and things enjoined on him
by law in relation to the. lands within said survey. And that the
said cause-be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said superior
court to cause further to be done therein, what'of right and according
to law and justice, and in conformity to. the opinion and decree of
this court, ought to be done.
The same decree was given in the case of Sibbald, appellant v:
The United States.

