108

SAMUEL

SUPREME COURT.

B.

HOBART

AND

OTHERS, CLAIMANTS

HOPE AND CARGO, APPELLANTS V.

ANDREW

OF THE BRI,
DROGAN AND

OTHERS, LIBELLANTS.

Salvage. The brig Hope, with a valuable cargo, had been conducted, in the evening,
by a pilot inside of Mobile Point, where pilots of the outer harbor usually leave
vessels which they pilot inside of that bar. The pilot was discharged, and the Hope
proceeded up the bay of Mobile. The wind soon after changed, blew a violent gale
from the northwest, both anchors parted, and the Hope was driven on a shoal outside of the point, among the east breakers. The gale increased to a hurricane, and
forced the vessel on her beam-ends, and her masts and bowsprit were cut away.
The master and crew deserted her to save their lives. After various fruitless efforts
to save her, the libellants, all pilots of the outer harbor of Mobile, two days after
she was stranded, and while yet in great peril, succeeded; and she was brought up
to the city of Mobile by them, towed by their pilot-boat, assisted by a steamboat
employed by them. On a libel for salvage, the district court of the United States
for the district of Alabama allowed, as salvage, one-third of $15,299 58, the appraised value of the brig and cargo. The owners of the brig and cargo appealed to
this court.
The amount of salvage allowed by the district conrt is certainly not, under the circumstances of the case, unreasonable. This court is not in the habit of revising
such decrees as to the amount of salvage, unless upon some clear and palpable mistake, or gross over-allowance of the court below. It is equally against sound
policy and public convenience to encourage appeals of this sort in matters of discretion; unless there has beer, ,omo; vihlation of the just principles which ought to regulate the subject.
Suits for pilotage on the high seas, and on waters navigable, from the sea, as far as
the tide ebbs and flows, are within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States. The service is strictly maritime, and falls within the principles already established by this court in the case of the Thomas Jefferson, (10 Wheaton's
R. 428,) and Peyroux v. Howard, (6 Peters's R. 682.)
The jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States, in cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, is not ousted by the adoption of the state laws by the act of
congress. The only effect is to leave the jurisdiction concurrent in the statecourts:
and, if the party should sue in the admiralty, to limit his recovery to the same precise
sum, to which he would be entitled under the ptate laws, adopted by congress,
if he should sue in the state courts.
A pilot, while acting within the strict line of his duty, however he may entitle himself to extraordinary pilotage compensation for extraordinary services, as contradistinguished from ordinary pilotage for ordinary services, cannot be entitled to
claim salvage. In this respect he is not distinguished from auy other officer, public
or private, acting within the appropriate sphere of his duty. But a pilot, as such,
is not disabled, in virtue of his office, from becoming a salvor. On the contrary,
whenever he performs salvage services beyond the line of his appropriate duties, or
under circumstances, to whieh those duties do not justly attach; he stands in the

JANUARY TERM, 1836.

109

same relation to the property as any other salvor: that is, with a title to compensation to the extent of the merit of his services, viewed in the light of a liberal public
policy.
Seamen, in the ordinary course of things, in the performance of their duties, are not
allowed to become salvors, whatever may have been the perils, or hardships, or gallantry of their services in saving the ship and cargo. Extraordinary events may
occur, in which their connexion with the ship may be dissolved de facto, or by operation of law ; or they may exceed their proper duty, in which cases they may be
permitted to claim as salvors.
It is not within the scope of the positive duties of a pilot to go to the rescue of a
wrecked vessel, and employ himself in saving her or her cargo, when she was
wholly unnavigable. That is a duty entirely distinct in its nature, and no more
belonging to a pilot, than it would be to supply such a vessel with masts or sails, or
to employ lighters to discharge her cargo, in order to float her. It is properly a salvage service, involving duties and responsibilities, for which his employment may
peculiarly fit him; but yet in no sense included in the duty of navigating the bhip.
This was a case where the libellants acted as salvors, and not as pilots. They had,
at the' time, no particular relation to the distressed ship. They proffered useful services as volunteers, without any pre-existing covenant, that connected them with
the duty of employing themselves for her preservation. The duties they undertook
were far beyond any belonging to pilots, and precisely those belonging to salvors.

ON appeal from the district court of the United States for the
southern district of Alabama.
The ship Hope. was bound to Mobile from Havana, in January, 1832, with a cargo of fruit, sugar, coffee, segars, and tobacco. She arrived off the port of Mobile on the 24th January,
1832, took a pilot, and was carried safely within Mobile Point,
to a place at which the pilots are usually discharged; the pilot
then left her, and she proceeded some distance up the bay, and
came to anchor about six miles within Mobile Point.
In the night, the wind rose to a powerful gale ; in the course
of which' the brig parted her cables, and was driven by the force
of the winds and waves below Mobile Point, where she grounded.
The master and crew,'in order to save- their lives, took to the
boat, and left the brig and cargo.
The vessel remained grounded for some time in great peril,
having bilged, and having four feet water in her hold. The libellants, who were pilots of the outer harbor of Mobile, after
having, without success, made previous efforts to board her, at
length succeeded; and less than half an hour afterwards, the wind
having changed, the vessel and cargo floated off; and the libellants took her in charge. Had not the libellants been on board

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobart et at. v. Drogan et al.]

the Hope at the time the wird changed, she would have been
driven on the opposite shore, and would, with her cargo, in the
opinion of the witnesses examined in the district court, have
been totally lost. She was towed by the boats of the libellants
into the port of Mobile.
The libellants proceeded for salvage against the Hope and
cargo, and the district court awarded to them, as salvage, onethird of the value of the ship and cargo. The total value of the
property saved was $15,299 58.
The owners appealed to this Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Ogden, fbr the appellants, and
by Mr. Southard, for the appellees.
The facts of the case are stated more at large in the opinion
of the court.
Mr. Ogden contended, that as the libellants were pilots of the
outer bay of Mobile, they could not be considered as salvors;
and could not claim salvage for such services as those which had
been rendered to the Hope. The proceedings in the district
court were for salvagi, as appears by the bill ; and the decree
of that court, made on the 18th January, 1833, is for one-third
of the amount of the appraised value of the property saved, "as
salvage."
Having claimed as salvors, and the law not authorizing such
a claim, they cannot now, by an amendment of the libel, state
such a claim as this court will ratify. The amendment would
alter the whole nature of the case; and although amendments are,
in many cases, allowed in an appellate court, this is not such a
case. Cited 9 Cranch, 244, 284. The Edward 1 Wheat. 261;
7 Cranch, 570; Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. 52.
The following points were presented for the consideration of
the court :
1. That it was the duty of the libellants, as pilots, to give
any assistance in their power, to vessels in distress, within the
limits of their pilot ground ; and this being a service rendered in
discharge of their duty, forms no case for a claim of salvage.
2. That the act of congress leaves the regulations of pilots

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Hobart et al. v. Drogan et al.]

to the state laws ; and by the law of Alabama, any extra allow-,
ance claimed by pilots, must be fixed by the wardens of the
port.
3. That the district court of Alabama had no jurisdiction in
this case.
By the libel it appears that the libellants were pilots of the
port of Mobile, in Alabama ; and the first question for the consideration of the court is, whether pilots can claim salvage under the circumstance of this case.
The pinciples of law which regulate such claims, claims for
compensation and reward for services which are performed in
the ordinary course of the duties of the sitation of the person
who performs them, virtute officii, are reported in the case of
Le Tigre, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 570, 71. A pilot is not entitled to
salvage unless he goes beyond'his ordinary duties. A person who
is bound to render assistance in saving a ship, cannot be considered a salvor; The Neptune, I Hog. Ad. Rep. 266 ; The Joseph,
1 Rob. Ad. Rep. 257. A pilot is not to claim as a salvor. Bees.
Ad. Rep. 212. A case has been decided by Mr. Justice Thompson,
in the circuit court of the southern district of New York, in which
pilots who had rescued the ship from" great danger, were not admitted to be salvors. The case of the Wave, Mss. Rep. The
danger in which the vessel may be, does not lessen the duty of a
pilot to rescue and save her. When a vessel is in distress, and is
lound in that situation by pilots on their cruising ground, it is
their duty as pilots to bring her into port. If the services have
been great, they are entitled to extra pilotage, to be decided according to the laws of the state of which the port out of which
the pilots cruise is a part. The regulations of pilots of the port
of Mobile, make provision for extra compensation in such cases;
and in conformity with these regulations, and under them, the
libellants were bound to present their claims.
It was contended that the case of the Wave was in all important particulars the same as the case before the court. The
Wave was outside of the port of New York, was in great peril,
and was boarded off Sandy Hook by the pilots. The court would
allow no salvage.
On the second point, it was argued that if the libeilants cannot

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobart et al. v. Drogan et al.]

claim as salvors, they cannot claim extra compensation by proceeding in the district court by a libel. The compensation or
extra allowance must-be fixed, accordint to the laws of Alabama,
by the wardens of the port of Mobile.
It is admitted that claims for services rendered by pilots which
may entitle them to extra allowances, may be entertained in the
admiralty; but the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States in such cases is concurrent with that of the courts of-the
States-It is not exclusive. In the same manner, actions for
seamen's wages may be maintained in the courts of common law,
although they are more properly of admiralty proceedings. It is
for convenience, as all the seamen of a ship may be joined in a
libel for wages, that such claims are generally presented in the
admiralty; and not because the admiralty has exclusive cognizance of them. The jurisdiction of the courts of common law
and of courts of admiralty being concurrent, the recovery in both.
courts should be the same, and should be reguldted and limited
by the provisions of a law applicable to the case. To suppose
that proceedings in one court would produce a different result,
a higher or a lower rate of compensation, wouild not be proper.
The principles of the law in both courts should be alike, as would
be the evidence ; and the application of these principles should be
the same.
If then a compensation is fixed by law for the services .of a
pilot, he cannot, by coming into theadmiralty, ask a greater
compensation than is allowed him by a law applicable to the case.
If, by the provisions of a law, extra compensation -is to be given,
and tile manner in which the amount of such compensation is to
be determined is fixed ;'no recoverycan be had in the admiralty
until after a'proceeding under the provisions of the law shall have
determined the amount of the allowances; and that alone can be
recovered in the admiralty. Has the law fixed any compensation for the services of -pilots who perform ordinary or extraordinary duties?
The constitution of the United States gives to congress the
power to regulate commerce. Under this power it may be that'
congress might regulate the pilots in all the ports of the United
States; but it is not admitted that they could do this to the full

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[lHobart et al.v. Drogan et al.]

extent : they could not regulate the compensation to pilots, for,
-if they could, they might regulate the wharves and fix the rate
of wharfage in all the seaports. The duties of pilots, their regulation, their compensation, are properly left to the legislatures
of the states of the Union. Congress, whatever may be their
powers, have, by an act passed on the 7th of'August, 1794, (2
Laws U. S. chap. 9, sec. 4,) declared that pilots in the ports of
the United States shall be regulated by state laws. By this provision, the laws of the states are to govern in all the claims made
by pilots, until congress shall interfere.
Alabama 'has passed laws for the government and regulation
of pilots and pilotage ; the fare for the ordinary services of pilots
is fixed, and provision is made for determining the compensation
for extraordinary services. This is to .be determined by the
wardens of the port. Their law is in all respects the samz as the
law relative to pilots in New York.
It has been decided by Mr. Justice Thompson, in the case of
the Wave, that congress has, by their act of 1794, adopted all
the laws of the states in relation to pilots. If so, then the libellants could not proceed in the district court of Alabama, as that
court had'no jurisdiction of the case.
Mr. Southard, for the' appellees.
The libellants are pilots of the outer harbor of Mobile ; and
their duty is to conduct vessels from the gulf of Mexico into the
bay of Mobile. They performed services by which the brig
Hope and cargo were saved from a total loss and entire destruction ; and by the district court of the United States for the district of Alabama, they have been allowed one-third of the value
of the property saved, as salvage. They presented themselves
before that court as salvors, and their claim here is purely a
question of salvage. This claim is distinctly made in the libel
as a claim for salvage ; and it will be treated as such in the argument now addressed to the cou-rt.
It is not denied that the services of the libellants were meritorious. They boarded the vessel when she was in extreme peril,
while she was yet aground, before she floated, off by the change
of.wind; she was saved from being driven to the opposite shoal,
VOL. X.-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobart et al.
v. Drogan et al.]

where she would have been totally wrecked. All the duty required from pilots had been done when the Hope had been ionducted up to the inner harbor of Mobile. For twenty-seven
hours the pilot who had navigated her up to Mobile had been on
board of the Hope, and he was properly discharged: all that
could be required of a pilot of the outer harbor had been done,
and his connexion with the vessel was at an end. If, after a vessel arrives in the inner bay, a pilot is wanted, a pilot of that bay
is called upon. Thus one of the libellants who had piloted the
vessel up the bay, had ceased to have any connexion with her;
and the other libellants never had any thing to do with her, until
they went on board of her after the disasters had occurred which
had driven her on shore. For two hours after the pilot had left
her she had remained 't anchor. If, within that time, her situation had become such as to require a pilot, if she had become
dismasted, cast away, sunk, no duties could have been called for
from the pilot of the outer harbor. Pilots are not general conservators of shipping. They are not to be called upon more than
any other persons to save vessels.
The Hope had been driven out to sea; she was on shore half
a mile out of Mobile Point ; she was in no " port, "1 no " harbor,"
no "bay," which are the places mentioned in the act of congress of 1794. The place where she lay was on "the high seas,"
beyond the local jurisdiction of the state of Alabama, or of any
state; in no county. All the authorities make'the plaee the "high
seas." It was where "the winds and waves prevail without
check or control :" beyond the fauces terre. She was a wreck
on the ocean.
Other facts are proper to be considered. The ship and cargo
were in a situation of imminent peril ; her masts and spars were
cut away. She had no cable, no anchor; all were lost. She
was striking on the ground, amidst the breakers; had sprung
aleak, and had two feet of water in her hold before she struck
on the bank, and upwards of three feet when she floated, with
the libellants on board ; her pumps were choked; she had a
signal of distress at the stump of the mast ; the captain and crew
had deserted her to save their lives, and there was no living
man on board.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Hobart et al. v" Drogan ct al.]

The Ho'pe was.not inia situation to require a pilot. No pilotage services would have been useful to her: and the evidence
shows that such was the opinion of the master, for he did not call
on the libellants, as pilots, to go to the rescue of the vessel.
While she vas in this situation, some persons, other than the
libellants, went on board of her and saved some articles. They
could not remain with hci, and she was again abandoned and
deserted. Twenty-four hours afterwards the libellants took charge
of her, The articles saved from the vessel, before the libellants
boarded her, were the subject of salvage. These cir'cumstances,
and others of equal importance, of the same character, exhibit a
case of property actually rescued by the libellants from entire
-loss, at great hazard to them, and with great labor and difficulty.
If they are considered as salvors by this court, the allowance of
the distict court must be, ratified. Salvage is the reward for
efficient services; and it is a premium which is given to induce
like efforts, when, by the casualties of the ocean, they are required. The proposition of the counsel for the appellants is, that
the libellants were pilots,, and not salvors. If this is the case
pilots can never be salvors. To show that this is not the law,
the following cases were cited: The Helen, 3 Rob. Rep. 183 ;
the Apollo, 3 Rob. 249; the Two Catharines, 2 Mason's Rep.
335, 338; 2 Cranch, 268.
To carry the p'inciple contended for by the counsel of the
appellants into elect, would produce the highest injustice. An
officer performing acts within the sphere of his duty, is not to ask
for more than his regular compensation ; but beyond it, and out of
the line of his duty, there is no reason why services so extensive,
if meritorious, shall not be rewarded.
3 Kent's Commentaries,
197, 198. To say that pilots shall not have salvage, in any case,
is a dangerous position ; dangerous to humanity, dangerous to
commercial property, and ought not to be admitted.
As to the appellant's second point, it is submitted that to maintain it, counsel must show that, by law and regulati6n, it was the
duty of the pilots to save the Hope in the situation in which she
Was.

As she was not in any of the places mentioned in the act of
"
no " harbor," no " bay," no
" port,

congress of 1794 ; in no.

SUPREME COURT.
[Huobart et al. v. Drogan at al.]

" haven," the act does not apply : the law, on a doubtltd point,
Jhould not receive a severe construction.
Btut the constitutionality of that law, if correctly construed by
the counsel for the appellants, may be doubted. If there can be
power in the states to regulate pilots in the bays, harbors, and
havens of the United States ; if congress can give such powers;
the whole jurisdiction of the admiralty may be surrendered and
no longer exist in the courts of the United States., If congress
can authorize the regulation of pilots in harbors, by the states,
no power exists in congress to give to the btates the regulation
of pilots on the high seas.
It may be doubted if congress can say to a party who has a
case of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, your case shall be
decided by the wardens of a port in one of the states. The
act of 1794 was but temporary, as.it provides for the regulation
of pilots in the states until otherwise regulated. Pilotage is. a subject, from its very nature, of admiralty jurisdiction ; and it is also
of common law- jurisdiction. But it is denied that congress can
prevent its being cognizable in' courts of admiralty, encumbered by state laws; although it shall be allowed to be withirt
the concurrent jurisdiction of the courts of common law.
The argument that pilotage cannot be (he subject of jurisdic-tion in two courts is not sound. Such. concurrent jurisdiction
frequently exists. Cases are sustained in courts of common law..
which are also cognizable in courts of.chancery. A larger relief
is often sought and obtained in chancery, than is afforded at comnmon law.
If the case of the Wave shall be considered as influencing the
claim of the libellanta, it is submitted that, as the pilot laws ot
New York were passed before the act of congress of 1794, that
act might be considered as having adopted those laws : but Alabama was not a state in 1794; and it will not be claimed that
by prospective legislation congress could adopt state laws to be
enacted at a future period.
The case of the Wave was, in all its material leatutzs, different from that of the Hope. The Wave was within the faucet,
terrwe ; within the pilot ground ; within a bay, a haven, and subject to the laws regulating pilots : and, in that case, it was said by

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Hobart et al. v. Drogan ct al.]

the judge that pilotage is of admiralty juri'sdiction,; and he also
says.that there may be cases in which pilots may be salvors.
This is stated after a full examination of all the decided cases.
Mr.' Ogden, in reply, argued that in the situation the Hope was
when boarded by the libellants, nearly afloat, she should hare
been brought by the libellants into Mobile, in their capacity of
pilots. Had she been found at sea, and in a state of wreck, deserted, the pilots, as pilots, should have taken charge of her.
Until congress shall pass laws regulating pilots theyare necessarily of State regulation.
They reside in the particular
states, and their transactions are essentially connected with the
safety and welfare of the citizens, and with the business of the
states whera they reside. Unless prohibited by congress, the
establishment of a system for their government seems of essential importance and necessity.
When congress declared that pilots should be regulated by
state laws, they did not take away the, admiralty jurisdiction.
They oblige the pilot to submit to the rCgulations of the state's
as to the amount of pilotage; but this ascertained- be may enforce its payment in an admiralty proceeding
Mr. Justice SToity delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal friom a decree of the district court for the
southern district of Alabama, in the case of a libel for salvage,
instituted in the court below by the appellees. That decree
awarded to the appellees one-third of the appraised value of the
brig and cargo as salvage : the appraised value being $15,299 58.
The material facts of the case are as follows. The brig Hope,
belonging to Charlestown, near Boston, being on a voyage friom
the Havana to the port of Mobile, on the 24th of January 1832,
took a pilot (who was one of the-libellants) about ten miles IV.
S. W. from Mobile p6 int, by whom she was conducted inside of
Mobile point, to the place, where the pilots at the outward bar of
that point usually leave vessels which they pilot inside of that bar,
about half past seven o'clock of the evening of the next day; and
lie was then discharged by tih.e master of the brig. The brig
then proceeded on her course up the bay of Mobile, and came-to

118

SUPREME COURT.
fHobart ct al, v. Drogan et al.]

anchor about nine o'clock the same evening. About this time
the wind changed to the northwest, and in the course of the
night it blew it violent.gale ; the brig parted both her anchors,
and was driven outsido of Mobile point about two miles, and then
brought up -among the east breakers. At this time the gale
had increased to a hurricane, the sea broke over the brig in every
direction, and forced her on her beam-ends. At five o'clock in
the morning the masts and the bowsprit were cut away to relieve
jtnd right her, for. the safety of the vessel, cargo, and crew,
and a sillial of distress was hoisted. At noon, the flood tide
making, the breakers increasing, and the gale continuing, there
being two feet of water in the hold, and the punips being choked
with coffee,.the master anid crew, to save their lives and the
ship's papers, left the brig in the long-boat and made for the
shore, and were taken up by the custon-house boat. On the
evening of the next day the master of the brig made arrangements with the libellants, who are all pilot:j of the port of Mobile,
with their boats and the crew of the brig, to make efforts to extricate the brig a'nd cargo from their perilous condition. Accordingly, the next morning an attenpt was made by the libellants and
the inaster (the mate and the crew of the brig declining to assist)
to get on boat d of the brig ; hut it still blew so fresh, that it became
impossible to board her. The master of the brig then went Oil
shore friom the pilot boat, which anchored at Mobile point. About
one o'clock of the-same day the brig shifted her position, and
the libellants discovered her to be nearly afloat. The pilot boats
were then got'under weigh, and in about three-quarters of an
hour afterwards the libcllants, being theni on board,and no other
persons, the brig floated. At this time the wind was blowing
fresh froinE.: S. E. ; and if the brig had not been taken possession Qf by the libellants she would have. been drifted on the west
bank, and have become a complete wreck. Tie brig was then
towed by the pilot boats and a steamboat, procured by the libellants, to theport of Mobile, in the course of the two succeeding
days. Such are the material facts.
In the course of the proceedings in the cour t ' below, al agreement was asserted to have been made between the parties, that,
in case'the vessel and cargo should be saved, the compcnsation

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Hobart et al. v. Drogan et al.]

should be fixed by the chamber of commerce of Mobile. That
agreement, however, is denied, by the libellants, to have been
applicable to the actual circumstanccs of the case ; and no compensation was, in fact, awarded by the chamber of commerce.
That agreement has not been insisted on here in the argument on
either side ; and, indeed, being to.a mere amicable tribunal, as
arbitrators, could not, in a case of this sort, be now insisted up:
on to bar the jurisdiction of the court. It is: wholly unlike. the
case, where a positive law has fixed the mode of ascertaining the
compensation.
'No objection has been made to the amount of salvage decreed
by the court below, if the libellants are entitled to any. - And
the objection has been properly abandoned ; for the amount under
the ci'cumstances is certainly not unreasonable. Besides, this
court is not in the habitfof revising such decrees as to the amount
of salvage, unless upon some clear and palpable mistake or gross
over-allowance of the court below. -It is equally against sound.
policy and public convenience to encourage appeals of this sort
in matters of discretion ; unless there has been some violation of
the just principles which ought to regulate the subject.
Three objections have been made to the decree : First,,that
it was the duty of the libellants, as pilots, to give every assistance in their power to a vessel in distress within the limits of
their pilot gound ; and that this, being a service rendered in.the
discharge of their duty, forms no case for a claim of salvage.
Secondly, that the act of congress on this subject, (act of 7th of
) leaves the regulation of pilots to
of August, 1789, eh. 9.
the state laws ; and that by the laws of Alabama any extra llowance claimed by these pilots must be fixed by the wardens of
the port. Thirdly, that the district court had no jurisdiction of
the case.
In respect to the last objection, it has been urged in a very
limited form, not as an objection to the jurisdiction of the courts
of admiralty to entertain suits for pilotage generally ; but only
for pilotage under circumstances like the preseni, where a fixed'
compensation is established, under theauthority of congress, by
the state laws. We are of opinion that suits for pilotage on the
high seas, and on waters navigable from the sea, as far as the

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobart et al.v. Drogan et al.]

tide ebbs and flows, are within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States. The service is strictly maritime, and
falls within the principles already established by this court in the
case of the Thomas Jefferson, (10 Wheaton R. 428,) and Peyroux v. Howard,-(6 Peters R. 682.)
The other part of the objection is not, in our opinion, maintainable. The jurisdiction of the district courts of the United
States, in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is not
ousted by the adoption of the state laws by the act of congress.
The only effect is to leave the jurisdiction concurrent in the
state courts ; and, if the party should sue in the admiralty, to
limit his recoyery to the same precise sum, to which he would
be entitled under the state laws, adopted by congress, if he
should sue in the state courts.
The second objection has been met at the bar by an argument
of a grave cast, viz. that the act of congress, so far as it adopts
the future law's to be passed by the states on the subject of pilotage, is unconstitutional and void ; for congress cannot delegate
their powers of legislation to the. states ; and that as Alabama
was not admitted into the union as a state until the year 1819,
and its laws on this subject have been long since passed, -(in
1822) these laws are, ipso facto, nullities. This question was
much discussed in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, (9 Wheaton,
R. 207, 208,) and may not be without difficulties. But we are
spared from any discussion of it on the present occasion, because
we are of opinion, that the present is not a case of pilotage, but
of salvage ; and congress have never confided to the states any
power to regulate salvage on the sea, or on tide waters ; but the
same belon-s to the district courts, in virtue of the delegation
to them of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Whether, indeed, this be a case of salvage or not, is the point
involved in the first objection ; and we shall now proceed to state
the reasons why we are of opinion, that it is.
We agree to the doctrine stated in the cases cited at the bar,
that a pilot, while acting in it in the strict line of his duty,'however
he may entitle himself to extraordinary pilotage compensation
for extraordinary services, as.contradistinguished from ordinary
pilotage for ordinary services, cannot be entitk3 to. claim sal-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Hobart et al. v. Drogan et al.]

vage.

In this respect he is not 'distinguished
from any other
officer, public or private, acting within the appropriate sphere of
his duty. But a pilot, as such, is not disabled, in virtue of his
office, 'from becoming a salvor. On the contrary, whenever he
performs salvage services beyond the line of his appropiate duties, or under circumstances, to which those duties do not justly
attach ; he stands in the same relation to the property as any
othe, salvor ; that is, with a title to compensation to the extent of
the merit of his services, viewed in the light of a liberal public
policy. Sir William Scott, in the case of the Joseph Harvey, (1
Rob. 306,) speaking upon this subject, where pilots were claiming as salvors, said, "This is a petition praying salvage ; and it
is said by his majesty's advocate, that it is impossible for these
persons to claim salvage, as there is little more than pilotage due ;
although it is allowed that the court.may, in cases of pilotage, as
well as of salvage, direct a proper remuneration to be made. It
may be in an extraordinary case difficult to distinguish a case of
pilotage from a case of salvage properly so called ; for it is possible, that the safe conduct of a ship, under circumstances of extreipe personal danger and personal exertion, may exalt a pilotage
service into something of a salvage service. But, in general, they
are distinguishable enough; and the pilot, though he contributes
to, the safety of a ship, is not to claim as a legal salvor." From
this language itis obvious, that the learned judge had in his mind
the distinction between extraordinary pilotage services, and salvage services. properly so called; the one clearly going beyond
the mere line of duty; and the other going merely to. the extreme
line of duty. In the case of the Aquilla, (1 Rob. 37,) where
a magistrate, acting in discharge of his public duty, demanded to
be considered as a salvor, the same learned judge said: "1This,
however, is certain, that if a magistrate, acting in his public
duty, on such aa occasion, should go beyond the limits of his
,official duty in giving extraordinary assistance, he would have an
undeniable right to be considered as a salvor." The same prineipie was fully recognised by Mr Justice Wasliington, in the case
of Le Tigre, (3 Wash. Cir. R. 169, 170, 171,) in which, after
stating that ordinary official duties were not to be compensated
by salvage, he added: ".Of this class of.cases is that of a pilot,
VOL. X.-Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobart ct'il, v. Drogan et al.]

who safely conducts into port a vessel in distress at sea. H e
acts in the performance of his ordinary duty, imposed upon him
by the law and nature of his employment; and he is, therefore,
not entited to salvage, unless in a ease where he goes beyond
the ordinary duties"attached to his employment.' Mr. Justice
Thompson in the MS. case of The Wave, cited at the bar, maintained the same doctrine, upon an elaborate review of all the
cases. It has been also applied to another very meritorious- class
of cases, we mean that of seamen, who in the ordinary- course of
things, in the performance of their duties, are not allowed to be
come salvors, whatever may have been the perils or hardships or
gallantry of theii services in saving the ship and cargo. We say
in the ordinary course of things; -for extraordinary events may
occur, in which their connexion with the ship may be dissolved
de facto, or by operation of law, or they may exceed their proper
duty, in which cases they may be permiited to claim as salvors. Such was the case of the seaman left on board in the
case of the Blaireau (2 Cranch, R. 268,) ; and such was the
exception alluded to in the case, of the Neptune (I Hagg. Adm.
I. 236, 237.(a). In this last case, Lord Stowell, after saying
that the crew of a ship cannot be considered as salvors, gave
what he deemed the definition of a salvor: "What (said he) is
a salvor ? A person, who, without any particular relation to a
ship in distress, proffers useful services, and gives it as a volunteer adventurer without any pre-existing covenant, that connected him with the duty of employing himself for the preservation
of that ship." And it must be admitted, that, however harsh the
rule may seem to be in its actual application to particular cases,
it is well founded in publicpolicy, and strikes at the root of those
temptations, which might otherwise exist to an alarming extent,
to seduce pilots and others to abandon their proper duty, that
they might profit by the distresses of the ship, which they are
bound to navigate.
Sucli, then, being the rule, let us see, whether it has any application to the actual circumstances of the present case. In the
first place, none of the libellants were, at the time of the servi.e
(a) See 3 Kent, Corm. Lect. 47, p. 199, (let edition.)

Mason, 319. Newman v. Walters, 3 Bov. and Pull. 612.

The

Two.Catheinee .

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Hobxt et al.
v. Drogan et al.]

performed, at all connected with the Hope in the character of
pilots. The pilot had been regularly discharged at the usual
place, after arriving at Mobile point; and he became, therefore,
as to her, functus officio, until there was some new call for pilot
duty. Now, the subsequent services, asked by the master and
proffered by the libellants, as the very agreement suggested in
the proceedings abundantly shows, was not understood by either
of the parties to be for mere pilot services, but for services of a
far different and more extensive nature and character than belong to such an employment.
Indeed, in no just sense can"the seriees of ttrese libellants be
deemed to fall within the scope -of the duties of pilots. Lord
Tenterden, in his excellent Treatise on Shipping (part 2, ch. 5,
s. 1, p. 148,) has defined a pilot to be " a person, taken on board
at a particular place, for the purpose of conducting a ship through
a river, road, or channel, or from or into a port." His duty,
therefore, is properly the duty to navigate the ship over and
through his"pilotage limits, or, as it is commonly called, his pilotage ground. The case, therefore, necessarily presupposes, that
the ship is in a condition capable of being navigated; distressed,
if you please, and laboring under difficulties, but still capable, in
point of crew, equipments, and situation, of being navigated. No
one ever heard of its being within the scope of the positive
duties of a pilot to go to the rescue of a'wrecked vessel,*and employ himself in saving her or her cargo, when she was wholly
unnavigable. That is a duty entirely distinct in its nature, and
no more belonging to a pilot, flan it would be to supply such a
vessel with masts or sails, or to employ lighters to discharge
her cargo, in order to float her. It is properly a salvage, service,
involving duties and responsibilities, for which his employment
may peculiarly fit him ; but yet in no sense included in the duty
of navigating the ship. Lord Alvanley, in Newman v. Walters,
(3 Bos. and Pull. 616,) puts a case far short of that, which is
here presented, as a clear base of salvage. " Suppose (said
he) a tempest should arise, while the pilot is on board, and he
should go off in a boat to the shore to fetch hands, and should
risk his life for the safety of the ship in a manner diflerent from
that, which his duty required ; in such a case it seems to me,
that he would be entitled to a compensation in the nature of sal-

SUPREME COURT.
[Hobart et a]. v. Drogan et al.]

vase; and I am glad that Sir William Scott appears to entertain the
same opinion." Now, in the case here supposed, the pilot had
already acquired a relation to the ship by having actually entered
.upon the service aS such; and yet the learned judge holds it
Upon principle, a clear case of salvage.
Whatwere the cirdumstances under which the present service,
was performed ? The brig was stranded upona bank, with the
sea rollipg over her; her masts, and bowsprit were cut away;
her punmps were choked ; two feet of water were in her hold ;
sh was deserted by her master and crew, and incapable of
navigation by hierself; and even when gotten off, she was navigated only by being towed by two pilot boats' and a steamboat
into port. At thiq time the libellants had no official cohnexion'
whatsoever with her as pilots. Where then was the obligatiof
on them to go on board, and take charge of a wreck, and to
hazard their lives and property, and to apply their labor to deliver the brig and cargo from their present imminent perils, any
more than on any other persons? We know of n'one. We think
the whole ente!prise was an enterprise of salvqge, and not of
pilotage, It was..a case, where they acted as salvors strictly according to the definition- of'Sir William Scott. They had'a[ 'the
time' no particular relation'to the distressed ship; they proffered
useful services as'v9lunteers, without any pre-existing cpvenarltr
that connected them width the duty Of employing ihemselves for
her preservation. The duties they ynde took'were far beyond
any belonging to pilots, and precisely those belonging to salvors.
For these.reasons, tharefore: we are of opition,,that the decree of the district court of Alabaoma ought to be afrmed.with
costs.

This cause came on to-be heatd on the trarxseript, of the record from the district court of the United States for the soithern
district of Alabama, and was argued by counsel'; on consideration whereof, -it is' adjudged and decreed by this Court, that the
decree of the said'district court in this cause 'be, and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of. six per
centUm per annum, on the amount decreed by the said district
court as salvage.

