SUPREME COURT.

JOHN HAGAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. THOMAS

J. Foso,

The onis probandi of the amount in controversy, to establish the jurisdiction in a
case brought before the court by writ of error, is upon the party seeking to obtain a
prove that the' value exceeds tw3 thousand dollars,
revision of the case. He n,i
exclueive of costs. In this case. the matter in question is the ownership of one
negro woman and two children, who are slaves, and it is not supposed their value

can be equal to that sum.

The writ of error was dismissed.

IN error to the district court of the United States, for the southerndistrict of Alabama.
This case was argued by Coxe for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Key for the defendant. After the argument, the court,
on inspecting the record, became satisfied that the amount in controversy between the parties, was not sufficiett to give the plaintiff a right to bring the case up by writ of error.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered 'he opinion of the court.
The court are not satisfied that this case is within their appellate jurisdiction. To support, that jurisdiction, it is necessary
that it should appear, upon the face of the record, or upon affidavits to be filed by the parties, that the sum or value in controversy exceeds $2,000, exclusive of costs. The-onis probandi is
upon the party seeking to obtain a revision of the case, to establish. the. jurisdiction. Here -the whole matter in controversy
is the ownership of one negro woman and two children, who are
slaves; and it is not supposed that their value can be equal to
$2,000. The bond in the case, in thd naturc- of a forthcoming
hond, in a larger penalty, does not vary the result. But the
plaintiff in error is at liberty to establish, if necessaryi that the
vaiue exceeds that sum. But there ire other cases on the docket,
between the plaintiff in error and other persons, which involved
the same points, which have been argued in this case. If any of
these cages involved a sum or value which entitles the court to
take jurisdiction, we will hereafter give an opinion upon those
points.

