497

JANUARY TERM 1836.

ELIZA BROWN,

APPELLANT V. FRANCES SWANN,

OF WILLIAM

T. SWANN,

AND RICHARD

B.

ADMINISTRATRIX

ALEXANDER.

The statute of Virginia against usury, provides that " any borrower of money or
goods, may exhibit a bill in chancery against the lenders, and compel them to discover on oath the money they really lent; and all bargains, contracts or shifts
which shall have passed between them relative to such loan or the repayment
thereof, and the interest and consideration of the same : and if thereupon it shall
appear that more than lawful interest was reserved, the lender shall be obliged to
accept his principal money without interest or consideration, and pay costs; but
shall be discharged of all the other penalties of this act." The complainants in
the circuit court of the county of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia, filed a
bill to obtain relief under the statute, against an alleged usurious loan; and made
a contingent and prospective offer to pay the principal, when the affairs of the intes-'
tate (the borrower) " would admit it ;" and there was no averment that the complainants were unable to prove the facts sought from the conscience of the defendants, by other testimony. Held, that the bill Was deficient in material averments,
essential to all such bills of discovery.
When the legislature of Virginia passed the statute, it fixed the nature and extent of
the jurisdiction of a court of equity to compel a discovery, upon oath, from an interested party, in a suit either at law or in equity ; and the rules which equity had
prescribed to itself to enforce its jurisdiction in this regard. It knew the distinction between a bill for such discovery, from other bills in chancery; which are also
bills for discovery. One of the former is a bill for the discovery of facts alleged to
exist only in the knowledge of a person, a party to a private transaction with the
person seeking the disclosure, essential to the establishment of a just right in the
latter, and which would be defeated without such disclosure. In other wordsit is
a bill to discover facts, which cannot be proved, according tothe existing forms of
procedure at law. The jurisdiction of a court of equity, in this regard, rests upon
the inability of thp courts of common law to obtain, or to compel such testimony to
be given. It has no other foundation: and whenever a discovery of this kind is
sought in equity, if it shall appear that the same facts could be obtained by the process of the courts of common law, it is an abuse of the powers of chancery to interfere. The courts of common law having full power to compel the attendance
of witnesses; it follows that the aid of equity can alone be wanted, for a discovery
ir. those cases where tfiere is no witness, to prove what is sought from the conscience of an interested party.. Courts of chancery have established rules for the
exercise of their jurisdiction, to keep .6 within its proper limits ; and to prevent it
from encroaching upon the jurisdiction of the courts of common law.
The rule to be applied to a bill seeking a discovery from an interested party, is, that
the complainant shall charge in his bill, that the facts are known to the defendant,
and ought to be disclosed by him; and that the complainantis unable to prove them
by other testimony: and when the facts are desired to assist a court of. law in
the progress of a cause, it should be affirmatively stated in the bill, that they are
wanted for such purpose.
VOL. x.-3 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. Swann.]
The general rule is, that after a verdict at law, a party comes too late with a bill of
discovery. There must be a clear case of accident, surprise or fraud, before equity
will interfere. Such now is the established doctrine in England,and has been for
a longer time the doctrine in the United States. And the doctrine, as *applied to
a case for relief from usury, is, that a defendant sued at law on a contract alleged
to be usurious, will not be entitled to a bill of discovery if he suffers a verdict and
judgment to be taken against himi and especially when he does so without making
a defbnce at law. The reason of the rule is, that the proof of usury is a good defence at law : and when it is in the knowledge of the defendant, no satisfactory
reason can be given why the discovery was not sought while the suit was pending.
Whenever a party seeking a discovery had knowledge of the facts during the pendency of a suit at law, equity will not permit him to do so afterwards to enjoin a
judgment.

ON appeal from the circuit court of ihe United States for the District of Columbia in the county of Washington.
This case was argued by Mr Key, and Mr Jones, for the appellant; and by Mr E. J. Lee, and Mr Swann, for the appellees.
Mr Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court..
This is art appeal from the circuit court of the United States for
the District of Columbia and couniy of Alexandria.
The bill of the appellees, who were the complainants in the circuit
court, is for an injunction to stay further proceedings on a judgment
at law, confessed by the appellees to the appellant.
The bill states that the intestate, William T. Swann,
in his life
time, in October 1819, proposed to borrow from the appellant 2300
dollars, and'pay her for the use of the money at the rate of ten per
centun per annum. That the appellant agreed to the proposition'
.1000 dollars were secured by a ground rent of 152 dollars per annum, on a lot in Alexandiia; and the balance of the loan by a bond,
bearing 'an interest of six per cent per annum, with' William B;
Alexander and Richard B. Alexander as securities. The intestate
died in October 1820; and i,June 1821, his adminishatrix paid the
appellant 230 dollars ; in August following, she paid the further
sum of 1055 dollars and 30 cents, to which she adds 115 dollars, believed.by her to have been paid by the intestate before his death.
After these payments, ihe appellant brought separate suits upon the
b6nd for 1300 dollars, against the administratrix, and the securities
to the bond. The bill then states, that the appellees "felt them-.
,selves at a loss to know what course to pursue in defence of the said
suit. Tha'tthey had beeMI
advised (hat the transaction between the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Brown v. Swann.]

defendant and your oratrix's late husband, was usurious ;and they
understood from their counsel, that if the case was defended at law,
upon that ground, and they should succeed, that the debt would be
lost to the defendant. That your oratrix and orator were not disposed to push the matter to this extremity ; your oratrix knew that
her late husband had received the money, and she wished, at all
events, that the amount borrowed should be returned to the defendant ; and your oratrix's counsel, understanding her wishes, agreed,
as he informed her, at the bar, at the time the judgment was rendered upon the bond, with the counsel of the defendant, and in the
presence and hearing of tile court, that your oratrix's plea of usury
should be withdrawn, and a judgment rendered on the bond ; with
an understanding, that your orator and oratrix shotld have the privilege of resorting to a court of equity, to have the claim settled
upon the same principles, as if she had instituted against the defendant a bill in chancery for the discovery of the usury. Your oratrix
and orator have been advised that they are bound, in a court of
equity, to pay nothing more than the principal debt, and that they
are entitled to have credit for the moneys which she has paid, to be
deducted out of the sum of 2300 dollars, loaned as aforesaid ; and
only bound to pay the balance of principal, after such deduction
shall have been made." The bill further states, that if a settlement
could be ,nade upon these principles, that the oratrix would hold
herself bound to pay "the balance which might be due, as soon as
the affairs of the estate would adnit it." That the defendant has
issued an execution against your oratrix, and a separate execution
against Richard B. Alexander and William B. Alexander, for. the
whole amount of the bond upon which the judgment at law was
rendered ; claiming not only the full amount of the debt, but the interest. upon the same; and is about to enforce the execution against
herself and the securities. The bill concludes with a prayer, "that
the defendant may, upon her corporal oath, true and perfect answers
make to tihe several allegations of the bill and the matters therein
charged, as if the same were again repeated, and she were interrogated thereto; that the complainants might have ,n injunction
from the court, restraining the defendant from proceeding further
upon the judgment, and from executing the same in any manner;
and that the defendant may render a true and perfect account of all
moneys received by tier, on account of the aforesaid debt." Upon
filing the. bill, the court granted an injunction. At a subsequent

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. Swann.]

court, the injunction, on motion of the defendant, was in part dissolved; and the defendant filed a demurrer and answer to the bill. In
the answer the usury is denied. The complainants filed exceptions to the answer. The injunction was then dissolved, and liberty
was given to the defendant to prosecute her judgment at law. At
the same time, on complainants' motion, leave was given to amend
their bill, and to prosecute the suit thereon ; and the cause was returned to the rules for further proceedings. The defendant's deniurrer to the complainants' bill, and the complainants' exceptions to
the answer, were then set down for argument. The cause was
argued upon the demurrer and exceptions: and in the June term of
the court, in 1828, the judges were of opinion, that the court had
jurisdiction "of tie cause in equity, by virtue of the third section of
the statute of usury of Virginia ; although the plaintiffs have not
stated in the said bill, that they cannot prove the usury without the
aid of the defendant's answer.; and although judgment had been
rendered at law: and the court ordered the demurrers to be overruled,
so far as they proceed upon these grounds." The plaintiffs had
leave to amend their bill, and the injunction was reinstated as. to the
whole amount of the judgment in the bill mentioned, except the
sum of 899 dollars and 70 cents. The supplemental bill was filed,
and the defendant put in a demtrrer and answer thereto.
We do not think it necessary to refer particularly to the supplemental bill, or to the demurrers and answers of the defendant to
either the original or amended bills, or to the intermediate proceedings in the cause. The court made its final decree in December
1832; and in it, and the orders overruling the demands, has put the
case ipon two points; which, contrary to the opinion of the court,
we think so decidedly in favour of the appellant, that we need not go
further. In both, the circuit court was of opinion that the court had
jurisdiction of the cause, by virtue of the third section of the statute.
of Virginia, against usury; and in the first order overruling the demurrers, it added, "although the plaintiffs have not stated in their bill
that they cannot prove the usury without the aid of the defendant's
answers, and although judgment has been rendered at law."
The third section of the statute is in these words : "any borrower
of money or goods may exhibit a bill in chancery against the lenders, and compel them to discover on oath the money they really
lent, and all bargains, contracts or shifts which shall have passed
between them relative to such loan or the repayment.thereof, and

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Brown v. Swann.]

the interest and consideration for tile same ; and if thereupon it shall
appear that more than lawful interest was reserved, tile lender shall
be obliged to accept his principal money without interest or consideration, and pay costs; but shall be discharged of all the other penalties of this act."
The first question then to be considered is, can the bill of the
complainants be brought within the operation of the section. We think not. Besides only making the cotbngent! and prospective
offer to pay the principal, when the affairs of the intestate " would
admit of it ;" which is altogether izsufficient, as any other indefinite
offer-or acknowledgement of obligation to pay the principal would
be: the bill is deficient in the material averment, essential to all such.
bills of discovery as this is, that the complainants are unable to prove
the facts sought from the conscience of the defendant by other testimony;
but on the contrary, facts are stated in it from which a different
presumption may be fairly raised.
When the legislature of Virginia passed the statute, it fixed the
Mature and extent of the jurisdiction of a court of equity to compel
a discovery, upon oath, from an interested phrty, in a suit either at
law or in equity, and the rules which equity had prescribed to itself
to enforce its jurisdiction in this regard. It knew the distinction
between a bill for such discovery, and other bills in chancery ; which
are'also bills for discovery.. One of the former is a bill for the discovery of facts alleged to exist only in the knowledge .of a person; a
party to a private transaction with the person seeking the disclosure ;
essential to the establishment of a just right.in the latter, and which
would be defeated without such disclosure. In other words, it is a
bill to discover facts, which cannot be proved, according to the existing forms of procedure at law. The jurisdiction of a court of
equity, in this regard, rests upcn the inability of the courts of common law to obtain, or to compel such testimony to be given. It has
no other foundation :and whenever a discovery of this kind is sought
in equity, if it shall appear that the same facts could be obtained by
the process of the courts of common law, it is an abuse of the powers
of chancery to interfere. .The courts of common law having full
power to compel the attendance of witnesses;. it follows that the aid
of equity can alone be wauted for a discovery in those cases where
there is no witness, to prove what is sought from the conscience of
an interested party. Courts of chancery have then established rules
for the exercise of this jurisdiction, to keep it within its proper limits,

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. Swann.]

and to prevent it. from encroaching upon the jurisdiction of the courts
of common law.
The rule to be applied to a bill seeking a discovery from an interested party, is; that the complainant shall charge in his bill, that
the facts are known to the defendant, and ought to be disclosed by
him, and that the complainant is unable to prove them by other testimony;
and when the facts are desired to assist a court of law in the
progress of a cause, it should be affirmatively stated in the bill that
they are wanted for such purpose. Such is the rule in Virginia; as
may be seen in Duval v. Ross, 2 Munf. 290; and in Bass v. Bass, 4
Hen. & Munf. 478 : and it will be applied to the constr 'iction of the
third section of the statute against usury, upon the authority of her
own courts.
Many other authorities to the same purpose might be cited from
English and American reports. Unless such averments are required, is it not obvious that the boundaries between the chancery
and common law courts would be broken down; and that chancellors would find themselves, under bills for a discovery from an
interested party, engaged in the settlement of controversies, by evidence aliunde, which the common law courts could have procured,
-under the process of a subpoena : in delaying proceedings at law, by
pretences that a discovery is wanted, for the sake of justice: and in
enjoining judgments, upon indefinite allegations of the plaintiff having a knowledge of facts which give to a defendant an equity to be
released : though the defendant might have availed himself of the
evidence of third persons to establish the same facts, in the progress
of the cause, or -of the powers of chancery to procure them, by a discovery, to assist the court ,n deciding it.; which last is the case now
under consideration.
The section of the statute then, under which the circuit court
entertained this bill, and enjoined the judgment, should be so
construed, as to give the benefit of it to a borrower, only in those
cases in which a complainant seeking for a discovery avers that
he is unable to prove the facts by other testimony. There is one
strong reason too for applying this rule to a borrower seeking relief
under this law; and it is, that it permits him to make an appeal
to the conscience of the lender, upon terms more favourable than he
could have done in equity, to relieve himself from. an usurious contract,'before thi.. statute was passed. The lender, upon making the
uiscveryls to.receive his principal, without any intereet; and is to

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Biown v. Swann.]

pay costs. This advantage given to the borrower, must be viewed
by a court of equityin the nature of a penalty, upon the same principle that other forfeitures, imposed by statutes against usury, are
viewed as penalties, wvhich equity %vill not assist to enforce at all,
much less by any evidence aliunde. If the lender denies the usury
charged upon his oath, the oath should decide the question before
the chancellor. If it be not so, equity will be converted by the section
into an assistant for the enforcement of a penalty : which has never
been its province.
By limiting the operation of the section to a denial upon the oatti
of the defendant, the harmony of chancery jurisdiction to its civil
law original is preserved : and surely it is not unreasonable, that a
complainant's bill, seeking.a discovery, for the want of all other testimony, should be not retained after the answer has denied the matter
sought. So it was decided in this court, in the case of Russell V.
Clarke, 7 Cranch 79; and the same position is laid down by other
courts. Ferguson v. Walters, 3 Bibb 303; Nourse v. Gregory, 3
Litt. 378 ; and in Hawkins's Executors v. Sumpter, 4 Dessaus. 105.
We think, too, that this construction of the operation of this seetion is justified by its letter. The words " and if thereupon it shall
appear, more than lawful interest was reserved ;" have a direct
reference to the oath of the lender denying the usury charged, and
are exclusive of evidence aliunde, to establish it.
Such proof has heretofore been only used to advance the policy of
statutes against usury in courts of common law, as for the greater
purposes of strict justice between borrowers and lenders in courts of
equity. Unless a statute then, in so many words, or by an inference
which does not admit of a doubt, commands the courts of equity in
Virginia to-give relief from usnrious contracts, by evidence ali, nde,
without"requiring the borrower to pay principal and interest; the law
should not be so construed. The great principles of equity, securing
complete justice, sftould not be yielded to-light inferences, or doubtful construction.
But the section under review should have a strict construction as
to the relief intended to be given by it to a borrower ; because it is
not a law in furtherance of strict justice between the borrower and
lender. The former has by it, upon the discovery of the usury by
the lender, the use of the money vithout paying the interest fixed
by the law as a fair compensation for the loan of money. Strict
justice requires from the party claiming- to be released by equity,

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. Swann.]

that he should 'do equity: and in cases of usury, relief has here.tofore only been given upon the payment of principal and interest.
Shall then a construction be given to this section by which a
borrower may, in all. cases, even after judgment has been obtained against him, resort to a court of equity in Virginia to establish his stutory right, by evidence aliunde, to be relieved from
the payment of interest up6n money of which hehas had the use.
If iehas such proof, let it be used in a ccurt of common law, to
get under the statute still greater advantages from the lender; to
throw upon him all the forfeitures and penalies of the act. This
would be to advance the policy of the law to the full extent of what
it is intended to prohibit ; and to embrace the state in *the forfeitures
which may be recovered. He should not be allowed.to use-it for
his own interest, exclusively, in a court of equity; by which a result
follows far short of those sanctions existing in the law to restrain and
to punish what it declares to be an offence'. It seems to us, that this
section was intended to give to a borrower relief from an usurious
contract, by an appeal to the conscience of.the lender for a discovery ;
when the former from the walnt of all other testimony, is obliged to
refer his cause to the oath of his adversary in a bill of discovery
and that oath decides the question before the chancellor : and that
it was not intended to exclude the ordinary interference of a court of
equity, between borrowers and lenders in. usurious contracts, to enforce the payment of the principal, and that interest., which the statute
itself fixes as a fair rate of compensation for the loan of money.
The fact of the legislatute having released the lender from all other
penalties in the act, except, the loss of interest, can make nothing
against the construction of the statute: for that is only the consequence of the inability of every legislature in this country to compel
a person to make a discovery, by which he may be subjected to legal
pains, penaltie or forfeitures.
The construction now given to the section is that which has been
given to it by the court of appeals in Virginia, in the case of Marks
v. Morris, 2 Mun. 507. The points decided in that case, and that
particularly which has been under our ionsideration, in this; have
been questioned by judges of the sane court ; but the case has never
been overruled., In our opinion, from an examination of all the
cases since in the court of appeals, down to Ihe case of Fitzhugh v.
Gordon, 2 Leigh 626 ; the reasoning of the first is not shaken.
We come now briefly to consider the question whether the corn-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Brown v. Swann.]

plainant can have relief in equity, the transaction having been carried into judgment. We think he can not; The bill states the
circumstances under which the judgment was confessed.-. There
was neither accident nor surprise. The plea of usury was withdrawn, and the judgment confessed, in the belief, by the'defendants,that they might afterwards resort to a court of equity to prove the
usury ; and upon the entry of the judgment there is annexed a reservation in terms for a resort to equity.

That such reservation wao

-made by any understanding with the counsel of the plaintiff at law
is denied by him : and the court had no authority to make it a part
of the record, so as to give any benefit to the complainants.
The right to resort to a court of equity for relief under the statute to
its full extent, exists independently of any reservation of the courts of
common law, when relief is asked in time. The courts of common
law can neither add to nor take away from the right: nor by any
qualification of their judgments, give parties any right to be relieved
from them in equity, contrary to its established principles.
We do not think, therefore, the reservation in this instance upon the
record a matter of any consequence. The question is, can the complainants have any relief in equity against the judgment. The gene.
ral rule is, that after a'verdict at law a party comes too late- with a bill
of discovery. Duncan v. Lyon, 3 Johns. Cha. 355; Bailone v. Brent,
1 Vern. 176. There must be a clear case of accident, surprise or fraud,
before equity will interfere. In the case of Prothew v. Forman, 2
Swanst. 227, the lord chancellor says.: "if a defendant has a good
legal defence, but the matter has not been tried at law; it becomes
a serious question whether a party who being competent does not
choose to defend himself at law, can come into equity and change
the jurisdiction. Consider the effect : he might not have succeeded
at law ; but by coming into equity he secures so much additional
time." In the same case the chancellor says: "Lord Thurlow was
very tenacious of the doctrine, that a party who had an opportunity
of a trial at law, and would not avail himself of it; could not come
here." Such now is the established doctrine in England, atd has
been for a longer time the doctrine in the United States. And the
doctrine, as applied to a case for relief from usury, is, that a defendant sued at law on a contract alleged to be usurious, will not be

entitled to a bill of discovery, if he suffers a verdict and judgment
to be taken against him; and especially when he does so without
making a defence at law. The case of Thompson v. Berry and
VOL. .- 3 o

SUPREME CUOUKT.
[Brown v. Swann.]

Van Buren, 3 Johns. Ch. 395, is one directly in point; meeting the
case before us also in this, that an injunction will not be granted
against a judgrment where a party seeks a discovery of usury, and
claims a return of the excess beyond the legal interest. The reason
of the rule is, that the prodf of usury is a good defence at law; and
:When it is in the knowledge of the def'ndant, no satisfactory reason
can be given why the discovery was not sought while the suit was
pending. It is our opinion then that whenever a party seeking a
discovery had knowledge of the facts during the pendency of a suit
at law, equity will not permit him to do so afterwards to enjoin a
judgment.
The bill will be ordered to be dismissed, and the injunction is
dissolved.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of tie record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued by
counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled. And this
court, proceeding to render such decree as the said circuit court ought
to have rendered in the premises, doth order, adjudge and decree
that the order for a perpetual injunction be, and the same is hereby
dissolved ;, and that the bill of the complainants in this cause be,
and the same is hereby dismissed ; and thaC this cause be, and the
same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to
the said court to carry this decree into efiect.

