JANUARY TERM 1836.

343

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. PHINEAS BRADLE1,'
SURVIVING ADMINISTRATOR OF DAVID OTT DECEASED.
An action was instituted on a joint and several bond given by H. 0. and V. to the
United States of iorth America; which, after reciting that H. had been appointed
paymaster of the rifle regiment of the army 6f the United States; conditioned that
if H. shall "well and truly execute, and faithfully disclarge, according to law, and
to. instructions received by him from proper authority, his duties as paymaster
aforesaid ; and he, his heirs, executors or administrators shall regularly account
when thereto required, for all moneys received by him from time to time as paymaster aforesaid, with such person or persons as shall be duly authorized 'and
qualified on the part of the United States for that purpose; and moreover pay into
their treasury such balance as, on a final settlement of the said John Hall's accounts,
shall be found justly due from him to the said United States, then the obligation
should be null and void, and of no effect, otherwise to be and remain in full force
and vilue."
The. act of congress of the 24th of April 1816 provides, "that all officers of the pay,
commissary and quartermaster's department shall, previous to entering on the duties of their respective offices, give good and sufficient bonds to the United States
fully to account for all moneys and public property which they may receive, in
in such sunis as the secretary of war shall direct." H. became la~gely indebted
to the United States for money advanced to him as paymaster, and suit was brought
against the administrators of 0. one of his sureties. The bond not having been
in its very terms in confbrmity with the provisions of the law, the sureties claimed that they were not bound by it, because of this variance; and because the
United States had no right to take any other bond but that prescribed by the
statute.
By the Court. So far as the condition of the bond required the paymaster to account
for moneys received by him, it substantially follows the provisions of the law ; and
if the bond be not clearly void, from its not being in all respects in conformity
with the law, the United States are entitled to recover.
This case differs from the case of the United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters 115, as there
was in that case an averment, not denied, that the bond was obtained from the
obligors by extortion and oppression, under colour ofoffice. This must be taken
to be a bond volufitarily given by the paymaster and his sureties, for a lawful
purpose ; and for the faithful performance of the duties of paymaster.
No rule in pleading is better settled, or upon sounder principles, than that every
plea, in discharge or avoidance of' a bond, should state positively and in direct
terms, the matter in discharge.or avoidance. It is not to be inferred, arguendo,
or upon conjectures.
In the case of the United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters 115, ft was held, that the United
States being a body politic,.as an incident to their general right of sovereignty,

have a capacity to enter into contracts,and tak bonds in cases within the sphere
of their constitutional powers, and appropriate to the just exercise of those powers;
through the instrumentality of the proper department to which those powers are

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]
confided, whenever such contracts or bonds are not prohibited by law; although
the making of such contracts, or taking such bonds, may not have been prescribed
by any pre-existing legislative act. From the doctrine here stated, the court have
not the slightest inclination to depart: on the contrary, from further reflction,
they are satisfied that it is founded upon the soundest principles of law, and the
just'interpretation of the constitution.
That bonds and other deeds may, in many cases, be good in part, and void for the
residue, where the residue is founded in illegality, but not malum in so; is a doctrine well founded in the common law, and has been recognized from a very
early period. The doctrine has been maintained, and is settled law, at the present day; in all eases, wli
de different covenants or conditions are severable,
and independent of each other, and do not import malum in se.
There is no solid distinction in cases like the one before the court, between bonds
and other deeds containing conditions, covenants or grants, not malum in se, but
illegal at the common law; and those containing conditions, covenants or.grants
illegal by the express prohibitions of statutes. In each case the bonds or other
deeds are void, as to such conditions, covenants or grants, which are illegal; and are
good as to all others which are legal and unexceptionable in their purport. The
:only exception is,, when the statute has not confined its prohibitious 1o the illegal
conditions, covenants or grants; but has expressly, or by iecessary 'mplicatioii,
avoided the whole instrument to all intents and purposes.
The act of congress of 1816 no where declared that all other bonds not taken in the
prescribed form shall be utterly void; nor does such an implication arise from any
of the terms contained in the act, or from any principles of public policy which it
is designed to promote. A bond may, by mutual mistake or accident, and wholly
without design, be taken in a form not iescribed by the act. It would be a very
mischievous interpretation of the act to suppose, that under such circunistances it
was the intendmcnt of the act that the bond shQuld be utterly void. Nothing
but very strong and express language should induce a court of justice to adopt
such an interpretation. Where the act speaks out, it would be our duty to
follow it: where it is silent, it is a sufficient compliance with the policy of the act
to declare the bond void ,as to any conditions which are imposed upon a party
beyond what the law requires. This is not 0fty the dictate of the common law,
but of common sense.

The appointment of a paymaster is complete,' when made by the president and confirmed by the senate. The giving a bond for the faithful performanco of his duties
is a mere ministerial act, for the security of the government; and not a condition
precedent to his authority- to act as a paymaser
The misdescription of.the corporate or politic name of the plaintiffs in:tie bond, by
calling them "The United States of North Amerifa," instead of America, is cured
by the averment 6f identity in the declaration.

TlEUnited States, in August 1825, instituted an :action of debt
n the circuit court of the district, of Columbia,- in the county of
Washington, against Phineas Bradley and Andrew Way, administrators.of David Ott ; upon a joint and several bond to the United
Slates of North America, executed by John Hall, David Ott and
Nicholas Vanzandt, ott the 26th day of May 1819., The condition
of the bond was, "that whereas the above. bounden John Hall is ap-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

pointed paymaster of the rifle regiment, in the army of the United
States aforesaid ; now, if the said John Hall shall well and truly
execute, and faithfully. discharge, according to law, and to instructions received by him from proper authority, his duties gts paymastei
aforesaid, and he, his heirs, executors or administrators, shall regularly account, when thereto required, forall moneys received by him
from time to time, as paymaster- aforesaid, with such person or persons as shall be duly authorized and qualified on the part of the
United States for that purpose ; and moreover pay into their treasury,
such balance as, on a final settlement of the said John Hall's accounts, shall be found justly due from him to the said United States,
then this obligation shall be null, void and of no. effect : otherwise,
to be and remain in full force and virtue."
To this declaratiomthe defendants pleaded six several pleas, and
issues were joined on the second, fourth and sixth. The third plea
alleged that the defendants ought not to be charged with the debt,
by virtue of the supposed ,,riting obligatory, because John Hall was
appointed paymaster long after the 24th -of Aoril 1816, and after
the passing of the act of congress, entitled " an act for organizing
the general staff, and making further provision for the army of the
United States ;" and that this was the only law authorizing or requiring a bond. to be given by him to tie United States as paymaster,
or otlherwise, or authorizing any person to take such a bond; and that
'he said John Hall, as such paymaster, did not, after being appointed,
paymaster, or at any titue give any bond whatsoever to account for all
moneys and public propety which he might receive, irA such sums as
the secretary of war should direct, or otherwise, in pursuance and
execution of the said act of congress; and that the said John Hall
had not, at any time after he.as appointed such paymaster as aforesaid, any right, .title or authority whatsoever, as.such paymaster, or
in virtue of such his appointment, or otherwise howsoever, to receive
any money or property of the United States, or any public money or
public property whatsoever, to be accounted for in pursuance and
execution of the said act of congress, or otherwise, to the said United
States or to tne.guvernment, or any officer of the government of the
said United States,or to any other person or persons whatsoever, in the
name, or for or in behalf of the said United States; nor in any manner to enter on the duties of his said office or appointme.nrt of paymaster, or to do, perform or execute the duties, or any of the duties
of the same.
. VOL. x.-2 T

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]

To this plea the United States replied, that by an act of congress,
entitled "an act for organizing the general staff, and making further
provision for the army of the United States," passed on the 24ih of
April 1816, it was, among other things, enacted, that all officers of
the pay, commissary and quartermaster's department, should, previous
to their entering on the duties of their respective offices, give good
and sufficient bonds to the United States, fully to account for all
moneys and public property which they inight receive, in such sums
as the secretary of war might direct ; and that after the passage of
the said law, and while the same was in full force and effect, on the
26th of May 1818, the said John Hall was duly appointed paymaster
in the rifle regiment, in the army of the United States, and in consequence of his appointment as paymaster aforesaid, and with the
intent of complying wvith the act of congress aforesaid, end by the
direction of the secretary of war of the United States, he, the said
John Hall, with David Ott, now deceased, and the said Nicholas B.
Vanzandt, did execute and deliver, in due form of law, the said writing obligatory in the said defendant's plea mentioned ; and the same
was then and there accepted by the said United States ; and the said
John Hall,-after the same was so accepted as aforesaid, and under
and by virtue of his appointment as aforesaid, did enter upon the
performance of the duties of paymaster as aforesaid, and did from
time to time receive from the United States, as such paymaster as
aforesaid, sundry large sums of money, amounting altogether to more
than
dollars, to be accounted for by him as such paymaster as
aforesaid ; and the said United States say, that of the moneys so received by him the said John Hall, of the United States as aforesaid,
dollars was altogether unaccounted for by him, the
the sum of
said John Hall ; and that upon a final settlement of the accounts of
him, the said John Hall, as paymaster aforesaid, by the proper officers of the government of the United States, there was found to be
Atue from the said John Hall to the United States on account of moneys received by him of the United States as paymaster aforesaid,
the sum of
dollars, which said sum the said John Hall, in his
lifetime, and the said defendants since his death altogether failed to
pay to the said United States.
The delendants demurred to this replication, and, assigned for
causes of demurrer:
I. That the bond, with the conditions thereof, was not taken in

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

pursuance of the directions, nor under the authority of the act ; but
was essentially different in its purport and effect from the same.
2. That in the replication, the plaintiffi have not averred nor shown
any authority for taking the bond with the condition, nor for the
delivery and acceptance of the same; but they have shown the same
was not taken and delivered and accepted as such bond.
3. That the bond, as described and set forth in the declaration,
varies froin the supposed writing obligatory, in this, that it purports
to be an obligation to the United States, without ascertaining what
United States ; and further, purports to be the simple obligation of
the said David Ott to pay the United States the sum of twenty
thousand dollars : whereas the supposed writing obligatory purports
to be an obligation to some states, described as the United States of
North America ; and further purports to be an official bond to the
last named states, executed by one John Hall, the said David Ott,
and one N. B. Vanzandt, the two last as sureties for said Hall's performance of certain official duties to the last named states, as set
forth in said condition ; and further purports to be a bond which the
government of the United States of America, or any officer or agent
of said government, had no power or authority to take or accept in
behalf of the last named United States.
4. That it does not appear in the replication that the bond had
been delivered by the obligors, or any of them, or accepted or received by any person on behalf of the last named United States, by
any lawful authority ; but the conrary appears.
5. That it does not appear from the replication that John Hall
had, at any time after his said supposed appointment to the office of
paymaster, any right, title or authority to enter on the duties of the
said office, or to receive, in virtue of such appointment, any money
or propertyof the said United States, or any public property or public
money whatever; to be accounted for to the said United States, or
to the government, or any officer or agent thereof, or otherwise to
perform and execute the duties, or any of the duties of such olfice :
nor that he had lawfully and officially received any such property
or money, and failod to account for the same, or otherwise broken
the said. condition ; but the contrary appears.
6. That the bond and condition are illegal and defective in form
and substance, and altogether void and contrary to law.
The fifth plea set forth that the deferdants ought not to be
charged, because John Hall was appointed a paymaster a long time

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Bradley.]

after the act of congress of the 24th of April 1816, entitled "an act
for organizing the general staff," &c., and that at the time of his
appointment that act was and yet is in force, and was and yet is the
sole and only law, rule and regulation, or authority, tinder which any
bonds to be gi,'en by John Hall to the United Stites is paymaster,
or in any manner, can be taken by the United States, or by any officer
of the same in tile name and behalf of the Utlited States; and was
and is.the only law, &c. by which his accountability as paymaster
for any money or property of tile United States by him received was
or is prescribed, regulated or governed; and that the said John Hall
did fully account for all moneys and public property by him as such
paymaster'as aforesaid, and after he was appointed such paymaster,
received in such sums as the secretary of war, in the said act of congress mentioned, did, at. any time after the said .JohnJ-all was so
appointed as aforesaid, direct to be so received by the said John Hall
as aforesaid, according to the tenor and effect, true intent and meaning of the said act .of congress.
To this plea the United States replied, that John Hall, after being
appointed paymaster of the rifle regiment in the army of the United
States, did, from time to time, receive as such paymaster large suns
of money, amounting to
dollars, to be accounted for by him ;
and of this amount the sum of
dollars was altogether unac-"
counted for by him: and that upon a finalsetttement of his accotmts
as paymaster, by the proper officers of the treasury, he was found
indebted
dollars, which he and the defendants have failed to pay.
The defendants rejoined, stating that John Hall did not receive
the sums of money mentioned in the replication as paymaster in such
sums as the qecretary of war had, at any time at or before the receipt
of such sums, respectively directed ; according to the provisions, true
intent and meaning of the said act-of cog-ess, in-the three preceding
pleas, and in the replications thereto .mentioned, prescribing the
bonds to be given by the officers therein mentioned ; but the said
sums 'of money, amounting to 'the said sum of
dollars as
aforesaid, were received by t-he said John Hall after being appointed
guch paymaster as .aforesaid, without any direction or order of the
said secretary of war, directing the same or any of them to be so
received : and so the defendants say that the said David Ott in his
lifetime was not, nor, were or are the defendants, since his death,
liable, bound, or in any manner accountable to the said United
States, by the force and effect of tliesaid act of cong:ess and writing

JANUARY TERM 1836.
rUnited States v. Bradley.]

obligatory, for the failure of the said John Hall to account and pay
tothe said United States the said sums of money,-or the said sum of
dollars so found due from the said John Hall to the said United
States, on account of the said iarge sums of money received by him,
as in the. said replication' mentioned.
The United States demurred to this rejoinder.
The circuit court decided that the pleas and the demurrers of the
defendants were sufficient in law to bar the recovery of the United
States ; and gave judgment -for the defendants.
The United States prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued. by Mr Swann and Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the United States; and by Mr Key and Mr Jones, for the
defendant.
The United States insisted on the following points:
1. The bond in question is substantially conformable to the requirements of the statute ; and having -beeii executed with the intent of
complying therewith, is good as a statutory bond.
2. If it varies friom the statute in any material particular, it is yet
good, because given voluntarily and for a lawful purpose.
Mr Swann, contended, the bond which had been executed by the
defendant's intestate, was substantially a compliance with the provi, ion of the act of congress of April 24, 1816. If it went beybnd
the precise directions of the law, it stipulated for. no more than was
within the duties of the officer by whom it was given.
It was a voluntary bond, and was not coerced from the obligor. He
was at liberty to accept or refuse the office; his sureties were at
liberty to execute the bond or to refuse. Even if it is not a bond
under the law, it is good and valid as a voluntary obligation.
The replication states that the bond was executed under the belief
that it was a compliance with the law, and that as stich it was
received by the United States. This was voluntary. It has been
decided that the United States may take a volntary bon-d.
As to the objection that the Lond was taken to the United States
of North America, there cannot be a valid exception on this ground.
We are the United States of North America. There are no other
United States in North America. Cited I Peters's C. C. R. 46; a.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Braley.]

Wash. C. C. R. 10; r Galison's Rep. 86; 5 Peters's Rep. 116, 388;
11 Wheat. 184.
Mr Jones, for the defendant, stated, that he would confine his
argument to the act of congress of the 24th of April 1816, and to the
powers claimed for the officers of the United States to take any bond
they thought proper to ask.
It is conceded that when Hall was appointed, he was required to
execute the bond ; and was never called upon to execute any other
bond conformably to.the act ofcongress.
The bond taken, substantially varies from tne proper bond ; and if
the securities shall be held liable on it, it will be a case where, notwithstanding the act of congress requires a particular obligation for
the performance of certain duties, it is in the power of the officers of
the treasury to demand another and a different bond. Cited the fifth
section of the act of congress, vol. 5, L. U. S. 81.
The section referred to requires that the officer, before entering on
his duties, shall give full and sufficient bond for the execution of those
duties. There is nothing in the law which gives the option to any
officer to take any other bond, or to exercise any powers not granted:
and there is therefore a prohibition from so doing.
If a man is commanded to do an act, he is prohibited from doing
any other. If it-is an imperative duty of an officer to do a particular
act; shall he do an act in disobedience of thie law 1, Every principle
which applies to the obligation of contracts forbids this.
Another remark-The secretary at war is commanded to take a
particular bond, and the paymaster is commanded to give it before he
enters on the duties of his office: and this is a condition precedent to
his entering on those duties as an officer. Until he has performed
the condition, the officer is in abeyance.
The only power to take a bond is that given by the act of congress,
and no other power can be exercised than that delegated by the act;
and they are limited by it. The officers of the United States act
merely ministerially, and can only take the bond established by the
law.
Look at the consequences of authorizing officers of the United
States to take bonds at their discretion, in the form they may establish. They could require any form they considered proper, and
insist on any terms -they might determine. If such bonds can be
taken, where are the limitations imposed by law on their powers. If

JANUARY TERM 1836.

851

tUnited States v. Bradley.f

this can be done, the officers may raise a revenue at their will, from
those wh6 will surrender themselves to such powers.
The effects of such a principle would be fatal to-the. government,
as it is inconsistent with its purposes and i~tsobjectsVoluntary bonds are distinguisheid from.those which are coerced, by
the circumstance that the first are given to secure some certain right,
and they may be taken in the exercise of powers,' Which are to carry
the laws into executioni, where no particular form is prescribed. In
such circumstances bonds may be taken, provided the person who
takes them is so authorized. But the officers of governm.ent are not
general agents, with full powers as such agents. Their powers are
prescribed: and in this case they are expressly. defined, and the bond
was not given according to the requirements of the law.
It is an, absurdity to iequire a person to give a bond for property and
money he was not authorized to receive. The office the government imposed by law, on the paymaster, was that he should account-for money which he received regularly, under officers authorized to pay it to him. Suppose, after he had given a bond in the
regular form, other property than that which he had a right to receive
as paymaster had been put into his hands, he would not have been
accountable for it on his bond : no such liability, could exist. This
was decided in United States v. Jones, Administrator, 8 Peters 399.
There is no difference between the cases. In the case cited, the
contractor was not held liable for moneys paid to him on account of
duties not performed within the district for which he was appointed.
Yet the contractor voluntarily received the money from the treasury.
Is this bond within the requisition of the statute ? It is said the
bond need not be in the words of the act of congress ; but that it is
sufficient, if it is substiantially the same. If this means that the ob- ligation is not undefined, changed or, altered, and the legal effect of
it is the same as the statute requires, and in full conformity with the
law : this is admitted. But it is- denied that such are the.stipulations in this instrument. The obligations contained in it go beyond
the directions of the-law, and call for'duties and acts not recognized
by it. It imposes a different mode of executing the duties of paymaster. This is a violation of the law. They are of a different
kind from those required of him by the statute. This will appear
byan examination of the instrument, and a comparison of the provisions of the act of congress with it.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]

This is the case of sureties, and the court will look strictly at the
instrument ; and, will not sustain it if it is not legal. It is not a
case in which a court of equity will reform the instrument, to operate on these who stand in this situation.
The question of great importance is, whether the officers of the
government can impose upon those employed under them, obligations
which are not known to tne law. The constitution forbids this: and
it is of the highest interest that powers of this kind shall not be
sanctioned. It is most important that the duties of an officer shall
not be moulded by any but those who establish and regulate these
duties,. bv statute .

The conanon law is not to be lookeu into for analogies to support
such assumptions of power. The atuthority of those who hold publie trusts in the United States, dependr on the precise provisions of
statutes. It is among the objects, and is entirely consistent with
the principles of the common law in England, to sustain the authority
of the government, and to supply it with all necessary powers for its
support and action. But in the United States, these purposes and
principles are supported by express enactments.
Mr Key, also fbr the defendant in error.
The bond in this ease is taken under the stottute authorizing the
appointment ot paymaster, and substantially varies from the bond
required by the statute.
It does not cover all .the responsibilities required by the statuteaccounting for property is omitted. And it extends to other responsibilities not required by the statute. The bond enjoins that he shall
well and truly discharge all, his duties as paymaster, the law only
required him to give bond to account; and he has (as the law
shows) many other duties. So also, as to his accounting with any
persons duly appointed, and to his obeying instructions, &c:
The'secretary'of war has required and taken thia as the officical
bond of the paymaster. Ifthe bond conforms to the law, iehad
authority ; but if not, and he had no authority. to take it-it is void.
Two questions, therefore, arise.
1.Where a statute prescribes the bond to be taken by an officer,
can he take any other?
2. If he does, is it void?
In our government every officer must show a power for every official act. A power, either expressly given by the constitution or

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

some law; or necessarily implied from a power so given. If the
power is not thus given, it is retained ; or, in other words, prohibited.
If an officer does an .act prohibited, it is void. There is no difference between an act expressly prohibited, and an act not issuing, from
powers given, where the officer is restricted to the, powers given.
Where is the power given to take this bond!. Not in this law,
nor in any other. Not in the constitutional power given to the president to execute the laws ; for here he violates or supersedes the law.
It was settled in Tingey's case, that where the law of congress prescribes no bond, the executive officer may, under the general power
to see that the laws are executed, take a bond. Why? Because it is
"within the sphere of its constitutional powers, and appropriate to
the just exercise of those powers."" But is this so where the legislature prescribes the bond ? There it is not within its sphere; nor
appropriate to supersede the statute, and take a different bond.
Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch 177.
It is also settled, in Tingey's case, that " no officer has a right to
require a bond different from that pwescribed by the statute." Why ?
"Because," (say the court) "that would be not to. execute, but to
.supersede the law." If the bond be void when required contrary to
the statute, is.
it not as void when taken contrary to the statute ?
The officer must have a right to take it. If he has a right to take
it ; surely he has the right, and it is his duty to, require it. And
would not taking it, supersede the law as effectually as requiringit ?
There is no power then in any law, or in the constitution either, to
take or require this bond.
2. What is the effect of it?
It is said to be good because given voluntarily; or, that it is good
as far as it conforms to the statute, and only void for the residue.
This doctrine is inferred from two dicta: one in 1 Peters's C. C.
Rep. 46; the other in 1 Gallison 86.
These cases, and the cases cited, apply only to cases where the
objections went, to the nature of the stipulations, not to the capacity
of the obligee to take, as here. Where the bond is taken between individuals, under no restraint as to power to make the contract, no matter
how voluntary, there must still be an officer having pover to take
voluntary bonds for the United States; which there is not. Nor is it
good in part ; for not being authorized, and thereore (according to
our constituiion) prohibited from. taking a bond with a requisition
not in the statute, the bond containing such requisition is wholly
VoL.x.u-

354

SUPREME COURT-..
[United States v. Bradley.]

void. And this is shown by the following cases: 3 Wash. C. C.
Rep. 10; United States v. Hipkins, 2 Hall's. Law-Journal;- 5 Mass.
314; 3 Mass. 105; 7 Mass. 98; 5 Pick. 227; 3 Call 421 ; 2 Wash.
1189 ; 6 East 110 ; Carter 230; Cro. Eliz. 529, 737; 2 And. 56, 57,
108, 152; 2 Saund. 59, 60, in notes ; 19 Johns. Rep. 233.
Again, it is said it was intended to conform to the statute. The
intent cannot make that legal, which is illegal. 2 Cranch 177;
2 Call 510; 9 Cranch 39; 3 Mass. 105; 5 Peters 350.
But at all events, Tingey's case shows, that if such 'a bond is required it is void. And here the United States safih the replication,
it was required ; or was directed by the secretary of war. It is therefore void.
Mr Butler,. attorney-general, in reply.
Upon the constitutional question raised by thecounsel for the
defendant, no dispensihg powers are claimed for the officers of the
government; a'nd it is admitted that if-congres4 have really passed
a law prescribing the exact form of a bond to be taken, the execu-.
tive ought to conform to it : and that if an officer materially departs
from that prescribed form, and compels a paymaster to -execute a
bond in a different form, the bond so executed Will be void.
But the United States are not prepared to admpit that -this bond
will be void, though materially variant from the form prescribed by
the statute, if executed voluntarily. by a paymaster, and taken in
will be attempted
good faith by the executive. On the contrary it.
be
shown,
to
1. That if the bond substantially conforms to the provisions of the
law, it is valid, aild may be enforced.
2. That although it is materially variant from those provisions,
if given voluntarily, -and for useful and proper purposes, it is yet
good.
3. That although one part of the condition'of a bond is illegal, it
is void only pro tanto; and is good for all parts of the condition which
are conformable to law.
1st. It is contended'that the. bond in this case is substantially
conformable to the statute.
The precise form of the condition of the bond is not given in
ihe statute, nor is this often done. The general tenor and the
legal effect are given ; and any bond which will produce and secure

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

the object of the law'; which will stipulate for the faithful performance of (he legal duties of the officer, in whatever form of words;
will be a good and a valid bond under this statute.
Some facts are to be attended to which are in the record. It is
admitted Hall had actually been appointed a paymaster in the army.
This is in the pleadings; and thus there is an end to the allegation in
the argument that he had not been paymaster. He must have been
appointed according to the constitution and to' the law.
The next admission is, that the bond was executed with intent to
comply with the statute.
The third fact is, that Hall, after he had executed the bond,
entered on the performance of his duties. He became a paymaster
as to all third persons, the United States and his sureties.
The fourth fact is, that Hall received the money from the United
States; and that he has failed to account for the amount so received.
The fifth fact to be observed is, that the condition contains two
clauses: one, the general stipulation for the faithful performance of
the duties of paymaster; the other, special provisions to account
for money, property, &c. The counsel for the defendant admit, that
the same clause does not go beyond the requirement of this act in
effect; though it goes into specifications of details, all of which are included in the words, regularly to account, &c.
It is contended, that the terms of the condition extend only to the
faithful performance of the duties of a paymaster ; and do not include
skill in their execution. The words of the bond are, to account
"according to law." This is in effect a conformity to the statute.
In truth, all the duties required of the officer come within the words
" regularly account, well and truly, execute, and faithfully discharge."
The duties of a paymaster are included in the bond, and no more
than these duties ; and to this extent the sureties are bound. The
subjection of a paymaster to the rules and articles of war, are liabilities for which the sureties are not answerable ; they are responsible for his duties only.
Thus the bond is substantially a compliance with the provisions
of the law : but it is contended that if it exceeds those provisions, and
requires that duties shall be performed which should be executed,
as it was given voluntarily, it is valid, and binds the sureties.
. The decision of this court, relied upon in the case of the United
States v. Tingey, does not deny, but on the contrary it sustains the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]

principle which the United States assert in support'of the claim in
this case. In. that case, the pleadings admitted the bond was "extorted ;" but here there is no such admissions; on the contrary, the
bond of Hall, and his sureties, was voluntarily given ; with a view to
comply with the act of congress.
2d. The bond was executed for a lawful purpose. If congress had
required such a bond, it would have been entirely proper antd consistent with the duties of the officer.
3d. It is said there is no obligee competent to take the bond ; and
that the constitution and the* law do not allow its being taken;
nor are powers to take voluntary bonds given: that the executive
had authority to take a proper bond, but none to take any other.
All this is denied by the United States.
To assert these positions is to say, that a bond for acts which are
proper is void; and yet what are the dangers to arise from such a
bond? No arguments against the instrument, on the ground of
dangers, when none can arise, are available. Nothing was required
which was not proper, which was not lawful; and which the officers
of the government ought to have a full right to insist upon. Does
the direction to take a particular bond imply a prohibition to take
another bond not inconsistent with the prescribed bond? This- is
contended for by the counsel for the defendant in error.
. The United States have established a war department; and the
secretary of war has full authority to carry into execution all the
purposes of the government, the supervision of which is .within that
division of the administration of public affairs. No prohibition exists
in reference to the action of the officer in charge of that department ;
if the same is considered proper for the accomplishment of legitimate
objects.
Is it true that if the secretary of war omits, for any reason, to take
security from a public officer, in. the precise form which a statute
prescribes, that the United States shall'lose the benefit of that security,
if given voluntarily, and for a lawful and proper purpose: &.purpose
that really effectuates the law; and the only objection to which is,
that it is more beneficial tQ the United States than the one prescribed?
If this be the law, the United States is punished for the fault and
mistake of their officer.
The cases cited by the counsel for the defendant do not support
ihe principles claimed for them
The third question for thedetermination of the court is,whether

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

if the condition of the bond is in part itlegal and void ; which is
denied ; is the Whole void '
The answer must be in the negative. There is no act of congress
prohibiting such a bond, nor is there an act declaring bonds not conforming to this statute void. The rule of law is, that in all cases
in which the condition of a bond can be severed, it is good for that
part which is legal, and only void for that part which is illegal.
This rule always applies, except where a statute declares the whole
instrument void. 2 Marshall's Com. Law Rep. 61; 12 Wheat.
149.
The cases cited on the ofher side do not impugn these principles.
Sheriffs' bonds, taken in a form diflerent from that which the statute
authorized, are expressly avoided by 23 Hen. 6, ch. 10. So are
appeal bonds, in wrong penalties; and which are not devisable.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the District of Columbia, for the county of Washington.
The original suit was debt, on a bond givdn to the United States
by John Hall, Daniel Ot and Nicholas B. Vanzant oti the 26th?
of May 1818, the condition of which, after reciting that Hall was
appointed paymaster of the rifle regiment in the army of the United
States, was as follows "now, if the said John Hall shaill well and
truly execute, and faithfully discharge according to law, and to instructions received by him from proper authority, his duties as paymaster aforesaid ; and lie, his heirs, executors or administrators shall
regularly account, when thereto required, for all moneys received by
him from time to time as paymaster aforesaid, with such person or
persons as shall be duly authorized and qualified on the part of the
United States for that purpose, and moreover pay ino their treasury
such balance as on a final settlement of tile said John Hall's accounts shall be fotiund justly due friom him to the said United States
then this obligation shall be nuf and void, and of no effect, otherwise
to be and remain in full force and virtue."
In the court below, the defendant pleaded six several pleas, and
issues were joined on the first, second, fourth and six pleas. To the
third and fifth pleas the United States replied. The defendant demurred to the replication to the third plea, and rejoined to the replication to the fifth plea ; to which the United States demurred.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]

Upon these demurrers the court below gave judgment in favour of
the defendant.
Upon these pleadings two questions have been made and argued
at the bar. 1st. Whether the bond is in conformity to the requirements of the act of the 24th of April 1816, ch. 69, for organizing the
general staff, and making further provision for the army of the
United States. 2d. If not, whether the bond is wholly void; or void
only so far as it is not in conformity to that act.
The act (section 6) provides "that all officers of the pay, commissary and quarter-master's department, shall, previous to entering
on the duties of their respective offices, give good and sufficient bonds
to the United States fully to account ftor all moneys and public property which they rny receive, in such sums as the secretary of War
.shall direct." It is plain that the condition of the bond is not, in.its
.very terms, in conformity with this provision. But the argument on
the part of the United States is, that though in terms it varies from
the act; yet, inasmuch as all the duties, required of the paymaster by
law begin and terminate in matters of account; that in substance the
condition includes no more than what the prescribed terms of the act
contemplate.
In our view of the case it is wholly unnecessary to decide this
question ; because the only breach alleged is the non-accounting for,
and non-payment of moneys due to the United States by Hall; upon
a final'sett'fement of his accounts. So far as the condition of the
bond requires Hall to account for moneys received by him, it substantially follows the provisions of the act of 1816 : and if the bond
be not wholly void, it 'is clear that the United States are entitled to
recover upon the present pleadings in whatever way the first question
may he decided.
The second question, therefore, is that to which the attention of
the court will be addressed. - Upon the face 6f the pleadings this
.must be taken to be a bond voluntarily given by Halli and his sureties. There is no averment that it was obtained from them by extortion or oppression under colour of office, as there was in the
United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters 115. On the contrary, both the
third and fifth pleas are wholly barren of any averments on the subject of the giving of the present bond. All they assert in substance
is, that Hall never gave any such bond as ds required by the act of
1816 ; and-that the act of 1816 was the only law regulating the bonds
of paymasters; with some collateral averments not material to be

JANUARY-TERM 1836.
[Unitdd States V. Bradley.]

here mentioned. Now no rule of pleadings is better settled, or upon
sounder principles, than that every plea in discharge or avoidance of
a bond, should state positively and in direct terms the inftei's of discharge or avoidance. It is not to be inferred, arguendo; or upon conjectures. Indeed, both these pleas are open to the objection of being
merely argumentative; and are wholly destitute in the technical precision necessary for pleas in avoidance or discharge. The replication
of (he United States to the third plea does, however, exclude, so far
as that plea is concerned, any inference of extortion or oppression,
colore officii ; for it avers that the bond was given with the intent of
complying with the act of congress, and by the direction of the sec,
retary of war.
It may be added, that the bond is not only voluntary, but for a
lawful purpose; viz. to insure a due and faithful performance of the
duties of paymaster, a circumstance which must repel any supposiof an oppressive or unjust design.
But passing from these considerations, the question which first
arises is, whether a voluntary bond taken by the United States, for a
lawful purpose, but not prescribed by any law, is utterly void. This
question was elaborately argued in the case of the Unite4 States v.
Tingey, 5 Peters's Rep. 115; and upon full consideration; it was there
held by this court, that the United States being a body politic, as an
incident to their general -right of sovereignty, have a'capacity to
enter into contracts, and take bonds in cases within the sphere of
their constitutional powers, and appropriate t'o the just exercise of
those powers ; through the instrumentality of the proper department
to which those powers are confined ; whenever such contracts or
bonds are not prohibited by law; although the making of such contracts, or taking such bonds, may not have been prescribed by any
pre-existing legislative act. The court laid down this as a general
principle only, without (as was then said) attempting to enumerate
the limitations and exceptions, which may arise from the distribution of powers in our government; and from the operation of other
provisions in our constitution-and laws.
But the court, in applying the principle to the case then before
them, further added, "we hold that a voluntary bond taken by
authority of the proper officers of the treasury department, to whom
the disbursement of public moveys is entrusted, to secure the-fidelity
in official duties of a reeiver, or an agent for the disbursement, of
public moneys, is a binding contract be'twee'u him and his sureties,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]

and the United States; although such bond may not be prescribed or
required by any positive law. The right to take such tt bond is, in
our view, an incident to the dutiesbelonging to such a department.
and the United States having a political capacity to take it, we see
no objection to its validity in a moral or a legal view."
From the doctrine here stated, we have not the slightest.inclinaF
tion to depart: on the contrary, friom further reflection, we are satisfied that it is founded upon the soundest principles of law, and the
just interpretation of the constitution. Upon any other doctrine, it
would be incompetent for the government, in many.cases, to take
any bond or security for debts due to it, or for deposits made of the
public money ; or even to enter into contracts for the transfer of its
funds from one place to another, for the exigences of the public
service, by negotiable paper or otherwise ; since such an authority
is not expressly given by law in a vast variety of cases. Yet, in
Dugan v. The United States, 3 W heat. 172, 4 Cond. Rep. 223, and
in the Postmaster-General v. Early, 12 Whcat. 136, 6 Cond. Rep.
480, this right of the government was treaed as unquestionable,
*and belonging to its general functions, as an appropriate incident.
The United States, then, having, in our opinion, a capacity to take
a voluntary bond in cases within the scope of the powers delegated
to the general government, by the constitution, through the instrumentality of the proper functionaries to whom these powers are confided ; this consideration disposes of the whole of that part of the
argument, and the cases cited in support of it, which are founded
upon the distinction between bond which are given to parties having a capacity to take; and bonds, which are given toparties, who
have no such capacity : the former may be good in part ; the latter
are wh0lly void.
That bonds and other deeds may, in many cases, be good in part,
and void for the residue, where the residue is. founded in illegality,
but not-malurn in se; is a doctrine well founded in the-common law,
and has been recognized from a very early period. Thus, in Pigot's
case, 11 Co. Lit. 27 b., it was said, that it was unanimously agreed
in 14 Hen. 8, 25, 26, that if sonme of the covenants of an indenture,
or of the conditions indorsed upon a bond are against law, and some.
are good and lawful, that in this case the covenants or conditions
which are against law, are, void ab initio; and the others stand
good. And, notwithstanding the decision in Lee v Coleshill, Cro.
Eliz. 529 ; which, however, is distinguishable, being founded on a

JANUARY TERM 1836.

361

[United States v. Bradley.]

statute; the doctrine has been maintained, and is settled law at
the present day in all cases where the different covenants or conditions are severable, and independent of each other, and do not import malum in se; as Will abundantly appear from the case of Newman v. Nevman, 4 M. & Selw. 66, and the other cases hereafter
stated ; and many more might be added.
But it has been urged, at the bar, that this doctrine is applicable
only to cases wherethe case stands wholly at the common law, and
not where the illegality arises under a statute ; and this distinction
derives countenance from what was said in Norton v. Simnes,
Hob. Rep. where.the distinction was taken between a bond made
void by, statute, and by common law ; for (it was there said) upon
the statute of 23. Hen. 6, ch. 9, " if a sheriff will take a bond for a
point against that law, and also for a debt due, the whole bond is
void ; for the letter of the statute is so. For a statute is strict law :
but the common law doth decide according to common reason : and
having made that void. which is against law, lets the rest stand, as
in 14 Hen. 8, 15."
Inthe case of Maleverer v. Redshaw, 1 Mod. Rep. 35, which
was debt, upon a bail bond, Mr Justice Twisden said, lie had heard
lord Hobart say, " that the statute, i. e. 23 Hen. 6, c. 9, is like a
tyrant; when he comes, lie makes all void. But the common law
is like a nursing father, makes void'only that part where' the fault is,
and preserves-the rest." But Mr Justice Twisden added, that lord
Hobart put this doctrine upon the ground -that th6. statute of 23
Hen. 6, oh. 9, had expressly declared that if any of the sheriffs,
&c.; should take any obligation in any other form, by colour of their
office, that then it should be void.(a) The case in Hobart's Reports, was put by the court expressly upon this distinction. And it
was well remarked by Mr Justice Lawrence, in Kerrison . Cole,
8 East's Rep. 236, that this case is easily reconcilable with the general principle : for sheriff's bonds are only authorized to be taken
with a certain condition : and, therefore, if they arte taken with any
other condition, they are void in toto, and cannot-stand good in part
only. But that does not, apply to different and independent covenants and conditions, in the same instrument ; which may be good in
part, and bad in part: and so it was held by the whole court in that
case ; and notwithstanding the instrument, (a bill of sale and mort(a) See 2 Saund. Rep. 55; lb. 59, Williams's note (3).
VOL. X.-2 v

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bradley.]

gage of a ship), was, by statute, declared to be utterly null and
void, to all intents and purposes ;" yet it was held, that a covenant
in the same instrument, to repay the money lent, was good as'a
personal covenant. The same doctrine was held in Wigg v. Shuttleworth, 13 East's Rep. 87 ; How v. Synge, 15 East's 'Rep. 440;
Mouse v. Leake, 8 Term Rep. 411 ; Greenwood v. TheBishop of
London, 5 Taunt. Rep. 727, S. C. I Marsh. Rep. 292. In this last
case, the court took notice of the true line of distinction between the
cases, viz. between those cases, where the statute had declared the
instrument taken in any other form, than that prescribed by the
statute, to be utterly void ; and those cases, where it had declared
the instrument void only as to the illegal act, grant, or :onveyance.
It was the case of conveyance affected with simony, so far as the
next presentation was concerned ; but conveying the advowson in
fee. On this occasion the court said, " there can be no doubt, that
the conveyance of an advowson in fee, which is of itself legal ; if it
be made for the purpose of carrying a simoniacal contract into execution, is void as to so much as goes to effect that purpose; and if
the sound part cannot be separated from the corrupt, it is altogether
void. It is not, as in the case of usury, and some others, avoided by
the positive and inflexible enactment of the statute; but left to
the operation of the common law, which will reject the illegal part,
and leave the rbst untouched, if they can be fairly separated."
Here, the doctrine was applied directly to the very case of a statute
prohibition.
But the case of Doe dem. Thomson v. Pitdher (6 Taunt. R. 359;
S. C. 2 Marsh R. 61) contains a still more full and exact statement
of the doctrine.. It was a case supposed to be affected by the prohibitions of the statute of charitable uses; 9 Geo. 2, ch. 36. Lord
Chief Justice Gibbs, in delivering the opinion of the-court, addressing
himself to the argument, that if the deed was void as to part, it must
be void as to the whole ; said : "if the .objection had been derived
from the common law, it is admitted that would not be the consequence. But it is urged that the statute makes the whole deed void.
As the counsel for the plaintiff puts it,(a) there is no difference between
a transaction void at common law, and void by statute. If an act
be prohibited, the construction to be put on a deed conveying pro(a) Instead of these words in 2 Marshatl's Reports, p. 69, the words are, "The truth
is" there is no difference, &c.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

perty illegally is, that the clause which so conveys it is void equally,
whether it be by statute or common law. But it may happen that
the statute goes further, and says that the whole deed shall be void
to all intents and purposes: and when that is so, the court must so
pronounce, because the legislature has so enacted; -and not because
the transaction prohibited is illegal. I cannot find in this act any
words which make the entire deed void, &c. I think this grant of that
interest in land, which by the terms of the grant is to be- applied to
a charitable use, is void ; and that the deed, so far as it passes other.
lands not to a charitable use, is good." Such is the clear result of
the English authorities.
In this court, a similar doctrine has been constantly maintained.
It was acted upon in the case of The Postmaster-General v. Early
(12 Wheaton's Rep. 136). It was taken for granted in Smith v. The
United States (5 Peters's Rep. 293); where the objection, indeed, was
not taken: but the bond was not in exact conformity to the statute
(act of the 16th of March 1802, ch. 9, sect. 16), under which it was
given by a paymaster. - It was also directly before the court in Farrar and Brown v. The United States (5 Peters's Rep. 373); where the
bond, taken under the act of the 7th of May 1822, sect. 1, wholly
omitted one of the clauses required by the statute to be inserted in
the condition. The court there entertained no doubt as to the validity of the bond, and only expressed a doubt whether a breach which
was within the direct terms of the omitted clause; and yet which fell
within the general words of the inserted clause, could be assigned as
a good breach under the latter. But, if the bond, being a statute
bond, was totally void, because the condition did not conform to.all
the requirements of the act; it would have been wholly useless to
have discussed the other questions arising in the cause. Upon the
whole, upon this point we are of opinion that there is no solid distinction in cases of this sort between bonds, and other deeds containing conditions, covenants or grants, not malum in se, but illegal at
the common law; and those containing conditions, covenants or
grants, illegal by the express prohibitions of statutes. In each case
the bonds or other deeds are void as to such conditions, covenants or
grants, which are illegal ; and are good as to all others which are
legal and unexceptionable in their purport. The only exception is,
when the statute has not confined its prohibitions to the illegal conditions, covenants or grants; but has expressly, or by necessary implication, avoided the whole instrument to all intents and purposes.

SUPREME COURT.
[Uuiea States v. Bradley.]

It has been urged, however, in the present case, that the act of
1816, ch. 69, does, by necessary implication, prohibit the taking of
any.bonds from paymasters other than those in the form prescribed
by the. sixth section of the act; and 'therefore that bonds taken in
any other. form are utterly void. We do not think so. The act
merely prescribes the form and purport of the bond to be taken of
paymasters by the war department. It is in this respect directory to
that department; and doubtless it would be illegal for that department to insist upon a bond containing other provisions and conditions
differing from those prescribed or required by law. But the act has
no where declared that all other bonds, not taken in the prescribed
form, shall be utterly void : nor does such an implication arise from
any of the terms contained in the act, or from any principles of public policy which it is designed to promote. A bond may, by mutual
mistake or accident, and wholly withouit design, be taken i.n a form
not prescribed by the act. It would be a very mischievous interpretation of the act to suppose, that under such circumstances it was
the -intendment of the act that the bond should be utterly void.
Nothing, we think, but very strong and express language, should
induce a court of justice to adopt such an interpretation. Where
the act speaks out, it would be our duty to follow it: where it is
silent, it is a sufficient compliance with the policy of the act, to declare
the bond void, as to any conditions which are imposed upon a party
beyond what the law requires. This is not only the dictate of the
common law, but of common sense.
We think, then, that the present bond, so far as it is in conformity
to the act of 1816, ch. 69, is good ; and for any excess beyond that
act, if there be any (on which we do not decide), it is void, pro tanto.
The breach assigned is clearly of a part of the condition (viz. to
acc3unt for the public mopeys), which is in conformity to the act;
and therefore action is well maintainable therefor. The case of The
Supervisors of Alleghany county v. Van Campen (3 Wend. Rep. 48),
proceeded upon grounds of a similar nature.
Before concluding this opinion, it may be proper to take notice of
another objection raised by the third plea, and pressed at the argument. It is that Hall was not entitled to act as paymaster until he
hE , given the bond required by the act of 1816, in the form therein
prescribed ; and that not having given any such bond, he is not accountable as paymaster for any moneys received by him from the
government. We are of a different !"pinion.- Hall's appointment,as
paymaster, was complete when his alpointment was duly ankd4 _b

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Bradley.]

the president, and confirmed by the senate. The giving of the bond
was a mere ministerial act for the security of the-government ; and
not a.condition precedent to his authority to act as paymaster.
Having receied the public moneys as paymaster, he must account
for them as paymaster. Indeed, the condition of the bond having
recited that he was appointed paymaster of the rifle regiment. he and
his relatives are estopped to deny the fact: and by the terms of their
contract they undertake that " he shall regularly account, when
thereto required, for all moneys received by him as paymaster aforesaid."
The misdescription of the corporate or politic name of the plaintiffs
in the bond, by calling them "Tte United States of .North America,"
instead of America; is cured by the averment-of identity in the declaration: and, indeed, it has not been insisted on at the argument.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the third and fifth pleas,
upon which the circuit court gave judgment in favour of the defendant are bad in law; and therefore the judgment ought to be reversed,
and judgment thereon be entered in favour of the United States: and
the cause remanded to the circuit court for further proceedings.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by
counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of the court that
there is error in the judgment of the said circuit court in adjudging that the pleadings by the said defendants, in 'the same cause
pleaded, and the matters and things there contained, are sufficient in
law to bar the said United States from having and maintaining their
action aforesaid. And it is thereupon ordered, and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said circuit court be, and the same
is hereby reversed ; and this court proceeding to render such judgnient as the said circuit court should have rendered in the premises,
it is further considered and adjudged by this court, that the third and
fifth pleas, so as aforesaid pleaded by the said defendants,.are not
sufficient inlaw to bar the said United States of their action aforesaid, against the said defendants ; wherefore the said United States
ought, notwithstanding the pleas aforesaid, to recover their debt and
damages on occasion of the premises. And it is further ordered and
adjudged by this court that the cause be remanded to th6 said circuit court for further proceedingsthereon, according to law.

