368

SUPREME COURT.

-

THOMAS P.

CROWELL, GARNISHEE OF THE CHESAPEAKE AND DELA-

WARE CANAL COMPANY V. JOHN RANDELL, JUN.

RICHARD SHOEMAKER, GARNISHEE OF THE CHESAPEAKE AND DELAWARE CANAL COMPANY V. JOHN RANDELL, JITNThe twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1780, coners appellate jurisdiction
in the supreme court from final judgments and decrees in any'suit in the highest
court of law or equity of a state, in which a decision in the .suit could be had, in
three classes of cases: first, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision is
against-their validity: secondly, where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any state, on the ground of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision
is in favour of such, their validity: thirdly, where is drawn in question the construction of any clause of the constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or commission held under the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or exemption specially set up or claimed by either party under -such clause
of the said constitution, treaty, statute or commission. The section then goes on
to provide that no other error shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal
in any such case as aforesaid, than such as appears upon the face of the record,
and immediately respects the beforementioned questions of validity or construction of the said constitution, treaties, statu , commissions or authorities in dispute.
In the interpretation of this section of the act of 1789, it has been uniformly held,
that to give this court appellate jurisdiction, two things should have occurred and
be apparent in the record : first, that some one of the questions stated in the section did arise in the court below; and secondly, that. a decision was actually made
thereon by the same court in the manner required by the section. If both of these
do not appear on the record, the appellate jurisdiction fails. It is not sufficient to
show that such question might have occurred, or such a decision might have
been made in the court below. It must be demonstrable that they did exist, and
were made.
It has been decided, that it is not indispensable that it should appear on the record
in totidem verbis, or by direct and positive statement, that the question was made,
and the 'decision given by the court below on the very point; but that it is sufficient, if it is clear, from the facts stated, by just and necessary inference, that the
question was made, and that the court below must, in order to have arrived at the
judgment pronounced by it, have come to the very decision of that question as
indispensable to that judgment.
A review of the cases of Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch 344 (2 Cond.
Rep. 275); Smith v. The State of Maryland, 6 Cranch 281 (2 Cond. Rep. :177);
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. Rep. 304 (3 Cond.Rep. 575); Inglee v.Coolidge, 2 Wheat. Rep. 363 (4 Cond. Rep. 155); Miller v. Nichols, 4 Wheat. Rep.
311, 315 (4 Cond. Rep. 465)" Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat, 117. 124 (6 Cond

JANUARY TERM.1836.
[Crwell v. Randell. Shoemaker v. Randell.]
Rep. 462); Hickie v. Starke, 1 Peters's Rep. 98; Wilson v. The Black Bird Creek
Marsh Association, 2 Peters's Rep. 245, 250; Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters's
Rep. 380; Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peters's Rep. 292,302; Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters's Rep. 410; Fisher v. Cockerell, 5 Peters's Rep. 256; The Mayor
of the City of New Orleans v. De Armas, 9 Peters's Rep. 234.
In order to bring a case for a writ of error or an appeal to the supreme court, from a
court of the highest jurisdiction of any of the states, within the twepty-fifth section
of the judiciary act; it must appear on the face of the record: 1st, That some one
of the questions stated in that section did arise in the state court. 2d, That the
question was decided by the state court, as required in the same section. 3d, That
it is ri6t necessary that the question should appear. on the record to have been
raised, and the decision made in direct and positive terms, ipsissimis verbis; but
that it is sufficient if it appears by clear and necessary intendment that the question
must have been raised, and must have been decided in order to have induced the
judgments. 4th, That it is not sufficient to show that a question might have arisen
or been applicable to the case, unless it is farther shown on the record that it did
arise, and was applied by the state court to the case.

IN error to the superior court of the state of Delaware.
In 1829, John Randell, Junior, the defendant in error, instituted an
action of covenant against the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, in the superior court of the state of Delaware, on certain articles of agreement entered into between him and the defendants, relative to the making of a canal to unite the waters of the river Delaware
with those of the Chesapeake Bay, and to pass through the states
of Delaware and Maryland. The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal
Company were incorporated by laws passed by the states of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland- and the board of dicectors of the
company was established in the city of Philadelphia.
.The declaration alleged sundry breaches of covenant on the part of
the defendants, and after various pleadings and demurrers, and issues
of fact, judgment was rendered for the plaintiff on some of the demurrers, and an inquisition of damages awarded. The parties went
to trial on some of the issues of fact, which were found for the plaintiff; and on the 25th day of January 1834, the jury found a verdict
for the plaintiff for 229,535 dollars 79 cents, upon which a judgment
was entered by the court.
. Upon this judgment, the plaintiff, on the 6th of June 1834, issued
a writ of attachment, under the laws of the state of Delaware, for
the collection of part of the amount of the same, and of the costs;
which was served on Thomas P. Crowcll as the garnishee of the..
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company. The same proceedings
took place in the case of Richard Shoemaker.

The defendants respectively appeared, and pleaded that ihey had
VOL. x.-2

w

SUPREME COURT.
[Ciowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

no goods or effects, rights or credits of the company in their hands at
the time of the attachments, or at any time after. The cases came
on for trial on these pleas and issues, according to the laws of Dela-.
ware; and the parties agreed to a statement of facts.
In the suit against Thomas P. Crowell, the agreed facts were as
follows
"John.Randell, Jun. recovered a verdict of a jury in the said court
against the said company, on the 25th day of January 1834, and
then and there obtained judgment in the said court against the said
company for damages and costs of suit; amounting together to the
sum of .229,535 dollars 79 cents. The pleadings, record and proceedings in the said suit, from the declaration to the judgment inclusive, are referred to, and form a part of this case.
"A writ of attachment was issued upon said judgment for the collection of the damages and costs aforesaid, on the 6th day of June,
A. D. 1834, returnable to the November term of the same year.
The-said writ was served upon the said Thomas P. Crowell, in the
county aforesaid, at the Delaware tide lock, who was summoned by.
the sheriff of Newcastle county, as garnishee of the Chesapeake
,and Delaware Canal Company, on the 15ti day of June 1834. At
the same time the said Thomas P. Crowell was atrrested by virttle of
the above mentioned capias, being No. 34 to November term of said
court,.A. D. 1834, at which time and place the said defendant (the
said Thomas P. Crowell, to wit) having appeared and given bail,
and being put to plead at the election of the said plaintiff under the
said act of assembly, pleaded that he had no goods, chattels, rights,
credits or effects of the said the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal
Company in his hands, custody or possession at the time of the
attachment laid, or at any time after. On this plea the plaintiff
hath joined issue, and this is the question now submitted t-o the court
for their decision.
"On the 28th day of January, A. D. 1834, a -resolution was passed
by the board of directors of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal
Company, in the following words, that-is to say :
"Resolved, That hereafter no tolls be collected on the line of the
canal on any vessel, cat-go or other article passing through the canal,
until the said vessel, cargo or other-article on which the said tolls
may be levied or charged, shall have entered the basin at the western end of the canal ; excepting only such vessels, cargo or other
article as may not pass through the canal- to-the-said basin."

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

"This resolution has never been printed by the said company, nor
hath any notice whatever thereof been given to the said John Randell, Jun., until this time. It is admitted that the said resolution
was adopted for the purpose of preventing the said John Randell,
Jun., from attaching the tolls of the said company by virtue of the
said judgment; or otherwise availing himself of the jurisdiction of
the courts of the state of Delaware, for the collection of his said
judgment.
"The defendant at the time of the service of the said writ of attachment and capias upon him was, hath ever since been, and
still continues to be the master of the schooner Hiram; the said
schooner being in his hands and possession during that time as the
master of the same, and owner of the said schooner. The said vessel passed through the Chesapeake and Delaware canal, with a
cargo from Philadelphia to Richmond, on the 16th day. of June, A.
D. 1834. The amount of tolls on the several cargoes of the said
,schooner demanded for passage through the said canal between the
16th day of June, and the return day of the said writ, was 96
dollars and-28 cents, lawful money of the United States of America, and was paid in the city of Philadelphia, -to S. Griffith- Fisher,
an officer appointed by the said president and directors of the said
the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, to recdive and collect tolls at their office in the city of Philadelphia, by a certain
Joseph Handthe freigliter 'of the said schooner; after service of
said attachment and capia-s, and after the said vessel had passed
through the canal as aforesaid, but before the return of the said
writs.
'The- said attachment and capias were served upon the said defendant in Newcastle county, at the time of his offering to pass
through the said canal at the Delaware tide lock, with the said vessel
and cargo, and previous to the vessel passing through the same, to
wit, on the 15th day of June, A. D. 1834. The said tide lock
was, when the said canal was opened for navigation on the 17th
of October, A. D. 1829, established by the president and directors of the said company, as a place for the receipt of tolls in the
said canal ; and a collector of tolls has always been appointed to
reside at that place; and a certain John Wilson was, at the time of
issuing said attachment, and has ever since been such collector at
said tide lock.
"The printed paper hereunto annexed, marked with the letter A,

SUPREME, COURT.
[Crowell v. itandell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

is a true copy of the regulations 1.o
be observed by vessels navigating
the Chesapeake and Delaware cai al, adopted by the board of directors of the said compaity, with the rates of toll for navigating the
said canal, the same having been signed by the president and
secretary of the said company, and published by order of the president and directors thereof; and it is agreed shall be taken as a part
of the case : except so far as they had been altered by the resolution
nf the 28th of January above set forth."
[The material regulations in the paper A, established the 4th of
February 1833, were the following:
1. No vessel shall enter the canal without first coming to anchor,
or making fast to the piers at least one hundred feet from the outer
locks.
2. Masters of vessels shall, before entering the first lock, present
to the collector a manifest of cargo, so arranged'as to enable him
readily to calculate their tolls. And in order to guard against frauds,
the collectors are authorized to require the cargo to be landed for
examination, if they shall see cause to suspect the correctness of the
manifest.
5. The tolls shall always be paid at the first lock passed by a
vessel ;.and upon payment thereof, the master shall receive a pass
bill, on which shall be noted the amount of tolls paid, and the precise time of entering.
7. If any vessel shall pass through the canal without fully and
honestly paying the prescribed tolls, either of the collectors is authorized by law " to seize such vessel, wherever found, and sell the'
same at auction for ready money ; which, so far as is necessary,
shall be applied towards paying said tolls, and all expenses of seizire and sale." And to enforce the penalties.
21. The officers and agents of the company hre fully authorized
by law to enforce-obedience to the foregoing regulations ; and they
are required so to do.
22. No person is allowed to interfere with the agents or officers of
the company in the performance of their duties on the canal'. Should
reasonable ground 'of complaint occur against such officers or agents,
either by 'unnecessary delays or improper conduct, it will be immediately redressed, on information being lodged at either of the offices
of the company.]
"Itis further agreed, that the sloop Robert and James, the
defendant being then and there the master, zmid'having the direction

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Ranidell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

thereof, passed through the Chesapeake and Delaware canal with a
cargo from Port-Deposit to Philadelphia, on the 18th of June 1834,
and three several times afterwards, to wit, on the 26th day of June
1834, on the 16th day of October 1834, and on the 5th day of November 1834, between that day and the return day of the said writ
of attachment. Copies of the'pass bills given to the said defendant
on these occasions, were annexed.
"The amount of-tolls on the several cargoes of the said sloop, demanded for passage through the said canal, by th6 Chesapeake and
Delaware Canal Company, at their lock, at the western end of the
cana:, in the state of Maryland, and there paid by the. said Thomas
P. Crowell, master of the said sloop, between the said 18th of June
and the return day of said writ, was 74 dollars and 44 cents, lawful
money of the United States of America.
"The acts of the legislatures of Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, relative to the said the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal,
and the several supplements thereto are referred to, and made part
of this statement of facts.
"It -is agreed that in many cases since the resolution of the 28th of
January 1834, above set forth, tolls for the passage of vessels and
their cargoes through the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, from
the eastern end of said canal, in the state of Delaware, to the western end thereof, in the state of Maryland, were received by some
agent appointed by the president and directors of the said company,
at their office,, in the city of Philadelphia; and were paid by the
owneri or captains, or by the agents of said owners or captains, to
the officers or agents of said president and directors of said company
at said, office.
" It is further agreed, that independently of the tolls so attached,
and all other tolls of the said company attached by the said John
Randell, Jun., a sufficient amount of tolls was always left in their
hands, not attache'd, to repair and keep in order the said canal, their
locks, ahd other works necessary thereto, and to keep the same
navigable; also to defray the expenses of the collection of tolls, including the salaries of all their officers.
"It is further agreed, that the said canal, the construction of which
was commenced on the 15Lh day of April 1824, was completed and
open for navigation on the 17th day of October 1829.
"It also further agreed, that previous to the rendition of the .indginent above named, obtained by Joh iRahdell, Jun., against, the said

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

canal company, that the tolls were collected in the canal at the respective toll houses located at Delaware city and Chesapeake city,
from the captains- and masters of vessels passing through the said
canal : but the counsel for the said defendant protests that said captains and masters were not personally liable to the said company for
the said tolls so'paid by them. If upon the foregoing statement of'
facts the court shall be of the opinion that John Randell, Jun., the
above named plaintiff, is entitled to judgment against the defendant
as garnishee of the said the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, upon the plea of nulla bona, then judgment to be rendered
for the said plaintiff for the sum of 96 dollars and 28 cents : and if
the court, should be of the opinion that the said John Randell, Jun.,
is not entitled to judgment against the said defendant, on the aforesaid statement of facts, the judgment to be entered for the said defendant."
The fohowing extracts from the laws of Maryland and Delaware
were made. part of -the case:
Extract from Delaware law, passed February 1832.
"Be it enacted, that in case any master, shipper' or.agent shall
fraudulently present to the collector-of tolls, or other agent of the
canal company, a, faIse manifest or account of cargo of any.vessel or
boat about passing throtgh the canal, or give a false statement of
the tolls thereon, or otherwiseattempt to :defraud-in .the said tolls, on
conviction thereof before any justice of.the peace. for Ne1wcistle
county, he or.they so convicted, after paying to the canal company
the toll due, and the cost of ascertaining 'the scame, shall forfeit and
pay double the amount of. tolls so charged, on.which t.he fraud had
been attempted: one-moiety of said forfeiture shall inure, lo the person giving information, and prosecuting, the offence to c6nviction, the
other moiety to inure to the. state of DelaWare.".
Extract from Maryland law, passed Decembet, 1.831...
"Be it, enacted, &c., that if any mas'ter or agent of any vessel or
boat shall fraudulently present to the collector of tolls, or any other
agent of the. Chesapeak and Delaware Canal Conpany, a.false
manifest or' account of cargo of any vessel or boat about passing,
through the canal, or give a false statement of the-toll thereon, or
otherwise attempt to defraud in the said tolls, on conviction thereof
before any justice of the peace of this state, he shall incur the penalty
of twenty dollars, to be recovered before some justice of the peace as
small debts are recovered, one half to the informer giving informa-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell. ]

tion and prosecuting the offender to conviction, and the other half to
the state."
On this agreed statement the case was certified to the court of
errors and appeals for argument and decision; and in October 1835
the court decided that the defendant had goods and chattels, effects
and credits, &c. of the company in his hands, at the time of the
attachment laid in his hands, and before the return thereof, amounting to 95 dollars; and judgment was rendered in favour of the
plaintiff.
The record and proceedings were remanded to the superior court
of the state of Delaware, and the defendants prosecuted this writ of
error.
-The case of Richard Shoemaker differs from that of Thomas P.
Crowell only in this ; that in his case it was necessary for the court
to decide, in order to render judgment for the plaintiff, that the
voluntary payment of toll by the master of a vessel to a person
appointed'by the: directors of the company to receive said toll in
Philadelphia, was, under the facts stated in this case, a fraud on the
attachment laws of the state of Delaware, and on the jurisdiction of
its courts; and especially fraudulent, and therefore void, as against
a judgment creditor of the company seeking satisfaction of his debt
in that state, according to the, attachment laws thereof: and the
court so decided.
Mr Webster and Mr Clayton moved to dismiss the cases for want
of jurisdiction.
Mr Webster:
The whole case appears on the record; and the court, on inspecting
it, will find there is nothing which can give jurisdiction. The proceeding of the plaintiff was an attachment to recover the amount of
a judgment, or such part- of the same as was in tile hands of the
defendant in the attachment; who was adebtor to the Chesapeake
and Delaware Canal Company for tolls, to which his vessel and
cargo were subjected, according to the charter of the company, for
passing through the canal. Tile judgment obtained by tlhe defendant in error was in a case in which no constitutional question arose-;
nor was the constrdction of any treaty or law of the United States
involved. It was simply a procedding on a contract, which the

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

plaintiff alleged the defendants had violated; and in which the jury
gave him a verdict for a large sum as damages.
Nor do-the agreed facts give jurisdiction. On them no question
is presented upon which the court-can decide. The matter in the
stateroent is such as the courts of the state of Delaware had full
cognizance of; and in the proceedings of the courts of Delaware on
those facts, no question was raised which can come under the revision of this court.
In the early cases, it seems to have been expressly required, that
the law of the United States, or the state law, or a treaty which was
asserted to be misconstrued, should be expressly stated ; and unless
it appeared to have been fully and expressly stated what law of the
United States, or of the state, or constitutional provision had been
violated, this court would not take jurisdiction.
This has been relaxed, and jurisdiction has been sustained, where
it appeared on the face of the record that the court to which the writ
of error was directed could not have given judgment without having
misconstrued the-law. Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters
410.
In the aitachment suit, t1here was a plea of "nulla bona;" and on
this issue it is not seen how a question arose which could give this
court the revisory power sought in the case. The defendants had
no visible property to satisfy the judgment of Mr Randell ; and he
proceeded by an attachment of the tolls payable to the company,
according to the fixed regulations established by them, and in full
force at the time of the proceeding. The courts of Delaware thought
the removal of the collection of the canal tolls to Philadelphia, was
was a fraud on Mr Randell; that the canal tolls were, by the charter
payable, and should be paid on the canal. The question was, whether the tolls were so payable; and the courts of Delaware so decided.
The twefity-fifth section of the judiciary act require sthat the point
which this court may decide, on a writ of error to a state court, shall
be settled precisely by the court. It is important that it shall appear
what is decided. On the record in this case, this cannot be done.
The judgment of the court of Delaware on the question, whether'the
.garnishee had or had not goods in his hands belo6ging'to the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, could be decideal without affecting, and would not necessarily involve the decision of a constitutional question. Cited the attachment. laws of Delawvarc.
The judicatute of Delaware is of the highes-t respectability, and

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

377

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

it has no disposition to evade the provisions of the constitution; or .to
claim jurisdiction which it has not. The'defendant in error, to
obtain satisfaction of a judgment now exceeding 250,000 dollars, has
been obliged to resort to the courts of Delaware ; and to institute a
number of suits, by attachment, for sums which do not exceed or
amount to 100 dollars. The courts of Delaware considered him
entitled to relief under the laws of the state; and did not consider the
question as one which was to be affected by any other than those
laws.
Mr Sergeant, for the plaintiff in error.
A great many questions and interests are involved in this case:
but the single point now before the court,, or which can now be considered, is, whether there is so much shown in the record, as to give
this court jurisdiction to examine and revise the judgment of the
court of Delaware. We are not now to discuss whether the laws of
Delaware are inconsistent 'with the constitution and laws of the
United States; and to have the same now decided. We now maintain the plaintiffs have a right-to be heard on this question, when the
case comes on regularly for argument ; and this will be shown.
The plaintiffs in error present the question, whether the acts of the
legislature of Delaware, and the application of tljose acts, were
inconsistent with the rights which the Chesapeake. and Delaware
Canal Company acquired under the charters of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland. If they were, the plaintiff below was entitled
to judgment;, but if not, then the judgment Violated the constitution
*of the United States. Whether the acts of the assembly of Delaware, under which the plaintiff below 'proceeded, were valid or
invalid, decides the question in the case.
It is admitted that the plaintiff in error is bound to sustain the
jurisdiction of the court.' The court will find the 'whole case in the
agreed statement; and both cases are alike, except that in Shoemaker's case the tolls were paid in Philadelphia before the attachment
was laid on himas the garnishee of th company.
Is there any question presented by the -'ecfrd of which this court
has cognizance.?
The allegation is, that the laws of the state of Delawaye, as applied
to this corporation, are repugnant to the charter, and therefore violati
the charter; and are thus contrary to the constitution of the United
States, art. 1, sect. 10, 1. What the laws of the state of Delaware
VOL. x.-2 x

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

are, must be known by the decisions of the courts of that state. The
construction given to them by those courts is here to be assumed to
be right ; and the same is not to be brought in question. It is not
the subject of re-examination in this court, and is to be taken as final
and conclusive.
The question then is, whether the laws, thus construed, are not
unconstitutional and void; so far as they apply to the corporation of
the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, and to persons using
the canal ?
It is not meant, or intended to be said, generally, that they are
unconstitutional': a law may be good in part, and bad in part: it
may be good as applied to one person, and bad as applied to another.
It is maintained that it does sufficiently appear in the record that
the law of Delaware is unconstitutional, and void, as to those parties.
It need not appear that the question was made in the state court.
It need not be stated in-the record that the -constitutionality of the
law of a state came in question. It is not required that in the court
below the question.was considered. All that is requisite is, that
such a question was applicable to the case. Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304 ; Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat 363; Miller v.
Nichols, 4 Wheat. 311 ; Lanuse v. Barker, 3 Wheat. 101 ; Wilson v.
The Blackbird Creek Marsh Association, 2 Peters 245 ; Satteriee v.
Mathewson, 2 Peters .409; Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peters 392; Davis v.
Packard, 6 Peters 41 ; Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117, 2 Peters's
Cond. Rep. 325.
Are the laws under which the plaintiff in the Delaware court
proceeded, inconsistent with the charter of the company, and thus
unconstitutional ?
The fourth section of thd act of February 10th 1829, provides
that "an attachment may be laid on tolls due, and to become due;"
and that the proceedings may be the same as in other cases of attachment.
What are the proceedings "in other cases of attachment ?" They
will be seen by a reference to the act of the legislature of Delaware,
of the 24th of March 1770; Laws of Delaware 462 ; and particularly by a reference to the third, sixth and seventh sections; the last
particularly.
The third section authorizes the attachment of the effects of an
absent debtor, and allows the sheriff to take possession of them in the
hands of any one with whom they may be found, unless security is

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell.v. Randell.. Shoemaker v. Randell.]

given for them: which security will be liable for the amount, unless
the debtor in the attachment puts in special bail to appear to the suit,
and 'abide by its result. The sixth- section directs the proceedings
against the garnishee, who may, through the verdict of a jury, be
made liable for all the effects of the defendant in his hands at the
time of the attachment, and up to the time of judgment. The
seventh section, on an affidavit that the garnishee has effects of the
debtor in his hands, and is about to depart; authorizes a capias against
him, on which he is to give sureties to appear, make answer, and
abide the judgment of the court.
The effect of these sections is, to deprive the company of all right
to collect thu tolls of the canal ; and to put into the power of any
creditor to appropriate them to his own use, and to the satisfaction of
a debt due to him. Thus the whole of the rights-of the company
to tolls are suspended ; and the contract formed between the state of
Delaware and the company by the charter, is defeated and annulled.
The attachment law then, as applied to the case before this court,
violates the compact between the states of Maryland, Pennsylvania,
and Delaware, and with all the corporations, and with the citizens
of the United States.
Maryland ownK 50,000 dollars of stock in the company : Pennsylvania 100,000 dollars: and the United States own 450,000 dollars.
That this is true, that-the contract of the charter is thus violated,
is shown by the following examination of the charter:
1. By the ninth section of the act of Maryland of the 7th of December 1799, the company have a right to demand and receive the
tolls a: such places, on the canal, as they may direct. The ninth
section of the act of Delaware ofthe 29th of January 1801, and -tihe
act of Pennsylvania of the 19th of February 1801, adopt the law of
Maryland ; and certain stipulations are made for Maryland.
The attachment law of Delaware, as it has been applied in this
case, is "indirect contravention of-these positive stipulations. The
company, by the application of. the attachment law to the tolls; are
not permitted to demand and receive the tolls. They are demanded
and received.by another. This is a plain violation of the contract.
•2. By the eleventh section of the charter of Maryland, and the
tenth section of the charter of Delaware, the canal is declared a
public highway on payment of tolls as fixed and regulated. -It is of
course free.to every citizen of the Uhited State§ coming to the canal,
and paying the collector at a place on thb canal.

380

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Rtndell.)

By the application of the attachment laws to this case, such a
person 'cannot pass. 1 He is not allowed to pay the collector and
go on. 2. He cannot pass toll free, if the company are willing he
may do so. 3. He cannot pass although he has actually paid the
company. He is liable to suit; and he is liable to arrest.
Mr Clayton, in support of the motion.
The court of Delaware decided this cause on the ground of fraud
on the laws and the rights of the defendant in error. No question
worthy of tbn name of a uuestion of constitutional law, was, or could
have been presented to that -ourt.
It has been laid down by this court, (a) that "every creditor must
be presumed. to understand the nature and incidents of a corporation,
and to contract with reference to them ;" and it is a settled principle,
that when the charter or act of incorporation prescribes the mode
in which the officers or agents of a corporation must act or contract,
to render their acts or contracts obligatory on the corporation ; that
mode must be strictly pursued, For the act of incorporation isan
enabling act : it gives the corporate body all the power it possesses.:
it enables it to contract; and when it prescribes the mode of contracting, that mode must be observed, or the instrument n-o more creates
a contract, than if the body had never been incorporated.(b) Lord
Eldon has said, "it is necessary to confine the powers given to canal
companies, strictly within the limits of such powers."(c) And the
the principle, as applicable to all corporatiqns, has been stated by
this court.(d) Itis believed that this rule has been adopted in every
state in the union.(e)
Randell, as a contractor with this canal company, dealt with it
on the faith of its charter. . According to the rule laid down by this
court,.(f) he must be presumed to have "contracted with reference
to its incidents." By the third section of the charter, it is expressly
provided, that a contractor shall be paid out of the tolls imposed by
(a) Mumma v. The Potomac Company, 8 Peters 287.
(b) Head and Amory v. The Providence Insurance Company, 2 Cranch's Rep. 166;
Shand v. Henderson, 2 Dow 521.
(c)The same rule was laid down in Goldin v. Oswald, 2 Dow 534,535.
(d) Beatty v. The Lessee of Knowler, 4 Peters 168.
(e) The case of the Utica Insurance Company, 15 Johns. Rep. 381 ; 2 Cowen 419
664; 7 Cowen 462; 6 Pick. 32, 5 Conn. Rep. 560; 8 Serg & Rawle 222; 14 Mass.
Rep. 58; 17 Mass. Rep. 2D
(f) 8 Peters287.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

the act; and the eighth section of the charter prescribes the places
for collecting tolls, to be "such place or places, in the canal, as the
directors may hereafter direct."
By the regulations and by-laws, annexed to the statement of these
cases, it appears that such placeswere directed and established: to
wit, "the toll shall always be paid at thefirst lock passed by a vessel,"
and the collectors of tolls are "required to enforce" this rule. The
Delaware tide lock was one of those places thus established at the time
of t.hese attachments. Randell now only claims that the company, and
all other persons dealing with it, shall be held to the law of the charter,
and that no person having direction of a vessel, may be suffered to pass
toll free or without paying, toll in the canal. But the directors of this
company have collected toll in Philadelphia,and not in the canal. By
these means, if lawful, the payment of his judgment will be completely defeated. For if it be lawful to collect tolls out of the canal,
they may as well collect them in New Jersey, as in Pennsylvania;
and may remove all the toll-houses out of any state, jurisdiction,
long before he can obtain a. judgment and process within it. They
can thus defeat any creditor. This salutary provision in the charter
was made for the very purpose of retaining some jurisdiction over
this company, to compel payment of its debts and enforce a compliance with its obligations; and if it had been omitted, the company
could have been reached by no other state or .power. It is but an
affirmance too of the old common law principle, that "toll bars cannot be'erected out of the place for which toll'is demanded."(a)
If this company can thus collect tollsout of the states which chartered it, it can defeat the payment of the bonus reserved by Maryland,
which is a share of the net profits on the tolls. Delaware has, by
a subsequent act, repealed the section which reserved a share of the
tolls for her benefit; but she has substituted a provision in lieu of i'
for the benefit of the'public, viz. "that whenever and so long as the n(
profits arising from the said tolls, shall amount to fifteen per centur,
per annum; the company shall lessen the rates of toll fixed by the said
act, so that the same shall not exceed twelve per centum per annum." The public is thus interested in the faithful collection of the
tolls, according to the charter. But if thll be-collected in Philadelphia, a vessel jnay take in a new cargo before she arrives at the tide
it.
lock in the canal, and pass toll tree-with
(a) 6 Comyn's Digest 362, Toll, E ; Bunbury 64.

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

The rights of the public are also encroached upon by this illegal mode
of collecting tolls, in another most important particular. The charter
provides for the lirpetual maintenance and preservation of. the canal
as a highway; and directs the tolls to be applied to that object. Any
change in.
the plan of taking toll, may encroach on this public right.
The principle of the decision in the case of Lees v. The Manchester
and Ashton Canal Company, I1 East 656, is full on the very point.
Lord Ellenborough there says,." the public have an interest that the
canal shall be kept up; and whatever has a tendency to bring it into
hazard, is an encroachment upon their rights in it. They have.
also an interest that the tolls shall be equal upon all ; for if any are
favoured, the inducement to the company to reduce the tolls generally, below the statute rate, is diminished." Hence, in that case,
the court decided that a contract to pay toll in any other way than
according to the charter, was absolutely void.
In-the charter of this canal company, there is power given to reduce
the tolls below the statute rate, by the proviso to the ninth section.
Apply 'this doctrine first to Crowell's case. He paid rio toll when he.
passed the canal with his vessel; nor was any paid till months after.
He passed toll free. It was a fraud on public rights, as well as the
private rights of Randell. Then apply the same principle to Shoemaker's case. He paid in Philadelphiabefore he went through the
canal. He might have taken in a new cargo of ten times the
amount of that on which he paid toll, any where between Philadelphia and the Delaware tide lbck in the canal, which are nearly fifty
miles apart; and by this arrangement, it would have passed toll free.
For that very reason therefore, that his payment of toll in Philadelphia might affect other interests, his payment was a nullity. It was
a voluntary payment to a void authority; -infraud of the rights of
the attaching creditor, and of the rights of the public. As a fraud,
the court below regarded it, and held it as against the credi(or absolutely void.
And even against the stockholders themselves, the payment ought
to have been adjudged void if that case had arisen. It was made
by order of the directors only, and they are but agents of the corpo.
ration, who have clearly no power to bind their principal beyor-1 the
authority limited by the act of incorporation. (a) Any one stock(a) Fleckner v. The United States Bank, 8 Wheat. 356, 357; 17 Mass. Rep. 29,
30 ; 1 Greenleaf 's Rep. 81.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Crowell v. Randefl.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

holder had a right to treat the payment in Philadelphia as a legal
fraud, in plain violation of his vested rights under the charter. But
this was not the case presented. It was the case of a creditor, as to
whom, a fortiori, there can be no pretence that the payment was
binding.
There is also a clause in the chater which provides, that "the
same-rate of tolls shall be paid on articles passing from Chesapeake
to Delaware, as upon those paid from Delaware to Chesapeake."
Sect. 9. This clause is violated in Crowell's case, and also in Shoemaker's. In Crowell's case no toll was paid at either end of the
canal at the time of passing, but an indulgence of some months was
granted before any payment: while other persons paid at or before
the time of passing, and while there was a standing by-law directing
all to pay in the cdnal. The amount of his tolls 'from Chesapeake
to Delaware, was really less than the amount paid by him from
Delaware to Chesapeake, as the case shows. The value of the indulgence in the former case, therefore, was greater than in the latter.
In this way the company may establish what would be equivalent
to a discriminating duty in favour of the commerce of Philadelphia,
and cut up the commerce of Baltimore: the very thing which the
charter intended to prohibit. They may thus agree with every man
passing from Philadelphia to wait for the toll; while they rigorously
enforce payment on all coming from Baltimore. They may grant
this indulgence only to those who trade from the favoured city.
If it be pretended that they have the power to do this under the
general authority given them to lessen the-tolls; the answer is, first,
this authority can be exercised only by the stockholders at a general
meeting, at which proprietors having five hundred shares of stock
must be present; whereas, in this case, the directors alone have reduced the toll : and, secondly, the power given to the company to
lessen the tolls, is not a power to reduce tolls at one gate or lock, and
not at the other. It has been decided, in a similar case, that tolls
cannot be reduced at one toll gate and not at the other. (a)
This company has no power to commute with any person for tolls.
That power can never, be exercised unless expressly conferred. It
is a power often to be found in the common turnpike acts passed by
the states, but not in any canal act which is known. The reason
for this will be found in the jealousy with Which the legislatures
(a)

In The King v. Bury, 4 Barnewall & Cresswell 361.

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

regard all power to give commercial advantages to one port or place
over another., Yet the. atiract to receive. toll in Philadelphia, is
really a commutation-for toll; and if sustained, there isno limit to its
exercise. The principle of-commutation -may at once destroy the
equality of rates paid by vessels passing from the different bays, and
violate that part of the charter. It is a fraud on the commercial interest of those waters against which the discrimination is made.
The payment of toll in Philadelphia is a fraud on the attachment.
laws, both of Delaware and- Maryland. The attachment law of
Delaware, under which. the defendant in error claims redress; was
passed sixty-six years ago; was in force at the time of the grant of
this company's charter; and its constitutionality has never been questioned. It is very similar to the attachment law of Pennsylvania;
and is, in some respects, like the acts in New England, against trustees of absconding debtors. It was, I apprehend, never doubted or
denied in Delaware, that it applied to the. debtors of all corporations;
and under this act the court below could have decided. Another act
was passed in 1829, before this canal was opened for navigation,
making the "tolls due, and to become due," on (his.canal, liable to
attachment; but the court below, as the opinion is understood, expressly declared, in giving judgment on these cases, that this act
was declaratory.andgave 'no new power..
Any and every contract in fraud or in contravention of law is
void ;(a) and so are all contracts which tend to prevent the due course of
justice.(b) The payment in Philadelphia, by Shoemaker, was a payment in fraud of the law; and falls precisely within the rule adopted
in Englaid in regard to all contracts executed or executory, which
are in. fraud. or contravention of the revenue laws. Smuggling itself
cannot be regarded as more odious .than the passage of a vessel
through a canal toll free, under a trick to. defraud a creditor; and to
evade the only laws provided for his security by any states in the
union.
It must be manifest that, if these attachment laws cannot be enforced on the ground of unconstitutionality, chancery has no power
in any state to grant relief. The chancellor of Maryland has lately
decided that he has power to appoint a receiver, to enable-him to pay
debts-; and the subject is now before the chancellor of Delaware too.
(a) 3 Term Rep. 454; DA!las 334, 335, 336; 7 Angel &.Ames 142.
(b) Comyn on Contracts 44..

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell. ]

If a valid payment of toll can be made in Philadelphia, to evade the
attachment law ; that payment would be equally valid as.against a
receiver appointed by the court of chancery. If the attachment law
be -held unconstitutional, on account of such a previous payment ;
surely there is no redress in equity against it, and the result is inevitable, that this corporation is above the law.
The payment of toll in Philadelphia is a manifest violation of Lhe
by-laws of the company. The fifth regtrlatioh to be observed by
vessels, is: "The tolls shall always be paid AT THE FIRST LOCK
passed by a vessel; and -upon payment thereof, the master shall receive a pass bill, on which shall be noted the amount of tolls paid, and
the precise time of entering." The twenty-first regulation directs as
follows: "the officers and agents of the company are fully authorized by law to enforce obedience to the foregoing regulations; and
they are required so to do." These by-laws were made in pursuance
of an act of the legislature, supplementary to the charter ; which provides that the by-laws shall not be in contravention of the existing
laws of the land. That act was passed in 1832, long after all the
attachment laws were in force.
Randell therefore is protected not only by !.he general law of the
land, but by the very by-laws of this corporation, against payments in
Philadelphia; and it is insisted that the plaintiff in error is bound by the
established rule, that "the restrictions upon the power of the agents
or officers of a corporation, contained in the act of incorporation,
every person dealing with the company is bound to notice. (a)
No by-law could be made to appoin't an officer to collect tolls in
Philadelphia. Such a by-law would not only have been in contravention of the attachment laws of the staie, but of the charter itself.
A by-law may regulate, but cannot alter the constitution of a corporation.(b) A by-law cannot take away a right, or impose any unwarrantable restraint on the exercise of it ;(c) and a by-law must be
reasonable. But a regulation to direct the payment of toll in Philadelpliia, would be unreasonable and unjust;.As it would compel every
trader'south of the canal to go out of his way to Philadelphia, a distance of nearly fifty miles, to pay toll. It would operate as inju(a) Angel & Ames 172; Wyman v. Hallowell and Augusta Bank, 14 Mass. Rep.
58; Salem Bank v. Gloucester Bank, 17 Mass. Rep. 29; Wild v. Passamaqluoddy
Bank, 3 Mason's Rep. 506.
(b).1 Kyd 113.
(c) 1 Kyd 122.
VOL. X.-' Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

riously as a discriminating duty against the commerce of Baltimore;
and would he in direct contravention of the spirit of the proviso to the
ninth section of the charter, "that the same rate of tolls shall be paid
on articles passing from Chesapeake to Delaware, as upon those.paid
fron Delaware to Chesapeake." It would impose on the trader a
burthen so onerous, as to amount to a new toll or tax, not imposed
by the charter; in contravention of the tenth.section also.
The act of 1832, which is a supplement to the charter and forms
part of it, is the authority for these by-laws: and, as stated, it eipressly provides that they shall not be made "in contravention of the
constitution or laws of the state." A by-law directing payment elsewhere than in the canal,.would not only be in contravention of the
laws of the state, but void as tending to prevent the due course of
justice.
The liability of the person having direction of a vessel which has
passed the canal without payment of toll, is fixed by the ninth secwhich, after it provides that
tion of the original act of incorporation ;.
the said toll, then said col-.
paying
"if any Vessel shall pass without
lectors may (it is not said shall) seize such vessel wherever found.,
and sell the same at auction for ready money; which, so far as is
necessary, shall be applied towaras paying said toll, and all expenses
of seizure and sale, and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the
owner-" then also expressly enacts, that "the person having the
6irection of such vessel, shall be liable for such toll, if the same is not
paid by the sale of such vessel as aforesaid." It is clear that the
object was, as the language expresses, that the master should be, liable in all cases where the toll is not paid by the sale of the vessel.
If the company decline to sell, which- they may or may not do at their
pleasure, in case the vessel pass without payment of toll in the
canal, surely the liability of the, master of the vessel is fixed. It is
in vain to contend that the sale is an essential pre-requisite to this
liability. Such a construction would enable the master to -take
advantage of his own wrong, and would be an absolute premium for
his own fraud: for then if he could escape toll free out of the jurisdiction of the state, with his vessel, he would not be liable. Such a
construction renders the master's exemption from liability dependent
on the succesk-of his own fraud ; and furnishes an inducement'to him
to commit barratry, by exposing the vessel to loss by seizure and sale.
Our construction is, that the remedy against him is cumulative to
the right of seizure and sale of the vessel: and were this not the true
construction of the.charter,.of 'which we think there can be no doubt;

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Rundell.)

yet by the common law a master is regarded as the ship's husband;
and is liable for pilotage, port dues, tolls and all the expenses necessarily incident to the voyage. This conmon law remedy is cunmulative to that provided by the statute.(a)
It remains for the court to say, with this view of the case, whether
there was really any constitutional question necessarily arising on
this record. Can a sensible man ; could a sensible court find any
such question here, wvhich was decided against the plaintiffs in error?
Their counsel alleges that such a question necessarily arises under
the provisions of these charters, which he regards as " a compact
or agreement" between the states of Pennsylvania, Delaware and
Maryland. But how is it pretended that the compact has been violated ? Did Delaware ever enter into any compact or agreement that
any man should pass the canal toll free, or on payment of, toll in
Philadelphia? Or did she ever agree that any man should pass the
canal through her borders, .without being liable to that attachment
law which was passed by her in 1770; and was in-full force when
thd charter of this company was granted? That act authorizes any
plaintiff in a judgment to attach the goods, chattels, rights, credits,
or effects of any defendant whatsoever ; and compels the debtor or
garnishee to answer how much he had in his hands, custody or possession belonging, to the defendant at the.. time of the attachment
laid, or at any time after and before the return of the writ. It
-was thought by the court below, and must by this court be seen
to be sufficient for the plaintiff's purposes, even if the special act of
1829, which expressly authorizes the attachment of the tolls of this
very corporation, had never passed. Under that act of 1770 alone,
the court of-Delaware, it will be perceived, could not have had the
slightest difficulty in passing judgment as they did. They must
have considered the act of 1829 as rmerely declaring and confirming
a pre-existipg right in every creditor, derived from a law which was
in-full force thirty years before the state chartered this company.
The question, therefore, which it is pretended was raised in the state
court, was, whether an act in force at the time of the charter, granting a remedy to a creditor, is constitutional ? Is that a-question . Is
it really questionable, whether those who take a charter under a state,
thereby subject themselves to the laws of the land existing at the
time, which provide remedies for the administration of justice ?
(a) Sharp and-another v. Warren,6 Price's Reports 131.

SUPREME COURT.
.[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

The counsel for the plaintiffs in error may, it is true, put this'as a
question but every interrogatorywhich counsel can put is not a
question within the meaning of the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
. It is believed that a glance at the case will satisfy the court,' that
there could not possibly have been a real question as to the violation
of any compact or agreement by Delaware -with any other slate.
But it would not avail the plaintiffs in error if there had been. The
tenth section of the first article of the constitution provides, that" no
state sha.ll, without the consent of congress, enter into any agreement
or compact with another state." The judiciary act does not authorize this court to revise a judgment rendered in favour of the
defendant in error ; even if a constitutional question could have arisen
on this clause, which I do not admit.. To give this court jurisdiction, the decision in the state court must be against the title, right,
privilege or exemption specially set up by either party under the
constitution.
The act of 1832, which is a supplement to the charter,
provides
that a master of a vessel, who shall in any manner whatsoever attempt to defraud in the matter of the tolls, shall not only pay the
tolls, but a.forfeiture besides. Can it be made a question whether
this liability of the master did constitutionally exist in these cases 1
If not, can it then be made a question whether the attachment law,
which retiches'that liability, is constitutional ? By the charter the
company is authorized to sue and made liable " to be sued." This
process of foreign attachment is a mode by which it has been sued
and to set tip th'e principle, by sustaining ,jurisdiction in this :case,
thata question arising under the "constitution is presented by the fact
staled, that this company has been thus sued ; is to eslablish the doctrine that every decision in a suit against.a corporation in the stales
is liable to be reviewed in-this court. In Bushel v. The Commonwealth Insurance Company, 15.Serg. & Rawle 176, the supreme
court of Pennsylvania decided that the debta die-to a foreign xrI,-oration were liable to be attached for th.e payment of a claim agaiost
the corporation': and whaever-doubts may be entertained as to the
application of their attachment laws, which are similar to those of
Delaware, to the cases of foreign corporations ; no one ever denied or
doubted the constittionality of' those laws as thus construed and
applied. Yet while they claim a constitutionial jurisdictiou overall the
corporations in the world, so far as regards the.debtors of those corpo-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowli v. Rande1.

Shoemaker v. RPtdeIL]

rations found within their limits; the objection comes from that state
against the constitutionality of the jurisdiction of Delaware over her
own domestic corporation; a corporation to which she gave leave to be,
and which without her assent could never have existed: a corporation
more than three-fo*urths of whose canal lies within her acknowledged
limits-; and which is at once above the law, and not liable for its
debts, if she cannot and does not compel obedience to her laws.
As to the resolution mentioned in the cases stated' passed three
days after ihe original judgment of the plaintiff below against the
canal company,.and which directs tolls to be collected in JkIaryland;
it was manifestly a meditated fraud. Any other by-law passed to
evade the jurisdiction of Delaware would be equally a fraud on the
law. Even were such a by~law held good, however; it would not
prevent the courts of Delaware from compelling payment to the company's creditors claiming strict justice at her hands. Her attachment, laid in the. hands of a.master of a vessel, is a discharge from
all tolls due or to become due from him at and after the service of
the writ, and until the return of it. A Maryland attachment furnishes a gooddefence for a garnishee in New York; and a Delaware
attachment is an equally good defence for a garnishee in Maryland.
He who passes the Maryland lock in the canal after being served
with a Delaware attachment, and before its return; is prolected by
the writ, according to the course of all the decisions regulating the
law of judicial transfer in this country. The writ protects the captain as a payment in the canal, in the eye of the law; and were any
other construction adopted, neither Maryland nor Delaware could
give redress to any creditor of this canal companty: 'because, as soon
as a judgment could be recovered in one of those states, the company
might thus defeat its jurisdiction by removing all the toll houses into
the other.
The doctrine laid down in Miller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. Rep. 311,
'15, that "it would have been sufficient to give .this court jurisdiction
of the cause, if the record should'show that an act of congress was
applicable to the case ;" is inaccurate as understood by the other.side.
It must appear from the record, that some act of congress, treaty, or
clause in the constitution, relied on to give jurisdiction, was not merely
applicable, but necessarily.applied : and that the cout below could
not have decided as they did without considering and deciding on it.
Such we apprehend to be the true doctrine, as gathered from all the
cases.

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

Mr Sergeant, in reply-to Mr Clayton's argument, as introducing
new matter.
The concluding counsel for the defendant in error has said, that
the case was decided in Delaware in his favour, on the ground of
fraud. This is not apparent on the facts agreed upon. Nothing of
an allegation of fraud can be deduced from those facts.
What is the fact from the evidence? It is said, that the resolution
of the.board of directors to remove the collection of tolls out of Delaware was a fraud 6n tile creditors of the company; and on the rights
of those who were in any manner connected with the use of the
canal. This argument proceeds on the thing to be proved. Suppose
the law under which the attachment was laid was unconstitutional,
and the question-is, whether it is a fraud to violate a law which is
unconstitutional-the proceedings under such a law are void acts,
and no fraud can be alleged out of such a case.
. The argument of the counsel. for the defendant in error involves
the question which is presented by the record ; that the attachment
law of Delaware, as it interferes with the rights of the company, is
unconstitutional. This is affirming the jurisdiction of this court in
the case.
Another view of the matter. How does it appear that this is a
fraud on the part of the company, and that they have exposed themselves to the charge of a fraud on the state of Delaware ? The charter
gives the company the right to demand the toll on the canal ; but the
place for its payment depends upon the resolution of the directors.
Tile power to enforce the payment of tolls is made, by the construction given by the counsel for the defendant, applicable to the
power to demand tolls on the canal; and it is said that although a
person may have willingly paid the toll before he entered the canal,
this shall not be done because of the atithority given to demand the
payment after the vessel has entered it. This construction of the
charter is denied. The voluntary payment of the tolls to the company, or to-its agents, any where, supersedes the necessity of any
demand ; and the provision of the charter on which the defendant
relic-, has no application to such a case. Had the company demanded the toll before the vessel entered the canal, and had this
demand, made in Philadelphia, been followed by measures to compel
its payment; the case might be, although it is not admitted that it
would be different. It is apparent, then, that on the constitutional

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Raridell.

Shoemaker v. RandeU.]

validity of the attachment law, thus applied ; the judgment of the
court of Delaware depends.
There is no application to this case of the decisions of the co urts
of Pennsylvania, that a foreign corporation is liable to attachment.
The case here, is, where the law of the state makes its own corporation so liable.
This court will not readily entertain a motion to dismiss a case for
want of jurisdiction, preliminary to a full hearing of it : for if it
shall, on tile full examination of it, and after full argument, be found
that the court has no jurisdiction, the court-will act accordingly.
But if without such a hearing the dismission is made, the party may
sustain much injury, without any remedy or relief.
The case of Miller v. Nichols fully maintains the objection made
to the dismission of this case. The court there decided, that it is
sufficient to give it jurisdiction, if it appeared that an act of congress
was applicable to the case.
Mr Justice Srony delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the superior court of the state of Delaware, to revise the judgment of the court of errors and appeals of the
said state; the record of wbich judgment had been remanded to the
superior court of the same state.
A motion has been made to dismiss the suit for wantof jurisdiction ; upon the ground that there is nothing apparent upon the record
to bring the case within the revising power of this court under the
twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789, cli. 20. That section confers appellate jurisdiction in this court from final judgments
and decrees in any suit in the highest court of law or equity of a
state in Which a decision in the suit could be had in three classes of
cases: first, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under tile United States, and the
decision is against-their validity: secondly, where is drawn in ques•tion the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any
state, on the ground of their being repugnant to the constitution,
treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favour of
stich their validity: thirdly, where is drawn in question the construetion of any clause of the p.onstitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or
commission held under the United States, and the decision is against
the title, right, privilege or exemption specially set up or claimed by
either party, under such clause of the said constitution, treaty, statute

SUPREME COURT.
.[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randel.]

or commission. The section then goes on to provide that no other
error shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal in any
such case as aforesaid, than such as 'appears upon the face of the
record i and. immediately respects the beforementioned questions of
-validity or construction of the said constitution, treaties, 'statutes,
commissions or authorities in dispute.
In the interpretation of this section'of the act of 1789, it has been
uniformly held, that to give this court appellate jurisdiction two
things should have occurred and be apparent in the record: first,
that some one of the questions stated in the section did arise in the
court below; and aecondly, that. a decision was actually made
thereon by the same court, in the manner required by thesection.
If both of these do not appear on the record, the appellatejurisdiction
fails. It is not sufficient to show that such a question might have
occurred, or such a decision might have been. mide in the -court
below. It must be demonstrable that they did exist, and were made.
'The principal, perhaps the only important difficulty which has ever
been felt by the court ; has been in ascertaining in.particular cases
whether these matters (the question and decision), were apparent on
the record. And here ,the doctrine of the court has been, that it is
not indispensable that it should appear on the record, in totidem
verbis% or -by direct and positive statement, that the question was
made and the decision given by the court below on the very point;
but that it is sufficient, if it is clear, from the facts stated, by just and
necessary inference, that the question was made, and that the court
below must, in order to have-arrived at the judgment pronounced by
it, have come to-the-very decision of that question as indispensable
to-that judgmentAlthough this has. been the course of the decisions in this court,
as to the extent and exercise of its appellate jurisdiction over the
judgments and decrees of state courts ;.yet it is apparent from the
arguments on the present occasion, as *well as frori those which
have been addressed to us on -several other late occasions, that a
different impression exists at the bar; and that it has been supposed
that a much Nyider latitude of interpretation of the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789 has been adopted by the court. To
correct, at least as far as in us lies, this mistaken notion ; we shall
now proceed to review the various decisions which have heretofore
been made on this subject.
The earliest case is Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch-344.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

In that case it clearly appeared, that the construction of a treaty was
before the state court ; and that it was decided that the right of the
party was not protected by the treaty. This court affirmed the
decision of the state court. The next case Was Smith v. The State
of Maryland, 6 Cranch. Rep. 281. In that case it. was contended
that the court had no jurisdiction, because the cause turned exclusively upon the confiscation laws of Maryland; and that no question
relative to the construction of the treaty of peace, did or could occur.
But upon the facts stated on the record, the only title asserted by
.the original. plaintiffs. was founded on the confiscation acts of Maryland ; and the only title set up by the original defendant was for a
British alien, protected by the treaty of peace. If that title was so
protected, then the plaintiffs were not entitled to the relief sought
by the bill; if otherwise, then the plaintiffs were entitled to a decree.
The state court decided that the plaintiffs were so entitled; and therefore necessarily decided against the treaty as a protection. The
jurisdiction was maintained by this court upon this posture of the
facts; and the decision of the state court was afterwards affirmedBut the 'court said, that in order to decide upon the main question,
it was indispensable.to ascertain what the nature of the title was, to
which the treaty was sought to be applied.
The next case was \Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheaton's Rep.
305, 355. There the original case came before the court upon an
agreed statement of facts, upon which the state court gave judgment
against the original defendant. That. judgment was upon a writ of
error reversed by this court; and when the cause came-afterwards
before this court upon a second. writ of error, the objection was taken
that the original case was not Within the twenty-fifth section of the
judiciary act. Upon this occasion, the court, after stating the material facts in the agreed'case, said : "it is apparent, from this summary explanation, that the title thus set up by the plaintiff, might be
.open to other objections ;. but the'title of the defendant in error
[against which the state court had decided] was perfect and complete, if it was protected by the treaty of 1783. If, therefore, this
court had authority to examine into the whole record, and to decide
upon the legal validity of the title of. the defendant, as well as its
application to the treaty of peace; it.would be a case within the
express purview of the twenty-fifth section of the act:, for there was
nothing in the record upon which the court below could have decideti but upon the title, as connected with the treaty. And if the
VOL. x.-2 z

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v.-Randell.]

title was otherwise good, its sufficiency must have depended altogether upon its-protection under the treaty. Under such circumstances
it was strictly a suit, where was drawn in question the construction
of a treaty, and the decision was against -the title specially set up or
claimed by the defendants. It would then fall within the very terms
of the act."
The next case was Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. 363, 4 Cond.
Rep. 155, where a motion was made to dismiss the writ of error
upon the ground, that there was nothing apparent upon the record,
which 1rought the case within the appellate jurisdiction of this
court, under the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789. The Court
were of this opinion, and accordingly dismissed the writ of error.
The next case was Miller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 311, 315, 4 Cond.
Rep. 465. Mr Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion, of
the court, said : "it does not appear from the record, that either the
constitutionality of the law of Pennsylvania, or any act of congress
was drawn in question. It would not be required that the record
should, in terms, state a misconstruction of an act of congress, or that
an act of congress was drawn in question. It would have been sufficient to give this court jurisdiction of the cause, that the record
should show that an act of congress was applicable to the case.
This is not shown by the record." The language used in this last
sentence, has been often cited : as if it imported, that if an act of
congress was shown to be applicable to the case, although it was
not in fact applied by the decision of the state court, it would sustain the appellate jurisdiction of this court. That was certainly not
the understanding of the chief justice, or of the court. The case of
Miller v. Nicholls was decided in the state court, upon an agreed
statement of facts ; by which it appeared that Nicholls was a debtor
both to the United States and to the state of Pennsylvania ; and the
question raised was, whether the United States, or the state of Pennsylvania, was entitled to certain money of Nicholls, then in court, as
the creditor of Nicholls. The United States claimed it in virtue of
the priority given by the act of the 3d of March 1797, ch. 74. But
it did not appear in the statement of facts, that Nicholls was then in
a state of insolvency : and ifhe was not, then the priority of the
United States did not attach ; or in other words, the act of congress
was not applicable to it. It is to this state of the facts that the ]anguage of the chief justice was addressed. He added, "had the fact
of iiisolvencv appeared "non 'the record ; that would have enabled

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[CroweU v. Randel].

Shoemaker v. Bandell.]

this court to revise the judgment of the supreme court of Pennsylvania." And why? it may be asked. Because upon the statement of facts, the state court must, under these circumstances, have
misconstrued the act of congress or disregarded it: for otherwise
they would not have given the judgment which was sought to be
revised.
That this is the true explanation of this case, does not admit of
controversy. In the very next case, Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat.
117, 124, 6 Cond. Rep. 462 ; where this very expression, in Miller v.
Nicholls, was relied on in argument to establish the position, that it
is sufficient to give the court jurisdiction, that the record should
show that an act of congress was applicable to the case; the chief
justice gave' the very explanation of it which is now insisted on
and added, " had the record shown that this was a case of insolvency, so that an act of congress applied to it, that act must have
been misconstrued or its obligation denied, when the court decreed
the money to Pennsylvania: and the. court were of opinion that the
act couldnot be evaded by the omission to refer to it in the judgment, or to spread it on the record." In the case of Williams v.
Norris, this court dismissed the writ of error, because it was not
stated on the record that the constitutionality of the act of Tennessee, set up in that case, was drawn in question. In Fisher v.
Cockerill, 5 Peters's Rep. 258, the case of Miller v. Nibholls was
again cited, and commented on by the chief justice, and the same
explanation of the decision was recognized and enforced : and, because the facts did not appear on the record, which would bring the
case within the terms of the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789,
the writ of error, in Fisher v. Cockerill, was also dismissed.
But, to proceed with the other cases in their chronological order :
the next case was Hickie v. Starke, I Peters's Rep. 98. There a
motion was made to dismiss the writ of error for the want of juris.diction. Mr Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the
court dismissing the writ of error, said: "in the construction of that
section, [the twenty-fifth] the court has never required that the
treaty or*act of congress, under which the party claims, who brings
..the final judgment of a state court into review before this court;
should have been pleaded specially or spread on the record. 'But it
has always been deemed essential to the exertise of -jurisdiction in
such a case, that the record should show a complete title under the

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

treaty or act of congress, and that the judgment of the court is in
violation of that treaty."
The next case was Wilson v. The Black Bird Creek Marsh Cornpany, 2 Peters's Rep. 245, 250. In that case, the chief justice, in
delivering the opinion of the court sustaining the jurisdiction, said :
"we think it impossible to doubt that the constitutionality of the act
[of Delaware] was the question and the only question, which could
have been discussed in the state court. That question must have
been discussed and decided. This court has repeatedly decided in
favour of its jurisdiction in such a case. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee,
Miller v. Nicholls, and Williams v. Norris, are expressly in point.
They establish, as far as precedents can establish any thing,-that it
is not necessary to state in terms on the record, that the constitution
or a law of the United States was drawn in question. It is sufficient
to bring the case within the provisions of t.-., twenty-fifth section of
the judicial act, if the record shows, that the constitution or a law
or a treaty of the United -States, must have been misconstrued, or
the decision could not have been made ; or, as in this case, that the
constitutionality of a state law was questioned, and the decisionwas.
in favour of the party claiming under such law."
The-next case was Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Peters's Rep. 380,
410: where Mr Justice Washington, in delivering the opinion of the
court sustaining the jurLiliction, after citing prior cases,.said : "if it
sufficiently appear from the record itself, that the repugnancy of a
statute of a staLe to the constitution of the United States was drawn
into question, or that that question was applicable- to the case ; this
court has jurisdiction of the cause under the section of the act referred to, although the record should not in terms state a misconstruction of the constitution of the United States, or that the repugnancy of the statute of the state to any part of that constitution was
drawn into question." But he immediately adds, as explanatory of
his remarks, and to correct their generality :"now, it is nmanifest
from this record, not only thatthe con;titutionality of the statute of
the 8ih of April 1826 was drawn into question, and was applicable
to the case ; but that it was so applied by the judge, and formed the
basis of his opinion to the jury, that they should find in favour of the
plaintiff, if in other respects she was entitled to a verdict. It is
equally manifest that the right of the plaintiff to recover in that action dependej on -that statutd'
The next case was Harcis v. Denle,SPeters's Rep. 292, 302 ;

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

where the court, in answer to the objection of a want of jurisdiction,
because it did not appear upon the record that any question within
the twenty-fifth section arose in the state court upon the special
verdict, said: "it has been often decided in this court that it is not
necessary that it should appear, in terms, upon the record that any
such question was made. It is sufficient, if, from the facts stated,
such a question must have arisen, and the judgment of the state
court would not have been what it is if there had not been a misconsiruction of some act of congress, or a decision against the
validity of the right, title, privilege, or exemption set up under it."
The next case was Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters's
Rep. 410; in which Mr Chief Justice Marshall, in affirming the
jurisdiction of the court, said : "to give jurisdiction to this court it
must appear in the record: 1. That the validity of a statute of the
state of Missouri was drawn in question, on the ground of its being
repugnant to the constitution of the United States. 2. That the
decision was in favour of its validity." And again : " there has
been a perfect uniformity in the construction given by this court to
the twenty-fifth section of the judicial act. That construction is,
that it is not necessary t6 state, in terms, in therecord, that the constitution or a treaty orlaw of the United States has been drawn in
question, or the validity of a state law on the ground of its repugnance to the constitution. It is sufficient if the record shows that
the constitution, or a treaty or law of the United States might have
been construed, or that the constitutionality of a state law must
have been questioned ; and the decision has been in favour of the
patty claiming under such 'law."
In Fisher v. Cockerill, 5 Peters's Rep. 255 ; the cases of Harris v.
Dennie, and Craig v. The State of Missouri, were reviewed, and the
doctrine stated therein confirmed ; and Mr Chief Justice Marshall,
after that review, added : "we say, with confidence, that this court
has never taken jurisdiction unless the case, as stated in the record,
was brought within the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of. the
judicial act."
In Davis v. Packard, 6 Peters's Rep. 41, 48; Mr Justice Thompson said : "it has alsobeen settled, that in order to give jurisdiction
to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, it
is not necessary that the record should state, in terms, that an act'of
congress was in point of fact drawn in question. It is sUfficient if it
appoa from the record that an act of Congress was applicable to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Crowell v. Randell.

Shoemaker v. Randell.]

case, and was misconstrued ; or the decision in the state court was
against the privilege or exemption specially set up under such statute."
In the Mayor of the City of New Orleans v. De Armas, 9 Peters's
Rep. 234; where the suit was dismissed for want of jurisdiction: the
chief justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "we can
inquire only, whether the record shows that the constitution, or a
treaty or a law of the United States has been violated by the decision of the state court. To sustain the jurisdiction of the court in
the case now under consideration, it must be shown that the title
set up by the city of New Orleans is protected by the treaty ceding
Louisiana to the United States, or by some act of congress applicable
to that title."
These are all the cases, it is believed, in which the construction
of the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act has' been made matter
of controversy ; and they extend over a period of more than twentyfive years. They exhibit an uniformity of interpretation of that section, which has never been broken in upon. They establish, so far
as a course of decision can establish, the propositions already stated
in the early part of this opinion. The period seems now to have
arrived in which the court should, upon a full review of all the
cases; with a view to close, if possible, all future controversy on the
point; reaffirm the interpretation which they have constantly, maintained. It is, that to bring a case within the twenty-fifth section of
the judiciary act, it must appear upon the face of the record: 1st. That
some one of the questions stated in that section did arise in the state
court. 2d. That the question was decided by the state court, as required in the same section. 3d. That it is not necessary that the
question should appear on the record to have been raised, and the
decision made in direct and positive terms, ipsissimis verbis; but that
it is sufficient if it appears by clear and necessary intendment that
*the question must have been raised, and must have been decided in
order to have induced the judgment. 4th. That it is not sufficient
to show that a question might have arisen or been applicabe to the
case ; unless it is farther shown, on the record, that it did arise, and
wat applied by the state court to the case.
If with these principles in view we examine the record before us,
it is very clear that this court has no appellate jurisdiction. No
question appears to be raised, or decision made by the state court
within the purview of the twenty-fifth section. The statement of

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Crowell v.,Randell. Shoemaker v. Randell.]

facts upon which the judgment against the garnishee (the plaintifflin error) was given, presents no question as to the constitutionality of the laws of Delaware relative to garnishees; and no right
set up by the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, under
their charters, which has been infringed, in violation of the constitution of the United States. So far as we can perceive from the
record, the judgment had no reference to any constitutional question
whatsoever; but proceeded upon general principles of law, applicable
to cases of garnishment. If, indeed, we were compelled to draw
any conclusion, it would be that the judgment proceeded upon the
ground stated at the bar, that the payment of the tolls for which the
plaintiff was held liable as garnishee, was a meditated fraud upon
the garnishee laws of Delaware, and a violation of the charters and
by-laws of the company. But it is innecessary for us to draw any
such conclusion ; since there is a total absence from the record of any
question and decision which would give this court jurisdiction. ,
The judgment of the court is, that the suit must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.

