JANUARY TERM 1836.

Trn.' UNITED STATES. APPELLANTS V. STEPHEN

D.

FERNANDEZ AND

OTHERS.

A grant of land in Florida within the Indian boundary, by the governor acting
under the crown of Spain before the cession of Florida to the United States, was
confirmed to the grantee, by the decree of the judge of the eastern district of Flo.
rida. The decree was affirmed on appeal.
The subject of grants of land within the Indian boundary, which had not by any
official act been declared a part of the royal domain, was fully and ably considered
in the case of Johnson v. M'Intosh,8 Wheat. 543, 5 Cond. Rep.515. Every Europeain government claimed and exercised the right of granting lanids, while in the
occupation of the Indians.
The grants of land, in the possession of the Indians, by the governor of Florida,
under the crown of Spain, were good to pass the right of the crown. The grants
severed them from the royal domain, so that they became private property ; which
was not ceded to the United States by the treaty with Spain.

APPEAL from the superior court for the district of East Florida.
The case was presented to the court by Mr Butler, attorney-gene-

ral, for the United States; and by Mr White, for the appellees.
Mr Justice B ALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This. is an appeal from the decree of the judge of the superior
court for the eastern district of Florida, confirming the claim of the
appellees to sixteen thousand acres of land, pursuant to the acts of
congress for the adjustment of land claims in Florida.
In the court below, the petition was in the form prescribed by law;
presenting a proper case for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the
court.

The claim of the petitioner was founded on his application to the
governor of East Florida, for a grant of sixteen thousand acres of
land, in consideration of his services to the Spanish government;
which was granted to him at the place specified, with directions to
make the surveys there, or at any other that may be vacant. This
,grant was made, the 16th of November 1817; and surveyed in May
and June 1818, in four different tracts.
Various objections were made in the court
below to the confirma-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Fernandez.]

tion of the title, which have not been pressed here, as they have been
overruled in the previous decisions of this court.
The oly one which has not been distinctly considered, is to that
part of the land surveyed which lies within the Indian boundary;
where, it is contended, the governor had no power to grant lands.
In the case of Arredondo; the grant was of lands within the Indian
boundary; but which, by a proceeding in the nature of an inquest of
office at the common law, were declared to be annexed to the royal
domain, by their abandonment by the Indians. 6 Peters 741. In
the case of Mitchell, the -original grant was made by the Indians
themselves, of lands which had not reverted or been ceded to the
crown ; so that the broad question of the validity of an original grant,
by the governor, of lands within the Indian boundary, which had not
by any official act been decreed to form a part of the royal domain,
has never come directly before us. It is now distinctly presented for
our adjudication, and ought to be decided.
This subject was so fully and ably considered in M'Intosh v. Johnson, that we have only to refer to the language of the court to show
that every European government claimed and exercised the right of
granting lands, while in the occupation of the Indians. 8 Wheat.
574, 579, 5 Cond. Rep. 515. The proclamation of 1763, which was
tue law of Florida while that province was under the dominion of
Great Britain, gave e-xpress authority-to the governor of that province
to grant bounty lands to the officers and soldiers entitled under that
proclarmation. No other restrictions were imposed on them, than that
they should not grant any lands beyond the bounds of their respective governments, as described in'-their commissions. The general
prohibition to grant lands reserved to the Indians, was confined to
the governors of the other colonies or *plantations in America. 6
Laws United States 446.
The government of East Florida was declared to be bounded, west
by the Appalachicola and the Gulf of Mexico, north by a line drawn
from the junction of the Chattahoochie and Flint rivers to the source
of thc St Mary's river, and by the course of that river to the Atlantic
ocean, and to the east and south by the Atlantic ocean and the Gulf
of Mexic6, including all islands within six leagues of the sea coast.
6 Laws 444. Under the British government then, the governor of
East Florida had express power to make grants of lands'in the pos?
session of the Indians. Spain never made any formal designation
of boundary between the two provinces; but practically, West Florida

JANUARlY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Fernandez.]

extended east of the Appalachicola to the St Mark's: this, however,
le'ft the whole country, to the east of the St Marks, within tile eastern
province, including the lands in question. 9 Peters 738.
It does not appear that either government had ever established
any definite boundary between them, and the Indians in East Florida: the evidence to the contrary is'very strong, As appeared in the
case of Mitchell, 9 Peters 745, and as it appears in this record, p. 17,
19. Nor does there appear to have been any restriction on the powers of the governor to make grants of land under Spain, other than
those imposed on the governors under Great Britain: both made
grants without regard to the land being in the possession of the
Indians: they were valid to pass the right of the'crown, subject to
their right of occupancy: when that ceased, either by grant to individuals with the consent of the local governors, by cession to the
crown, or the abandonment by the Indians.; the title of the grantee
became complete.
On the general question, therefore, of the validity of grants of
lands in East Florida in the possession of the Indians, we are of
opinion that they were good to pass the right of the crown: the grant
of the governor severed them from the royal domain, so that they
became private property, which was not ceded to the United States
by the treaty with Spain.
We therefore adjudge the title of the appellee to be valid, and
affirm the decree of the court below.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
.from the superior court for the district of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said superior court
for the district of East Florida in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed.

VOL. x.-

2

o

