583

JANUARY TERM 1836.

JOSEPH WALLINGSFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. SARAH

ANN

ALLEN,

FOR HERSELF AND CHILDREN.
A wife having separated herself from her husband, for ill-treatment by him, applied
to the county court of Prince George, Maryland, for alimony, which was allowed to
her, pendente lite. The husband gave the wife a female negro slave,.and some other
property, in discharge of the 'alimony. She removed to Washington, hired out
the slave, and afterwards, in consideration of a sum of money, and for other considerations, she manumitted, by deed, the slave, and her two infant children, the
eldest not three years old. Some time after the agreement between the husband
and wife, a final separation took place between them, by a verbal agreement;
each to retain "the property each had, and to be quits for ever," and the wife
relinquished all further claim for alimony. After the death of the wife, the husband claimed the female and her children, as his slaves. Held, that they were free
by virtue of the deed of manumission executed by the wife.
This is a case where a transfer of property must be considered as having been made for
a valuable consideration. It was given in lieu of alimony, decreed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, pendente lite; and passed the property as fully to the wife,
as if the husband had conveyed it to a third person for a valuable consideration.
In regard to that property, the wife is to be considered as a feme sole; and her
right to dispose of it followed as a matter ofcoure.
Construction of the act of assembly of Maryland of 1796, '2 Maxey's Laws 360, relative to the manumission of slaves.
The terms of the Maryland act, and the policy of it, were meant to prevent the manumission of slaves, who, from infancy, age or decrepitude, would become burthensome to the community at the time the deed of manumission should take effect:
and to such as were aver the age, after which manumission is prohibited. But the
slave manumitted must either be positively in the latter predicament, or be so decrepid, if under the age of forty-five; and if neither one nor the other, and being
in infancy, it must stand so unrelated to any other free person coloured or white,
that it can have no claim, natural or artificial, to support from any one ; and must,
therefore, be a charge upon the charity of the community, or a charge upon its
poorlaws. It would be an unreasonable restraint upon the privileges of manumission, as it is granted in this act, if it were interpreted to exclude the manumission
of mother and an infant child, the former being of healthy constitution and able to
maintain it, as of other children who, in the natural progress of human lifb would
be able) in a few years, to maintain themselves by labour, and who would find in
their adolescence, persons who would gladly maintain them for the services they
could render.
Agreements between husband and wife, during coverture, for the transfer from him
of property directly to the latter, are undoubtedly void at law. Equity examines
But it does sustain them when a
with great caution betbre it will confirm theni.
clear and satisfactory case is nade out, that the property is to be applied to the
separate use of tLe wife ; where the consideration of the transfer is a separate
interest of the wife, yielded up by her for the husband's benefit, or of their f-mily;
or which has been appropriated by him to his uses ; where the husband is in a

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallingaford v. Allen.)
situation to make a gift of property to the wife, and distinctly separates it from
the mass of his property for her use. Either case equity will sustain, though no
trustee has been interposed to hold foithe wife's use.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States- for the county of
Washington in the District ofColumbia.
On the 41h day of August 1834, the defendant in error presented
to the circuit court a petition stating, that she and her two infant
children were entitled to their freedom ; and that she and they were
unjustly held as his slaves, by Joseph Wallingsford, the plaintiff in
error. . Joseph Wallingsford appeared. to the subp~ena issued on the
petition, and put in a plea, denying the claims of the-petitioner. The
case was tried by a jury at the circuit court held in March 1835,
and '.verdict was found for the petitioner under the charge of. the
court, from which the plaintiff in error took three bills of exceptions;
and- prosecuted, from .the judgment of the court, this writ of error.
On the trial of the cause in the- court below, the petitioner produced a regular deed of manumission, duly recorded, executed by
Rachel Wallingsford, the wife of the plaintiff in error, dated the 8th of
September 1826; by which, and for divers good causes and considerations, and in consideration of the sum of 150 dollars paid to her, she
released the petitioner and her children from slavery; the petitioner
being at that time nineteen years old, and.her two female children
.of the respective ages of three years and five months.
The petitioner also proved, that'Rachel Wallingsford resided in
the city of Washington, for many years, as a feme sore, previous to
the date of the deed ; that she had a suit for alimony depending in
Maryland, against Joseph Wallingsford, he residing in that state; and
that the court orderetd her husband to pay her 120 dollars per year, as
alimony, pendente lite; that some time after that allowance had
been made to her, her husband gave the petitioner to her, then about
twelve years old, and some other property, in discharge of the order
of alimony, his wife agreeing not to prosecute the claim any
further ; that after the petitioner was so given to Mrs Wallingsford,
she lived with her, or was hired out in Washington, until the date
of the deed of manumission ; that on the death of Mrs Waliingsford,
the plaintiff in error claimed her, and her children, as his slaves.
The court permitted the deed of manumission to be read in evidence to the jury, by the counsel for the petitioner ; expressly leaving it to the jury to say, or find from 'the evidence, whether the title
of the said Rachel to the said negro Sarah Ann, at the time of the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

execution of the said deed, was -absolute, or only for the life of the
said Rachel; and the court instructed the jury that that question
was open for their consideration upon all the evidence in the cause.
The defendant in the circuit court excepted to the admission of
the deed of manumission in evidence, and to the instructions given
to the jury.
The defendant, by his counsel, prayed the court to instruct the
jury, that if they should believe -from the evidence aforesaid (viz.
the evidence stated in the first bill of exceptions), that Mrs Wallingsford held the -petitioners by virtue of an agreement made between
-her and her husband, without the intervention of d trustee ; that said
agreement is null and void, and could give no power to Mrs Wall-,
ingsford to manumit.the slaves held by virtue of such an agreement.
The court refused to give this.instruction, and the defendant excepted to the refusal.
The defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they
should believe from the evidence, that an agreement was made
between the defendant and Mrs Wallingsford,.by which she was to
have the petitioners in lieu of being supported by him as his wife ;
yet, if there was no covenant on the part of a trustee; or some one
capable of contracting with the husband, that he should not be liable to the maintenarice of his wife: the same is null. The court refused to -give this instruction, and the defendant excepted.
The defendant prayed for the .court to instruct the jury, that if
they should believe from the evidence, that -an agreement existed
between him and Mrs Wallingsford, that he should transfer the
petitioner to her, on condition that she should relinquish all claimi
to alimony against him; that then, should the jury believe from the
evidence,, that she did not comply with this.condition, and that she
did prefer against him a subsequent claim for alimony; that then the
agreement cannot be enforced against the defendant, nor can he be
deprived of any of his rights by virtue of the said agreement. The
court refused to give this instruction, and the defendant excepted.
The defendant then prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if
they should believe, from the evidence aforesaid, that the petitioners
or any of them, at the time of the execution of the deed of manumission aforesaid, were not able by their labour to procure for themselves sufficient food or raiment, with other necessary'requisites of
life, then the said deed ofmanumission as to them, or such of them,
was inoperative ; which instruction the court gave: and also'on the.
VOL. X.--3.-

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

prayer of the counsel for the petitioners, further instructed the jury,
that if they should believe, from the said evidence, that the negroes
abovementioned were of healthy constitutions, and sound in mind
and body, and that their mother was capable by labour to procure to
them sufficient food and raiment, with other requisite necessaries of
life, and did maintain them ; then such children are not under the
incapacity intended by the Maryland law.
The defendant excepted to the last instruction.
The case was argued by Mr Brent, for the plaintiff in error; and by
Mr Dandridge and Mr Key, for the defendant.
Mr Brent contended, that:
1. The court below erred in permitting the deed of manumission
from Rachel Wallingsford, the wife, to be read in evidence as stated
in the first bill of exceptions.
2. Because the court below erred in refusing to give the instructions prayed for by the plaintiff ii- error, in his second bill of exceptions.
3. Because the court below erred in refusing to give the instructions as moved for in the third bill of exceptions.
4. Because the court below erred in refusing the instructions
moved for in the fourth bill of exceptions.
5. Because the court below erred in giving the instructions prayed
for by the petitioners in the fifth bill of exceptions.
There is no denial that Rachel Wallingsford was, at the time of
the deed of manumission, the wife of the plaintiff in error. There
had been no judicial separation, no divorce. Nor is it denied that the
defendant in error was at one period the slave of the plaintiff in error.
The questions then which present. themselves, are:
i. Whether a wife separated from her husband can do any act by
deed which will bind him at law, and deprive him of his property,
without his express consent and authority.
2. Whether if a wife can so contract, yet is not the introduction
of a trustee necessary ; and are not her acts without the aid of a trustee null and void.
If no contract is valid, if none can be made; then the plaintiff in
error is right, and the judgment of the circuit court must be reversed.
There is an absolute disability in a wife tomake any contract, or
to execute any valid deed. 15 Serg. & Rawle 90; Petersdorf's

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

Abrid; 53, 55, 57, 65; Story's Conflict of Laws 125. In all these
authorities it is held that a wife cannot execute a contract, separately
from her husband.
It is admitted that there are exceptions to these principles: as
when the husband has abandoned his wife, or has abjured the realm;
she may contract. But these exceptions have no application to the
case before the court.
It cannot be said that the plaintiff in error abandoned his' wife.
She left hinm, and she resisted every effort to induce her to return.
Cited, 2 Kent's Com. 166, 161, 175, 176 ; 4 Petersdorf 40, 41 ; 2
Harr. & Johns. Rep. 485.
The instruction given by the circuit court, that the ability of the
methefto maintain the children would be sufficient to legalize the
manumission of the infants; was in direct opposition to decisions of
the courts of Maryland, on the statutes of that state.
For a considerable period, there was an express prohibition by the
laws of Maryland of manumissions in any form. This was prior to
1796. It was the settled policy of the state not to allow any slaves
to be set free. By the act of 1715, ch. 44, sect. 22, all negroes were
declared slaves for life; and this law deprived the owners of slaves
of the right to give any one of them freedom. Then came the
statute of 1796, which prohibits manumission of persons not able, to
maintain themselves. This act makes all deeds of manumission of
such persons, absolutely void. But for the act of 1796, no manumissions could be made; and none are valid which do not conform to
that law. It cannot be contended that infants of three years old and
under, have such ability. Cited, 6 Harr. & Johns. 18, 19 4 Harr.
&.Johns. 262.
These laws have full operation in the District of Columbia, on the
east side of the Potomac;. and they govern the case before the court.
They make the deed of manumission void, even if the granto of the
same was. competent to give it. The decisions of the Maryland
*courts on this statute, made *since the establishment of the District,
may not be authority in this court ;-but-as they give a construction
to the statutes of -the state, the court will regard them .as entitled to
great consideration.
Mr Dandridge and Mr Key, for the defendant, insisted on the
capacity of Mrs Wallingsford to. execute the deed. She was a fenie
sole: she had been abandoned by her husband: she was within the

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

exceptions to the rule which- vacates the contracts or'Aeeds of married women. Cited, I Kent's Corn. 157; 6 Pick. Rep.,"89; 15 Mass.
Rep. 31; 2 John. Ch. Ca. 537; 1 Atk. 278.
The agreement by which the defendant in error became the property of Mrs Wallingsford, was a substitute for the allowance of
alimony, and relieved the estate.of the husband from a heavy responsibility. If no property in the slave was acquired by the wife,
nothing was received by her; and the effort-now made is to set up a
fraud for the benefit of the perpetrator of it. The very nature of the
transaction made the defendant in error the separate property of Mrs
Wallingsford, It was left by the circuit court to the jury to say,
whiether the arrangement was.'not binding on the husband; and they
decided that it was. This gave the defendant in errr and her children their-freedom,
It was entirely competent to the husband to give his wife this
property; and the facts of the case show, that the emancipation of
the defendant in error was for a pecuniary consideration. The surn
of 150 dollars was paid to her for the deed. She had been-living in

a different jurisdiction for many years: she was in great distress;
and her husband gave .her the girl for her support and maintenance.
She had a right to dispose of her as she did, to procure the tneans of
living.
- As to the construction given by the counsel for the plaintiff in
error to the laws of Maryland, Mr Key contended that the thirteenth
and twenty-ninth sections of the law of 1796, ch. 67, are different.
In the one case, the case of a will, there aire prohibitory words; and
not in the other.
Further, the expressi6ns in the twenty-ninth section are, slave or

slaves': any person having slaves may emancipate them, if sound,
healthy, and able by labour to earn a living, &c. Now these slaves
in this deed, taking them, as the words allow, and .as the spirit of

the law would allow, in the aggregate, are able to maintain themselves.
Agiin, the decision in such a Case should be, not that the deed is
void, but that the freedom is not to.commence*,by it till the, children
are of sufficient age.
Mr Justice

WAYNE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This was a petition in the court belo%, by the appellees, for freedom ; complaining that they were unjkTtly held and claimed by the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

appellant as his slaves. The petitioner gave in evidence a deed of
manumission for herself and two children, from one-Rachel Wallingsford. Her third child was born after she was manumitted.
It appears that Rachel Wallingsford resided in Washington several
years previous to the date of the deed of manumission, living apart
from her husband, the appellant: that she had a suit pending against
him in Maryland, where he resided, for alimony, and had been
allowed, by the order of the court, 120 dollars per annum, pendente
lite. Some time after this allowance had been made, her husband
gave her the petitioner, Sarah Ann, and some other property, in discharge of her alimony.: thait after this agreement between them, the
said Rachel continued to live in Washington until her death, having
kept Sarah Ann in her service until the deed of manumission was
executed. After the death of Mrs Wallingsford, the appellant
claimed Sarah Ann and her children as his slaves. All of th children were born after Sarah Ann was given up by the appellant to
Mrs Wallingsford. The appellant proved, at the time the deed of
manumission was made, that R Lchel Wallingsford was his lawful
wife. It also appears, by a petition filed by the appellant in the
county court of Prince George county, Maryland, to get the inter-locutory order for alimony suspended, and which is in evidence in
the cause, that the appellant and his wife, having had repeated disagreements, as she alleged on account of her husband's habitual
incontinency with a woman in their own house, Mrs Wallings.ford left her habitation and refused to live with him. The'charge
of incontinency is denied by the husband ; but he admits, after his
wife's departure, and upon her refusing to comply with his solicitations to return and live with him, that by an express agreement between
them, he gave to her the woman Sarah Ann and other property, with
two notes of hand, one for 120 dollars and the other for 200 dollars;
in all amounting to 900, dollars; which was the amount the wife
brought with her when they were married, and of which the appellee
Sarah Ann was a part. This was to be received by the wife in full
of-all further claim for support; and the husband was to be discharged
from the payment of alimony decreed by the court. Wallingsford
having refused to pay the notes of hand, and the suit for alimony
being still pending, the parties again met, and a final separation took
place between them; upon the footing, that.the wife was to retain the
woman Sarah Ann; that each was to retain besides, "the property
each bad, and to be quits for ever." In considerationof the husband

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

having agreed to this, the wife agreed to yield her claim for alimony,
granted by the interlocutory order of the court, and was to discontinue her suit.
On the trial of the cause, the admission of the deed of manumission, as evidence, was excepted to by the defendant; but the court
overruled the exception. The defendant also prayed the court .to
instruct the jury, if they should believe, from the evidence, that Mrs
Wallingsford held the petitioners by virtue of an agreement between%
her and her husband, without the intervention of a trustee, that the
agreement was void; and could give to her no power to manumit the
slaves held under it: also, if the jury shall believe, from the evidence,
that the agreemezit was made without a covenant on the part of a
trustee, or some person capable of contracting with the husband, that
the same was null: also, if the jury shall believe that the agreement
was made on condition that Mrs Wallingsford should relinquish- all
claim to alimony, and that she did not comply with such condition,
and did prefer against him a subsequent claim for alimony, that the
agreement cannot be enforced against the defendant: and lastly, to
instruct the jury, if they shall believe, from the evidence, that the
petitioners, or any of them, at the time of the execution of the deed
of manumission, were not able by their labour to procure for themselves sufficient food and raiment, with other necessaries of life, that
then the said deed was inoperative to them. The court gave the
last instruction to the jury, but refused to give the rest. And upon
the prayer of the petitioner, instructed the jury, if they should believe
from the evidence, that Sarah Ann Allen and her children were of
healthy constitutions, and sound in mind and body, and that the
mother was capable by labour to procure them sufficient food and
raiment, with other necessaries of life, and did maintain them; then
such children are not under the incapacity intended by the law of
Maryland, in the act providing for the manumission of slaves.
The section of the act of 1796, 2 Maxcy's Laws of Maryland 360,
is as follows: "that where any person or persons possessed.of any
slave or slaves within this state, who are or shall be of healthy constitutions, and sound in mind and body, capable by labour to procure
to him or them sufficient food .and raiment, with other necessaries of
life, and not exceeding forty-five years of age, and such person or
persons possessing such slave or slaves as aforesaid, and being willing
and desirous toset free or manumit- such slave or slaves, may, by.
writing under his, her or their hands anti seak, evidenced by two

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Wallingsford v. Allen.]

good and sufficient witnesses at least, grant to such slave or slaves
his, her or their freedom; and that any deed or writing, whereby
freedom shall be given or granted to any such slave, which shall be
intended to take place in future, shall be good to all intents, constructions and purposes whatsoever, from the time that such freedom
or manumission is intended to commence by the said deed or writing;
so that such deed and writing be not in prejudice of creditors ; and
that such slave, at the time such freedom or manumission shall take
place or commence, be not above the age aforesaid, and be able to
work and gain a sufficient livelihood and maintenance, according to
the true intent and meaning of this act." The act prescribes how
such deeds shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded; and upon
a compliance with what is prescribed in those 'egards, a copy of
the record, duly attestedunder the seal, &c. &c., "shall at all times
hereafter be deemed, to all intents and purposes, good evidence to
prove such freedom."
We will consider, together, the exception taken to the introduction
of the deed of manumission as evidence, the last instruction asked
by the defendant, and that asked by the petitioners, both of which
were given to the jury by the court. The deed was not objected to
for any deficiency in its execution, or on account of its not having
been properly acknowledged and recorded. The last was done as
far as that part of the law can be complied with in the District of
Columbia. The deed was also acknowledged by the person making
it, on the day it was executed, before a justice of the peace. It was
then properly sent to the jury as evidence of the fact of manumission;
and what its validity might be to give freedom, was a question of law
to be determined by the court. As to the instructions asked by the
defendant and the petitioners, relative to the petitioners being coinprehended within the incapacity of the section of the act of Maryland just recited; both, we think, were rightly given by the court.
That of the defendant was very general, and the court was not
obliged by it to particularize to which of the petitioners it was intended to be applied. It was, therefore, correctly answered by a
general instruction directing the jury to inquire into the fact; at the
same time stating what the law was, if the jury should find the fact
as the counsel of the defendant supposed it to be. That of the petitioners being more specific, was intended to obtain the court's interpretation of the act upon the point put; and we think the answer of
the court, is in the true spirit of the law. We think the terms of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

act of Maryland, and the policy intended by it, were meant to prevent the manumission of slaves, who, from infancy, age or decrepitude, would become burthensome to the community at the time
the deed of manumission should take effect: and to such as were
over the age, after which manumission is prohibited. But the
slave manumitted must either be positively in the latter predicament;
or be so decrepid, if under the age of forty-five; and if neither one
nor the other, and being in infancy, it must stand so unrelated to
any other free person coloured or white, that it can have no claim,
natural or artificial, to support from any one ;- and must, therefore,
be at once a charge upon the charity of the community or a charge
upon its poor laws. It would be an unreasonable restraint upon the
privileges of manumission, as it is granted in this act, if it were interpreted to exclude the manumission of mother and an infant child,
the former being of healthy constitution and able to maintain it, as.
of other childrenzwho, in the natural progress of human life would be
able, in a few years, to maintain themselves by labour, and who
would find in their adolescence, persons who would gladly maintain
them for the services they could render. If this construction of the
act does not prevail, there can be no fixed age in childhood when
m.anumission can take effect; and the act would be made to operate
differently upon persons by no certain rule. The legislature having
laid down the age after which manumission shall not be made, a
strong presunption is raised that it did not mean to exclude all infants absolutely from the benefits of the act, or it would have said
so in terms; or have fixed an age when, in childhood, mcnumission
should beallowed. If the policy of thelaw is to prevent slaves from
being manumitted who would be burthensome to the community,
we cannot hesitate in believing that the object will be accomplished
by relying upon those natural affections of a mother for her child,
which have always been found strong enough to cherish and sustain
it ; except in some unnatural instances, as when the true nature of
woman has been turned aside by some dreadful superstition or extraordinary necessity.
We are aware that opinions have been expressed, in the courts of
Maryland different from our conclusion, in regard to the manumission of children : but the point of a mother and infant manumitted at the same time, and the mother being in any way able, by her
labour, to maintain her offspring; has not yet been decided against
by the courts of Maryland, so far as we can gather from their re-

JANUARY: TERM 1836:
[Wallingsford v. Allen.]

ports. These opinions too, having been expressed since the cession
of the District 6f Columbia to the United States, the courts in the
district are not to be controlled by them in the interpretation of the
act under review; as they would be, and as this court would be, by
the decisions of state courts*upon. state statutes affecting local rights
and interests.
The fourth instruction asked by -the defendant, which the court
refused to give, is, if the jury shall believe that the agreement between Wallingsford and *ife was, that. he should transfer the petitioner to her on .eondition that she should relinquish all claim to
alimohy.against him; and that she did not comply with the condition, and did prefer against him a subsequent claim for alimony :
that then the said agreement cannot be enforced against the defendant ; nor can he be deprived of any of -his rights by virtue of said
agreement. We think this instruction was rightly refused; 'for
though it is not denied that the suit for alimony had not been disdiscontinued, and was pending when Mrs Wallingsford died, the
legal consequence would not be, that the agreement would be avoided
by its not having been observed in that particular. The non performance of the agreement in that regard, did not restore to the
defendant the ownership of property for which he had received a
valuable consideration, by the relinquishment of his wife's alimony;
of which he had the full benefit during her life ; .and continues to
enjoy in the greater means he i presumed to have from having
been relieved from the payment of the wife's alimony. But the
instruction was asked in -face of the evidence; which establishes
the fact, that the substantial parts of the agreement were complied
with, as the defendant had never been called upon for any pe.rt of
the alimony, after the agreement was made, until the death of Mrs
Wallingsford. Afailure upon the part of the wife to comply with
this part of the agreement, gave to the husband a good ground in
equity to have the suit discontinued; but did not invalidate. the
agreement.
The remaining exceptions to be considered, are those relating to
the nullity of the agreement ; because it was made without the intervention of a trustee, or some one capable of contracting with the
husband. The court refused to give such instructions.
The inability of the wife in this instance to contract or to take
any interest from her husband, without theintervention of a trustee,
was argued, upon the restraiuts imposed upon women by the common
VOL. x.-3 z

SUPREME COURT.
(Wallingsford v. Allen.]

law, during coverture. This is a case which cannot be so considered. Neither the nature of the action, by which the petitioners
sue to have their freedom established; nor the agreement between
Wallingsford and his wife; would permit this court to take so narrow
a view of the case. Every feature of the agreement is an appeal to
have it tested by those principles of equity which have been applied to maintain a separate interest in women, acquired from their
husbands during coverture; whether the same were made by the
intervention of trustees or not ; when the transfer was fairly made upon
a meritorious or valuable consideration.
Agreements between husband and wife, during coverture, for the
transfer from him of property directly to the latter, are undoubtedly
void at law. Equity examines with great caution before it will
confirm them. But it does sustain them when a clear and satisfactory case is made out, that the property is to be applied to the separate use of the wife. Where the consideration of the transfer is a
separate interest of the wife, yielded up by hier for the husband's
benefit, or of their family; or which has been appropriated by him.
to his uses. Where the husband is in a situation to make a gift of
property to the wife; and distinctly :separates it from the mass of
his property for her use. Either case equity will sustain, though no
trustee has been interposed to hold for the wife's use. In Moore v.
Freeman, Bunb. 205, it was determined, that articles of agreement
between husband and wife are binding in equity, without.the intervention of a trustee. Other cases may be cited to the 2arne purpose.
In regard to grants from the husband to the wife, an examination of
the cases in the books will show, when they have not been sustained
in equity, it has been on account of some feature in them impeaching
their fairness and certainty, as that they were not in the nature of
a provision for the Wife ; or when they interfered with the rights of
a creditor ; or when the property given or granted had not been distinctly separated from the mass of the husband's property. In Scanning v. Hyle, 3 P. Wins 334, Lord Talbot assumed the doctrine,
that femes covert could have a separate interest by their husband's
agreement. In the case of Lady Arundel v. Phipps, 10 Ves. 146,
149, Lord Eldon held, that a husband and wife after marriage could
" contract, for a bona fide and valuable consideration, for a transfer of
property from him to her. In Sheppard v. Sheppard, 7 Johns. Ch.
Rep. 57, it is said, husband and wife may contract, for a bona fide
and valuable consideration, for a transfer of property from him to her.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wallifigsford v. Allen.]

-In Walles v. Hodge, 2 S wanst. 97, it is said, husband may convey to
the wife a chattel. In the caseof a gift from the husband to the
wife, it is held valid when the husband, by some distinct act, divests
himself of his property. As, for instance, in -the case of Lucas v.
Lucas, 1 Atk. 270, the lord chancellor held, that the transfer of 1000
pounds South Sea annuities by the husband, in the name of the
wife, was so decisive an act, as amounted to an agreement by the
husband that the property should become hers. It is not necessary
to review here the cases of gifts to the wife by the husband, which
have been sustained in equity. They are alluded. to, to show how
far equity has gone in maintaining transfers of property by the husband to the wife, without the intervention of a trustee ; and when
there was no valuable consideration money from the wife to the
husband.. But the case before us is one where a transfer of property
must be considered as having been made for a valuable consideration. It was given in lieu of alimony, decreed by a court of competent jurisdiction, pendente lite ; and passed the property as fully to
the wife, as if the husband had conveyed it to a third persou for a
valuable consideration. In regard to that property, Mrs Wallingsford is to be considered as a feme sole; and her right to dispose of it
followed as a matter of course.
Judgment of the circuit court affirmed.

