PROUT v. STARR.
Statement of the Case.

valuable for their deposits of a mineral character, which are
useful in the arts or valuable for purposes of manufacture.

The decree of the Court of Appeals is therefore
Ajflrned.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

PROUT v. STARR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 150. Argued January 26, 27, 1903.-Decided February 23,1903.

It is competent and proper for all the parties to an action to agree to dispense with taking evidence, to accept the evidence taken in other cases in
which the allegations of fact and the contentions of law are the same,
and to abide by decrees to be entered therein. And, where the decrees
entered in such other cases have been affirmed by this court, the Circuit
Court in which the cases are pending should enter a similar decree in the
case in which the agreement is made.
Such agreement when made by the attorney general of the State as a party
to any action is binding upon his successors in office who have been properly substituted as parties to the action in his place.
The Constitution of the United States, with the several amendments thereof,
mnst be regarded as one instrument, all of whose provisions are to be
deemed of equal validity. And in an action properly instituted against
a state official the Eleventh Amendment is not a barrier to a judicial inquiry as to whether the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment have
been disregarded by state enactments.
The contentions of law in this case were considered and determined by this
court in Smnyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, which is now followed.

ON August 3, 1893, James C. Starr and Samuel W. Allerton,
citizens of the State of Illinois, on their own behalf and on behalf of others similarly situated, filed a bill of complaint in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
against the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific RaihVay Coinpany ; George H. Hastings, Attorney General ; John C. Allen,

OCTOBER TERMH,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

Secretary of State; Eugene Moore, Auditor of Public Accounts;
Joseph F. Bartley, State Treasurer, and A. R. Humphrey, Commissioner of Public Lands, all of whom were officers of the
State of Nebraska, and as such constituted its board of transportation, and William A. Dilworth, J. M. Rountz and J. W.
Johnson, secretaries of said board, and all citizens of Nebraska.
The bill brought into question, under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, the validity of a certain act of the
legislature of Nebraska, approved April 12, 1893, entitled "An
act to regulate railroads, to classify freights, to fix reasonable
maximum rates to be charged for the transportation of freights
upon each of the railroads in the State of Nebraska and to provide penalties for the violation of this act." It was alleged that
if the provisions of the act were put into effect, the earnings of
the said railroad company from its business in the State would
be materially lessened and would not pay the operating expenses thereof, nor yield any money from which the railroad
property could be maintained, and would in effect work a confiscation thereof; that if the penalties imposed in the said act
were enforced the entire property of the company would be
taken away; that the plaintiffs were stockholders of the company, and had requested the officers and directors thereof to
take proceedings to contest the validity of said act, but they
had refused to do so. The principal prayers of the bill were
that the company, its officers, agents and employ~s, should be
restrained by injunction from adopting a schedule of rates to
be charged for the transportation of freight on its road, according to the terms and provisions of the said act; and that the
said board of transportation, and its members and secretaries,
should be enjoined f roin entertaining or determining any complaint, and from instituting or prosecuting any proceeding or
action to enforce the observance of the provisions of said act;
and that the attorney general should in like manner be enjoined
from bringing any proceedings by way of injunction or by other
process or civil action or indictment against said company for
or on account of the non-observance by it of the provisions of
said act.
Thereupon a restraining order of the Circuit Court was is-

PROUT v. STARR.
Statement of the Case.

sued, enjoining the railroad company, the board of transportation and its members and the said attorney general, as prayed
for in the bill; said order was to remain in force until a formal motion for injunction or to set aside the order be made,
heard and decided; and a bond was to be given in the sum of
$10,000. This order was duly served upon each and every of
the said defendants, together with process of subpoena.
Afterwards, on the 2d day of September, 1893, a joint and
several answer was filed by the said board of transportation,
its members and secretaries. Therein it was averred that the
said defendants were all agents and officers of the State of
Nebraska, and had no personal or pecuniary interest whatever
in the event of the suit, and were not proper parties thereto,
but that said bill of complaint should have been brought against
the State of Nebraska; that the said State was the real party
in interest, and that the State had not and (lid not in any way
whatever consent to the bringing of the action, and had not
and did not submit in any way to the jurisdiction of the said
Circuit Court to hear and determine the matters complained
of in said bill; and the defendants submitted that, under the
Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
the courts of the United States were wholly without jurisdiction to try, hear and determine the several matters in difference
charged and set forth in the bill of complaint; and that, under
the Constitution of the United Sta tes and the constitution and
laws of the State of Nebraska, the complainants had a full
and adequate remedy at law. The defendants further denied
that the state legislation in question violated the provisions of
the Constitution of the United States which forbid any State
to deprive any person of his property without due process of
law, or to deny any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws, or to pass a law impairing the obligation of a contract, or which interferes with commerce between
the States.
On October 3, 1893, the complainants filed their replication
to the answer.
At and about the same time, and in the same court, certain
stockholders of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Company, of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, and of the Union Pacific Railway Company, filed three
other bills of complaint, in which the said railroad companies
and the said persons comprising the board of transportation
were defendants, and in which bills the same facts and circumstances were alleged and the same relief was prayed for as in
the bill in the present case. All of the state officers appeared
and answered by the same counsel, and alleged the same defences and contentions as were alleged in their answer in this
suit. Those cases were put at issue, and after a large amount
of evidence was put in, final decrees were rendered against the
defendants, and, on March 7, 1898, the decrees of the Circuit
Court were affirmed by this court. Sinyth v. Agmes, 169 U. S.
466. No testimony was taken by either party in the present
case, but it was agreed, while the other cases were pending,
that the proofs taken in them should be accepted with the same
force and effect as if taken in this case; that the case should
not be further particularly proceeded in until the Supreme
Court should have rendered its decree in the other cases, when
a decree should be entered conformable to those entered by
the Supreme Court in the other three cases.
MiDeanwhile, Hastings, the attorney general when the bills
were filed, was succeeded in his office by Smyth, who by proper
order was substituted as defendant and appellant. Overlooking
or disregarding the existing preliminary injunction of the Circuit Court, and the agreement that this case should abide the
result in the other cases, Smyth, as attorney general, brought
an action in the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska against
the said Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company,
alleging that the company, in violation of the act of April 12,
1893, at divers times had charged for the transportation of freight
between points on its road in Nebraska rates in excess of those
fixed by the act, and claiming judgment for $310,000, the amount
of penalties alleged to have accrued. The attention of Attorney
General Smyth was then called to the injunction order of the
Circuit Court, and he thereupon gave the counsel of the company to understand that before the expiration of his term of
office he would dismiss said action. Relying upon the under-

PROUT v. STARR.
Statement of the Case.

standing and agreement aforesaid, the company took no proceedings to enforce the said injunction and agreement.
On or about January 1, 1901, the said defendant Frank N.
Prout succeeded the said Smyth in his office of attorney general,
who declined to dismiss the said action in the Supreme Court
of Nebraska. Whereupon the company filed its answer in the
said action in due form, alleging the prior pendency of the action in the Circuit Court of the United States, and the existence,
in full force and effect, of the injunction order of that court.
No reply to this answer appears to have ever been filed, and
thereupon, on or about February 15, 1901, the company moved
the said court for judgment upon the pleadings, but the court
denied said motion, upon grounds set out in its opinion. State
v. hicago, Rock I'land & Pacific Railway Company, 61 Nebraska, 545. No further proceedings have been taken in said
action, and the injunction order of the Circuit Court remains
unmodified and in full force and effect.
On April 6, 1901, Starr and Allerton filed, in the Circuit
Court of the United States, their supplemental bill, alleging the
foregoing facts, and praying that the order and injunction previously issued upon their original bill be extended to and against
the said Frank N. Prout, as attorney general, and that he be
enjoined and restrained from further prosecuting the action
brought in the name of the State of Nebraska against the railway company.
To this supplemental bill Frank N. Prout flied a demurrer
on the ground that the bill was against the defendant in his official capacity as attorney general of the State, and was against
the State, and that therefore the court was, under the Eleventh
Amendment of the Constitution, without jurisdiction.
Upon argument the demurrer was overruled, and the injunc
tion prayed for was issued. The order directing the injunction
provided that if the defendant electedto stand by his demurrer
and declined further to plead, a final decree should go as in the
case of Smyth v. Ames, and the defendant having elected in
open court to stand upon his demurrer, a final decree was entered comformable to that in Smyth v. Ames. From that decree
the defendant Frank N. Prout appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. F IM Prout,attorney general of the State of Nebraska,
in person for appellant.
.Ah'. J. -M. Ifoolworth for appellees.
was with him ol the brief.

b'. If A .M1cfIugh

after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Mn. JUSTICE SHERAS,

As the appellant demurred to the supplemental bill, and
elected to stand on his demurrer when the final decree or the
Circuit Court was entered, we have now only to consider the
questions of law presented by the demurrer.
That it was competent for the parties, plaintiffs and defendants, to agree to dispense with taking evidence, to accept the
evidence taken in the other cases, and to abide by the decrees
therein to be entered, we have no reason to doubt, Pacific RI.
R. v. .Ketckum, 101 U. S. 289, and that such an agreement was
entered into is conceded. The allegations of fact and the contentions of law being the same in all the cases, such an arrangement was convenient and proper. The decrees in the other
cases having been affirmned by this court, it was in accordance
with that agreement that the Circuit Court should enter a sinilar decree in the present case. In so far, then, as the substantial merits of the case are concerned, we are not called upon to
consider them. They have been concluded by the reasoning
and opinion of this court in the other cases. Smyth v. -Ames,
169 U. S. 466.
But by this appeal we are asked td declare that the Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction because it. appears, on the face of the
bill, that the complaint is essentially against the State of Nebraska, and is in contravention of the Eleventh Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States.
It is a sufficient answer to this contention that it was made,
considered and determined in Smyth v. -Ames. In the opinion
in that case it was said:
"Within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment of the
Constitution, these suits are not against the State, but against

certain individuals charged with the administration of a state

PROUT v. STARR.
Opinion of the Court.

enactment, which, it is alleged, cannot be enforced without
violating the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs. It is the
settled doctrine of this court that a suit against individuals, for
the purpose of preventing them as officers of a State from enforcing an unconstitutional enactment to the injury of the rights
of the plaintiff, is not a suit against the State within the meaning of that amendment. Pennoyer v. McConnaugliy, 140 U. S.
1, 10; 1n re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, 190; Scott v. Donald, 165
U. S. 58, 68 ; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.204, 220."
The Constitution of the United States, with the several
amendments thereof, must be regarded as one instrument, all of
whose provisions are to be deemed 6f equal validity. It would,
indeed, be most unfortunate if the immunity of the individual
States from suits by citizens of other States, provided for in
the Eleventh Amendment, were to be interpreted as nullifying
those other provisions which confer power on Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, which forbid the
States from entering into any treaty, alliance or confederation,
from passing any bill of attainder, exls ost facto law or law impairing the obligation of contracts, or, without the consent of
Congress, from laying any duty of tonnage, entering into any
agreement or compact with other States, or from engaging
in war-all of which provisions existed before the adoption of
the Eleventh Amendment, which still exist, and which would
be nullified and made of no effect, if the judicial power of the
United States could not be invoked to protect citizens affected
by the passage of state laws disregarding these constitutional
limitations. Much less can the Eleventh Amendment be successfully pleaded as an invincible barrier to judicial inquiry
whether the salutary provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment
have been disregarded by state enactments. On the other hand,
the judicial power of the United States has not infrequently
been exercised in securing to the several States, in proper cases,
the immunity intended by the Eleventh Amendment. lans
v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 10; NYorth Carolinav. Semp)le, 134
U. S.22; fa rkrader v. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S.516.

OCTOBER TERAT, 1902.
Opinion of the Court

It is one of the important functions of this court to so interpret
the various provisions and limitations contained in the organic
law of the Union that each and all of them shall be respected
and observed.
It is further argued by the appellant, as one of the grounds
of his demurrer, that he was complained against in his olicial
capacity as attorney general of the State of Nebraska, and not
in his individual capacity as a citizen thereof, and that the attorney general of a State cannot be restrained by an injunction
of a United States court from enforcing the criminal laws of
the State.
This, we think, is only another phase of the same question.
It is true that the defendant was included in the bill as the
attorney general of the State, but that was because he was one
of the board of transportation, which was directed to enforce
the provisions of the act. The bill did not seek to interfere
with the acts of the attorney general in prosecuting offenders
against the valid criminal laws of the State, but its object was
to prevent him from collecting penalties that had accrued under the provisions of a statute judicially determined to be void.
The injunction must be so read and understood.
Several changes of incmubents in the office of attorney greneral took place while the cases were proceeded in, but that did
not deprive the court of jurisdiction. The successors in office
were duly substituted, and thus became subjected to the preliminaxy and final decrees of the court. The object of the
supplemental bill was to restrain the present appellant, as successor to Smyth, from attempting to transfer the very matters
that stood for judgment in the Federal court to the state court
by filing a bill in the latter. Such a course might bring about
a,conflict between those courts, and create the confusion so
often deprecated by this court. ]Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612,
625 ; clattenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191 ; Ortom v. Smith, 18
How. 263.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court could not be defeated
or impaired by the institution, by one of the parties, of subsequent proceedings, whether civil or criminal, involving the

GUTIERRES v. ALBUQUERQUE LAND CO.
Syllabus.

same legal questions, in the state court.

Harkraderv. I'adley,

172 U. S. 148, 166.

The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurring. I am in favor of modifying the judgment in some particulars and then affirming it, but
I do not concur in all the reasoning of the opinion.

GUTIERRES v. ALBUQUERQUE LAND AND IRRIGA-

TION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROIM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

NEW MEXICO.
No. 16. Argued January 9, 1902-Decided February 23, 1903.

1. The provisions of the corporation laws of the Territory of New Mexico
relating to the formation and rights of irrigation companies are not invalid because they assume to dispose of property of the United States
without its consent. By the act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 253; Rev. Stat.
ยง 2339, and the act of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, Congress recognized as
respects tle public domain and so far as the United States is concerned,
the validity of the local customs, laws and decisions in respect to the
appropriation of water, and granted the right to appropriate such amount
of water as might be necessarily used for the purpose of irrigation and
reclamation of desert land, part of the public domain, and as to the surplus, the right of the public to use the same for irrigation, mining and
manufacturing purposes subject to existing rights. The purpose of Congress to recognize the legislation of Territories as well as of States in
respect to tle regulation of the use of public water is evidenced by the
act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095. The statute of New Mexico is not
inconsistent with the legislation of Congress on this subject.
2. The act of March 3, 1877, is not to be construed as an expression of Congress that the surplus public waters on the public domain, and which are
within the control of Congress or of a legislative body created by it, must
be directly appropriated by the owners of lands upon which a beneficial use of the water is to be made and that consequently a territorial
legislature cannot lawfully empower a corporation to become an intermediary for furnishing water to irrigate the lands of third parties.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-35

