OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Syllabus.

is not upon the property, but is upon the person succeeding to
the property."
Undoubtedly, life tenants regarded simply as persons, may
be in legal contemplation the same; estates for life regarded
simply as estates with their attributes also in legal contemplation, may be said to be the same, but that is not all that is to
be considered, nor is it determinative. We must regard the
power of the State over testate and intestate dispositions of
property, its power to create and limit estates, and, as resulting,
its power to impose conditions upon their transfer or devolution.
It is upon this power that inheritance tax laws are based, and
we said, in the Xfagoun case, that the power could be eKercised

by distinguishing between the lineal and collateral relatives of

a testator. There the amount of tax depended upon him who
immediately received; here the existence of the tax depends

upon hin who ultimately receives. That can make no difference
with the power of the State. No discrimination being exercised

in the creation of the class, equality is observed.

Crossing the

lines of the classes created by the statute discriminations may

be exhibited, but -within the classes there is equality.
Judgment a/firmed.

AMERICAN COLORTYPE COMPANY v. CONTINENTAL COLORTYPE COMPANY.
FOR THE
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES
ILLINOIS.
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
No. 440.

Submitted December 22,1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

An Illinois corporation transferred to a New Jersey corporation contracts

of employment containing stipulations that the employ~s would not accept employment from any other person during specified periods and

would never divulge the secrets of the trade. The New Jersey company

by consent of all parties became substituted as a party to such contracts
in valuable
and instructed the employ6s, who accepted the employment,

trade secrets. The employgs who were not citizens of New Jersey then
entered into an arrangement to work for a rival Illinois corporation.

AMERICAN COLORTYPE CO. v. CONTINENTAL CO. 105
Opinion of the Court.
Held, that, as whatever claim the New Jersey corporation had was based
on the promise made directly to it upon a consideration furnished by it,
it was not prevented from maintaining an action in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois against such employds and the Illinois corporation to restrain the employgs from working for, or divulging such secrets to, the Illinois corporation on the
ground that the action was to recover the contents of a chose in action in
favor of an assignee, the assignor being a citizen of Illinois.
THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.br. A. XE. Pence, A'r. Otto C. Butz and Xr. Amos C. Xliller
for appellant.
MAr. John C. Aathis for appellees.
MR.

JUsTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought in the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Illinois by a New Jersey corporation
against an Illinois corporation and private persons, citizens of
Illinois. Upon demurrer the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction on the ground, as is certified, that it was a bill to recover the contents of a chose in action in favor of an assignee,
the assignors being citizens of Illinois. The case comes here by
appeal. The prayers of the bill are for injunctions to prevent
the defendants Maas, Fierlein, Freese and Schultz assisting the
defendant company or the defendants Quetsch and Seibert in
the three-color printing business, revealing secret processes, etc.,
until different specified dates. The main ground of the prayers
is the contracts to be mentioned, and the question is whether
the claim stated by the plaintiff is a claim as assignee.
The plaintiff is the assignee of the assets and good will of the
National Colortype Company, the American Three-Color Company, Illinois corporations, and the Osborne Company, a New
Jersey corporation, and was formed on March 1, 1902, for the
purpose of consolidating the three. Among the more important
contracts which purported to be transferred were two between
the National Colortype Company and Maas and Fierlein respectively. By the former Maas was employed as superintend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ent of the plat-making department, and agreed to remain in the
company's employment and not to accept employment from
others in the business of three-color printing for five years fronm
December 1, 1901, and not to become interested in any way in
that business in the United States, east of the Rocky Mountains,
or divulge any secrets or processes relating to that business, for
ten years from the day mentioned. IBy the other contract Fierlein was employed as salesman, and agreed to devote his whole
time and attention to the interest and business of the company
for two years from the same date. There was a similar contract with the defendant Freese, expiring 11ay 1, 1903, but containing a promise by him never to divulge any of the secrets,
methods or practices of the company, and agreeing that his
going to work for any others engaged in similar business should
be considered a breach of the promise just set forth.
The bill alleges that Maas, knowing of the transfer, consented
to it, announced his intention of holding the plaintiff to the
contract with him, remained in its employ in the same capacity,
accepted the stipulated salary and was instructed in valuable
secrets, and that the complainant by the consent of all parties
became substituted as a party to the contract in place of the
National Colortype Company. There are shorter but similar
allegations concerning Fierlein and Freese. An independent
contract with the defendant Schultz is alleged, which has expired, but it is alleged that by virtue of his employment he also
has become possessed of trade secrets and processes belonging
to plaintiff.
The bill goes on to allege that Maas and Fierlein while in
the plaintiff's employment and pay, conspiring with the defendants Quetsch and Seibert, got up the defendant corporation
as a rival to the plaintiff, induced the defendants Freese and
Schultz to enter its service, have taken over their own special
skill and knowledge of the plaintiff's secrets to the hostile camp,
and, in short, will ruin the plaintiff if they are permitted to
go on.
We are of opinion that a case is stated within the jurisdiction
of the court. It is true that the starting point for the relations
between the plaintiff and its employis was what purported to

AMERICAN COLORTYPE CO. r. CONTINENTAL CO. 1M7
Opinion of the Court.

be an assignment. It is true that the bill emphasizes this aspect of the case and states the evidence more accurately than
the result. But those circumstances do not change the legal
conclusion from the facts set forth. The allegations show that,
having the old contract before them, the parties came together
under a new agreement, which was determined by reference to
the terms of that contract, but which none the less was personal
and immediate. AMaas, Fierlein and Freese, who were under
contract with the National Colortype Company, agreed to work
for the plaintiff instead. The plaintiff accepted their promises
and gave a consideration for them by undertaking personally
to pay. It does not matter that the bill calls this becoming
substituted as the employer and as a party to the old contracts.
The plaintiff could not become substituted to a strictly personal
relation. All that it could do was to enter into a new one
which was exactly like that which had existed before. Service
is like marriage, which, in the old law, was a species of it. It
may be repeated, but substitution is unknown. Arkansas Valley Smelting Co. v. Belde. lining Co., 127 U. S. 379, 387.
It may be that the form of the allegation was suggested by
the hope to get some help from the written documents when
the plaintiff comes to the proof, as against difficulties raised by
the statute of frauds. We have nothing to do with that. It
is quite manifest that the plaintiff, if it prevails, will not do so
on the ground that, by virtue of the transfer to it, it can claim
the beneficial interest in the original agreements, and thus is
an assignee within the definition given in PlantInvestment Co.
v. Ja ksonville, Tampa & Key West By. Co., 152 U. S. 71, 77;
if it recovers it will recover on a promise made directly to it
upon a consideration which it has furnished. This test is recognized in Thompson v. Perrine,106 U. S. 589, 593, although the
Justice Story, that the holder
doctrine there quoted from MA1r.
of a note payable to bearer recovers on a new promise made
directly to himself, has been controverted elsewhere, and, indeed, long has smouldered as a dimly burning question of the
law. Ilolzendorff, Rechtslexicon, sub v. Inhaberpapiere, ad
fin. (3d ed. 365, 371). Compare Abbott v. iills,158 Mlassachusetts, 396, 397; Story, Confi. of Laws, 8th ed. ยง 344.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

What we have said suggests the answer to the objection that
a novation is not set forth. The allegations seem to mean that
the old company was discharged, but this is not a question ol
novation. We are dealing with a new bilateral contract made
up of mutual undertakings to serve and to pay. The implication that the old contract is discharged is material only so far
as it shows that the plaintiff's rights can be enforced without
unjustly disregarding the rights of a third person.
It is unnecessary to consider whether an independent ground
of jurisdiction is shown in the threatened revelation of trade
secrets, or to discuss the different position of the defendant
Schultz. Whether the obligation not to disclose secrets be independent of the express contract or not, a case is made out.
The question of independence will not arise unless a difficulty
is encountered in the evidence because of the statute of frauds,
but that is not a matter of pleading. We have not to consider
how far the injunction should go in'case the plaintiff succeeds,
or anything except the objection that the plaintiff is suing as an
assignee.
.Deoree Qeversed.

NELSON v. NORTHIERN PACIFIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 44. Argued October 16, 17, 1902.-Decided January 26, 1903.

The grant of public lands made by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, embraced only the odd-numbered
alternate sections of which the United States had at the time of definite
location "full title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated,
and free from pre6mption orother claims or rights," provided that whenever prior to such definite location any sections or parts of sections had
been granted, sold, reserved, "occupied by homestead settlers" or preempted or otherwise disposed of, other lands should be selected by the
company "in lieu thereof" not more than ten miles beyond the limits of
the alternate sections. By the same act the president was directed to cause

