OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

take them into account as motives. If the master was a timid
man, who would not have dared to fight under any circumstances, there would have been the same certainty of surrender
to one who knew the whole situation, but the law would have
looked only to the force, and would not have gone into psychology. It would not matter that, because of his timidity,
the breech blocks of the guns were left stowed below. If he
had the materials for resistance and the chance to use them,
that is as far as the law would inquire. So here. As was
said by Judge Sprague, we must "consider the means the vessels possessed, and not the use they made of them." The Atlanta, 2 Sprague, 251, 258. The adventure of the Mangrove
may not have been a brilliant event that will live in story, but
it was sufficient to give its officers and crew the profit of the
law. It is decided that the Panama was lawful prize, and the
case does not fall within the class in which the United States
takes half.
.De ree a(//,lmed

HOME LIFE INSURANCE COM[PANY v. FISHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 121.

Submitted December 17, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

The company defended an action on a policy of life insurance on the ground
that statements of the insured as to his use of liquor and spirits in the
application and in the declaration to the medical examiner were false
and amounted to a breach of warranty; but it appeared that the warranty did not extend to the medical declaration; the jury were instructed
that if they found either that before the insured made application he
drank liquors either freely or to excess, or at the time that he made the
application he had a habit of drinking liquor, they were to find for the
company, the declaration and the application thus being put on the
same footing; the jury found for the plaintiff; Ield,that the jury must
he taken to have found categorically that all of the answers were correct,
and the question whether they were warranties or not became immate-

rial, and the verdict could not be reviewed except for improper instructions duly excepted to.

HOMIE LIFE INS. CO. v. FISHER.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M.

W. A. Blount for plaintiff in error.

Mr. John . Avery, Mr. R. X. Ma/hon and Xr. Benjamin C.
Tunison for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTIcE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action on a policy of life insurance, brought in the
United States Circuit Court. The policy was taken out by one
Maclean, the plaintiff's testator, on his own life. By a statute
of Florida, if the plaintiff recovered, reasonable attorneys' fees
were to be found by the jury and added to the judgment.
Evidence was offered as to the proper fee, and was objected to
on the ground that the statute was contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment. The evidence was admitted subject to exception,
the plaintiff got a verdict and judgment, and the case was
brought here by writ of error.
In view of the decision in Fidelity Alfqtual Life Association
v. ifettler, 185 U. S.308, the assignment of error in the ruling
just stated is not pressed. But although it was that on which
the case came up and which gives us jurisdiction, other errors
are assigned, which are relied upon and which we must consider. Horner v. United States, NAro. 2,143 U. S. 570, 577.
The policy purports to be made "in consideration of the
statements and agreements made in the application for this
policy, which are hereby made a part of this contract." The
application " warrants " that the statements in it " are true,
full and complete, . . . and are offered to the company,
together with those contained in the declaration to the Home
Life Insurance Company's medical examiner, as a consideration for, and as the basis of the contract with said company."
The application contained the following questions and answers:
"Q. Do you drink wine, spirits, or malt liquors? A. Yes.
Q. If so, which of these, and to what extent? A. Moderately.
Q. Have you ever used them freely or to excess? A. No."
The declaration to the medical examiner contained the following questions and answers: " Q. Do you drink wine, spirits, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

malt liquors, daily or habitually? A. No habit of drinking
liquors. Q. If so, which of these, and to what extent daily ?
NOTE.-State the daily amount. General terms, such as
temperately, I moderately,' ' occasionally,' will not be accepted,
and will necessitate correspondence."
The second of these
questions was not answered. The defendant, with superfluous
multiplicity of pleas, set up that these answers were warranties,
and again that they were material representations, and that
they were false.
Demurrers to the pleas of breach of warranty and some
pleas of false representation were sustained, mainly we presame on the authority of -loulor v. Anerican Life Insurance Co., 111 U. S. 335. So far as the declarations to the
medical examiner are concerned, it will be seen that the word
"warrant" does not extend to them. Grammatically, the
meaning of the sentence, as it stands, is that the applicant
warrants the statements in the application, and warrants that
they are offered to the company, together with those in the
declaration to the medical examiner, as the basis of the contract. If the sentence is taken a little more intelligently, we
should assume that the word "they" has dropped out between
"and " and " are offered," and that " warrant " does not govern that part of the clause. However read, the meaning is the
same. With regard to the answer in the application, denying
that the applicant ever had used spirits, etc., to excess, the
strong language of the policy, making the application "part
of the contract," affords ground for argument, at least, that
the authority cited does not apply, and that this answer was
warranted by the assured. But it is not necessary to decide
that question in view of the trial and the subsequent ruling of
the court.
The case went to trial on the seventeenth, twenty-first,
twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh pleas. The seventeenth set
up the last-mentioned answer, denying the use of spirits freely
or to excess, and averred that it was material, induced the issuing of the policy, and was false in that the applicant had a habit
of using spirits freely. The twenty-first was similar, except that
the falsity alleged was that the applicant used spirits to excess.

HOME LIFE INS. CO. v. FISHER.
Opinion of the Court.

The twenty-sixth set up the answers to the medical examiner;
averred that the applicant did have a habit of drinking spirits;
that the answer was material, and induced the making of the
policy. The twenty-seventh plea was non, assumpsit. Thus it
will be seen that the facts relied on in the pleas held bad were
in issue before the jury. This being so, it is questionable whether
the plaintiff in error could complain, unless it could point out a
mistaken instruction with regard to them at the trial. Pollac
v. Brush Electic Association of St. Louis, 128 U. S. 446,452,
453; Lloyd v. Preston, 146 U. S. 630, 644; Hudm on v. Cuyas,
57 Fed. Rep. 355, 358, 360. Clearly, if, under proper instructions, the jury found the facts not to be as charged, the plaintiff in error suffered no wrong. That was what happened in
this case.
The jury were instructed that, if they found " either one to
be true, that before Maclean made application, he drank liquors
either freely or to excess, or at the time that he made the application he had a habit of drinking liquor," they were to find for
the defendant, the declaration to the medical examiner thus being put upon the same footing as the application. The jury
found for the plaintiff. Therefore they must be taken to have
found categorically that no one of the supposed facts was true,
or, in other words, that all of the above recited answers were
correct. If so, it does not matter whether they were warranties or not. There is a suggestion, to be sure, that, in the latter
case, the defendant would have had to prove only the "literal"
falsity of the statement, whereas, in the other, proof of its substantial falsity was required. Phoai Life Insurance Co. v.
Raddin, 120 U. S. 183, 189. But the plain question of fact
was put to the jury with no such niceties of discrimination.
They found a plain answer, and the distinction comes too late
now. It is said, also, that the charge in other parts did away
with the requirement which we have quoted, and that, under the
pleas of misrepresentation, the defendant had the burden of
proving other facts. It does not appear to us that the requirement was done away with. On the contrary, it was
reiterated. The burden of provin'og other facts was largely
cut down by further instructions unnecessary to repeat, and

OCTOBER TERT,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

the burden of proving them did the defendant no harm when
the jury found as they did with regard to Mfaclean's drinking.
The alleged warranty that he drank moderately was satisfied
by the lindings, apart from other answers to the point made
with regard to that. We see no reason to assume that the defendant was taken by surprise by the rulings in its favor and
put in less evidence than it would have put in had the demurrers been overruled.
We see n6 ground for reversing the judgment in the other
instructions to the jury. Moreover, the other questions raised
are made immaterial by what we have said.
Judgment aflrmed.

KIDD v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 158. Submitted January 27, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Section 453, cl. 13, of the Code of 1886, and section 3911, cl. 14, of the Code
of 1896 of Alabama taxing stocks of railroads incorporated in other
States held by citizens of Alabama are not unconstitutional under the
Fourteenth Amendment because no similar tax is imposed on the stock

of domestic railroads or of foreign railroads doing business in Alabama;
the property of the former class of railroads being untaxed, and that of
the latter two classes being taxed, by the State.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XA'. TF. A. Gunter for plaintiff in error.
1lAr. Francis G. Cqfey and -M'. John 0. B'eckenridge for
defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for taxes brought by the State of Alabama
against the executrix of the will of a citizen of Alabama. It
appears on the record that the property in dispute is stock in

