LOTTERY CASE.
Statement of the Case.

we may add that the decisions of state tribunals in respect of
matters of general law cannot be reviewed on the theory that
the law of the land is violated unless their conclusions are absolutely free from error."
This case comes within the rule there laid down and the writ
of error must be
-Dismissed.
AIR. JUSTICE ACKENNA

took no part in the decision of this

case.
1
LOTTERY CASE.

APPEAL FROI

ThE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHIRN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 2. Argued December 15, 16, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Lotter~y tickets are subjects of traffic among those who choose to buy and
sell them and their carriage by independent carriers from one State to
another is therefore interstate commerce which Congress may prohibit
under its power to regulate commerce among the several States.
Legislation under that power may sometimes and properly assume the form,
or have the effect, of prohibition.
Legislation prohibiting the carriage of such tickets is not inconsistent with
any limitation or restriction imposed upon the exercise of the powers
granted to Congress.

THE general question arising upon this appeal involves the
constitutionality of the first section of the act of Congress of
March 2, 1895, c. 191, entitled "An act for the suppression of
lottery traffic through national and interstate commerce and
the postal service subject to the jurisdiction and laws of the
United States." 28 Stat. 963.
The appeal was from an order of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois dismissing
a writ of h4abeas corpus sued out by the appellant Champion,
who in his application complained that he was restrained of his
liberty by the Marshal of the United States in violation of the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
'Docket title-Champion v. Ames, No. 2. Francis v. United States,
No. 80, argued simultaneously. See p. 375, post.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

It appears that the accused was under indictment in the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas for a conspiracy under section 5440 of the Revised Statutes, providing that "if two or more persons conspire either to
commit any offence against the United States, or to defraud the
United States in any manner or for any purpose, and one or
more of such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, all the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than one thousand dollars and not more than
ten thousand dollars, and to imprisonment not more than two
years."
He was arrested at Chicago under a warrant based upon a
complaint in writing, under oath, charging him with conspiracy
with others, at Dallas, in the Northern District of Texas, to
commit the offence denounced in the above act of 1895; and the
object of the arrest was to compel his appearance in the Federal
court in Texas to answer the indictment against him.
The first section of the act of 1895, upon which the indictment was based, is as follows: "ยง 1. That any person who
shall cause to be brought within the United States fron abroad,
for the purpose of disposing of the same, or deposited in or carried by the mails of the United States, or carried from one State
to another in the United States, any paper, certificate or instrument purporting to be or represent a ticket, chance, share, or
interest in or dependent upon the event of a lottery, so-called
gift concert, or similar enterprise, offering prizes dependent
upon lot or chance, or shall cause any advertisement of such
lottery, so-called gift concert or similar enterprises, offering
prizes dependent upon lot or chance, to be brought into the
United States, or deposited in or carried by the mails of the
United States, or transferred from one State to another in the
same, shall be punishable in [for] the first offence by imprisonment for not more than two years or by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars, or both, and in the second and after offences by such imprisonment only." 28 Stat. 963.
The indictment charged, in its first count, that on or about
the first day of February, A. D. 1899, in Dallas County, Texas,
"C. F. Champion, alias W. W. Ogden, W. F. Champion and

LOTTERY CASE.
Statement of the Case.

Charles B. Park did then and there unlawfully, knowingly and
feloniously conspire together to commit an offence against the
United States, to wit, for the purpose of disposing of the same,
to cause to be carried from one State to another in the United
States, to wit, from Dallas, in the State of Texas, to Fresno, in
the State of California, certain papers, certificates and instruments purporting to be and representing tickets, as they then
and there well knew, chances, shares and interests in and dependent upon the event of a lottery, offering prizes dependent
upon lot and chance, that is to say, caused to be carried, as
aforesaid, for the purpose of disposing of the same, papers,
certificates or instruments purporting to be tickets to represent
the chances, shares and interests in the prizes which by lot and
chance might be awarded to persons, to these grand jurors unknown, who might purchase said papers, certificates and instruments representing and purporting to be tickets, as aforesaid,
with the numbers thereon shown and indicated and printed,
which by lot and chance should, on a certain day, draw a prize
or prizes at the purported lottery or chance company, to wit, at
the purported monthly drawing of the so-called Pan-American
Lottery Company, which purported to draw monthly at Ascuncion, Paraguay, which said Pan-American Lottery Company
purported to be an enterprise offering prizes dependent upon
lot and chance, the specific method of such drawing being unknown to the grand jurors, but which said papers, certificates
and instruments purporting to be and representing tickets upon
their face purporting to be entitled to participation in the drawing for a certain capital prize amounting to the sum of thirtytwo thousand dollars, and which said drawings for said capital
prize, or the part or parts thereof allotted or to be allotted in
conformity with the scheme of lot and chance, were to take
place monthly, the manner and form of which is to the grand
jurors unknown, but that said drawing and lot and chance by
which said prize or prizes were to be drawn was purported to
be under the supervision and direction of Enrigue Montes de
Leon, manager, and Bernardo Lopez, intervenor, and which
said papers, certificates and instruments purporting to be tickets
of the said Pan-American Lottery Company were so divided as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

to be called whole, half, quarter and eighth tickets, the whole
tickets to be sold for the sum of two dollars, the half tickets for
the sum of one dollar, the quarter tickets for the sum of fifty
cents and the eighth tickets for the sum of twenty-five cents."
The indictment further charged that "in pursuance to said
conspiracy, and to effect the object thereof, to wit, for the purpose of causing to be carried from one State to another in the
United States, to wit, from the State of Texas to the State of
California aforesaid, for the purpose of disposing of the same,
papers, certificates and instruments purporting to be and representing tickets, chances and shares and interests in and dependent upon lot and chance, as aforesaid, as they then and there
well knew, said W. F. Champion and Charles B. Park did then
and there, to wit, on or about the day last aforesaid, in the year
1899, in the county aforesaid, in the Dallas division of the Northern District of Texas aforesaid, unlawfully, knowingly and feloniously, for the purpose of being carried from one State to
another in the United States, to wit, from Dallas, in the State
of Texas, to Fresno, in the State of California, for the purpose
of disposing of the same, deposit and cause to be deposited and
shipped and carried with and by the Wells-Fargo Express Company, a corporation engaged in carrying freight and packages
from station to.station along and over lines of railway, and
from Dallas, Texas, to Fresno, California, for hire, one certain
box or package containing, among other things, two whole tickets or papers or certificates of said purported Pan-American Lottery Company, one of which said whole tickets is hereto annexed
by the grand jury to this indictment and made a part hereof."
It thus appears that the carrying in this case was by an incorporated express company, engaged in transporting freight and
packages from one State to another.
The Commissioner who issued the warrant of arrest, having
found that there was probable cause to believe that Champion
was guilty of the offence charged, ordered that he give bond
for his appearance for trial in the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Texas, or in default thereof
to be committed to jail. Having declined to give the required
bond the accused was taken into custody. Rev. Stat. ยง 1014.

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

Thereupon he sued out the present writ of habeas corpus upon
the theory that the act of 1895, under which it was proposed
to try him was void, under the Constitution of the United
States.
. r. IVlliam D. Guthrie for appellant, his brief being also
entitled in Firancis v. United States, p. 375, post.
This case was first argued at the October term, 1900, but a
reargument was directed to be heard at the October term, 1901,
at the same time as the hearing in .Francisv. United States.
The two cases were argued in October, 1901, and at the commencement of the present term were ordered to be again set
for reargument as one case before a full bench.
The two cases present substantially the same question as to
the power of Congress to suppress lotteries by prohibiting any
person flrom causing lottery tickets to be carried from one State
to another, and alike involve the constitutionality of a provision in the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 191, ยง 1, 28
Stat. 963, generally known as the Federal anti-lottery act, and
which act contains three separate features of anti-lottery legislation, which were enacted at different times, namely, (1) use of
the United States mails, (2) importations from abroad, and
(3) causing lottery tickets to be carried from one State to another
by any means other than the mails.
The courts below erred in sustaining the prohibitory legislation in question because1. The suppression of lotteries is not an exercise of any power
committed to the Congress by the Constitution of the United
States, and is, therefore, in contravention of article X of the
amendments, which provides that "the powers not delegated
to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it
to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people."
2. The sending of lottery tickets or policy slips does not constitute or evidence any transaction belonging to interstate commerce and is not within the scope of the power of the national
government to regulate commerce among the States.
3. The power to regulate lotteries, and to permit or prohibit

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

the sale of lottery tickets, is exclusively within the jurisdiction
of the police power reserved to the States.
I. It cannot be reasonably doubted that the intention and
purpose of Congress, in the legislation now before the court,
was to suppress lotteries. There is no necessity to resort to the
proceedings in Congress in which this purpose was openly
avowed, for itappears on the face of the act itself expressly in
its title and impliedly in its natural and reasonable effect.
Hfoly Tninity C'u ]A v. UnitedStates, 143 U. S. 451, 462; _Henderson v. Afayor of EV. 1., 92 T. S. 259, 26S; United States v.
Fox, 95 U. S. 670, 672; Jlinnesotav. Barber,136 U. S. 313, 320.
Yet hitherto no one has asserted that Congress has power to
suppress lotteries any more than it has power to suppress insurance or speculation or other business between residents of
different States not relating to interstate commerce. The suppression of lotteries or of any other harmful business is essentially an exercise of the police power exclusively within the
domain of and expressly reserved to the several States. In re
Ralhrer, 140 U. S. 545, 554; United States v. E]. C. Z.niglit Co.,
156 U. S. 1, 13.
Yet, on behalf of the United States it is now urged, in support of the legislation before the court, that there is a Federal
police power of the broadest scope to be administered by Congress in its absolute discretion, and not reviewable by the
courts.
No such absolute power in respect of police regulations was
ever intended to be vested in Congress. On the contrary, it is
well settled that there is no such thing as a Federal police power
except in respect of those specific subjects delegated to Congress, such as treason, counterfeiting, piracies and felonies on
the high seas and offences against the laws of nations. Of
course, in exercising its delegated powers, Congress may create
crimes and add the sanctions without which law exists but in
name. Authority to legislate on a given subject necessarily
includes authority to punish any one by whom the laws so made
are violated. But this incidental power to enforce its legislation cannot extend the jurisdiction of Congress to subjects not
delegated to the national government or support legislation not

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

"necessary and proper for carrying into execution" the power
to regulate commerce or any other delegated power. In the
case at bar, the prohibition in question, it is true, may well be
deemed "necessary and proper" for the suppression of lotteries,
but it has no relation to interstate commerce and, therefore, is
not "necessary and proper for carrying into execution" the
power to regulate commerce among the States or for accomplishing any result connected therewith. McCulloch v. State
of Aaqyland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423; RTie Liceise Cases, 5 How.
504, 600; Te T rade-Xfiarc Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 96.
Lottery tickets at most, are mere evidences of contracts made
wholly within the boundaries of a State, which contracts are
valid or invalid according to the municipal law of the State
where made or attempted to be enforced. If the given subject
thus attempted to be regulated be not commerce, it is not easy
to perceive whence Congress derives the power to regulate it.
Congress cannot conclusively determine what is or what is not
an article of commerce. That inquiry is essentially judicial.
Otherwise, Congress could determine for itself the extent and
limit oi its own powers and enlarge them at will. Tle License
Cases, 5 Iow. 504, 574.
A legislative fiat cannot make that a commercial commodity
which in its essential nature is not such. A transaction which
is not commercial in its nature, cannot become so merely by
the declaration of Congress. Exjaite Jackson, 96 U. S. 727,
735 ; In re Rapiejr, 143 U. S. 110, 133. In France v. Uvited
States, 164 U. S. 676, 683, this question arose but was not necessary to the decision and was left undecided.
In the case of Colhens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, a conviction
under a statute of Virginia for selling lottery tickets for the
national lottery authorized by the act of Congress of May 4,
1812, was sustained. But see Melton v. State of 3fissouri, 91
U. S. 275; IMebber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344.
A lottery ticket, in all its aspects, is of the same nature as an
insurance policy, which represents an analogous form of wagering contract. Both forms of contract depend upon chance and
uncertain events, and in principle cannot be distinguished in
their nature. Pothier's Obligations, Evans' Transl. vol. I, pp.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

9-10; Louisiana Civil Code, act 1776; Civil Code of Spain of
1889, title XII, U. S. Govt. Transl. 1899, pp. 230-232; May on
Insurance (4th ed.), vol. 1, p. 5; Clark on Contracts, pp. 405406; Lawson on Contracts, secs. 284-287; Hollingsworth on
Contracts, pp. 229-232; Anson on Contracts (2d Am. ed.),
pp. 232-233; Angell on Fire and Life Insurance, pp. 12, 14;
Joyce on Insurance, vol. 1, secs. 2, 7;
nEmerigon, Meredith's
Transl. p. 13; Richards on Insurance, sec. 20.
In the case of Paul v. Ti'ginia, S Wall. 168, 183, it was distinctly held that the issuing of insurance policies in New York
and sending them to Virginia, to be there delivered to the insured on payment of premium, was not interstate commerce.
See also Ifooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, 653, 655; Ni.w
York Zife Insurance Co. v. Cravoes, 178 U. S. 389, 401.
These insurance cases cannot be distinguished on the ground
that the transaction was not interstate commerce, because the
agent of the foreign insurance company negotiated the contract
of insurance in the State where the contract was to be finally
completed and the policy delivered. See, however, Robbins v.
Shelby County Taxing -District,120 U. S. 489, 497; Hopkins v.
United States, 171 U. S. 578, 601 ; Collins v. 2vew Iam) . i)re ,
171 U. S. 30, 32; Waters-Pieree Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28,
46; Wfilliams v. _Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 276.
In so far as the law now under consideration is aimed against
the lottery ticket or policy slip, either at the place where the
paper started or delivery was made, or at the place where the
paper will find itself, or where the contract may take effect at
the end of its journey, it is an attempt to interfere with the
local municipal laws and police regulations of either place. Lotteries, wherever found, are not interstate commerce, but at
most interstate wagering, such as insurance and other forms of
speculation or gambling. It is true that lotteries, which were
once popular and extensively engaged in, have gradually fallen
into disrepute and have become the subject of prohibition by
most of the States. But the gradual prohibition of lotteries
under state police powers did not make them interstate coinmerce, or diminish the power of the respective States to permit,
regulate or prohibit them.

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

If the present question had arisen in the days of Marshall,
when the public opinion of the country was not as hostile to lotteries as it is to-day, and if the Federal government had sought
to prevent the people of any State from dealing as they saw fit
in the lottery issues of other States, it would have been held
that Congress had gone outside of the powers which had been
conferred on it by the terms of the Constitution, and that the
legislation was unconstitutional and void because it was not a
regulation of commerce, but an unwarranted interference with
the police power reserved to the States.
II. The argument on behalf of the United States as to the
scope of the word intercourse,found in some of the opinions of
the court, tends to prove altogether too much. It would make
the power to regulate commerce embrace not merely "the entire
sphere of mercantile activity in any way connected with trade
between the States," but all the relations of life in so far as they
involved intercourse between residents of different States.
The appellants do not dispute the proposition that the business of carriage for hire from one State to another or of facilitating such transportation or the transit of persons is a branch
of interstate coinmerce within the authority of Congress to regulate, but it does not follow that Congress may, therefore, determine what may or may not be carried, irrespective of the
nature of the thing carried. The broad powers claimed in
the government's brief would enable Congress to regulate or
prohibit every form of domestic intercourse and contractual
relation between residents of different States, and to prohibit
the transfer of promissory notes, of deeds, of bonds, of contracts
for personal service, etc. It is submitted that no such power
was intended to be delegated to Congress by the grant of authority to regulate commerce among the several States.
Further, if the Constitution delegated to Congress the express
power to prohibit interstate commerce, that grant would not
confer the power to prohibit directly or indirectly what was
not interstate commerce. If Congress may prohibit the transportation of diseased animals or infected goods or obscene literature, it is because they are essentially commercial in their
nature, and hence they are dealing with subjects of commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

Such prohibition may be necessary and proper in order to protect the instrunentalities of interstate commerce and to safeguard such commerce. But this would not sanction the prohibition of things not constituting commerce, any more than Congress could forbid a citizen to go from one State to another on
any business he saw fit and whatever his purpose might be.
In reply to the government's brief, undoubtedly the State
could not tax the transportation of the box of lottery matter
from one State to another, because that would be taxing the
business of interstate commerce and not because it would be
taxing lottery tickets as such.
Whilst the State is concededly impotent to tax the business
of interstate carriage for hire of lottery tickets, that fact does
not in any degree militate against its power to tax or prohibit
dealings in lottery tickets under the exercise of its reserved
powers. A ddyston Pipe &fSteel Co. v. Uvited States, 175 U. S.
211, distinguished, and Urnited States v. E. C. 1T-ight Co.,
cited.
III. As to the suggestion that commerce means intercourse
in the broadest sense of that term, and includes all forms of
transactions or intercourse among the people of the several
States, what has been ruled is, not that commerce is the equivalent or synonym of intercourse, but that commet'ce is synonymous with "commercial intercourse," which no one could dispute. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189.
It is always necessary to bear distinctly in mind that, when
adopting the Federal Constitution, the people of the United
States deliberately "reserved to the States respectively or to
the people" many objects which might have been appropriate
for Federal legislative action. The student of the history of
that critical period cannot fail to be impressed with the conviction that a grant to the Federal government of police powers,
such as the regulation and suppression of lotteries, could not
have been secured, and that the Constitution itself would not
have been ratified if any attempt had been made to give greater
scope to Federal legislation. H/ooper v. California,155 U. S.
648; United States v. foox, 95 U. S.670 ; Trade-Xark Cases,
100 U. S.82; lNathan v. .Louisi'nla, 8 How. '73; Unitecd States

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41; United States v. Boyer, 85 Fed. Rep. 425;
Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 277; Ex parte 3filligan,
4 Wall. 2, 120 ; In re Debs, Petitioner, 158 U. S. 564, 591.
However desirable-or however necessary-Federal power in
any case may now seem to be, if it was not expressly conferred
upon Congress, it cannot be read into the Constitution by legislative declaration or by judicial decree. The Constitution
neither changes with time, nor does it in theory bend to the
force of circumstances." It is to-day what it was when Hamilton and Madison and Jay and Marshall wrote and argued in
its support. The surrounding circumstances have changed, usages of life and trade and modes of thinking have changed, the
manners and morals and ideas of the functions and ends of government, conceptions of civic duty and patriotism, all these
have changed, but the Constitution remains as it was then.
New conditions of society are evolving; systems of municipal
law are being altered incessantly to meet novel and complicated
conditions; but the fundamental principles of the Constitution
are the same as they were when it was adopted. We are not
at liberty to give the provisions of the Constitution new meanings because of considerations of expediency. If we could, then
"there is no power which may not, by this mode of construction, be conferred on the general government and denied to the
States." Chief Justice Taney in the Passenger Cases, 7 How.
283, 478. See also Exy)arte William ]1ells, 18 I1ow. 307, 311.
If the argument of expediency could be adopted, in its last analysis it would vest in Congress power to legislate in all criminal matters whenever the state laws were not duly enforced
as to any acts or transactions arising from or affecting directly
or indirectly intercourse among the inhabitants of the several

States.
The reasoning of this court in the Ral er Case, 140 U. S.
545, shows that it was by no means the idea in that opinion
that Congress might prohibit all interstate traffic in liquors.
It must be evident that any attempt by Congress to prohibit
interstate traffic in liquor, notwithstanding the wishes of the
various States and their local preferences, would be a departure
which would cause much astonishment and opposition and be

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

of doubtful constitutionality because of interference with the
rightful jurisdiction of the States, whilst the legislation discussed
in the Rahrer case involved the exercise by Congress of a power
which recognizes to the fullest extent the jurisdiction of any
State to permit or prohibit, according to its local policy. As
to attempt to prevent the circulation of anti-slavery publications from one State to another by excluding them from the
United States mails, see 49 Niles' Register, 228; North Carolina, 1830, Laws, vol. 14, p. 10, and Maryland, 1831 ; 49 Niles'
Register, 228. Cf. Rev. Sts. La. 1852 ; 48 Niles' Register, 447448; 49 Niles' Register, 7-S; Cong. Globe, 24th Cong. 1st
Sess. 10, 164, 165, 347; Cong. Globe, 24th Cong. 1st Sess.
App. 348, 453, 454, 539.
The significance of this episode lies in the fact that Congress
was grappling with the proposition to regulate the transmission
from State to State of documents which lacked entirely the quality of merchandise. It was admitted throughout the debate
that, if Congress could not regulate this matter indirectly through
the mails, it could not regulate it at all ; and no suggestion was
ever made that such a bill could be passed under the commerce
clause.
IV. In reply to the question in the government's brief why
may not the prohibitive power exercised in respect of foreign
nations be applied to interstate commerce, and to the question
why the same prohibitive power exercised in regulating trade
with the Indian tribes may not be applied to interstate commerce, it should be sufficient to answer that there is nowhere
in the Constitution or any of the amendments thereto a reservation of police powers or of any power either to any foreign
nation or to any Indian tribe, and, therefore, the power of Congress over commerce with both is exclusive and absolute. Citing
as to extent of powers of Congress: United States v. 43 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188, 194; 2 Tucker on Constitution,
528-533 ; Groves v. Sla7tgder, 15 Peters, 449, 503 ; Passenger
Cases, 7 How. 283,406; crandallv. JV vad, 6 Wall. 35, 44, 48;
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 75, 119 ; Paul v. Tirginia,
Hooper v. Califownia and .Teiv
Y-ork Life ins. Co. v. Cravens,
cited siTra; .Head Ifoney Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 591.

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for Appellants, Champion et al.

The whole power to regulate every form of relations and intercourse with foreign countries resides in the sovereign national
power created by the Constitution of the United States; and
every manner of intercourse in its broadest signification, whether
commercial intercourse or otherwise, is to be regulated, permitted or prohibited by Congress alone.
The source and scope of this power to regulate international
commerce are, in their very nature, essentially different from
the source and scope of the power to regulate domestic commerce. In the case of international commerce, there is no limitation whatever upon the power of Congress and no implied or
reserved power in the States. In the case of internal or interstate commerce, the only power Congress exercises is that expressly delegated.
It may, therefore, be conceded that Congress, under the plenary power to regulate our relations with foreign countries, may
well exclude persons, commodities, or printed matter of any
nature whatsoever, whether or not relating to or connected with
commerce. The power of Congress-the legislative power of
a sovereign nation-to exclude foreign persons or commodities
or printed matter in its judgment and discretion need not be
challenged in the slightest degree. But no one would seriously
suggest that any class of American citizens could be excluded
or deported under the same power which enables Congress to
exclude or deport aliens. _Nishimura Ekiu v. United States,
142 U. S. 651, 659; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.
698, 707, 712 ; United States v. Brigantine "William," 2 Hall's
Am. Law Journal, 255; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1, 191,
192; United States v. lWong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 653.
That this attribute of sovereignity under the treaty power
has been surrendered by and does not belong to the States cannot for a moment be doubted, for the States are expressly forbidden to enter into any form of treaty.
The power to regulate commerce among the several States,
it is true, is given in the same section and in the same language
as the power to regulate foreign or international commerce, but
the scope of the power is not the same in both cases and may

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants, Francis et al.

not be exercised to the same extent. The same terms in relation to separate subjects frequently differ in meaning and scope.
-Yr. John G. Carlisle, with whom .Mr. 2iller Outealt and
_lh'. Tnomas F. Skty were on the brief, appeared for John
Francis and others, appellants in No. 80, which was argued
simultaneously with this case. In that part of the brief relating to the constitutionality of the act of March 2, 1895, they
argued:
The validity of the first section of the act of March 2, 1895,
can only be sustained as a regulation of commerce "among the
several States" under the powers conferred upon Congress by
the Constitution, as embraced in paragraph 3, section 8, article I, thereof. The act by its title is not in terms declaratory of
a regulation of commerce but the suppression of an evil, citing
as to definitions of commerce: Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
United States v. E. C. Knight Comq)any, 156 U. S. 1-12; Brown
v. faryland, 12 Wheat. 419-448; Th License Cases, 5 How.
204-599; _JXobile v. ffimbaZl, 102 U. S. 691; Bowman v. C]iicago & H. TF. Railway, 125 U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hayrdin,
135 U. S. 100; .n .re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 555; City of iXew
J-oIk v. .utiln, 11 Pet. 103; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283;
Henderson v. -Mayor, 92 U. S. 259; United States v. ox, 95
U. S. 670; Yiek Jfro v. lHopkins, 118 U. S. 356; -YorganRd.
v. -ouisiana, 118 U. S. 455, 462.
Having in mind, therefore, at all times the rules by which in
our judgment, a proper construction and interpretation of this
act of March 2, 1895, is to be determined, we contend that there
are but two interpretations of the words of the Constitution,
"carried from one State to another in the United States,"
namely:
First. That the act of carrying an article must be in furtherance of some commercial transaction, otherwise Congress would
have no power under the commerce clause of the Constitution
or otherwise, to make such act of carriage or transportation
from one State to another, a crime; and,
Second. The article carried must be a recognized article of

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for the United States.

commerce, otherwise if the article has ceased to be such, Congress no longer has any power over it.
Lottery tickets cannot in any sense be held to be legitimate
articles of commerce. Douglass v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 458;
Stone v. 2[ississipl)i, 101 U. S. 824.
We understand this language to emphasize the declaration
that the States of the Union are at all times clothed with the
exclusive power to suppress and prevent by proper legislation,
at any time that they see fit, at their discretion, acts or things
affecting the morals or welfare of the communities of the several States, and that the suppression of lotteries is declared to be
within the category of subjects to be controlled by state legislation.
If what we contend for in regard to lottery tickets is true,
how much more forceful does the argument bear upon "lottery
advertisements," the subject of the concluding paragraph of
section 1, of the act in question. Can there, in the nature of
things, be any "commercial intercourse" in advertisements?

iJrr. Assistant Attorney General James X. Beck for the
United States.
1. The proceedings of the Convention of 1787 clearly show
that the purpose of the framers was to vest in the Federal
government control, not merely over traffic, but over all intercommunication between the colonies themselves, or either of
them, and the outside world.
Profoundly as the framers differed in other respects, it is
clear that the absolute power which each constituent State had
theretofore had over its external relations, of whatsoever nature, and which was denominated by the comprehensive word
No
"commerce," should pass to the Federal government.
to
was
clearly
residuum was left in the States. The purpose
empower Congress "to legislate in all cases to which the
separate States are incompetent, or in which the harmony of
the United States may be interrupted by the exercise of individual legislation." 2 Madison Papers, 859.
To remedy these evils the constitutional convention of 1787
was called, and so clearly were all delegates agreed as to the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Argument for the United States.

wisdom of taking from the thirteen States all control over their
external relations, whether intercolonial or foreign, that the
clause of the Constitution which was designed to effectuate
this (art. 7, sec. 1) was passed without a dissenting voice and
with comparatively little debate. While they did not in this
section define commerce, yet they threw a searchlight on their
meaning in a subsequent section, whose history clearly reveals
their purposes. Art. 1, see. 9.
The power, therefore, that was taken from the States and
vested in the United States was the power of each constituent
State over its external relations, and in its transfer to the Federal government it was in no respect diminished, except by
certain express limitations in the Federal compact, such as the
prohibition of any preference of the port of one State over the
port of another State (art. 1, see. 9, par. 6) and the prohibition
of duties upon exports (art. 1, see. 9, par. 5) and of clearance
duties (art. 1, sec. 9, par. 6).
With these minor limitations the delegated power was as
exhaustive and plenary as that which it was intended to supersede. The question, therefore, as to what commerce is under
the Federal Constitution necessarily depends upon what commerce was regarded to be by the colonies prior to the forination of the Constitution. Commerce meant the intercourse
or intercommunication of a colony with the other colonies and
the rest of the world, either by the importation or exportation
of goods or by the ingress or egress of individuals, and was
not confined to mere traffic in purchasable commodities.
This view of the nature of commerce was accepted by this
court in the leading case of Gibbons v. Oden, 9 Wheat. 1,
and, far from being weakened, has been supported and confirmed by subsequent adjudications until it should be regarded
as beyond controversy.
In that case, Marshall defined commerce as "intercourse."
This is doubly true of this age of steam and electricity, when
the States of the Union are indissolubly bound together by
shining paths of steel, aggregating two hundred thousand miles
in length. These lines of communication are the arteries
through which the life blood of the nation courses, and the

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for the United States.

telegraph wires are the sensitive nerves of our complex social
system. Commerce is the life blood of intercommunication,
and comprehends every object to which the steamship, the railroad, the telegraph, or other form of conveyance can be applied, and the transportation of merchandise, which is intended
for sale, is but one of many incidents to this comprehensive view
of commerce, as Marshall's clear insight saw it.
This leading case, therefore, clearly established that commerce
was more than traffic; that it was intercourse, and comprised
intercommunication between the peoples of one country and
another, whether by shipment of commodities, the transmission
of intelligence, or by personal ingress and egress, and the
sovereign power which each State formerly possessed over such
external communication was the power which it delegated,
subject to the limitations above averted to, to the Federal Government. Passenger Cases, 7 Howard, 282; County of Mobile
v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691 ; Gloucester .erry Comp,)any v. Penns!lvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203; Pickard v. Pdlman Southern
(ar Company, 117 U. S. 34.

If any doubt existed whether the transit of individuals was
commerce, irrespective of the means of locomotion, it was set
at rest by this court in the case of Covington Byridge Co. v. -Kentuoky, 154 U. S. 204, 218, where it was held that the mere passage of foot passengers from one side of the Ohio River to the
other side is commerce. It is no answer to suggest that that
involved an interstate highway in the form of a bridge, for it
is obvious that the passage of citizens did not become commerce
because they crossed an interstate highway, but the bridge was
an instrumentality of commerce because of the transit of the
people. Indeed, neither the transit of individuals nor the transportation of goods are essential to commerce. The mere transmission of intelligence is also commerce. PensacolaTelegraph
(omraany v. The Western Unon Telegr ph Company, 96 U. S.
1 ; IMest v fzion Telegraph Comipany v. Pendleton, 1292 U. S.
374. There is no essential difference between foreign commerce
and interstate commerce except as to the terminus a quo and the
terminus ad quem. In both instances the idea of commerce is
the same. Nothing is clearer than that the mere transit of
VOL. ci.xxxviII-22

OCTOBER TERIM,

1902.

Argument for the United States.

persons arriving at our ports of entry is, without reference to
traffic, the subject of Congressional regulation, because it is
commerce. People v. Compagnie, 107 U. S. 59 ; Head Xoney
Cases, 112 U. S. 580 ; Hendersonv. -Mayor,92 U. S. 259; .41is]himura Eleiu v. U~ited States, "142U. S. 651.
If the transit of persons from a foreign country to our country is commerce without respect to the purpose of their entrance
into this country, then the same must be true of the transit of
persons from State to State, assuming that foreign commerce is
the same as interstate commerce, with the exception of the locus
in quo. That they are identical is clearly established by the
decisions of this court. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 630;
Bowman v. Chicago, 125 U. S. 482 ; Crutcher v. -entucy, 141
U. S. 47 ; Pittsburg Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 587.
2. Transportation of property for hire from State to State is
commerce. The method of transportation is wholly unimportant.
Conveyance of property for hire by a rowboat is as much commerce as by the largest steamship, and a wheelbarrow may be
as completely an instrument of commerce as an express train.
Transportation may be by hand and still be commerce. The
telegraph boys, who deliver messages by hand, are engaged
in commerce. See IMestern Unioa Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton,
supra. In the cases at bar the carriage of things from State
to State for hire is involved. The subject of the transportation is unimportant. Transportation is pe' se commerce.
A fair test of the soundness of the appellants' contention is
to ask whether the State of California could lawfully have
passed a law taxing the transportation of the box of lottery
matter from Dallas, Texas, to Fresno, California, or could the
State of Ohio have taxed the carriage of the policy ticket from
N~ewport, Kentucky, to Cincinnati, Ohio. Their impotence to
do so is predicated on the theory that such carringe is cornmerce.
3. But, assuming that the character of the thing conveyed or
transported is an important question, I submit that lottery
tickets-title to which passes by delivery and which from time
immemorial have been subject of barter and sale-are articles
of commerce. Congress has held them to be articles of corn-

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for the United States.

merce, and this court has ruled that the judgment of the legislative branch of the government is, in this respect, controlling
upon the judiciary. In this respect there is a clear distinction
between the effect of state statutes and acts of Congress. Unquestionably no state statute, by any declaration as to what is
an article of commerce, could trench upon the supreme authority of the Federal government with regard to commerce, and
therefore state statutes which have sought to prohibit altogether
certain forms of traffic have been held not to divest the articles
in question of their commercial character, or to forbid their
importation into a State in the original package. But when
Congress, by legislation, recognizes a traffic in a given form of
property, the judiciary will not question thefact of such traffic
or the commercial character of the article thus bought or sold,
but will simply consider whether Congress has exceeded its
authority with reference to the subject matter of the legislation.
-Leisy v. lardin, 135 U. S. 100; In 'e 1?atrer, 140 U. S. 545.

Without regard to this legislative declaration, however, it
seems clear that lottery tickets are articles of commerce in the
sense that they are things which have been for many generations the subjects of barter and sale. It is true that under the
stress of repressive legislation the traffic in them in this country
has materially lessened, but the necessity of legislation under
consideration clearly manifests that the traffic has by no means
ceased, and is already of sufficient magnitude to justify the
National Legislature in closing the channels of foreign and interstate commerce to this merchandise.
The fact that the United States and the various States have
seen fit to make that illegal which was before legal cannot in
any way affect the character of lottery tickets as articles which
have been for centuries the subject of purchase and sale.
Whether an article is or is not an article of commerce is (ependent, not upon the question of its noxiousness or usefulness,
nor upon the question whether the States have prohibited it
within their borders in the exercise of their police power, but
upon the fact as to whether such articles have been, in the ordinary and usual channels of trade, the subjects of purchase and
sale. It is not a question of opinion as to their utility or mo-

OCTOBER TEM1L,

1902.

Argument for the United States.

rality. It is a question of fact. Any article that men buy or
sell is an article of commerce, and as such within the power of
Congress when its exchange is interstate in its character. Se/ollenberger v. Pemnsylvcnia, 171 IT. S. 1, 7, 8.
The commercial power of the 'Union can extend to written
instruments, where they effect or are instruments of the purchase and sale of property interests. Alny v. California,24
Howard, 169; Wfoodruf v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Fairbank's
v. United States, 181 U. S. 283.
The insurance cases, carefully read, are not authority for the
proposition that a written instrument, like a bond or lottery
ticket, which passes title to property upon delivery, may not
be a commercial commodity. It will be noticed that this court
has never had the qnestion squarely presented whether Congress may enact legislation regulating the interstate insurance
business. In reading the court's opinion upon these insurance
cases the question actually presented to the court must be kept
in mind. llroodruf v. Parham,8 Wall. 123, 138. The precise
point decided is that the insurance business is not so commercial in character that a State is obliged to admit such foreign
insurance corporations. The foundation of all these decisions
was that such corporations, being the mere creation of local
law, can have no legal existence beyond the limits of the sovereignty where created, and that, therefore, their right to do
business in another State depends upon the grace of such State,
which can impose terms or restrain altogether.
All these cases were predicated upon the fact that the method
of transacting the business made the transactions intra-stateand
not interstate. The contract of insurance was completed within
the borders of the State in which the insured had his domicil,
the insuring company acting through a local representative, of
whom Mr. Justice White said, in Hool)er v. Califo'inia, 155
U. S. 648, that "in the discharge of his business he is the representative of both parties to a certain extent." See also Paul
v. irginia,8 Wall. 168.
4. That the power to prohibit is absolute, and the legislature
is the final judge of the wisdom of its exercise, seems to be
clearly established upon both principle and authority.

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for the United States.

The most familiar exercise of the power to regulate commerce
in the minds of the men who framed the Federal Constitution
was, doubtless, the total or partial prohibition of traffic in par..
ticular articles. This was often accomplished by duties; and
those duties, so far as they were laid for prohibition, total or
partial, and not for revenue, were regarded as regulations of
commerce.
Refer to the journals of the Continental Congress, vol. 1,
pp. 28, 175, 176; vol. 2, p. 189; the examination of Dr. Benjamin Franklin at the bar of the House of Commons on February 7, 1776 (1 Bigelow's Life of Franklin, pp. 478, 479); John
Dickinson's "Letters from a Farmer," published in 1768, pp. 15,
18-19, 37-42, 43 (note), 60, 61, 66; Dr. Franklin's letter to

Joseph Galloway of February 25, 1775 (8 Spark's Franklin's
Works, p. 146); John Adams's letter to Jay of July 19, 1785
(Works of John Adams, vol. 8, pp. 282, 283). The same view
was maintained by the leading jurists and statesmen of the first
two generations after the adoption of the Constitution; and
with practical unanimity they based the protective tariff duties
on the commerce clause of the Constitution. 1 Story on the
Constitution, sec. 963 ; 2 Story, 1080 et seq. ; James Madison's
letter to Joseph C. Cabell of March 22, 1827 (Writings of James
Madison, vol. 3, p. 571); his letter to Cabell of September 18,
1828 (3 Madison, p. 636); Henry Clay's reply to Barbour,
March 31, 1824 (Annals of Congress, p. 1994); Gulian C. Verplanck's letter to Drayton, New York, 1831, pp. 21-23 ; Speech
of Thomas Smith Grimk6, etc., Charleston, 1829, p. 51.
Apart from the history of the period and the utterances of
contemporaneous writers, the Constitution itself affords the
most convincing proof that the right to regulate included the
right to prohibit.
This is shown beyond question when we consider the great
compromises of the Constitution. So clearly did the framers
recognize that the power to regulate commerce would include
the power to prohibit, that they inserted an express exception
to such power. Art. 1, sec. 9.
If the power to regulate did not include the right to prohibit,
all the heated discussion in the Constitutional Convention on

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for the United States.

the prohibition of the slave trade was a case of "much ado
about nothing."
It cannot be contended that the power to prohibit the migration of freemen and the importation of slaves is referable to
any other clause in the Constitution. The frainers of the Constitution regarded it as inherent in the power to regulate trade,
and the exception that such legislation should not be made
prior to 1808 is the clearest possible statement that after that
year the prohibitory regulation could be made under the commerce clause of the Constitution.
In the exercise of its power to regulate foreign commerce,
Congress has never hesitated to prohibit commerce in any particular article, or even to stop foreign commerce altogether,
either for a fixed period of time or indefinitely. A well-known
instance of partial prohibition is that of obscene literature, which
has been part of our laws ever since the tariff act of August 30,
1842, ch. 270, sec. 28. To the latter class belong the wellknown non-importation and embargo laws of the period prior
to the war of 1812. See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 192193 ; 2 Story on the Constitution, sees. 1264, 1289, 1290.
C~ngress has the same power over interstate commerce as
over commerce with the Indian tribes. The question whether,
under its power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes,
it could exclude any selected article from such commerce as
deleterious, came up for decision in United States v. Hlolliday,
3 Wall. 407, 416-418, and was decided in the affirmative in an
United States v. -Le Bis, 12
opinion by Mr. Justice 'iller.
U. S. 278 ; Sarils v. United States, 152 U. S. 570; United Slates
v. Mayrand, 154 U. S. 552.
If Congress can exclude obscene literature from foreign conimerce, why not from interstate commerce also; and if it can exclude obscene literature, why can it not exclude lottery tickets.
If it can exclude spirituous liquors from commerce with the
Indian tribes, why not from interstate commerce also; and if it
can exclude spirituous liquors, why can it not exclude lottery
tickets?
The principle has in effect already been decided by this court.
States have undertaken in the interests of the public health to

LOTTERY CASE.
Argument for the United States.

exclude importations of a certain kind from other States, and
their legislation has been held by this court to be unconstitutional. Railroad Co. v. Iusen, 95 U. S. 465; Xlfinnesota v.
Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimnmer v. Rebman, 136 U. S. 78;
Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62. These laws were not held to
be void, because they in effect levied taxes upon imports; for
it is well settled that the word "imports" in the Constitution
refers only to articles brought in from foreign countries. License Cases, 5 How. 504, 623; Ifoodrjf v. Parham, 8 Wall.
123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 628; Coe v. L&rol, 116
U. S. 517, 526 ; Pittsburg Co. v. Louisiana,156 U. S. 590, 600.
The laws were held void because they were regulations of
commerce. But the Constitution does not expressly prohibit
States from regulating comnnerce. It merely gives the power
of regulation to Congress. Whenever, therefore, this court has
held a state law void as being a regulation of commerce, it has
impliedly held that a law to the same effect could constitutionally be passed by Congress ; that is, so far as Congress is not
restrained by some express prohibition.
The legislative history of the United States gives many instances of prohibitory regulations of trade, none of which, to
my knowledge, has ever been declared unconstitutional. Reference has already been made to the embargo acts and the prohibitions of trade with the Indians. The exclusion of aliens
has already been discussed, and the identity of foreign and interstate commerce established by decisions of this court.
5. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, evidences very strongly the
power of Congress to prohibit interstate trade. The act of
August 8, 1890, was passed by Congress with the full knowledge
that in certain States of the Union the manufacture and sale of
a recognized article of commerce was absolutely prohibited.
Disregarding the mere form of words, and looking to the substance of this act, in connection with state legislation, it was a
virtual prohibition of transportation to that State. It is obvious that the power to pass such a law could not depend in any
wise upon the state statute, but must be inherent in Congress,
and therefore an absolute prohibition of transportation would
have been valid if there had been no state statute. This court

OC'TOBER ''ERM, 190g.
Opinion of the Court.

held the virtual prohibition of the transportation of liquors to
certain States a valid exercise of constitutional power.
In this connection it is well to remember that the lottery act
was not passed to conflict with or trespass upon the police powers
of the State. Just as the Wilson Act, which was sustained in
it 'e _Ralerer, 140 U. S. 545, was designed to make effective the
police statutes of the State where prohibitory liquor laws were
in force, this act of Congress was obviously intended to remove
an obstruction which the channels of interstate trade presented
to the various States in their attempt to suppress the lottery

traffic.
Steam and electricity have woven the American people into
a closeness of life of which the framers of the Constitution never
dreamed, and the necessity for Federal police regulations as to
any matter within the Federal sphere of power becomes increasingly apparent. The constitutionality of arbitrary prohibitions
can be discussed when such a case arises, and as yet no such
case has arisen, but a reasonable and proper prohibition of immoral or unsafe trade through the channels of interstate commerce is a police power which belongs to the Republic as the
sovereign authority over interstate trade. Such police power
must exist somewhere as to interstate trade. It cannot be nonexistent. Obviously it does not exist in the States; therefore
it must exist in the Federal government, and there is nothing
in the legislative or judicial history of the country that in any
manner gainsays this conclusion.
MR. JUSTIcE ITARLAx, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant insists that the carrying of lottery tickets from
one State to another State by an express company engaged in
carrying freight and packages from State to State, although
such tickets may be contained in a box or package, does not
constitute, and cannot by any act of Congress be legally made
to constitute, commnerce among the States within the meaning
of the clause of the Constitution of the United States providing
that Congress shall have power "to regulate commerce with

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes;" consequently, that Congress cannot make it an
offence to cause such tickets to be carried from one State to another.
The Government insists that express companies when engaged, for hire, in the business of transportation from one State
to another, are instrumentalities of commerce among the States;
that the carrying of lottery tickets from one State to another
is commerce which Congress may regulate; and that as a means
of executing the power to regulate interstate commerce Congress may make it an offence against the United States to cause
lottery tickets to be carried from one State to another.
The questions presented by these opposing contentions are of
great moment, and are entitled to receive, as they have received,
the most careful consideration.
What is the import of the word "commerce" as used in the
Constitution? It is not defined by that instrument. Undoubtedly, the carrying from one State to another by independent carriers of things or commodities that are ordinary subjects
of traffic, and which have in themselves a recognized value in
money, constitutes interstate commerce. But does not commerce among the several States include something more? Does
not the carrying from one State to another, by independent
carriers, of lottery tickets that entitle the holder to the payment of a certain amount of money therein specified also constitute commerce among the States?
It is contended by the parties that these questions are answered in the former decisions of this court, the Government
insisting that the principles heretofore announced support its
position, while the contrary is confidently asserted by the appellant. This makes it necessary to ascertain the import of such
decisions. Upon that inquiry we now enter, premising that
some propositions were advanced in argument that need not be
considered. In the examination of former judgments it will be
best to look at them somewhat in the order in which they were
rendered. When prior adjudications have been thus collated
the particular grounds upon which the judgment in the present
case must necessarily rest can be readily determined. We may

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

here remark that some of the cases referred to may not bear
directly upon the questions necessary to be decided, but attention will be directed to them as throwing light upon the general inquiry as to the meaning and scope of the commerce clause
of the Constitution.
The leading case under the commerce clause of the Constitution is Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189, 194. Referring to
that clause, Chief Justice Marshall said: "The subject to be
regulated is commerce; and our Constitution being, as was aptly
said at the bar, one of enumeration, and not of definition, to
ascertain the extent of the power, it becomes necessary to settle
the meaning of the word. The counsel for the appellee would
limit it to traffic, to buying and selling, or the interchange of
commodities, and do not admit that it comprehends navigation.
This would restrict a general term, applicable to many objects,
to one of its significations. Commerce, undoubtedly, is traffic,
but it is something more; it is intercourse. It describes the
commercial intercourse between nations, and parts of nations,
in all its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for
carrying on that intercourse. . . . It has been truly said,
that commerce, as the word is used in the Constitution, is a unit,
every part of which is indicated by the term. If this be the
admitted meaning of the word, in its application to foreign nations, it must carry the same meaning throughout the sentence,
and remain a unit, unless there be some plain intelligible cause
which alters it. The subject to which the power is next applied, is to commerce, ' among the several States.' The word
among' means intermingled with. A thing which is among
others is intermingled with them. Commerce among the States
cannot stop at the external boundary line of each State, but
may be introduced into the interior. It is not intended to say
that these words comprehend that commerce, which is conipletely internal, which is carried on between man and man in
a State, or between different parts of the same State, and which
does not extend to or affect other States. Such a power would
be inconvenient and is certainly unnecessary. Comprehensive
as the word ' among' is, it may very properly be restricted to
that commerce which concerns more States than one. .

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

The genius and character of the whole Government seem to be,
that its action is to be applied to all the external concerns of
the Nation, and to those internal concerns which affect the
States generally ; but not to those which are completely within
a particular State, which do not affect other States, and with
which it is not necessary to interfere, for the purpose of executing some of the general powers of the Government. . .
Again: "We are now arrived at the inquiry-what is this
power? It is the power to regulate ; that is, to prescribe the
rule by which commerce is to be governed. This power, like
all others vested in Congress, is complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations,
other than are prescribed in the Constitution. These are expressed in plain terms, and do not affect the questions which
arise in this case, or which have been discussed at the bar. If,
as has always been understood, the sovereignty of Congress,
though limited to specified objects, is plenary as to those objects, the power over commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several States, is vested in Congress as absolutely as it would
be in a single gove) nment, having in its constitution the same restrictions on the exercise of the power as arefound in the Constitution of the United States."
Mr. Justice Johnson, in the same case, expressed his entire approbation of the judgment rendered by the court, but delivered
a separate opinion indicating the precise grounds upon which
his conclusion rested. Referring to the grant of power over
commerce, he said: "A Dy opinion is founded on the application
of the words of the grant to the subject of it. The 'power to
regulate comnerce,' here meant to be granted, was that power
to regulate commerce which previously existed in the States.
But what was that power? The States were, unquestionably,
supreme; and each possessed that power over commerce, which
The
. .
is acknowledged to reside in every sovereign State.
pronounces
animal,
a
social
as
man
regarding
law of nations,
all commerce legitimate, in a state of peace, until prohibited
by positive law. The power of a sovereign State over commerce, therefore, amounts to nothing more than a power to
limit and restrain it at pleasure. And since the power to pre-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

scribe the limits to its freedom, necessarily implies the power
to determine what shall remain unrestrained, it follows that
the power must be exclusive; it can reside but in one potentate; and hence, the grant of this power carries with it the
whole subject, leaving nothing for the State to act upon."
The principles announced in Gibbons v. Ogden were reaffirmed
in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446. After expressing
doubt whether any of the evils proceeding from the feebleness of the Federal Government contributed more to the establishing of the present constitutional system than the deep and
general conviction that commerce ought to be regulated by
Congress, Chief Justice Marshall, spealdng for the court, said:
"It is not, therefore, matter of surprise that the grant should
be as extensive as the mischief, and should comprehend all foreign commerce, and all commerce among the States." Considering the question as to the just extent of the power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
the court reaffirmed the doctrine that the power was "complete in itself, and to acknowledge no limitations other than are
prescribed by the Constitution. . . . Commerce is intercourse; one of its most ordinary ingredients is traffic."
In the Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, the court adjudged certain statutes of New York and Massachusetts, imposing taxes
upon alien passengers arriving in the ports of those States, to
be in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States.
In the separate opinions delivered by the Justices there will
not be found any expression of doubt as to the doctrines announced in Gibbons v. Ogden.
r. Justice McLean said :*" Commerce is defined to be ' an exchange of commodities.' But this
definition does not convey the full meaning of the term. It
includes 'navigation and intercourse.' That the transportation
of passengers is part of commerce is not now an open question."
Mr. Justice Grier said: "Commerce, as defined by this court,
means something more than traffic-it is intercourse; and the
power committed to Congress to regulate commerce is exercised by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse."
The same views were expressed by Mr. Justice Wayne, in his
separate opinion. He regarded the question then before the

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

court as covered by the decision in Gibbons v. Ogden, and in
respect to that case he said : "It will always be a high and honorable proof of the eminence of the American bar of that day,
and of the talents and distinguished ability of the Judges who
were then in the places which we now occupy." Mr. Justice
Catron and Mr. Justice MciKinley announced substantially the
same views.
In Alny v. State of California,24 How. 169, a statute of
California imposing a stamp duty upon bills of lading for gold
or silver transported from that State to any port or place out of
the State was held to be a tax on exports, in violation of the provision of the Constitution declaring that" no tax or duty shall be
laid on articles exported from any State." But in Tvoodruff
v. Paran,8 Wall. 123, 138, this court, referring to the Alny
case, said it was well decided upon a ground not mentioned in
the opinion of the court, namely, that, although the tax there
in question was only on bills of lading, "such a tax was a regulation of commerce, a tax imposed upon the transportation of
goods from one State to another, over the high seas, in conflict
with that freedom of transit of goods and persons between one
State and another, which is within the rule laid down in Crandall v. Nevada, and with the authority of Congress to regulate
commerce among the States."
In Jlenderson &c. v. fayor &c., 92 U. S.259, 270, which involved the constitutional validity of a statute of New York relating to vessels bringing passengers to that port, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "As already indicated,
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, on which
the principal reliance is placed to make void the statute of New
York, is that which gives to Congress the power 'to regulate
commerce with foreign nations.' As was said in United States
v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 417, 'commerce with foreign nations
means commerce between citizens of the United States and
citizens or subjects of foreign governments.' It means trade,
and it means intercourse. It means commercial intercourse between nations, and parts of nations, in all its branches. It includes navigation, as the principal means by which foreign intercourse is effected. To regulate this trade and intercourse is

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

to prescribe the rules by which it shall be conducted. 'The
mind,' says the great Chief Justice, 'can scarcely conceive a
system for regulating commerce between nations which shall
exclude all laws concerning navigation, which shall he silent on
the admission of the vessels of one nation into the ports of another;' and he might have added, with equal force, which prescribed no terms for the admission of their cargo or their passengers. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 190."
The question of the scope of the commerce clause was again
considered in Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Wfestern Union Tel. Co.,
96 U. S. 1, 9, 12, involving the validity of a statute of Florida,
which assumed to confer upon a local telegraph company the
exclusive right to establish and maintain lines of electric telegraph in certain counties of Florida. This court held the act
to be unconstitutional. Chief Justice Waite, delivering its
judgment, said: "Since the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, it has never been doubted that commercial intercourse is an
element of commerce which comes within the regulating power
of Congress. Post offices and post roads are established to
faciliate the transmission of intelligence. Both commerce and
the postal service are placed within the power of Congress, because, being national in their operation, they should be under
the protecting care of the National Government. The powers
thus granted are not confined to the instrumentalities of commerce, or the postal service known or in use when the Constitution was adopted, but they keep pace with the progress of
the country, and adapt themselves to the new developments of
time and circumstances. They extend from the horse with its
rider to the stage coach, from the sailing vessel to the steamboat, from the coach and the steamboat to the railroad, and
from the railroad to the telegraph, as these new agencies are
successively brought into use to meet the demands of increasing population and wealth. They were intended for the government of the business to which they relate, at all times and
under all circumstances. As they were entrusted to the General Government for the good of the nation, it is not only the
right, but the duty, of Congress to see to it that intercourse
among the States and the transmission of intelligence are not

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

obstructed or unnecessarily encumbered by state legislation.
The electric telegraph marks an epoch in the progress of time.
In a little more than a quarter of a century it has changed the
habits of business, and become one of the necessities of commerce. It is indispensable as a means of intercommunication,
but especially is it so in commercial transactions." In his dissenting opinion in that case Mr. Justice Field speaks of the
importance of the telegraph "as a means of intercourse," and
of its constant use in commercial transactions.
In County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, Mr. Justice
Field, delivering the judgment of the court, said: "Commerce
with foreign countries and among the States, strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic, including in these
terms navigation and the transportation and transit of persons
and property, as well as the purchase, sale, and exchange of
commodities." This principle was expressly reaffirmed in Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 203.
Applying the doctrine announced in Pensacolc Tel. Co. v.
Vestern Union Tel. Co., it was held in Telegraph Co. v. Texas,
105 U. S. 460, that the law of a State imposing a tax on pri*vate telegraph messages sent out of the State was unconstitutional, as being, in effect, a regulation of interstate commerce.
In B2rown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622, 630, it was declared by
the court, speaking by M1r. Justice Bradley, that "the power
to regulate commerce among the several States is granted to
Congress in terms as absolute as is the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations." The same thought was expressed
in Bowman v. Chicago &ce. Railway Co., 125 U. S.465,482;
Cquther v. Kentucky, 141 U.S.47, 58, and PittsburgCoal Co.
v. Bates, 156 U. S.577, 587.
In Pickard v. Pullman Southern car. Company, 117 U. S.
34, it was said to be settled by the adjudged cases that to tax
"the transit of passengers from foreign countries or between
the States, is to regulate commerce."
In Vestern Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S.347, 356,
the court recognized the commerce with foreign countries and
among the States which Congress could regulate as including
not only the exchange and transportation of commodities, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

visible, tangible things, but the carriage of persons, and the
transmission by telegraph of ideas, wishes, orders and intelligence. See also Ratterman v. Tel. Co., 127 U. S. 411, and
Leloup v. Port of iAfobile, 127 U. S. 640.
In Covington &c. Bridge Company v. Kentuc4T, 154 U. S.
204, 218, the question was as to the validity, under the commerce clause of the Constitution, of an act of the Kentucky
Legislature relating to tolls to be charged or received for passing over the bridge of the Covington and Cincinnati Bridge
Company, a corporation of both Kentucky and Ohio, erected
between Covington and Cincinnati. A state enactment prescribing a rate of toll on the bridge was held to be unconstitutional, as an unauthorized regulation of interstate commerce.
The court, reaffirming the principles announced in Gloucester
Fer-y Company v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, and in Vabhaslh
&c. Railway Comany v. illinois,118 U. S. 557, said, among
other things: "Commerce was defined in Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 189, to be ' intercourse,' and the thousands of people
who daily pass and repass over this bridge may be as truly
said to be engaged in commerce as if they were shipping cargoes
of merchandise from New York to Liverpool. While the bridge
company is not itself a common carrier, it affords a highway
for such carriage, and a toll upon such bridge is as much a tax
upon commerce as a toll upon a turnpike is a tax upon the
traffic of such turnpike, or the charges upon a ferry a tax upon
the commerce across a river."
At the present term of the court we said that "transportation for others, as an independent business, is commerce, irrespective of the purpose to sell or retain the goods which the
ow-ner may entertain with regard to them after they shall have
been delivered." Hanley &c. v. -Yansas City Sout4ern Railway, 187 U. S. 617.
This reference to prior adjudications could be extended if it
were necessary to do so. The cases cited however sufficiently
indicate the grounds upon which this court has proceeded when
determining the meaning and scope of the commerce clause.
They show that commerce among the States embraces navigation, intercourse, communication, traffic, the transit of persons,

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

and the transmission of messages by telegraph. They also
show that the power to regulate commerce among the several
States is vested in Congress as absolutely as it would be in a
single government, having in its constitution the same restrictions on the exercise of the power as are found in the Constitution of the United States; that such power is plenary,
complete in itself, and may be exerted by Congress to its utmost extent, subject only to such limitations as the Constitution imposes upon the exercise of the powers granted by it;
and that in determining the character of the regulations to be
adopted Congress has a large discretion which is not to be controlled by the courts, simply because, in their opinion, such
regulations may not be the best or most effective that could
be employed.
We come then to inquire whether there is any solid foundation upon which to rest the contention that Congress may not
regulate the carrying of lottery tickets from one State to another, at least by corporations or companies whose business it
is, for hire, to carry tangible property from one State to another.
It was said in argument that lottery tickets are not of any
real or substantial value in themselves, and therefore are not
subjects of commerce. If that were conceded to be the only
legal test as to what are to be deemed subjects of the commerce
that may be regulated by Congress, we cannot accept as accurate the broad statement that such tickets are of no value.
Upon their face they showed that the lottery company offered
a large capital prize, to be paid to the holder of the ticket
winning the prize at the drawing advertised to be held at Asuncion, Paraguay. Money was placed on deposit in different
banks in the United States to be applied by the agents representing the lottery company to the prompt payment of prizes.
These tickets were the subject of traffic; they could have been
sold; and the holder was assured that the company would pay
to him the amount of the prize drawn. That the holder might
not have been able to enforce his claim in the courts of any
country making the drawing of lotteries illegal, and forbidding
the circulation of lottery tickets, did not change the fact that
VOL. cLXXxvmi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the tickets issued by the foreign company represented so much
money payable to the person holding them and who might
draw the prizes affixed to them. Even if a holder did not
draw a prize, the tickets, before the drawing, had a money
value in the market among those who chose to sell or buy
lottery tickets. In short, a lottery ticket is a subject of traffic,
and is so designated in the act of 1895. 2S Stat. 963. That
fact is not without significance in view of what this court has
said. That act, counsel for the accused well remarks, was intended to supplement the provisions of prior acts excluding
lottery tickets from the mails and prohibiting the importation
of lottery matter from abroad, and to prohibit the causing lottery tickets to be carried, and lottery tickets and lottery advertisements to be transferred, from one State to another by any
means or method. 15 Stat. 196; 17 Stat. 302; 19 Stat. 9U;
Rev. Stat. ยง 3894; 26 Stat. 465; 28 Stat. 963.
We are of opinion that lottery tickets are subjects of traffic
and therefore are subjects of commerce, and the regulation of
the carriage of such tickets from State to State, at least by independent carriers, is a regulation of commerce among the
several States.
But it is said that the statute in question does not regulate
the carrying of lottery tickets from State to State, but by punishing those who cause them to be so carried Congress in effect
prohibits such carrying; that in respect of the carrying from
one State to another of articles or things that are, in fact, or
according to usage in business, the subjects of commerce, the
authority given Congress was not to prohbit,but only to regitlate. This view was earnestly pressed at the bar by learned
counsel, and must be examined.
It is to be remarked that the Constitution does not define
what is to be deemed a legitimate regulation of interstate commerce. In Gibbons v. Ogden it was said that the power to
regulate such commerce is the power to prescribe the rule by
which it is to be governed. But this general observation leaves
it to be determined, when the question comes before the court,
whether Congress in prescribing a particular rule has exceeded
its power under the Constitution. While our Government

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

must be acknowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers,
X]cCullock v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405, 407, the Constitution does not attempt to set forth all the means by which such
powers may be carried into execution. It leaves to Congress
a large discretion as to the means that may be employed in
executing a given power. The sound construction of the Constitution, this court has said, "must allow to the national legislature that discretion, with respect to the means by which the
powers it confers are to be carried into execution, which will
enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to it, in
the manner most beneficial to the people. Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all
means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to
that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter
and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional." 4 Wheat.
421.
We have said that the carrying from State to State of lottery
tickets constitutes interstate commerce, and that the regulation
of such commerce is within the power of Congress under the
Constitution. Are we prepared to say that a provision which
is, in effect, a )rohibition of the carriage of such articles from
State to State is not a fit or appropriate mode for the regulation of that particular kind of commerce? If lottery traffic,
earriedon through intterstate comerce, is a matter of which
Congress may take cognizance and over which its power may
be exerted, can it be possible that it must tolerate the traffic,
and simply regulate the manner in which it may be carried on?
Or may not Congress, for the protection of the people of all
the States, and under the power to regulate interstate commerce,
devise such means, within the scope of the Constitution, and
not prohibited by it, as will drive that traffic out of commerce
among the States?
In determining whether regulation may not under some circumstances properly take the form or have the effect of prohibition, the nature of the interstate traffic which it was sought
by the act of May 2, 1895, to suppress cannot be overlooked.
When enacting that statute Congress no doubt shared the views
upon the subject of lotteries heretofore expressed by this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

In Phalen v. *Firginia,8 How. 163, 168, after observing that
the suppression of nuisances injurious to public health or morality is among the most important duties of Government, this
court said: "Experience has shown that the common forms of
gambling are comparatively innocuous when placed in contrast
with the widespread pestilence of lotteries. The former are
confined to a few persons and places, but the latter infests the
whole community; it enters every dwelling; it reaches every
class; it preys upon the hard earnings of the poor; it plunders
the ignorant and simple." In other cases we have adjudged
that authority given by legislative enactment to carry on a lottery, although based upon a consideration in money, was not
protected by the contract clause of the Constitution; this, for
the reason that no State may bargain away its power to protect
the public morals, nor excuse its failure to perform a public
duty by saying that it bad agreed, by legislative enactment,
not to do so. Stone v. i[ssiqsi2pi, 101 U. S. 8141; Douglas v.
Kentucky, 168 13. S. 488.
If a State, when considering legislation for the suppression of
lotteries within its own limits, may properly take into view the
evils that inhere in the raising of noney, in that mode, why
may not Congress, invested with the power to regulate commerce among the several States, provide that such commerce
shall not be polluted by the carrying of lottery tickets from
one State to another? In this connection it must not be forgotten that the power of Congress to regulate commerce among
the States is plenary, is complete in itself, and is subject to no
limitations except such as may be found in the Constitution.
What provision in that instrument can be regarded as limiting
the exercise of the power granted? What clause can be cited
which, in any degree, countenances the suggestion that one
may, of right, carry or cause to be carried from one State to
another that which will harm the public morals? We cannot
think of any clause of that instrument that could possibly be
invoked by those who assert their right to send lottery tickets
from State to State except the one providing that no person
shall be deprived of his liberty without due process of law.
We have said that the liberty protected by the Constitution

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

embraces the right to be free in the enjoyment of one's faculties; "to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and
work where he will; to earn his livelihood by any lawful calling;
to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and for that purpose to
enter into all contracts that may be proper." Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589. But surely it will not be said to be
a part of any one's liberty, as recognized by the supreme law
of the land, that he shall be allowed to introduce into commerce
among the States an element that will be confessedly injurious
to the public morals.
If it be said that the act of 1895 is inconsistent with the
Tenth Amendment, reserving to the States respectively or to
the people the powers not delegated to the United States, the
answer is that the power to regulate commerce among the
States has been expressly delegated to Congress.
Besides, Congress, by that act, does not assume to interfere
with traffic or commerce in lottery tickets carried on exclusively
within the limits of any State, but has in view only commerce
of that kind among the several States. It has not assumed to
interfere with the completely internal affairs of any State, and
has only legislated in respect of a matter which concerns the
people of the United States. As a State may, for the purpose of
guarding the morals of its own people, forbid all sales of lottery
tickets within its limits, so Congress, for the purpose of guarding the people of the United States against the "widespread
pestilence of lotteries" and to protect the commerce which
concerns all the States, may prohibit the carrying of lottery
tickets from one State to another. In legislating upon the subject of the traffic in lottery tickets, as carried on through interstate commerce, Congress only supplemented the action of
those States-perhaps all of them-which, for the protection
of the public morals, prohibit the drawing of lotteries, as well
as the sale or circulation of lottery tickets, within their respective limits. It said, in effect, that it would not permit the
declared policy of the States, which sought to protect their people against the mischiefs of the lottery business, to be overthrown or disregarded by the agency of interstate commerce.
We should hesitate long before adjudging that an evil of such

OCTOBER TERMf, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

appalling character, carried on through interstate commerce,
cannot be met and crushed by the only power competent to
that end. We say competent to that end, because Congress
alone has the power to occupy, by legislation, the whole field
of interstate commerce. What was said by this court upon a
former occasion may well be here repeated : "The framers of
the Constitution never intended that the legislative power of
the Nation should find itself incapable of disposing of a subject
matter specifically committed to its charge." In 'e R/alcr,
140 U. S. 545, 562. If the carrying of lottery tickets from one
State to another be interstate commerce, and if Congress is of
opinion that an effective regulation for the suppression of lotteries, carried on through such commerce, is to make it a criminal offence to cause lottery tickets to be carried from one State
to another, we know of no authority in the courts to hold that
the means thus devised are not appropriate and necessary to
protect the country at large against a species of interstate commerce which, although in general use and somewhat favored in
both national and state legislation in the early history of the
country, has grown into disrepute and has become offensive to
the entire people of the Nation. It is a kind of traffic which
no one can be entitled to pursue as of right.
That regulation may sometimes appropriately assume the
form of prohibition is also illustrated by the case of diseased
cattle, transported from one State to another. Such cattle may
have, notwithstanding their condition, a value in money for
some purposes, and yet it cannot be doubted that Congress,
under its power to regulate commerce, may either provide for
their being inspected before transportation begins, 'or, in its
discretion, may prohibit their being transported from one State
to another. Indeed, by the act of May 29, 18S-, c. 60, Congress has provided : "That no railroad company within the
United States, or the owners or masters of any steam or sailing
or other vessel or boat, shall receive for transportation or transport, from one State or Territory to another, or from any State
into the District of Columbia, or from the District into any
State, any live stock affected with any contagious, infectious,
or communicable disease, and especially the disease known as

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

pleuro-pneumonia; nor shall any person, company, or corporation deliver for such transportation to any railroad company,
or master or owner of any boat or vessel, any live stock, knowing them to be affected with any contagious, infectious, or
communicable disease, nor shall any person, company, or corporation drive on foot or transport in private conveyance from
one State or Territory to another, or from any State into the
District of Columbia, or from the District into any State, any
live stock, knowing them to be affected with any contagious,
infectious, or communicable disease, and especially the disease
known as pleuro-pneumonia."

Reid v. State of Colorado, 187

U. S. 137, present term.
The act of July 2, 1890, known as the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act, and which is based upon the power of Congress to regulate
commerce among the States, is an illustration of the proposition
that regulation may take the form of prohibition. The object
of that act was to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies. To accomplish that object Congress declared certain contracts to be illegal. That act, in effect, prohibited the doing of certain things, and its prohibitory
clauses have been sustained in several cases as valid under the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce. United
States v. Trans-Missouri Fr'eight Association, 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. doint Tratfle Association, 171 U. S. 505; Addyston Pip)e & Steel Company v. United States, 175 U. S. 211.

In the case last named the court, referring to the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States, said: "In Gibbons v. Ogden, sipra, the power was declared to be complete
in itself, and to acknowledge no limitations other than are prescribed by the Constitution. Under this grant of power to
Congress, that body, in our judgment, may enact such legislation as shall declare void and rohibit the performance of any
contract between individuals or corporations where the natural
and direct effect of such a contract will be, when carried out,
to directly, and not as a mere incident to other and innocent
purposes, regulate to any substantial extent interstate commerce. (And when we speak of interstate we also include in
our meaning foreign commerce.) We do not assent to the cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

rectness of the proposition that the constitutional guaranty of
liberty to the individual to enter into private contracts limits
the power of Congress and prevents it from legislating upon
-the subject of contracts of the class mentioned. The power to
regulate interstate commerce is, as stated by Chief Justice Marshall, full and complete in Congress, and there is no limitation
in the grant of the power which excludes private contracts of
the nature in question from the jurisdiction of that body. Nor
is any such limitation contained in that other clause of the Constitution which provides that no person shall be deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law." Again:
"The provision in the Constitution does not, as we believe, exclude Congress from legislating with regard to contracts of the
above nature while in the exercise of its constitutional right to
regulate commerce among the States. On the contrary, we
think the provision regarding the liberty of the citizen is, to
some extent, limited by the commerce clause of the Constitution,
and that the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce
comprises the right to enact a law prolibiting the citizen from
entering into those private contracts which directly and substantially, and not merely indirectly, remotely, incidentally
and collaterally, regulate to a greater or less degree commerce
among the States."
That regulation may sometimes take the form or have the
effect of prohibition is also illustrated in the case of In re
JRah'er, 140 U. S. 545. In Xfugler v. K'ansas, 123 U. S. 623,
it was adjudged that state legislation prohibiting the manufacture of spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented or other intoxicating liquors within the limits of the State, to be there
sold or bartered for general use as a beverage, does not
necessarily infringe any right, privilege or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States or by the amendments thereto. Subsequently in Bowman v. Chdcago &e. Railwaly Co., 125 U. S. 465, this court held that ardent spirits,
distilled liquors, ale and beer were subjects of exchange, barter
and traffic, and were so recognized by the usages of the comnmercial world, as well as by the laws of Congress and the decisions of the courts. In Zeisy v. Htardin, 135 U. S. 100, the

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

court again held that spirituous liquors were recognized articles of commerce, and declared a statute of Iowa prohibiting
the sale within its limits of any intoxicating liquors, except for
pharmaceutical, medicinal, chemical or sacramental purposes,
under a state license, to be repugnant to the commerce clause
of the Constitution, if applied to the sale, within the State, by
the importer, in the original, unbroken packages, of such liquors
manufactured in and brought from another State. And in determining whether a State could prohibit the sale within its
limits, in original, unbroken packages, of ardent spirits, distilled liquors, ale and beer, imported from another State, this
court said that they were recognized by the laws of Congress
as well as by the commercial world "as subjects of exchange,
barter and traffic," and that " whatever our individual views
may be as to the deleterious or dangerous qualities of particular articles, we cannot hold that any articles which Congress
recognized as subjects of commerce are not such." ]eisy v.
Hardin,135 U. S. 100, 110, 125.
Then followed the passage by Congress of the act of August 8,
1890, 26 Stat. 313, c. 728, providing "that all fermented, distilled,
or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported into any
State or Territory, or remaining therein for use, consumption,
sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such
State or Territory enacted in the exercise of its police powers,
to the same extent and in the same manner as though such
liquids or liquors had been produced in such State or Territory,
and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in original packages or otherwise." That act was
sustained in the Rahrer'case as a valid exercise of the power of
Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
In Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.412, 426, that statute-all of its
provisions being regarded-was held as not causing the power
of the State to attach to an interstate commerce shipment of
intoxicating liquors "whilst the merchandise was in transit
under such shipment, and until its arrival at the point of destination and delivery there to the consignee."
Thus under its power to regulate interstate commerce, as in-

OCTOBER TERIIl, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

volved in the transportation, in original packages, of ardent
spirits from one State to another, Congress, by the necessary
effect of the act of 1890 made it impossible to transport such
packages to places within a prohibitory State and there dispose
of their contents by sale; although it bad been previously held
that ardent spirits were recognized articles of commerce and,
until Congress otherwise provided, could be imported into a
State, and sold in the original packages, despite the will of the
State. If at the time of the passage of the act of 1890 all the
States had enacted liquor laws prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors within their respective limits, then the act would necessarily have had the effect to exclude ardent spirits altogether
from commerce among the States; for no one would ship, for
purposes of sale, packages containing such spirits to points
within any State that forbade their sale at any time or place,
even in unbroken packages, and, in addition, provided for the
seizure and forfeiture of such packages. So that we have in
the .Rahrer case a recognition of the principle that the power
of Congress to regulate interstate commerce may sometimes be
exerted with the effect of excluding particular articles from such
commerce.
It is said, however, that if, in order to suppress lotteries carried on through interstate commerce, Congress may exclude lottery tickets from such commerce, that principle leads necessarily to the conclusion that Congress may arbitrarily exclude
from commerce among the States any article, commodity or
thing, of whatever kind or nature, or however useful or valuable, which it may choose, no matter with what motive, to declare shall not be carried from one State to another. It will be
time enough to consider the constitutionality of such legislation
when we must do so. The present case does not require the
court to declare the full extent of the power that Congress may
exercise in the regulation of commerce among the States.

We

may, however, repeat, in this connection, what the court has
heretofore said, that the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States, although plenary, cannot be deemed
arbitrary, since it is subject to such limitations or restrictions as

LOTTERY CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

are prescribed by the Constitution. This power, therefore, may
not be exercised so as to infringe rights secured or protected by
that instrument. It would not be difficult to imagine legislation that would be justly liable to such an objection as that
stated, and be hostile to the objects for the accomplishment of
which Congress was invested with the general power to regulate commerce among the several States. But, as often said,
the possible abuse of a power is not an argument against its
existence. There is probably no governmental power that may
not be exerted to the injury of the public. If what is done by
Congress is manifestly in excess of the powers granted to it,
then upon the courts will rest the duty of adjudging that its
action is neither legal nor binding upon the people. But if
what Congress does is within the limits of its power, and is simply unwise or injurious, the remedy is that suggested by Chief
Justice Marshall in Gihbons v. Ogden, when he said: "The
wisdom and the discretion of Congress, their identity with the
people, and the influence which their constituents possess at
elections, are, in this, as in many other instances, as that, for
example, of declaring war, the sole restraints on which they
have relied, to secure them from its abuse. They are the restraints on which the people must often rely solely, in all representative governments."
The whole subject is too important, and the questions suggested by its consideration are too difficult of solution, to justify any attempt to lay down a rule for determining in advance
the validity of every statute that may be enacted under the
commerce clause. We decide nothing more in the present case
than that lottery tickets are subjects of traffic among those who
choose to sell or buy them ; that the carriage of such tickets by
independent carriers from one State to another is therefore interstate commerce; that under its power to regulate commerce
among the several States Congress-subject to the limitations
imposed by the Constitution upon the exercise of the powers
granted-has plenary authority over such commerce, and may
prohibit the carriage of such tickets from State to State; and
that legislation to that end, and of that character, is not incon-

OCTOBER TERM[, 1902.
FULLER, C. J., BREWER, SHIRAS and PECrHAM, JJ., dissenting.

sistent with any limitation or restriction imposed upon the exercise of the powers granted to Congress.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF TuSTIcE FULLER, with whom concur MR. TusTioE
BREWER, MR[.JUsTICe SHIRAs and MR. JUSTICE PEOKiiu, dissenting.

Although the first section of the act of March 2, 1895, 28
Stat. 963, c. 191, is inartificially drawn, I accept the contention
of the Government that it makes it an offence (1) to bring lottery matter from abroad into the United States; (2) to cause
such matter to be deposited in or carried by the mails of the
United States; (3) to cause such matter to be carried from one
State to another in the United States ; and further, to cause any
advertisement of a lottery or similar enterprise to be brought
into the United States, or be deposited or carried by the mails,
or transferred from one State to another.
The case before us does not involve in fact the circulation of
advertisements and the question of the abridgement of the freedom of the press ; nor does it involve the importation of lottery
matter, or its transmission by the mails. It is conceded that the
lottery tickets in question, though purporting to be issued by a
lottery company of Paraguay, were printed in the United
States, and were not imported into the United States from
any foreign country.

The naked question is whether the prohibition by Congress
of the carriage of lottery tickets from one State to another by
means other than the mails is within the powers vested in that
body by the Constitution of the United States. That the purpose of Congress in this enactment was the suppression of lotteries cannot reasonably be denied. That purpose is avowed
in the title of the act, and is its natural and reasonable effect,
and by that its validity must be tested. Henderson v. .Jfayoe
&c., 92 U. S. 259, 268 ; -. innesota v. Bairber, 136 U. S. 313, 320.
The power of the State to impose restraints and burdens on
persons and property in conservation and promotion of the pub-

LOTTERY CASE.
FULLER,

C.J.,

BREWEc, SHInAS and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

lie health, good order and prosperity is a power originally and
always belonging to the States, not surrendered by them to the
General Government nor directly restrained by the Constitution
of the United States, and essentially exclusive, and the suppression of lotteries as a harmful business falls within this power,
commonly called of police. Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S.
488.
It is urged, however, that because Congress is empowered to
regulate commerce between the several States, it, therefore,
may suppress lotteries by prohibiting the carriage of lottery
matter. Congress may indeed make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying the powers granted to it into execution, and
doubtless an act prohibiting the carriage of lottery matter
would be necessary and proper to the execution of a power to
suppress lotteries; but that power belongs to the States and
not to Congress. To hold that Congress has general police
power would be to hold that it may accomplish objects not entrusted to the General Government, and to defeat the operation
of the Tenth Amendment, declaring that: "The powers not
delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively,
or to the people."
The ground on which prior acts forbidding the transmission
of lottery matter by the mails was sustained, was that the power
vested in Congress to establish post offices and post roads embraced the regulation of the entire postal system of the country,
and that under that power Congress might designate what
nine Rqaie',
might be carried in the mails and what excluded.
727.
S.
U.
143 U. S.110; Exparte Jacksorn, 96
In the latter case, Mr. Justice Field, delivering the unanimous
opinion of the court, said: "But we do not think that Congress
possesses the power to prevent the transportation in other ways,
as merchandise, of matter which it excludes from the mails. To
give efficiency to its regulations and prevent rival postal systems, it may perhaps prohibit the carriage by others for hire,
over postal routes, of articles which legitimately constitute mail
matter, in the sense in which those terms were used when the
Constitution was adopted, consisting of letters, and of newspa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
FULLER, 0. J., BREWEv,

Snnm.s and PEcKn.i, JJ., dissenting.

pers and pamphlets, when not sent as merchandise; but further
than this its power of prohibition cannot extend." And this
was repeated in the case of Raj)ier.
Certainly the act before us cannot stand the test of the rule
laid down by Ir. Justice Miller in the Trade-.3fa k- Cases, 100
U. S. 82, 96, when he said: "When, therefore, Congress undertakes to enact a law, which can only be valid as a regulation of
commerce, it is reasonable to expect to find on the face of the
law, or from its essential nature, that it is a regulation of coinmerce with foreign nations, or among the several States, or
with the Indian tribes. If not so limited, it is in excess of the
power of Congress."
But apart from the question of bona fides, this act cannot be
brought within the power to regulate commerce among the several States, unless lottery tickets are articles of commerce, and,
therefore, when carried across state lines, of interstate coinmerce; or unless the power to regulate interstate commerce includes the absolute and exclusive power to prohibit the transportation of anything or anybody from one State to another.
ir. Justice Catron remarked in the License Cases, 5 How.
504, 600, that "that which does not belong to commerce is
within the jurisdiction of the police power of the State; and
that which does belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction
of the United States;" and the observation has since been repeatedly quoted by this court with approval.
In United States v. E. C. Knight Co )any, 156 U. S. 1, 13,
we said: "It is vital that the independence of the commercial
power and of the police power, and the delimitation between
them, however sometimes perplexing, should always be recognized and observed, for while the one furnishes the strongest
bond of union, the other is essential to the preservation of the
autonomy of the States as required by our dual form of governmnent; and acknowledged evils, however grave and urgent they
may appear to be, had better be borne, than the risk be run, in
the effort to suppress them, of more serious consequences by
resort to expedients of even doubtful constitutionality. It will
be perceived how far reaching the proposition is that the power
of dealing with a monopoly directly may be exercised by the

LOTTERY CASE.
FULLER, C. J., BREWER, SHIRAS and PECKHAM , JJ., dissenting.

General Government whenever interstate or international commerce may be ultimately affected. The regulation of commerce
applies to the subjects of commerce and not to matters of internal police." This case was adhered to in Addyston Pipe
and Steel Company v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, where it
was decided that Congress could prohibit the performance of
contracts, whose natural effect, when carried out, would be to
directly regulate interstate and foreign commerce.
It cannot be successfully contended that either Congress or
the States can, by their own legislation, enlarge their powers,
and the question of the extent and limit of the powers of either
is a judicial question under the fundamental law.
If a particular article is not the subject of commerce, the determination of Congress that it is, cannot be so conclusive as
to exclude judicial inquiry.
When Chief Justice Marshall said that commerce embraced
intercourse, he added, commercial intercourse, and this was
necessarily so since, as Chief Justice Taney pointed out, if intercourse were a word of larger meaning than the word commerce,
it could not be substituted for the word of more limited meaning contained in the Constitution.
Is the carriage of lottery tickets from one State to another
commercial intercourse ?
The lottery ticket purports to create contractual relations and
to furnish the means of enforcing a contract right.
This is true of insurance policies, and both are contingent in
their nature. Yet this court has held that the issuing of lire,
marine, and life insurance policies, in one State, and sending
them to another, to be there delivered to the insured on payment of premium, is not interstate commerce. Paul v. Yirginia, 8 Wall. 168 ; lIoop)er v. Caljfo'rnia,155 U. S. 648; New
York Life Isuranee Comnpany v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389.

In Paul v. Virginia, Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the
unanimous opinion of the court, said: "Issuing a policy of insurance is not a transaction of commerce. The policies are
simple contracts of indemnity against loss by fire, entered into
between the corporations and the assured, for a consideration
paid by the latter. These contracts are not articles of corn-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
FULLER, C. J., BREWER, SHIRAS and PECKRAIM, JJ., dissenting.

merce in any proper meaning of the word- They are not subjects of trade and barter offered in the market as something
having an existence and value independent of the parties to
them. They are not commodities to be shipped or forwarded
from one State to another, and then put up for sale. They
are like other personal contracts between parties which are
completed by their signature and the transfer of the consideration. Such contracts are not interstate transactions, though
the parties may be domiciled in different States. The policies
do not take effect-are not executed contracts-until delivered
by the agent in Virginia. They are, then, local transactions,
and are governed by the local law. They do not constitute a
part of the commerce between the States any more than a contract for the purchase and sale of goods in Virginia by a citizen of New York whilst in Virginia would constitute a portion
of such commerce."
This language was quoted with approval in I1ooper v. California,155 U. S.648, and it was further said: "If the power
to regulate interstate commerce applied to all the incidents to
which said commerce might give rise and to all contracts which
might be made in the course of its transaction, that power
would embrace the entire sphere of mercantile activity in any
way connected with trade between the States; an([ would exclude state control over many contracts purely domestic in
their nature. The business of insurance is not commerce. The
contract of insurance is not an instrumentality of commerce.
The making of such a contract is a mere incident of commercial intercourse, and in this respect there is no difference whatever between insurance against fire and insurance against 'the
perils of the sea.'" Or, as remarked in New Iorh Dife Insuranee Company v. Cravens, 178 U. S.389, " against the uncertainty of man's mortality."
The fact that the agent of the foreign insurance company
negotiated the contract of insurance in the State where the
contract was to be finally completed and the policy delivered,
did not affect the result. As 'Mr. Justice Bradley said in the
leading case of Robins v. Shelby County Taing .District, 120
U. S.489: "The negotiation of sales of goods which are in an-

LOTTERY CASE.
FULLER,

C. J.,

BREWER, SHIRAS

and

PEbEHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

other State, for the purpose of introducing them into the State
in which the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce."
And see Collins v. New hlam shire, 171 U. S. 30, and other
cases.
Tested by the same reasoning, negotiable instruments are
not instruments of commerce; bills of lading are, because they
stand for the articles included therein ; hence it has been held
that a State cannot tax interstate bills of lading because that
would be a regulation of interstate commerce, and that Congress cannot tax foreign bills of lading, because that would be
to tax the articles exported, and in conflict with Article I, ยง 9,
cl. 5, of the Constitution of the United States, that "No tax or
duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State." Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283.
In Vathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, it was held that a broker
dealing in foreign bills of exchange was not engaged in commerce, but in supplying an instrumentality of commerce, and
that a state tax on all money or exchange brokers was not void
as to him as a regulation of commerce.
And in Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, that the levy of a
tax by the State of Georgia on the occupation of a person engaged in hiring laborers to be employed beyond the limits of
the State, was not a regulation of interstate commerce, and
that the tax fell within the distinction between interstate commerce or an instrumentality thereof, and the mere incidents
that might attend the carrying on of such commerce.
In Coliens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 440, Congress had empowered the corporation of the city of Washington to "authorize the drawing of lotteries for effecting any improvement in
the city, which the ordinary funds or revenue thereof will not
accomplish." The corporation had duly provided for such lottery, and this case was a conviction under a statute of Virginia
for selling tickets issued by that lottery. That statute forbade
the sale within the State of any ticket in a lottery not authorized by the laws of Virginia.
The court held, by Chief Justice Marshall, that the lottery
was merely the emanation of a corporate power, and "that the
VOL. CLXXXVHI-24

OCTOBER TERMI 1902.
FULLER,

C. J.,

BREWER, SMIRAS and PE=Abi, JJ., dissenting.

mind of Congress was not directed to any provision for the sale
of the tickets beyond the limits of the corporation."
The constitutionality of the act of Congress, as forcing the
sale of tickets in Virginia, was therefore not passed on, but if
lottery tickets had been deemed articles of commerce, the Virginia statute would have been invalid as a regulation of commerce, and the conviction could hardly have been affirmed, as
it was.

In -Tutting v. _F[tssaohusete, 183 U. S. 553, 556, Mr. Justice
Gray said: "A State has the undoubted power to prohibit foreign insurance companies from making contracts of insurance,
marine or other, within its limits, except upon such conditions
as the State may prescribe, not interfering with interstate commerce. A contract of marine insurance is not al instrumentality of commerce, but a mere incident of commercial intercourse.
The State, having the power to impose conditions on the transaction of business by foreign insurance companies within its
limits, has the equal right to prohibit the transaction of such
business by agents of such comlanies, or by insurance brokers,
who are to some extent the representatives of both parties."
If a State should create a corporation to engage in the business of lotteries, could it enter another State, which prohibited
lotteries, on the ground that lottery tickets were the subjects
of commerce?
On the other hand, could Congress compel a State to admit
lottery matter within it, contrary to its own laws?
In Alexander v. State, 86 Georgia, 246, it was held that a
state statute prohibiting the business of buying and selling
what are commonly known as "futures," was not protected by
the commerce clause of the Constitution, as the business was
gambling, and that clause protected interstate commerce but
did not protect interstate gambling. The same view was expressed in State v. Strz)ling, 113 Alabama, 120, in respect of
an act forbidding the sale of pools on horse races conducted
without the State.
In Ballock v. M'aryland,73 Maryland, 1, it was held that
when the bonds of a foreign government are coupled with conditions and stipulations that change their character from an

LOTTERY CASE.
FULLER, C. J., BREWER, SHIRAs and PEcKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

obligation for the payment of a certain sum of money to a
species of lottery tickets condemned by the police regulations
of the State, the prohibition of their sale did not violate treaty
stipulation or constitutional provision. Such bonds with such
conditions and stipulations ceased to be vendible under the law.
So lottery tickets forbidden to be issued or dealt in by the
laws of Texas, the terninus a quo, and by the laws of California or Utah, the terininusad quem, were not vendible; and
for this reason also not articles of commerce.
If a lottery ticket is not an article of commerce, how can it
become so when placed in an envelope or box or other covering, and transported by an express company? To say that
the mere carrying of an article which is not an article of commerce in and of itself nevertheless becomes such the moment
it is to be transported from one State to another, is to transform a non-commercial article into a commercial one simply
because it is transported. I cannot conceive that any such
result can properly follow.
It would be to say that everything is an article of commerce the moment it is taken to be transported from place
to place, and of interstate commerce if from State to State.
An invitation to dine, or to take a drive, or a note of introduction, all become articles of commerce under the ruling in
this case, by being deposited with an express company for
transportation. This in effect breaks down all the differences
between that which is, and that which is not, an article of
commerce, and the necessary consequence is to take from the
States all jurisdiction over the subject so far as interstate communication is concerned. It is a long step in the direction of
wiping out all traces of state lines, and the creation of a centralized Government.
Does the grant to Congress of the power to regulate interstate commerce impart the absolute power to prohibit it?
It was said in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 211, that the
right of intercourse between State and State was derived from
"those laws whose authority is acknowledged by civilized man
throughout the world;" but under the Articles of Confederation the States might have interdicted interstate trade, yet

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
FULLER,

C. J.,

BREWER, SuRIAS

and

PECKHAM,

JJ.. dissenting.

when they surrendered the power to deal with commerce as
between themselves to the General Government it was undoubtedly in order to form a more perfect union by freeing
such commerce from state discrimination, and not to transfer
the power of restriction.
"But if that power of regulation is absolutely unrestricted as
respects interstate commerce, then the very unity the Constitution was framed to secure can be set at naught by a legislative
body created by that instrument." -Dooley v. United States,
183 I. S. 151, 171.
It will not do to say-a suggestion which has heretofore been
made in this case-that state laws have been found to be ineffective for the suppression of lotteries, and therefore Congress
should interfere. The scope of the commerce clause of the Constitution cannot be enlarged because of present views of public
interest.
In countries whose fundamental law is flexible it may be that
the homely maxim, "to ease the shoe where it pinches," may
be applied, but under the Constitution of the United States it
cannot be availed of to justify action by Congress or by the
courts.
The Constitution gives no countenance to the theory that
Congress is vested with the full powers of the British Parliament, and that, although subject to constitutional limitations,
it is the sole judge of their extent and application ; and the decisions of this court from the beginning have been to the contrary.
"To what purpose are powers limited, and to what purpose
is that limitation committed to writing, if these limits may, at
any time, be passed by those intended to be restrained 1" asked
Marshall, in 3Jfarbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; 176.
"Should Congress," said the same great magistrate in .MCullock v. M aiyland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423, "under the pretext oC
executing its powers, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects not entrusted to the Government; it would become the
painful duty of this tribunal, should a case requiring such a decision come before it, to say that such an act was not the law
of the land,"

LOTERY CASE.
FULLER,

C. J.,

BREWER, SHITRAS and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

And so Chief Justice Taney, referring to the extent and limits
of the powers of Congress: "As the Constitution itself does
not draw the line, the question is necessarily one for judicial
decision, and depending altogether upon the words of the Constitution."
It is argued that the power to regulate commerce among the
several States is the same as the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and with the Indian tribes. But is its
scope the same?
As in effect, before observed, the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and the power to regulate interstate commerce, are to be taken diverso intuitu, for the latter was intended to secure equality and freedom in commercial intercourse
as between the States, not to permit the creation of impediments to such intercourse; while the former clothed Congress
with that power over international commerce, pertaining to a
sovereign nation in its intercourse with foreign nations, and subject, generally speaking, to no implied or reserved power in the
States. The laws which would be necessary and proper in the
one case, would not be necessary or proper in the other.
Congress is forbidden to lay any tax or duty on articles exported from any State, and while that has been applied to exports to a foreign country, it seems to me that it was plainly
intended to apply to interstate exportation as well; Congress
is forbidden to give preference by any regulation of commerce
or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another; and
duties, imposts and excises must be uniform throughout the
United States.
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States." This clause
of the second section of Article IV was taken from the fourth
Article of Confederation, which provided that "the free inhabitants of each of these States . . . shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several States;
and the people of each State shall have free ingress and egress
to and from any other State, and shall enjoy therein all the
privileges of trade and commerce;" while other parts of the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1902.

FULLER, C. J., BREWE, SnAS and PEciuEAMA, JJ., dissenting.

same article were also brought forward in Article IV of the
Constitution.
TMfr. Justice Miller, in the Slaug7hter-_louse Cases, 16 Wall. 36,
75, says that there can be but little question that the purpose
of the fourth Article of the Confederation, and of this particular
clause of the Constitution, "is the same, and that the privileges
and immunities intended are the same in each."
Thus it is seen that the right of passage of persons and property from one State to another cannot be prohibited by Congress. But that does not challenge the legislative power of a
sovereign nation to exclude foreign persons or commodities, or
place an embargo, perhaps not permanent, upon foreign ships
or manufactures.
The power to prohibit the transportation of diseased animals
and infected goods over railroads or on steamboats is an entirely
different thing, for they would be in themselves injurious to
the transaction of interstate commerce, and, moreover, are essentially commercial in their nature. And the exclusion of
diseased persons rests on different ground, for nobody would
pretend that persons could be kept off the trains because they
were going from one State to another to engage in the lottery
business. However enticing that business may be, we do not
understand these pieces of paper themselves can communicate
bad principles by contact.
The same view must be taken as to commerce with Indian
tribes. There is no reservation of police powers or any other
to a foreign nation or to an Indian tribe, and the scope of the
power is not the same as that over interstate commerce.
In United States v. 43 Gallons of Itiskey, 93 U. S. 188, 194,
Mr. Justice Davis said: "Congress now has the exclusive and
absolute power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes,a power as broad and free from restrictions as that to regulate
commerce with foreign nations. The only efficient way of dealing with the Indian tribes was to place them under the protection of the General Government. Their peculiar habits and
character required this; and the history of the country shows the
necessity of keeping them 'separate, subordinate, and dependent.' Accordingly, treaties have been made and laws passed

FRANCIS r". UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

separating Indian territory from that of the State, and providing that intercourse and trade with the Indians should be carried
on solely under the authority of the United States."
I regard this decision as inconsistent with the views of the
framers of the Constitution, and of Marshall, its great expounder.
Our form of government may remain notwithstanding legislation or decision, but, as long ago observed, it is with governments, as with religions, the form may survive the substance of
the faith.
In my opinion the act in question in the particular under consideration is invalid, and the judgments below ought to be reversed, and my brothers

BREWER,

SHIRAs and

PECKHAM

concur

in this dissent.

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued December 15, 16, 1902.-Decided February 23,1903.

A slip retained by the agent of a lottery which is the duplicate of a slip
retained by the purchaser, indicating the numbers selected by him, is not
a paper, certificate or interest purporting to be or to represent chances,
shares and interest in the prizes thereafter to be awarded by lot in the
drawings of a lottery commonly known as the game of policy within the
meaning of the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 191, 28 Stat. 963.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Jo n G. Carlisle and _31r. Afiller Outcalt for petitioners.
.Mr.
Ar. lVilliam D. Guth'rie's brief in No. 2 (p. 321, ate,) was
also entitled in this action.

Xr'. Assistant Attorney General Beck for the respondent argued and submitted the same brief as in C0iamnionv. Ames, the

Zotlery Case, p. 321, ante.
MR. Jus'rcE HOLMtEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment under Rev. Stat. ยง 5440, for conspiring

