GUTIERRES v. ALBUQUERQUE LAND CO.
Syllabus.

same legal questions, in the state court.

Harkraderv. I'adley,

172 U. S. 148, 166.

The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurring. I am in favor of modifying the judgment in some particulars and then affirming it, but
I do not concur in all the reasoning of the opinion.

GUTIERRES v. ALBUQUERQUE LAND AND IRRIGA-

TION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROIM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

NEW MEXICO.
No. 16. Argued January 9, 1902-Decided February 23, 1903.

1. The provisions of the corporation laws of the Territory of New Mexico
relating to the formation and rights of irrigation companies are not invalid because they assume to dispose of property of the United States
without its consent. By the act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 253; Rev. Stat.
§ 2339, and the act of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, Congress recognized as
respects tle public domain and so far as the United States is concerned,
the validity of the local customs, laws and decisions in respect to the
appropriation of water, and granted the right to appropriate such amount
of water as might be necessarily used for the purpose of irrigation and
reclamation of desert land, part of the public domain, and as to the surplus, the right of the public to use the same for irrigation, mining and
manufacturing purposes subject to existing rights. The purpose of Congress to recognize the legislation of Territories as well as of States in
respect to tle regulation of the use of public water is evidenced by the
act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095. The statute of New Mexico is not
inconsistent with the legislation of Congress on this subject.
2. The act of March 3, 1877, is not to be construed as an expression of Congress that the surplus public waters on the public domain, and which are
within the control of Congress or of a legislative body created by it, must
be directly appropriated by the owners of lands upon which a beneficial use of the water is to be made and that consequently a territorial
legislature cannot lawfully empower a corporation to become an intermediary for furnishing water to irrigate the lands of third parties.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-35

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
The question whether the appropriation of water interferes with the rights
of other appropriators below the mouth of a proposed new irrigation canal
cannot be raised by parties who are strangers to such other appropriators
not parties to the action.

Tins litigation was begun by the appellee, in the District
Court for the Second Judicial District of the Territory of New
Mexico, within and for the county of Bernalillo. In the bill
of complaint equitable relief was sought against the now appellants. It was alleged, in substance, that plaintiff, on December 31, 1897, became a body corporate, pursuant to the provisions of an act of the general assembly of the Territory of New
Mexico, approved February 24, 1887, for the purpose of constructing a canal, ditch and pipe line between named points in
the county of Bernalillo, in the Territory of New Mexico; that,
as preliminary to the construction of such canal, ditch and pipe
line, a survey of lands along the proposed route thereof was
necessary, and such survey was authorized by law; and that
the defendants, asserting ownership of lands along such proposed
route, had forcibly prevented the employ~s of the plaintiff from
entering on said lands to make survey thereof. It was prayed
that temporarily, pending the suit, and perpetually by the final
decree, the defendants might be enjoined from further interference with the making of the survey, and there was also a prayer
for general relief. In their answer the defendants admitted
their interferences with the proposed survey, as complained of
in the bill, but asserted their right to do so. Reiterating the
allegations of the answer, by cross complaint, a perpetual injunction was asked restraining entry by the plaintiff upon the
lands. An order was issued temporarily restraining the defendants, as prayed, and thereafter a demurrer to the answer
and cross complaint of the defendant was filed and overruled.
After replication by the respective parties the cause was transferred to the District Court of the First Judicial District for
the Territory of New Mexico, within and for the county of
Santa F6. In that court trial was had and judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff perpetuating the preliminary injunction and dismissing the cross complaint of the defendants.

GUTIERRES r. ALBUQUERQUE LAND CO.
Statement of the Case.

The following findings of fact and conclusions of law were embodied in the judgment:
"Findings of Fact.
"I. That the plaintiff is a corporation and has complied with
the provisions of the laws of the Territory of New M'exico.. It
is organized for the purpose of constructing a canal from a point
on the Rio Grande about twenty-eight miles above the city of
Albuquerque to the railroad bridge across said Rio Grande, at
Isleta, the initial and terminal points of said canal being within
the county of Bernalillo.
"I. That the headgate of plaintiff's proposed canal is to be
at a point on the Rio Grande three eighths (1) of a mile below
or south of the Indian village of San Felipe, about twenty-eight
miles above the city of Albuquerque ; that the ultimate terminus
or point of discharge into the river is at the railroad bridge near
Isleta, the entire length of the canal to be about thirty-five (35)
miles. The present proposed terminus is at the city of Albuquerque.
"III. That the engineer of the company was proceeding with
a survey of the line between Albuquerque and the headgate
when defendants interfered with and obstructed the said engineer in the making of said survey.
" IV. That the capacity of the said proposed canal is two
hundred and ten (210) cubic feet of water per second.
"V. That there are at present thirteen ditches taking water
from the river between the proposed headgate of plaintiff's
canal and the Albuquerque, and seven between Albuquerque
and the Indian town of Isleta.
"VI. That the aggregate capacity of all the said old ditches
is four hundred and ninety-eight (498) cubic feet per second,
and the court finds that there has been a valid prior appropriation by the owners of said old ditches of the said four hundred
and ninety-eight (498) feet per second of water.
"VII. That during a few months or parts of the summer
months of the years 1894, 1895, 1896 and 1897 there was no
surplus water flowing in the river at the proposed headgate, but
during a large majority of the months of each of these years

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

there was a large amount of surplus water flowing past that
point, and that those years were the only years within ten or
twenty years in which the river was dry at or above Albuquerque.
"VIII. That in a majority of the last ten years there has
been surplus water flowing in the said river at the proposed
headgate at all times.
"IX. That the river became dry at Albuquerque about the
last of June, 1894, and remained so for twenty-two days, and
also in June, 1896, for a number of days, the court being unable
to find the exact number or length of time from the evidence.
"X. That the months of June, July, August and September
are the ' dry season.'
"IXI. That the planting and growing season in the :Rio Grande
Valley begins in February and ends with October.
"XII. That very few farmers served by the present ditches
sow wheat, oats, barley or rye in the fall of the year, but do so
in the spring, beginning during February or March and that
very little, if any, of the water now appropriated is used for
these crops after June 15th, but the water is used for chili, corn,
alfalfa and melons after that time, and for alfalfa as late as
October.
"XIII. That for all the months in most years and for most
of the months in every year there is a surplus of water flowing
in the Rio Grande over and above the amount appropriated by
said old ditches.
"XIV. The court finds that there is no evidence that plaintiff relies on any source of water supply than the Rio Grande
or that the proposed canal of plaintiff is expected or intended
to receive and distribute stored waters.
"XV. That the plaintiff is not the owner of any lands along
the line of its proposed canal or elsewhere.
"XVI. That there is no evidence that plaintiff has any contract with or employment by any person who is the owner of
lands irrigable from said proposed canal for the conduct of
water upon any such lands, or that any owner of lands not
now irrigated from existing acequias, desires or intends to irrigate such lands from plaintif's canal when completed.

GUTIERRES v. ALBUQUERQUE LAND CO.
Statement of the Case.

"XVII. That the proposed canal of the plaintiff will cross
and recross the existing acequias of Bernalillo nine times within
a distance of one mile of its length.
"XVIII. That some of the defendants and some of their associates are the owners of lands through which the plaintiff
proposes to construct its canal.
" Coclu8ions of 1aw.
"I. That the plaintiff corporation is entitled to exercise the
power of eminent domain.
"II. That the plaintiff, by the filing of its articles of incorporation with the secretary of the Territory of New Mexico, and
complying with the provisions of the act under which ft is incorporated, has acquired a right to construct its canals and
reservoirs to divert through its proposed canal surplus and unappropriated waters flowing in the Rio Grande, and that such
a right of eminent domain does not depend upon the ownership
of lands by plaintiff or the employment of plaintiff prior to the
construction of its canal by owners of lands to carry waters for
such owners.
"III. That the defendants, at the time of the filing of the
complaint herein, unlawfully obstructed the plaintiff in the exercise of powers lawfully conferred upon it by the act under
which it is incorporated.
"IV. That the defendants do not and cannot in this action
lawfully represent the rights of such persons claiming a right
to the use of the waters of the Rio Grande, by prior appropriation, when the appropriation of such persons was effected at a
point below the mouth of the proposed canal of plaintiff.
" V. That the defendants cannot lawfully set up in this action
any rights secured to them and their associates or their predecessors in title by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and that
the allegations of paragraph ten of the answer of defendants
with reference to the treaty of defendants are immaterial.
"VI. That the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded
in the complaint, including a perpetual injunction as prayed
for.
"VII. That defendants are not entitled to any part of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

relief demanded in their cross complaint, but the same should
be dismissed."
A motion to set aside the findings and judgment and for a
new trial having been overruled, the cause was taken to the
Supreme Court of the Territory. That court affirmed the judgment of the trial court and adopted as its own the findings of
fact made by the judge of the District Court. Thereupon this
appeal was allowed.
.A1'. ]'eill B. Field for appellants.
Mr. Villirm B. Childers for appellee.
JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
AIR.

The pertinent portions of the territorial act of Februarv 24,
1887, under which the plaintiff below was incorporated, are
noted in the margin.1
1 Corporation Laws of New Mexico, 1897.

§ 468. Any five persons who may desire to form a company for the purpose of constructing and maintaining reservoirs and canals, or ditches and
pipe lines, for the purpose of supplying water for the purpose of irrigation, mining, manufacturing, domestic and other public uses, including
cities and towns, and for the purpose of colonization and the improvement
of lands in connection therewith, for either or both of said objects, either
jointly or separately, shall make and sign articles of incorporation, which
shall be acknowledged before the secretary of the Territory, or some person authorized by law to take the acknowledgment of conveyances of real
estate, and when so acknowledged, such articles shall be filed with such
secretary.
§ 469. Such articles shall set forth: First. The full names of the incorporators, and the corporate name of such company.
Second. The purpose or purposes for which such company is formed,
and if the object be to construct reservoirs and canals, or ditches and pipe
lines for any of the purposes herein specified, the beginning point and terminus of the main line of such canals and ditches and pipe lines, and the
general course, direction and length thereof shall be stated.
Third. The amount of the capital stock and the number of shares as
definitely as practicable.
Fourth. The term of existence of the company, which shall not exceed
fifty years.

GUTIERRES v. ALBUQUERQUE LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It will be seen that the act authorized the formation of corporations for the purpose of constructing and maintaining reservoirs and canals, or ditches and pipe lines, and that two purFifth. The number of directors, and the names of those who shall manage the business of the company for the first year.
Sixth. The name of the city or town and county in which the principal
place of business of the company is to be located.
§ 484. Corporations formed under this act for the purpose of furnishing
and supplying water for any of the purposes mentioned in section four
hundred and sixty-eight, shall have, in addition to the powers hereinbefore
mentioned, rights as follows:
First. To cause such examinations and surveys for their proposed reservoirs, canals, pipe lines and ditches to be made, as may be necessary to the
selection of the most eligible locations and advantageous routes, and for
such purpose, by their officers, agents and servants, to enter upon the
lands or water of any person, or of this Territory.
Second. To take and hold such voluntary grant of real estate and other
property, as shall be made to them in furtherance of the purposes of such
corporation.
Third. To construct their canals, pipe lines or ditches upon or along
any stream of water.
Fourth. To take and divert from any stream, lake or spring the surplus
water, for the purpose of supplying the same to persons, to be used for the
objects mentioned in section four hundred and sixty-eight of this act, but
such corporations shall have no right to interfere with the rights of, or appropriate the property of any persons except upon the payment of the assessed value thereof, to be ascertained as in this act provided. And provided,farther, That no water shall be diverted if it will interfere with the
reasonable requirements of any person or persons using or requiring the
same, when so diverted.
Fifth. To furnish water for the purposes mentioned in section four hundred and sixty-eight, at such rates as the by-laws may prescribe; but equal
rates shall be conceded to each class of consumers.
Sixth. To enter upon and condemn and appropriate any lands, timber,
stone, gravel, or other material that may be necessary for the uses and purposes of said companies.
§492. That no incorporation of any company or companies to supply
water for the purposes of irrigation and other purposes, shall have any
right to divert the usual and natural flow of water of any stream which
by the law of 1854 has been declared a public acequia for any use whatever,
between the fifteenth day of February and the fifteenth day of October of
each year, unless it be with the unanimous consent of all and every person
holding agricultural and cultivated lands under such stream or public

OCTOBER TERMf, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

poses were to be subserved by the formation of such companies,
1, the supplying of water for irrigation, mining, manufacturing,
domestic and other public uses, including cities and towns;
and, 2, the colonization and the improvement of lands in connection therewith. The articles of association of the appellee
set out the second of the aforesaid objects as being the purpose
for which the company was formed. The organization of the
company in conformity to the requirements of the statute is
not questioned, and the existence of surplus water over and
above the needs of prior appropriators of water at the point
where it was proposed to divert the waters of the Rio Grande
for the proposed canal is a fact found by the trial court and
not disputed either in the Supreme Court of the Territory or
in the argument made at bar.
The contentions urged upon our notice substantially resolve
themselves into two general propositions: First, that the territorial act was invalid, because it assumed to dispose of property of the United States without its consent; and, second,
that said statute, in so far at least as it authorized the formation of corporations of the character of the complaiant, was
inconsistent with the legislation of Congress and therefore
void. These propositions naturally achnit of consideration together.
The argument in support of the first proposition proceeds
upon the hypothesis that the waters affected by the statute are
public waters, the property not of the Territory or of private
individuals, but of the United States; that by the statute private individuals, or corporations, for their mere pecuniary profit,
are permitted to acquire the unappropriated portion of such
public waters, in violation of the right of the United States to
control and dispose of its own property wheresoever situated.
Assuming that the appellants are entitled to urge the objection
referred to, we think, in view of the legislation of Congress on
the subject of the appropriation of water on the public domain,
acequia, and to be irrigated by the water furnished by said stream or public acequia, and that no incorporation of any company or companies shall interfere with the water rights of any individual or company, acquired prior
to the passage of this act.

GUTIERRES v,. ALBIUQUPRQUB LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

particularly referred to in the opinion of this court in United
States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 704-706,
the objection is devoid of merit. As stated in the opinion just
referred to, by the act of July 26, 1866, c. 262, see. 9, 14 Stat.
253 ; Rev. Stat. see. 2339, Congress recognized, as respects the
public domain, " so far as the United States are concerned, the
validity of the local customs, law and decisions of courts in respect to the appropriation of water." By the act of March 3,
1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, the right to appropriate such an
amount of water as might be necessarily used for the purpose
of irrigation and reclamation of desert land, part of the public
domain, was granted, and it was further provided that "all
surplus water over and above such actual appropriation and
use, together with the water of all lakes, rivers and other
sources of water supply upon the public lands and not navigable, shall remain and be held free for the appropriation and
use of the public for irrigation, mining and manufacturing purposes subject to existing rights."
That the purpose of Congress was to recognize as well the
legislation of a Territory as of a State with respect to the regulation of the use of public waters is evidenced by the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095. By the eighteenth section
of the act of 1891 it was provided as follows:
"SEc. 18. That the right of way through the public lands
and reservations of the United States is hereby granted to any
canal or ditch company formed for the purpose of irrigation
and duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory,
which shall have filed, or may hereafter file, with the Secretary
of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and due
proofs of its organization under the same, to the extent of the
ground occupied by the water of the reservoir and of the canal
and its laterals, and fifty feet on each side of the marginal
limits thereof ; also the right to take from the public lands adjacent to the line of the canal or ditch, material, earth, and
stone necessary for the construction of such canal or ditch:
P2.ovided, That no such right of way shall be so located as to
interfere with the proper occupation by the government of any

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

such reservation, and all maps of location shall be subject to
the approval of the department of the government having jurisdiction of such reservation, and the privilege herein granted
shall not be construed to interfere with the control of water for
irrigation and other purposes under authority of the respective
States or Territories."
It may be observed that the purport of the previous acts is
reflexively illustrated by the act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388.
That act appropriated the receipts from the sale and disposal of
the public lands in certain States and Territories to the construction of irrigation works for the reclamation of arid lands.
The eighth section of the act is as follows:
"SEc. 8. That nothing in this act shall be construed as affecting or intending to affect or to in any way interfere with the
laws of any State or Territory relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation, or any
vested right acquired thereunder, and the Secretary of the Interior, in carrying out the provisions of this act, shall proceed
in conformity with such laws, and nothing herein shall in any
way affect any right of any State or of the Federal Government or of any landowner, appropriator, or user of water in,
to, or from any interstate stream or the waters thereof : Provided, That the right to the use of water acquired under the
provisions of this act shall be appurtenant to the land irrigated,
and beneficial use shall be the basis, the measure, and the limit
of the right."
It would necessarily seem to follow from the legislation referred to that the statute which we have been considering is
not inconsistent with the legislation of Congress on the subject
of the disposal of waters flowing over the public domain of the
United States. Of course, as held in the Rio Grande case,
(p. 703), even a State, as respects streams within its borders, in
the absence of specific authority from Congress, "cannot by its
legislation destroy the right of the United States, as the owner
of lands bordering on a stream, to the continued flow of its
waters; so far at least as may be necessary for the beneficial
uses of the government property," and the power of a State over
navigable streams and their tributaries is further limited by the

GUTIERRES r. ALBUQUERQUE LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

superior power of the general government to secure the uninterrupted navigability of all navigable streams within the limits
of the United States. Necessarily, these limitations are equally
applicable in restraint of the legislative branch of a territorial
government, controlled, as is such body, by Congress. If we
assume that a restriction on the power of a Territory similar to
that first stated prevails in favor of private owners of lands
along a running stream, the act in question clearly is not violative of such rights, for the same does not attempt to authorize
an infringement of them. The water which it is provided may
be appropriated is "surplus" water, of any stream, lake or
spring, and it is specifically provided in subdivision 4 of section 17 of the act "That no water shall be diverted, if it will
interfere with the reasonable requirements of any person or
persons using or requiring the same, when so diverted." So,
also, in section 25, it is declared "that no incorporation of any
company or companies shall interfere with the water rights of
any individual or company, acquired prior to the passage of this
act." The finding of the court below that "surplus" water
existed negates the idea that any legitimate appropriation of
water which can be made by the appellee can in anywise violate
the rights of others.
We perceive no merit in the contention that the proviso in
the desert land act of March 3, 1877, declaring that surplus
water on the public domain shall remain and be held free for
the appropriation and use of the public for irrigation, mining
and manufacturing purposes, subject to existing rights, is an
expression of the will of Congress that all public waters within
its control or the control of a legislative body of its creation,
must be directly appropriated by the owners of land upon which
a beneficial use of water is to be made, and that in consequence
a territorial legislature cannot lawfully empower a corporation,
such as the appellee, to become an intermediary for furnishing
water to irrigate the lands of third parties. As all owners of
land within the service capacity of appellee's canal will possess
the right to use the water which may be diverted into such
canal, the use is clearly public, Fallbrooh; firigation Di;trictv.
Bi'adley, 164 U. S. 1112, 163, and appellee is therefore a public

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

agency, whose right to divert water and whose continued existence is dependent upon the application by it within a reasonable
time of such diverted water to a beneficial use. Irrig'ation corporations generally are recognized in the legislation of Congress,
and the rights conferred are not limited to such corporations as
are mere combinations of owners of irrigable land.
It is conceded on behalf of appellant that, by the laws of
lexico in force when the Territory of New Mexico was ceded
to the United States, the use of the waters of both navigable
and unnavigable streams was not limited to riparian lands, but
extended as well to lands which did not lie upon the bankcs of
the rivers, and that such use was subject to be regulated and
controlled by the public authorities. It is however contended
that the effect of the statute under consideration is to free the
waters from public control and to transfer them to private control, a position which is manifestly unsound, in view of the public nature of such corporations and their liability to regulation
by the legislative authority which has in effect created them.
The concession above referred to and the implication arising
from the statement in the answer and cross bill to the purport
that the title of the defendants to their lands was derived,
mediately or himnediately, from those who held title thereto
at the time of the acquisition of New Mexico by the United
States, coupled with the finding by the trial court that, after
making all due allowances for valid appropriations of water
within the portion of the Rio Grande directly affected by the
canal of the appellee, there yet existed a surplus of unappropriated water, warranted the trial court in treating as immaterial the claim asserted in the tenth paragraph of the answer of
the defendants to the effect that, by the treaty of cession of New
lexico to the United States, the defendants and their associates
acquired the right of user of all the waters of the Rio Grande
adjacent to their lands. Neither do we think that the trial
court was called upon, at the instance of the defendants, entire
strangers in every aspect to other appropriators, to inquire into
and pass upon the question whether appropriators of water below the mouth of the proposed canal of appellee would be injured by the construction of the canal. The rights of such per-

RANKIN v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
Syllabus.

sons will not, of course, be injuriously affected by the decree in
this cause, and non, eonstat but that they may yet intervene for
their own protection, if they deem that the construction of the
canal will be an invasion of their rights, or that they may be willing to forego objection to the construction of the canal.
On the whole, we are of the opinion that the decree of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico was correct,
and it is therefore
-Afirred.
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA dissents.

RANKIN v. CHASE NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 105. Argued December 3, 4, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

The cashier of a bank in Elmira owing individually to the New York correspondent bank $15,012.50 tendered $8000 in currency and a draft for
$7000 made to himself by himself as cashier on aPhiladelphia bank with
which the Elmira bank had funds. The New York bank declined to accept the draft on Philadelphia on account of risk and delay in collection
and demanded funds current in New York. Thereupon thecashier drew
his own check on the Elmira bank for the entire amount and certified it
himself as cashier making it payable at the New York bank with which
the Elmira bank had sufficient balance to pay the same withoutthe $7000
draft. The New York bank accepted this check in payment of the debt
and charged it to the Elmira bank's account. At the same time it credited
that bank with the $8000 gnrrency aud took from the cashier the $7000
draft which was then made payable to himself as cashier, and after the
proceeds had been collected credited the Elmira bank with them also.
It subsequently developed that the cashier had no balance to his individual account in the Elmira bank and that lie had stolen from it the $8000 of
currency. In the court below it was found as fact that there was no evidence of bad faith on the part of the New York bank in the transaction
and it was also found that there was no evidence to justify any departure from the rule that a person accepting the check of a cashier certified
by himself and in payment of an individual debt does so at his peril and

