OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

location in the occupation of some one intending to preempt or
homestead it? If such occupation is sufficient to avoid the patent of the United States, has the company sure title to any
lands?
I think the judgment ought to be affirmed.

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE OIRUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 85. Argued November 12, 1902.-Decided January 26, 1903.

An action upon the official bond of a superintendent of the Mint at New
Orleans, conditioned among other things that he would "faithfully and
diligently perform, execute and discharge all and singular the duties of
said office according to the laws of the United States" and "receive and
safely keep, until legally withdrawn, all moneys or bullion which slall
be for the use or expenses of the Mint." The claim was that the defendant had received and not paid over to the United States $25,000 in treasury notes which had come to his hands. The defence was that the treasury notes bad been totally destroyed by fire, without any negligence on
the part of the superintendent, except that $1182 of such notes had been
recovered in a charred condition and turned over to the United States,
being in such condition that they could be identified as to amount and
date of issue. Held:
(1) That the obligations of the superintendent were not determinable by
the law of bailment but by the terms of his bond, and he could not
escape responsibility for treasury notes that came to his hands aud
which were lost, unless such loss was attributable to overruling
necessity or the public enemy; that their loss by reason of fire constituted no defence.
(2) No deduction could be allowed on account of the $1182 of charred
notes, because no previous application had been made to the proper
accounting officers for the allowance of such a credit.
(3) The superintendent was liable on his bond for interest at six per cent
from the date on which his accounts were stated at the Treasury
Department.

THIs was an action upon the official bond of Andrew W.
Smythe as Superintendent of the Mint of the United States at

SMYTHE v'. UNITED STATES.
. Statement of the Case.

New Orleans to recover the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars with six per cent interest from April 1, 1893, until paidthat being the amount found due to the United States at the
date of the examination, adjustment and statement of his accounts by the proper officers of the Treasury. The sureties on
the bond were Edward Conery and David Chambers MeCan.
The bond was conditioned that the Superintendent should
"faithfully and diligently perform, execute and discharge all
and singular the duties of said office according to the laws of
the United States, then this obligation to be void and of no
effect, otherwise to remain in full force and value."
When this bond was executed it was provided by section 3500,
Rev. Stat., that every officer of the Mint, before entering upon
the duties of his office, should take an oath faithfully and diligently to perform the duties thereof ; by section 3501, that the
Superintendent, before entering upon his office, should become
bound to the United States, with one or more sureties, in a
named sum, " with the condition for the faithful and diligent
performance of the duties of his office;" by section 3503, that
the Superintendent of each Mint "shall have the control thereof, the superintendence of the officers and persons employed
therein, and the supervision of the business thereof, subject to
the approval of the Director of the MXilint;" by section 3504,
that "he shall keep and render, quarter-yearly, to the Director of the Mint, for the purpose of adjustment according to
such forms as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, regular and faithful accounts of his transactions with the
other officers of the Mint and the depositors;" and by section 3506, that "the Superintendent of each Mint shall receive
and safely keep, until legally withdrawn, all moneys or bullion
which shall be for the use or the expenses of the Mint."
It appeared in the evidence that the defendant Smythe, as
Superintendent of the Mint, received various sums of money in
U nited States treasury notes, and that upon a statement of his
accounts by the proper officers of the Treasury there was a deficit of $25,000.
The defence was that the $25,000 of treasury notes was
placed by the Superintendent in a tin box in the steel vault

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

provided by the Government for the safekeeping of public funds
in his custody, and that the notes while in that box were charred,
burnt and destroyed by fire that occurred in the vault, without
any negligence on the part of the Superintendent, or his agents
or employ~s.
The Government insisted at the trial that even if the treasury notes were destroyed, in the manner and to the amount
claimed, without negligence on the part of the Superintendent,
nevertheless, he was liable on his bond-its contention being
that he was under the obligations, practically, of an insurer in
respect of all public funds coming to his bands, and could not
be relieved, unless the loss occurred by the act of God or the
public enemy. This view was approved by the Circuit Court,
which, at the conclusion of the evidence, directed a verdict
against the defendants, and judgment was accordingly rendered
for the full amount claimed by the United States. The court
added the following words to its memorandum of reasons for
that direction: "In this cause there has been no charge or intimation that Dr. Smythe was personally at fault or blamable
in any way. Such fault or negligence as may have been shown
in the cause is attributable to his subordinates and in no manner to him."
The Circuit Court of Appeals approved the view taken by
the Circuit Court, and affirmed the judgment. The opinion of
the former court is reported in 107 Fed. Rep. 376.
.r. William, A. 2lau'y, with whom 2,. William, Grant,
31>. TMalker Brainerd Spencer, 3r. T 1D. Rouse, .3r.B. .J2eCloskey and .E. _Ioward 3rcCaleb were on the brief, for tho
plaintiffs in error.
In United States v. Thomas, 15 Wall. 337, Mr. Justice Bradley, came to the conclusion that the liability of a fiscal officer of
the United States was that of a simple bailee, notwithstanding
the conditions contained in a bond of the character of the one
here involved. He, therefore, very logically held that the officer did not become a debtor on his bond until he had committed
a breach of duty.
The general rule is well settled that a bailee is excused from

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

liability for property destroyed in his possession by fire. 2 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 748; Story on Bailnents, sec. 29;
Xleridian Fair v. Yorth Birminghagn Railway, 70 Mississippi, 808.
This being the rule, there is no reason wvhy a fire is not as
much an overruling necessity in this case as vis nmajor was held
to be in the Thomas case.
The Federal cases cited as establishing a different doctrine, go
no further than to hold that a receiver of public money cannot
plead theft to relieve himself of liability as an ordinary bailee
may. This exception to the general rule is predicated on a supposed public policy, which cannot be said to extend beyond that
class of cases, and which certainly has not as yet been applied
by the courts to cases where public money has been destroyed
by fire, shipwreck, earthquakes or other overruling causes.
Boyden v. United States, 13 Wallace, 17; United States v. Humason, 6 Sawyer, 199; Preston v. Prather,137 U. S. 604.
The bond executed by the plaintiffs in error was an ordinary
penal bond obligating them to repair and make good any damage which the Government might suffer by reason of the neglect or breach of duty. United States v. Morgan, 11 How. 154;
Mlurfree on Official Bonds, section 612. Originally, upon breach
of the condition, the liability for the entire amount of the stipulated penalty became absolute. 2 Blackstone's Commentaries,
341; Burridgev. ]7ortescue, 6 MNod. 60 ; Statute of 4 and 5 Anne,
chapter 16. The practical effect of changes in the law is that
the penalty of a bond now never operates as a forfeiture or
penalty, but merely fixes the maximum of the liability of the
obligor. Davis v. Gillett, 52 New Hampshire, 126; Astley v.
Weldon, 2 Bos. & P. 346; Street v. Rigley, 6 Ves. Jr. 815; Price
v. Greene, 16 Mees. & W. 346; Davies v. Penton, 6 Barn. & C.
216; Hligginson v. IFell, 14 Gray, 165; Smith v. WVainright, 24
Vermont, 97; Richards v. Edict, 17 Barbour, 260 ; Tayloe v.
Sandiford, 7 Wheaton, 13; Mallis v. Cart)enter, 13 Allen, 19,
25 ; Swift v. Crow, 17 Georgia, 609 ; Leighton v. Wales, 3 Mees.
& W. 545. If, however, the contract be to perform several acts,
or else to pay the sum specified, that sum, it is well settled,
will always be regarded by the courts as a penalty and not as

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

liquidated damages. Keemble v. Farrea,6 Bing. 141; .Z'iver v.
Possnan, 18 Barbour, 50; Zyonm v. Clark, 8 New York, 148;
Harrisv. Clapp, 1 Massachusetts, 308; Brangwi v. Parrot,
2 W. Blackstone, 1190; Clark v. Bash, 3 Cowen, 151. Oficers of the Government have always construed the condition
of such bonds to be an obligation to indemnify. Even in this
case, the Government did not sue for the penalty of the bond,
but for the amount of a loss thought to have been sustained by
it by the loss or theft of this money. Bobyshell Case, 77 Fed.
944. In the cases of United States v. P'escott, 3 Howard,
578; United States v. Dashiel, 4 '"all. 182; Uiiited States v.
Keehler', 9 Wall. 83; Boydei v. Un ited States, 13 Wall. 17;
Ukited States v. Bevans, 13 Wall. 56, and Uzited States v.
Thomas, 15 Wall. 337, the amount sued for was the damage
sustained by the Government and not the penalty of the bond.
UnitecZ States v. ilforgan., 11 Howard, 154, which held that a
bond for the faithful performance of the duties of a, public
office was an obligation to indemnify against loss. See also
Uvnited States v. Moore, 2 Brock. 317; 26 Fed. Cases, 1301, in
which Chief Justice -Marshallheld that the measure of liability
was the extent of the injury received by the plaintiff produced
by the failure of the marshal to properly perform the duties of
his office. The cases cited conclusively show that under the
terms of this bond the Government had the right to recover
only such damages as it might have proven had been occasioned
by the breach of duty on the part of Dr. Smythe in not safely
keeping this paper currency. And if this contention be correct,
then we think it follows that under the evidence the plaintiffs
in error were entitled to have the jury instructed as requested
by them. For if, as a matter of fact, there were ,25,000 of
treasury notes or other obligations of the Government in the
bank box, and the same were burned, and the entire debris
thereof was delivered to the Government, how can it be claimed
that the Government has suffered any substantial damages by
the destruction of its own promissory notes or obligations ? It
seems plain to us under such a state of facts that the only loss
suffered by the Government was the value of the paper and the
expense of printing the notes, and as no evidence was offered

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

to show these items, nothing but nominal damages were recoverable for the technical breach of the obligation to safely keep
these notes.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Beck for defendant in error.
Xfr. harles I. Robb was with him on the brief.
The judgment rendered in the court below should be affirmed.
I. The line of cases from United States v. Prescott,3 Howard,
578, to Boyden v. United States, 13 Wallace, 17; clearly establish that liability on such a bond is absolute, saving only the
act of God and the public enemy. United States v. Thomas,
15 Wallace, 337, (lid not modify this doctrine, notwithstanding
the criticism of certain expressions in prior opinions.
These cases, therefore, clearly establish appellant's liability
inasmuch as the destruction of the currency was not due either
to the act of God or the public enemy. United States v. Dashiel, 4 Wall. 182; United States v. Ireeklen, 9 Wall. 83; United
States v. Bevans, 13 Wall. 56; Bisbyshell v. United States, 77
Fed. Rep. 944, affirming 73 Fed. Rep. 616.
See also decisions in state courts: Commonwealth v. Comly,
3 Barr (Pa.), 372 ; Inihabitantsv. Hazard,12 Cushing, 112; Inhabitants v. .icEachron, 33 N. J. L. 339; State v. -Harper,6
Ohio, 607; Hdbert v. State, 22 Indiana, 125; State v. Jackson
Township, 28 Indiana, 86; Ross v. Hatch, 5 Iowa, 149; Taylor
v. Morton, 37 Iowa, 551.
The results reached in the decisions may be summarized as
follows :
1. That the execution of a bond in such cases superimposes
upon the implied contract of bailment an express contract, which
carries with it a greater liability. As was said by Judge
Strong in United States v. Bevans, "There is an established
difference between a duty created merely by law and one to
which is added the obligation of an express undertaking.
2. That a bond conditioned for the safe-keeping of money is
not discharged upon proof that the money had been burned or
destroyed while in the hands of the obligor without his fault or
negligence.
While it is true that in many of the cases the words andpay
VOL. OLXXXVIII-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

over were added in the bond, the necessity of such a clause has
never been admitted in this country. No United States cases
have rested on such strained and technical distinction. The
case at bar, however, could not in any event be made to rest
on this distinction, for the additional words, " Until legally withdrawn," are a portion of the bond.
3. Apart from the execution of a particular bond, .pulicyolicy demands that receivers of public moneys and property be
held to a stricter accountability than that required of ordinary
bailees at common law.
4. Only two defences have in such cases been held by the
United States Supreme Court to be sufficient to discharge from
liability. These defences are, "the act of God," and " the act
of a public enemy." Even robbery is not regarded as sufficient.
II.Appellant's argument that the Government has not been
prejudiced by the destruction of its own obligation is ingenious
but cannot hold. Under the statutes requiring this bond, the
appellant made an absolute obligation to "safely keep
all moneys," etc.
Admittedly, he did not fulfill this obligation ; and at common law, he was liable to the full sum of the
bond, as it was not a mere indemnifying bond, but one that
carried with it absolute liability. Only under equitable principles can he claim relief from this obligation, and these will
only- avail him so far as public policy justifies.
Public policy will not permit a custodian of public money,
who permits its destruction, to claim that the Government is
not injured. To do so would be to open the door to fraud, as
the Government, in most cases, could have no knowledge as to
whether the moneys in the hands of a public custodian were in
fact destroyed.
If they were embezzled, the Government would have been
prejudiced and the court properly held that, as the Superintendent of the Mint could not deliver the money, public policy
would not permit him to suggest its destruction and then claim
that the Government was only damaged to the extent of the
nominal value of the paper.
III. As to the $1182 of partially destroyed money, the appellant can claim no credit on account of his failure to conform

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 951, and no such claim can be
made for the first time at the trial. See Yates v. United States,
90 Fed. Rep. 57; United States v. _Fletcher, 147 U. S. 664.
IV. Under Rev. Stat. § 362-, the interest was properly calculated from the time the Superintendent received the money.
AIR. JUSTIcE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

As the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals both
held that the question of the liability of Smythe was determined
for the Government by the decisions of this court-which view
the defendants controverted-we must ascertain the import of
those decisions. This course is made necessary by the contention of the defendants that the latest decision of this court, to
which reference will be presently made, modified the earlier
decisions upon which the Government relies.
The first case is that of United States v. Prescott, 3 How.
578, 587. That was an action on the bond of a receiver of public moneys, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties, and that he "should well, truly and faithfully keep, safely,
without loaning or using, all the public money collected by
him, or otherwise at any time placed in his possession and custody, till the same had been, or should be ordered by the proper
department or officer of the Government, to be transferred or
paid out," etc.
The defence was that the money for the non-payment of which
the United States sued had been feloniously stolen, taken and
carried away from his possession by some unknown person or
persons without fault or negligence on his part, and notwithstanding he had used ordinary care and diligence in keeping it.
The receiver contended that he was liable only as a depositary
for hire, unless his liability was enlarged by the special contract
to keep safely, which he insisted was not the case.
The court said: "This is not a case of bailment, and, consequently, the law of bailment does not apply to it. The liability of the defendant, Prescott, arises out of his official bond,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and principles which are founded upon public policy." Again:
"The condition of the bond has been broken, as the defendant,
Prescott, failed to pay over the money received by him, when
required to do so; and the question is, whether he shall be exonerated from the condition of his bond, on the ground that the
money had been stolen from him? The objection to this defence is, that it is not within the condition of the bond; and this
would seem to be conclusive. The contract was entered into
on his part, and there is no allegation of failure on the part of
the Government; how, then, can Prescott be discharged from
his bond? ie knew the extent of his obligation, when he entered into it, and he has realized the fruits of this obligation by
the enjoyment of the office. Shall he be discharged from liability, contrary to his own express undertaking? There is no
principle on which such a defence can be sustained. The obligation to keep safely the public money is absolute, without any
condition, express or implied; and nothing but the payment of
it, when required, can discharge the bond.

.

.

.

Public pol-

icy requires that every depositary of the public money should
be held to a strict accountability. Not only that he should
exercise the highest degree of vigilance, but that 'he should kee l)
safely' the moneys which come to his hands. Any relaxation
of this condition would open the door to frauds, which might be
practiced with impunity. A depositary would have nothing
more to do than to lay his plans and arrange his proofs, so as
to establish his loss, without laches on his part. Let such a
principle be applied to our postmasters, collectors of the customs,
receivers of public moneys, and others who receive more or less
of the public funds, and what losses might not be anticipated by
the public? No such principle has been recognized or admitted
as a legal defence.

.

.

.

As every depositary receives the

office with a full knowledge of its responsibilities, he cannot, in
case of loss, complain of hardship. He must stand by his bond,
and meet the hazards which he voluntarily incurs."
The next case is that of United States v. Jlforgan, 11 -low.
154, 158. That was an action upon the bond of a collector of
customs, conditioned that he "has ruly and faithfully executed
and discharged, and shall continue truly and faithfully to ex-

SMYTHE r. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ecute and discharge, all the duties of the said office." The condition was alleged to have been broken in that the collector had
not paid over large sums of money collected for the United
States, and by not making seasonable returns of his accounts.
The court characterized as an erroneous impression that the
collector " was acting as a bailee, and under the responsibilities
of only the ordinary diligence of a depositary as to the cancelled
notes, when in truth he was acting under his commission and
duties by law, as collector, and under the conditions of his bond.
The collector is no more to be treated as a bailee in this case
than he would be if the notes were still considered for all purposes as money. He did not receive them as a bailee, but as a
collecting officer. He is liable for them on his bond, and not
on any original bailment or lending. And if the case can be
likened to any species of bailnent in forwarding them, by which
they were lost, it is that of a common carrier to transmit them
to the Treasury, and in doing which he is not exonerated by
ordinary diligence, but must answer for losses by larceny and
even robbery. 2 Salk. 919; 8 Johns. 213; Angell on Carriers,

§§

1 9."

In United States v. Dasldel,4 Wall. 182-which was an action
on the bond of a paymaster in the army for not paying over or
accounting for public money that came into his hands-the defence was that without any want of proper care and vigilance
on the part of the paymaster a certain part of the moneys had
been stolen from him. The trial court held that the theft or
robbery, if satisfactorily proved, was a good defence. But this
court held otherwise upon the authority of United States v.
T2'escott and United States v. 3foigan, above cited, and reversed
the judgment.
Substantially the same question arose in United States v.
Keekler, 9 Wall. 83, which was an action upon a bond of a postmaster in North Carolina. The bond was conditioned, among
other things, that the obligor would well and truly discharge
the duties of postmaster, and keep safely, without lending, using,
depositing in banks, or exchanging for other funds, than as allowed by law, all the public money at any time in his custody,
till the same was ordered by the Postmaster General to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

transferred or paid out.

In the spring of 1861, after the civil

war commenced, the postmaster was still in office, and had in
his hands $330 of post office money belonging to the United
States. At that time the United States was indebted to one
Clemmens, a mail contractor in that region, for postal service,
in a sum exceeding $300. In August, 1861 the Confederate
Congress passed an act appropriating the balances in the hands
of such postmasters of the United States as at the commencement of the war resided within the limits of the Confederate
States, to the _pro rata payment of claims against the United
States for postal service. The postmaster paid the $330 in his
hands to Clemmens-relying upon the above act of the Confederate Congress and an official order from the Confederate
Post Office Department directing him to make such payment.
It was admitted in the case that throughout the year 1862 the
Confederate Govermnent had force sufficient at its command
to enforce its orders, and did enforce the orders of such Government, in that part of North Carolina in which Salem was situated, and "that no protection was afforded to the citizens of
that part of the State by the Government of the United States
during that period."
After observing that the postmaster had no right to select a
creditor of the United States and pay what he might suppose
the Government owed him, the court said that " the acts of the
Confederate Congress could have no force, as law, in divesting
or transferring rights, or as authority for any act opposed to the
just authority of the Federal Government." Referring to the
statement of facts made in the case, and which were substantially as above recited, it said : "This statement falls far short
of showing the application of any physical force to compel the
defendant to pay the money to Clemmens. Nor is it in the
least inconsistent with the fact that he might have been desirous and willing to make the payment. It shows no effort
or endeavor to secure the funds in his hands to the Government, to which he owed both the money and his allegiance.
Nor does it prove that he would have suffered any inconvenience, or been punished by the Confederate authorities, if he
had refused to pay the draft of the insurrectionary Post Office

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Department on him. We cannot see that it makes out any
such loss of money, by inevitable overpowering force, as could
even on the mere principle of bailment discharge a bailee.
We cannot concede that a man, who, as a citizen, owes allegiance to the United States, and as an officer of the Government
holds its money or property, is at liberty to turn over the
latter to an insurrectionary Government, which only demands
it by ordinances and drafts drawn on the bailee, but which
exercises no force or threat of personal violence to himself or
property, in the enforcement of its illegal orders." The court,
reaffirming the doctrine of the Prescott, Aforga96 and Dashiel

cases, held that in an action on the bond of an officer receiving
public funds the right of the Government to recover does not
rest on an implied contract of bailment, but on the express
contract in the bond to pay over the funds.
In Boyden v. United States, 13 Wall. 17, 21, which was an

action upon the bond of a receiver of public moneys-the defence being that the receiver had been by irresistible force
robbed of the moneys sued for-the court said: "Were a
receiver of public moneys, who has given bond for the faithful performance of his duties as required by law, a mere ordinary bailee, it might be that he would be relieved by proof
that the money had been destroyed by fire, or stolen from him,
or taken by irresistible force. lie would then be bound only
to the exercise of ordinary care, even though a bailee for hire.
The contract of bailment implies no more except in the case of
common carriers, and the duty of a receiver, virtute qocii, is
to bring to the discharge of his trust that prudence, caution,
and attention which careful men usually bring to the conduct
of their own affairs. He is to pay over the money in his hands
as required by law, but he is not an insurer. He may, however, make himself an insurer by express contract, and this he
does when he binds himself in a penal bond to perform the
duties of his office without exception. There is an established
difference between a duty created merely by law and one to
which is added the obligation of an express undertaking. The
law does not compel to impossibilities, but it is a settled rule
that if performance of an express engagement becomes impos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

sible by reason of anything occurring after the contract was
made, though unforeseen by the contracting party, and not
within his control, he will not be excused." Again, in the
same case: "It is true that in Prescott's case the defence set
up was that the money had been stolen, while the defence set
up here is robbery. But that can make no difference, unless it
be held that the receiver is a mere bailee. If, as we have
seen, his liability is to be measured by his bond, and that binds
him to pay the money, then the cause which renders it impossible for him to pay is of no importance, for he has assumed
the risk of it."
At the same term of the court the case of Bevans v. United
States, 13 Wall. 56, 60, was determined. That was a suit upon
a bond executed by Bevans, a receiver of public moneys, in a
land district of Arkansas. The court reaffirmed the rule announced in the Prescott case, and said that "it is not to be overlooked that Bevans was not an ordinary bailee of the Government. Bailee he was undoubtedly, but by his bond he had
insured the safekeeping and prompt payment of the public
money which came to his hands. His obligation was, therefore,
not less stringent than that of a common carrier, and in some
respects it was greater "-citing United States v. Prescott. In
the same case the court, in reference to that part of the defence
attributing the loss of the money in question to the action of
the Confederate power, said: "It may be a grave question
whether the forcible taking of money belonging to the United
States from the possession of one of her officers, or agents lawfully holding it, by a government of paramount force, which
at the time was usurping the authority of the rightful government, and compelling obedience to itself exclusively throughout a State, would not work a discharge of such officers or
agents, if they were entirely free from fault, though they had
given bond to pay the money to the United States. This question has been thoroughly argued, but we do not propose now
to consider it, for its decision is not necessary to the case."
The question thus reserved from decision arose and was decided in United States v. Thomas, 15 Wall. 337, 341-2, 346-7,
350, 352. That was an action on the bond of a surveyor of

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

customs at Nashville, he being also a depositary of public
moneys at that city. The special defence was that the moneys
in question were seized by the Confederate authorities against
of
the will and consent of the surveyor, and by the exercise
citizen
loyal
a
being
he
force which he was unable to resist,
The court
and endeavoring faithfully to perform his duty.
the
whether
said: "This case brings up squarely the question
in
moneys
public
forcible seizure, by the rebel authorities, of
and
will,
the hands of loyal government agents, against their
diswithout their fault or negligence, is, or is not, a sufficient
precharge from the obligations of their official bonds. This
As
court.
this
by
decided
been
yet
as
not
cise question has
questhe
war,
public
a
been
have
to
held
the rebellion has been
the
tion may be stated in a more general form, as follows: Is
property
destroying
or
seizing
act of a public enemy in forcibly
his
of the Government in the hands of a public officer, against
keep
to
obligation
his
will, and without his fault, a discharge of
such property safely, and of his official bond, given to secure
the faithful performance of that duty, and to have the property
forthcoming when required?
"That overruling force arising from inevitable necessity, or
the act of a public enemy, is a sufficient answer for the loss of
public property when the question is considered in reference
to an officer's obligation arising merely from his appointment,
and aside from such a bond as exists in this case, seems almost
self-evident. . . . These provisions [prescribing the conditions of the bonds of receivers, etc.] show that it is the manifest
policy of the law to hold all collectors, receivers, and depositaries of the public money to a very strict accountability. The
legislative anxiety on the subject culminates in requiring them
to enter into bond with sufficient sureties for the performance
of their duties, and in imposing criminal sanctions for the unauthorized use of the moneys. Whatever duty can be inferred
from this course of legislation is justly exacted from the officers.
No ordinary excuse can be allowed for the non-production of
the money committed to their hands. Still they are nothing
but bailees. To call them anything else, when they are expressly forbidden to touch or use the public money except as

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

directed, would be an abuse of terms. But they are special
bailees, subject to special obligations. It is evident that the
ordinary law of bailment cannot be invoked to determine the
degree of their responsibility. This is placed on a new basis.
To the extent of the amount of their official bonds, it is fixed
by special contract; and the policy of the law as to their general responsibility for amounts not covered by such bonds may
be fairly presumed to be the same." Bteferring to the adjudged
cases, the court said: "It appears from them all (except perhaps the New York case) that the official bond is regarded as
laying the foundation of a more stringent responsibility upon
collectors and receivers of public moneys. It is referred to as
a special contract, by which they assume additional obligations
with regard to the safekeeping and payment of those moneys,
and as an indication of the policy of the law with regard to the
nature of their responsibility. But, as before remarked, the
decisions themselves do not go the length of making them
liable in cases of overruling necessity." The opinion concludes:
"Ko rule of public policy requires an officer to account for
moneys which have been destroyed by an overruling necessity,
or taken from him by a public enemy, without any fault or
neglect on his part."
We think the Government is quite correct in its conclusion
that the Tomas case does not materially modify the decisions
in previous cases. The general rule announced in those cases
-and the question need not be discussed anew-is that the
obligations of a public officer, who received public moneys under a bond conditioned that he would discharge his duties ac.cording to law, and safely keep such moneys as came to his
hands, by virtue of his office, are not to be determined by the
principles of the law of bailment, but by the special contract
evidenced by his bond conditioned as above stated; consequently, it is no defence to a suit brought by the Government
upon such a bond that the moneys, which were in the custody
of the officer, had been destroyed by fire occurring without his
fault or negligence. This rule, so far from being modified by
the T/oma case, is reaffirmed by it, subject, however, to the
exception (which, indeed, some of the prior cases had, in effect,

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

intimated) that it was a valid defence that the failure of the
officer to account for public moneys was attributable to overruling necessity or to the public enemy. The case now before
us is not embraced by either exception. The result is that the
special defence here made cannot, in view of former adjudications, avail the Superintendent or his sureties.
It is appropriate here to say that the rule established by this
court in the Preseott case has been enforced by numerous decisions in state courts. In Common wealth v. Comly, 3 Barr, 372
-which was an action on the bond of a collector of tolls, conditioned that he would "account for and pay over all moneys
he may receive for tolls," and in which the defence was that
the moneys sued for had been stolen from the collector-the
court said : "The opinion of the court in the case of the United
States v. Prescott is founded in sound policy and sound law.
The responsibility of a public receiver is determined not by
the law of bailnent, which is called in to supply the place of a
special agreement where there is none, but by the condition -of
his bond. The condition of it in this instance was to ' account
for and pay over' the moneys to be received; and we would
look in vain for a power to relieve him from the performance of
it. . . . The keepers of the public moneys, or their sponsors,
are to be held strictly to their contract, for if they were to be
let off on shallow pretenses, delinquencies, which are fearfully
frequent already, would be incessant. A chancellor is not
bound to control the legal effect of a contract in any case; and
his discretion, were he at liberty to use it, would be influenced
by considerations of public policy." To the same effect are
Inhabitants v. Ilazzard, 12 Cush. 1112; Inhabitants v. J&eEachronT, 33 N. J. L. 339; State v. Hal:per, 6 Ohio St. 607;
Ifalberlt v. State, 22 Indiana, 125 ; J rbeek v. State, 28 Indiana,
86; Ross v. Hatch, 5 Iowa, 149; Taylor v. Morton, 37 Iowa, 551.
We hold that as the accounts of the defendant Smythe
showed a deficit of $25,000 in the moneys in his custody as
Superintendent of the AMint, the Government was entitled to a
judgment for that amount unless, as the defendants contend,
they were entitled to at least a credit for $1182, which, it is alleged, was the amount of treasury notes not entirely destroyed

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

by the fire, but were only charred and which were taken possession of by government agents after the fire, and found to be
in condition to be identified as to amount and date of issue.
A complete answer to this suggestion is to be found in sections 951 and 957 of the Revised Statutes-reproduced from the
act of March 3, 1797, 1 Stat. 514, c. 20. Those sections are as
follows:
§ 951. "In suits brought by the United States against individuals, no claim for a credit shall be admitted, upon trial, except such as appear to have been presented to the accounting
officers of the Treasury, for their examination, and to have been
by them disallowed, in whole or in part, unless it is proved to
the satisfaction of the court that the defendant is, at the time
of the trial, in possession of vouchers not before in his power to
procure, and that he was prevented from exhibiting a claim for
such credit at the Treasury by absence from the United States
or by some unavoidable accident."
§ 957. "When suit is brought by the United States against
any revenue officer or other person accountable for public money,
who neglects or refuses to pay into the Treasury the sum or
balance reported to be due to the United States, upon the adjustment of his account it shall be the duty of the court to grant
judgment at the return term, upon motion, unless the defendant, in open court, (the United States attorney being present,)
makes and subscribes an oath that he is equitably entitled to
credits which had been, previous to the commencement of the
suit, submitted to the accounting officers of the Treasury, and
rejected; specifying in the affidavit each particular claim so
rejected, and that he cannot then safely come to trial. If the
court, when such oath is made, subscribed, and filed, is thereupon satisfied, a continuance until the next succeeding term may
be granted. Such continuance may also be granted when the
suit is brought upon a bond or other sealed instrument, and the
defendant pleads non estfactam, or makes a motion to the court,
verifying such plea or motion by his oath, and the court thereupon requires the production of the original bond, contract, or
other paper certified in the affidavit. And no continuance shall
be granted except as herein provided."

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants do not appear to have submitted to the accounting officers of the Treasury any request or claim for a credit
for the $1182, and no such claim could be made for the first
time at the trial. Before it could have been made there should
have been affirmative proof by the defendants that it was presented to the proper accounting officer, and rejected, unless, indeed, such facts had appeared from the exemplified accounts
produced and relied upon by the Government. If such claim
bad been presented to the proper officers before suit and been
disallowed it would still have been open to the defendants at
the trial to insist upon its being recognized and allowed. These
conclusions are unavoidable in view of the former decisions of
this court. United States v. Giles, 9 Cranch, '212, 239 ; Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396; United States v. l ilk ins, 6 Wheat.
135, 143; Wfralton v. United States, 9 Wheat. 651; Oox v. United States, 6 Pet. 172, 202; United States v. Ripley, 7 Pet. 18,
25 ; United States v. Fillebrown,7 Pet. 28, 48 ; United States v.
.Robee.on, 9 Pet. 319; United States v. H7awkins, 10 Pet. 125;
United States v. Laub, 12 Pet. 1 ; United States v. Bank of
.Metropolis, 15 Pet. 377; G'ratiot v. United States, 4 How. 80,
112; United States v. Buchanan, 8 How. 83, 105 ; DeGroot v.
Un,ited States, 5 Wall. 419, 431 ; United States v. E cford, 6
Wall. 484; United States v. Gilmore, 7 Wall. 491; Hallibunrton
v. United States, 13 Wall 63.
It is said, however, that the Government has not suffered any
substantial damage by the destruction of its own obligations,
and that in no event is it entitled to a judgment for more than
nominal damages, or at most for only such amount in damages
as would meet the cost of reprinting new treasury notes to take
the place of those destroyed by fire. If this view be sound, a
public officer, receiving United States treasury notes for the
Government, under a bond to safely keep them and pay them
over to the United States whenever required by law or ordered
to do so, could deliberately destroy or burn them, and, then
admitting that he had done so, could prevent any judgment
against him, except one that would cover merely the cost and
trouble of printing new notes. Such a proposition cannot be
entertained for a moment. The plea of non damnieftatus has

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

no place in such a case as this. The treasury notes that came
to the hands of Superintendent Smythe was money belonging
to the United States and could be used, at its pleasure, in the
business of the Government. By their destruction, if they were
destroyed by fire in the manner claimed, the United States was
deprived of so much money, and the condition of the officer's
bond that he would safely keep the moneys in his custody and
turn them over to the Government, when required, cannot be
met by the suggestion that the Government, if it so elects, can
replace the notes destroyed by other notes and thus make itself whole, less the cost of printing new notes. It is for the
Government, guided by the legislation of Congress, to determine when it shall or may issue new treasury notes, and it cannot be compelled to issue them in order to reimburse itself for
the loss of those in the hands of an officer who was required,
by the terms of his bond, to deliver them to the Treasury, but
did not do so. The Government can stand upon the terms of
its special contract with the Superintendent, and insist that he
has not discharged his duties by safely keeping the moneys that
came to his hands, and which he undertook to pay over, when
required. It is sufficient in this case to say that the loss of the
notes here in question cannot be attributed to overruling necessity or to any public enemy, and as they came to the hands
of Superintendent Smythe, and as he did not keep the condition
of his bond, the Government can look for reimbursement to that
bond.
This view, it is contended, is not consistent with what was
said in United Slates v. korgan, 11 Flow. 154, above cited. It
appeared in evidence in that case that the collector received
nearly $100,000 for duties in treasury notes, and cancelled them.
The notes were then put up in a bundle to be sent to the Treasury Department, through the post office, and orders were given
to the servant accustomed to deliver packages there to deliver
those. But the bundle was stolen or lost. It appeared, also,
that two of the notes for $500 each were altered and soon afterwards presented to the collector in payment of other duties,
and were received by him as genuine. The court, in that case,
as already shown, reaffirmed the principle announced in United

SMYTHE r. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

States v. Prescott,3 How. 578. After observing that the duty
of the collector was to return the cancelled notes to the Treasury Department, and that he was technically liable for not
having done so, the court said: "The rule of damage would be
the amount of the notes, unless it appeared, as here, that they
had been cancelled, and unless it was shown that the Government had suffered, or was likely to suffer, damages less than
their amount. How much is the real damage, under all the
circumstances, is a question of fact for the jury, and should be
passed on by them at another trial. Only that amount rather
than the whole bond need, in a liberal view of the law, and of
his bond, be exacted; and that amount neither he nor his sureties can reasonably object to paying, when he, by the neglect
of himself or his agent, has caused all the injury which he is in
the end required to reimburse. And if any equities exist to
relieve him from that, none of which are seen by us, it must be
done by Congress and not the courts of law. Anything less
than this-any less strict rule, in the public administration of the
finances-would leave everything loose or unsettled, and cause
infinite embarrassments in the accounting offices, and numerous losses to the Government. . . . Finally, we decide on
this last question as a matter of law this, and this only, namely,
that the collector is liable for all the actual damages sustained
by his not returning the notes as required by law and official
circulars; or for not putting them in the post office so as to be
returned. 5 Stat. 203. But how much this damage was is a
matter of proof before the jury, fixing the real amount likely
to happen from their getting into circulation again, as two of
them did here, from delay and inconvenience in obtaining the
proper vouchers to settle accounts, from the want of evidence
at the Department that the notes had been redeemed, or from
any other direct consequence of the breach of the condition of
his bond and of his instructions under it." The court had previously said, in its opinion: "We doubt whether, under all the
circumstances, after cancelled, they [the treasury notes] can be
regarded as money, or money's worth, for the purpose of sustaining this action, yet it is clear that they still possess some
value as vouchers, and as evidence for the Treasury Department

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

that they have been redeemed. It is still clear, also, that, though
cancelled, the Treasury Department, unless having possession of
them, is exposed to expense and loss by their being altered, and
the cancellation removed or extracted, and their getting again
into circulation, as two did here, and being twice paid by the
Government."
The injury that might probably have come to the Government by reason of the neglect of the collector in the .Morgan
case was such that the court could not, as in the present case,
give any peremptory instruction to the jury. Itcould not have
said, in the former case, that cancelled treasury notes were to
be regarded as money, or that the Government was entitled to
judgment for the face amount of those notes, prior to their being cancelled. Kor could it say, as matter of law, that the
Government was, in fact, damaged by not having the cancelled
treasury notes as vouchers. Such being the case, it was held
that it was for the jury, under such evidence as might be adduced, to say what actual injury, if any, accrued to the United
States by reason of the non-delivery of the cancelled treasury
notes.
The present case cannot be controlled by the rule laid down
in the 3frgcn case. Here the treasury notes received by
Smythe were not cancelled and could be used as money. They
were not safely kept nor were they destroyed through overruling necessity or by the public enemy. Hence, there was a
breach of his bond, and as the amount of the treasury notes
which he failed to deliver to the Government was clearly shown,
there was nothing in this case to refer to the jury. There was
no question of damage to be ascertained by a jury; for if under the circumstances disclosed the defendants were liable at
all, the Government, as matter of law, was entitled to a judgment for the full amount shown to have been received by the
Superintendent and not paid over by him, as required by his bond.
It remains to consider some minor objections to the judgment. It is contended that it was error to give interest on the
amount of the judgment from April 1, 1893, the date from
which the accounts of the Superintendent were stated at the
Treasury Department.

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The alleged fire occurred June 24, 1893, and on February 9,
1894, notice of the deficiency in the Superintendent's account
was given to his sureties, as required by the act of August 8,
1888, 25 Stat. 387, c. 787. And this action was brought August 7, 1894. Interest, it is insisted, was recoverable at most
only from the date of the notice to the sureties. This objection
is met by section 3624 of the Revised Statutes, which provides:
"Whenever any person accountable for public money neglects
or refuses to pay into the Treasury the sum or balance reported
to be due to the United States, upon the adjustment of his account, the First Comptroller of the Treasury shall institute suit
for the recovery of the same, adding to the sum stated to be
due on such account, the commissions of the delinquent, which
shall be forfeited in every instance where suit is commenced
and judgment obtained thereon, and an interest of six per
centum per annum, from the time of receiving the money until
it shall be repaid into the Treasury."
This statute is mandatory, and the sureties on the bond of
Superintendent Smythe must be held to have signed it in view
of the requirement as to the date from which interest should
be computed. It is not denied that the treasury notes in question were received at least as early as April 1, 1893.
It is also said that it was error, under the law of Louisiana,
to have rendered an absolute judgment against Byrnes, the administrator of the succession of Conery, deceased ; that if any
judgment was rendered it should have been against the administrator, payable only in due course of administration. This
objection is quite technical. If by the law of Louisiana the
judgment is so payable, it will be thus interpreted and enforced,
subject, of course, to the priority given to the Government in
the distribution of the proceeds of the estate of any person indebted to the United States whose estate is insufficient to pay
all debts against it. Rev. Stat. secs. 3466, 3467.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the
judgment of the Circuit Court, is
Affirmed.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES PEcKxAnm and SHIRAS,

dissenting.

MR. JusToE PoxKr~m, with whom concurred Mn. Jus-'o.
StniAs, dissenting.
I dissent from the conclusion arrived at in the opinion of
the court, and from the judgment thereon. I agree as to the
general character and extent of the liability of an officer entrusted with the care and custody of public moneys, as stated
in the cases cited in the opinion upon that subject. But those
cases do not touch the question involved. It is undisputed
that the property, for the loss of which the defendants have
been held, consisted of $25,000 of treasury notes of the government of the United States; in other words, it donsisted of
the written promise of the government to pay money upon
presentation of the notes. There was evidence also, at least
sufficient to go to the jury, to prove that most of these notes
were wholly destroyed by fire, so that there was no possibility
of their being thereafter presented for payment or redemption.
Treasury notes amounting to about eleven hundred dollars
were not so far destroyed as to be incapable of identification or
presentation for payment, and they were taken possession of
and retained by the government, and yet the government also
recovered judgment for their amount. Assuming the liability
of the obligors in the bond to respond for all the damage sustained by the government by reason of this destruction by
fire, the question is, what damage has the government suffered?
Within the case of Tke United States v. .3Arqan, 11 How.
154, cited in the opinion of the court, that question should
have been submitted to the jury under instructions that the
defendant was not liable for the amount of the face of the
notes in case they had been totally destroyed by the fire, but
only for such cost and expense as the government might incur
by reason of the replacing of the notes destroyed, including
cost of paper, printing, engraving, and the trouble and inconvenience caused the government, etc., together with the cost, if
necessary or more convenient to the government, of the transportation of other notes to take the place of those destroyed.
This suit is upon the bond, which, as it seems to me, is
plainly one of indemnity. The legal purport of such a bond is
to indemnify the government from any loss occasioned by any

SMYTHE r. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES PECKHAm

and SHIRAS, dissenting.

dereliction of the obligor. In case of a breach of the bond, the
amount which the government would be entitled to recover
would be measured by the loss incurred. If the loss were
shown to have been the sum of five dollars or merely nominal,
the plaintiff could not recover a thousand dollars, or the penalty
of the bond. It is conceded in the present case that what the
defendant and his sureties have been adjudged to answer for
as a breach of the bond, was becabse $25,000 (less about eleven
hundred dollars) of treasury notes of the United States, in the
custody of the superintendent, had been burnt and destroyed
by fire. I concede that the bondsmen would be responsible
for any loss thereby occasioned to the United States, even
though without negligence on the part of the officer in whose
custody the money had been placed.
In .for'gan's case, supra, there was a suit by the United States
against a collector of revenue. It appeared in evidence that
the collector had collected about $100,000 for duties in treasury notes, and had cancelled them. The notes were then put in
a bundle and sent to the Treasury Department through the post
office, but the bundle was lost or stolen. The Circuit Court
gave judgment to the govermnent in the amount of the penalty
of the bond, which judgment this court reversed, and in its
opinion said:
"The rule of damage would be the amount of the notesunless it appeared, as here, that they had been cancelled, and
unless it was shown that the government had suffered, or was
likely to suffer, damages less than their amount. How much
is the real damage, under all the circumstances, is a question of
fact for the jury, and should be passed on by them at another
trial. Only that amount rather than the whole bond need, in
a liberal view of the law, and of his bond, be exacted; and that
amount neither he nor his sureties can reasonably object to paying, when he, by the neglect of himself or his agent, has caused
all the injury which he is in the end required to reimburse.
Finally, we decide on this last question as a matter of
law this, and this only, namely, that the collector is liable for
all the actual damages sustained by his not returning the notes
as required by law and official circulars; or for not putting

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JUSTICES PECKHAm and SIIR.S, dissenting.

them in the post office so as to be returned. 5 Stat. 203. But
how much this damage was is a matter of proof before the jury,
fixing the real amount likely to happen from their getting into
circulation again, as two of them did here, from delay and inconvenience in obtaining the proper vouchers to settle accounts,
for the want of evidence at the department that the notes had
been redeemed, or from any other direct consequence of the
breach of the condition of his bond, and of his instructions
under it."
The attempt made to distinguish the present case from that
of United States v. .iorgan, does not seem to me to be successful Indeed the case before us presents a stronger case of a
substantial defence than that of iMorgan's.
To refuse this defence of a burning and total destruction of
the notes leaves the strange and anomalous spectacle of a recovery by the government on account of a damage which in
fact and in law it has not sustained. The recovery must be
upon the contract, evidenced by the bond, to safely keep and
pay over, and in default to pay the damage up to the penalty
of the bond. This is the contract, and that there has been a
breach may be admitted at once, but the question on the part
of the obligors in the bond then comes back, what damage has
the government suffered by reason of the failure to keep the
contract, for it is only the damage which the government in
fact has sustained that we have contracted to pay. How can
it be said, -with the slightest reference to fact, that the damage
amounts to the face of the notes when those notes are simply
the promise of the government to pay upon their presentation,
and the possibility of such presentation has ceased to exist?
But the right to set up and prove a defence of this character
seems to be denied on some view of public policy, the propriety
of which I admit I fail to recognize, and I also fail to recognize
the legal power of the court to deny to the obligors the validity
of a defence which shows that no damage or a less amount than
claimed has been sustained, because of any assumed public
policy. It is a case of contract and not of policy.
The denial of the sufficiency of the defence seemingly rests
upon the ground that it is against the interests of the govern-

SMYTHE v;. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES PECKEAMi and SHIRAS, dissenting.

ment, and therefore is against the public policy of the United
States to permit any defence to be interposed in an action upon
this dnd of a bond; that no matter how clearly it may be
proved that no damage has been sustained by the government,
and therefore there is nothing which the obligors have contracted
to pay, still the full amount of the face of the notes must be
paid to the government in order to reimburse it for a loss it has
never in fact sustained. And it is proof of this very fact which
is refused on the ground of public policy. Can the government
maintain the proposition that if it has suffered in truth no loss
it can nevertheless recover either the penalty of the bond or
any less sum? This is to change the legal import of the bond.
But it is nevertheless maintained that it is against public policy
to permit proof of a fact which if it really existed would undoubtedly constitute a defence to the claim made by the government. That kind of a public policy which prevents a legal
defence I cannot understand. I can and do appreciate a public
policy that refuses to admit the sufficiency of a defence that
the property was lost by or stolen from the officer without any
fault on his part. The officer and his sureties have frequently
endeavored to have the government bear the loss which has
actually been sustained, because it happened without any fault
on the part of the officer; but the courts have held that such
defence is insufficient on the ground that it is against public
policy to recognize it as an answer to defendant's obligation to
pay over, because it would tend to diminish the care which the
officer would otherwise take of the property entrusted to his
custody and would lead the government into an investigation
of the facts surrounding or causing the loss, under very great
disadvantages, and therefore as the loss had in fact occurred,
and one or the other of the parties must bear it, the courts have
said he must bear it in whose custody it had been placed by the
government when it was stolen or destroyed, and the proffered
answer has been held to be no defence to the contract to pay
over existing in the bond, which has therefore been enforced.
The courts simply decided what the contract between the
parties meant, but they did not decide that a legal defence,
showing there was no damage, could not be interposed.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
JusTiCEs FECKHA

and Sum.As, dissenting.

Here, however, it seems to me plain there is no question of
public policy as to what should constitute a defence. The
amount of damage is what the defendants have promised to
pay and nothing more. Consequently, what is damage must be
shown. Now that is a question of fact, and if no damage has
in fact been sustained, it is the legal right of the defendant to
prove it, and it cannot, as I think, be denied him on any question of public policy. This is to me a new application of the
doctrine of public policy to a strictly legal defence to the obligation contained in a contract sued upon, where both parties
acknowledge the validity of such contract and the defence is
founded upon the terms of the contract about whose legal meaning there cannot, as it seems to me, be any difference of opinion.
Upon the other branch of the subject, the case shows that at
least $1182 in treasury notes were saved, although charred,
and were taken possession of by the agents of the government
and were identified as to the amount and date of issue. The
defendants insisted there could be no recovery for this sum, as
the government already had the notes in its possession, but this
objection was overruled. The sections of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, §§ 951, 951, set forth in the opinion, are
said to render this defence insufficient, for the reasons that the
defendants had not submitted their claim for audit to the accounting officers of the Treasury. These sections are, as stated,
simply reproductions of the act of 1797, which was in force
when the 11organ case, 11 How. 151, supra., was decided, and
it is not mentioned therein as an answer to the defence set up
by defendants. Probably the provision was not regarded as
applicable, although it must be admitted the record does not
affirmatively show the non-presentation of the matter to the
Treasury officials. But, in my judgment, the sections have no
application to this case. The defendants are not seeldng a claim
or credit against the government, and the provision applies to
such a case, while here the question is as to how much the government has been damaged, and when it is shown that, in any
event, it has in fact received $1182 of the $25,000 it claimed, it
seems to me that, upon any basis of liability, such fact reduces the claim on the part of the government, not by rea-

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES PECKHAM and SHIRAS, dissenting.

son of a credit, but because the defendant never was liable
to the extent claimed, and in proving the facts which show
there never was any such liability, it cannot, as it seems to me,
be said that the defendants thereby claim a credit. They claim
no such thing, but they do claim, first, that the government
has failed to prove a cause of action for any more than a nominal sum ; or, second, for any greater sum than $23,818, being
the difference between $25,000 and the $1182 already received,
and this is the extent of the cause of action proved by the government, after all the facts are in evidence.
The recovery in this case was not for the whole penalty of
the bond, which was $100,000, but judgment was prayed for
and recovered to the extent of $25,000, the whole amount of
the notes, not deducting the $1182 already received by the government. This shows that the recovery was at least based upon
the amount of the damage and not upon the penalty, and it
therefore further shows that it was indemnity, pure and simple,
which the government claimed. Therefore it was necessary
for it to prove the damage, and in proving the defence at least
as to $1182, the defendants were not proving a credit, but disproving to that extent the cause of action of the plaintiff.
For the reasons thus stated, I am in favor of reversing the
judgment of the court below, and I dissent from the opinion of
this court directing an affirmance.
I am authorized to state that MR.
this dissent.

JUSTIcE

SHiRns concurs in

