OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Iowa before reaching their final destination. Indeed, section 3
of the act, which provides "it shall be the duty of the assessors
in the several counties to levy and immediately collect taxes as
provided for in this act, as soon as live stock is brought into
their counties to graze," leaves it an open question whether
these taxes may not have been assessed in every county through
which these sheep were driven.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wyoming is therefore
Reversed, and the case lemnded to that cou'tfor fu't/her pr ceedings not inconsistent with this opvnion.

WEBER v. ROGA_.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 107. Submitted December 1, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

The Supreme Court of the State of Texas having decided that the statute
of that State, Acts of 1807, c. 129, providing that certain lands may be
sold at a specified price under certain conditions bythe Commissioner of
the General Land Office was not mandatory, but that it was discretionary
with the Commissioner whether to sell such lands or not, no Federal
question arises which this court can consider in a proceeding brought to
compel the Commissioner to convey certain lands under such act to a
person offering to purchase the same at the price specified in the act.
The constitutional inhibition against the impairment of contracts applies
only to legislative enactments of the States and not to the judicial decisions or acts of the state tribunals or officers, under statutes in force at
the time of the making of the contract, the obligation of which is alleged
to have been impaired.

THIs was an original petition filed in the Supreme Court of
Texas by the plaintiff in error, Weber, against Charles Rogan,
Commissioner of the General Land Office of the State, prayin-

for a writ of mandamus directing such Commissioner to award
to the petitioner two isolated and detached sections of the

public school lands, situated respectively in Polk and Jefferson
Counties in the State of Texas.

WEBER v. ROGAN.
Statement of the Case.

The petitioner alleged in substance that on August 11, 1899,
being desirous of purchasing such lands, he applied to the
Commissioner for the same at the price fixed by law, $1 per
acre, and otherwise fully complied with the terms of sale
offered by law authorizing him to become the purchaser; that
the Commissioner refused and rejected his applications, for the
reason that the two sections applied for had theretofore been
classified-the first as timber land, and the second as grazing
land, to neither of which the law was applicable, and could
not be purchased under the law in force at the date of the application for one dollar per acre, though such grazing and
timber lands were isolated and detached from other public
lands, and were situated in counties organized prior to January 1, 1875, and that there was no law under which the petitioner could have lawfully awarded to him the two said sections at one dollar per acre. Petitioner admitted that said two
sections were classified by the Commissioner, one as timber
land and the other as grazing land, but averred that such classification was of no force or effect because the provisions of
the law requiring lands belonging to the public school fund to
be classified did not relate or apply to isolated and detached
sections, or fractions of sections of such lands, situated in
counties organized prior to January 1, 1875, but that the price
of said lands was at that time fixed by law at one dollar per
acre, irrespective of any classification made of said lands either
before or after the time they became isolated and detached.
That by application to the Commissioner and depositing with
the treasurer of the State the amount due therefor, he became
the purchaser of said two sections, and the Commissioner was
without authority to withhold from him said lands.
Upon this petition the case was submitted upon briefs and
oral arguments to the Supreme Court, which awarded a mandamnus, 94 Texas, 62, subsequently granted a rehearing, 94
Texas, 67, and upon such rehearing filed an opinion refusing
the writ, 94 Texas, 67.
Whereupon petitioner applied for and was granted a writ of
error from this court, and assigned as error that the State had
offered to sell all isolated and detached sections, and fractions

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

of sections of public school lands situated in counties organized prior to January 1, 1875, at one dollar per acre; that this
offer by the State was accepted by the petitioner, and that such
acceptance constituted a contract between the State and the
purchaser, and that by holding that the Commissioner of the
Land Office might decline to award the petitioner the lands applied for, the court gave a construction to the statute which
impaired the obligation of such contract.
-Mi. F. C/larles Iume for plaintiff in error.
berg was with him on the brief.

Jlfl'..11.

. Me-

.Afr. C. K. Bell, attorney general of the State of Texas, for
defendant in error.
AIR. JUsTicE BPowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

At the time the petitioner made his applications to the Commissioner of the Land Office for the purchase of these lands
the following law was in force, 2 Batt's Rev. Stat. art. 4218 y:
"The Commissioner of the General Land Office may withhold from lease any agricultural lands necessary for the purpose of settlement, and no agricultural lands shall be leased, if,
in the judgment of the Commissioner, they may be in immediate
demand for settlement, but such lands shall be held for settlement and sold to the actual settlers only, under the provisions
of this chapter; and all sections and fractions of sections, in
all counties organized prior to the first day of January, 18'(5,
except E1 Paso, Presidio and Pecos counties, which sections are
isolated and detached from other public lands, ,may be sold to
any purchaser, except to a corporation, without actual settlement, at one dollar per acre, upon the same terms as other
public lands are sold under the provisions of this chapter."
Acts of 1897, c. 129.
The Supreme Court held that the determination of the case
depended upon the question whether it was made by this law
the imperative duty of the Commissioner of the Land Office
to sell all isolated and detached sections and arts of sections

WEBER v. ROGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

of the public free school lands to the first applicant without
regard to their classification; and that that construction depended upon the question whether the words "may be sold to
any purchaser" implied a discretion in the Commissioner to
refuse, or was to be understood as equivalent to "shall," which
would imply a duty upon the part of the Commissioner to sell
to any purchaser at the price fixed of one dollar per acre. At
first, the court was of opinion that the word "may" was
used in the sense of "shall"; that no discretion was vested in
the Commissioner; that the general provisions regulating the
sale of public school lands did not apply to isolated and detached sections and fractions of sections; that they required
no classification or appraisement; that the law of 1897 fixed
their purchase price absolutely at one dollar per acre; and
that all that was necessary to acquire an inchoate title was to
make application to the Commissioner and tender the proportion of the purchase money, required by law to be paid in
cash, together with the statutory obligations for the balance.
Upon rehearing, the opinion of the court was changed, and
the majority came to the conclusion that the word "may," as
used in the statute, ought to be construed in its literal sense,
and as merely conferring the power upon the Commissioner to
sell land at one dollar per acre, but not making it obligatory
upon him to do so. The mandamus was denied. Another
rehearing was also denied.
There is hardly a semblance of a Federal question in this
None such was noticed in the original petition or
case.
in either opinion of the court; and it was not until after an
application was made for a rehearing that petitioner discovered that the act of the legislature of 1895, as amended by
the act of 1897, Rev. Stat. art. 4218y, above cited, constituted
a contract on the part of the State to sell all isolated and detached sections and fractions of sections of public school lands
to any purchaser who would offer one dollar per acre therefor,
which had been impaired by the Supreme Court of the State
in holding that the Commissioner of the Land Office might refuse to execute such contract by declining to award the lands
applied for, and therefore violated its obligation.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Syllabus.

We agree with the Supreme Court of the State that no contract was created by this statute. Hence, there was none to
be impaired. We had occasion to hold in Cenftal land Company v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, that we have no jurisdiction of
a writ of error to a state court upon the ground that the obligation of a contract has been impaired, when the validity of
the statute under which the contract is made is admitted, and
the only question is as to the construction of the statute by
that court; and in the same case as well as in Banford v.
Davies, 163 U. S. 273, we held that the constitutional inhibition
applies only to the legislative enactments of the State, and not
to judicial decisions or the acts of state tribunals, or officers
under statutes in force at the time of the making of the
contract, the obligation of which is alleged to have been impaired.
In addition to this, however, the question was not made until after the final decision of the state court, and upon application for a rehearing. This was clearly too late. jAriller v.
Texas, 153 U. S. 535.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.

ANDREWS v. ANDREWS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDIOIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 23. Argued February 28, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

When rights, based on a judgment obtained in one State, are asserted in
the courts of another State under the due faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution, the power exists in the state court in which they
are asserted to look back of the judgment and ascertain whether the
claim which had entered into it was one susceptible of being enforced in
another State (Visconsin v. Pelican Insurance Company, 127 U. S. 215;
Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457). And where such rights are in due
time asserted, the power to decide whether tle Federal question so raised
was rightly disposed of in the court below exists in, and involves the
exercise of jurisdiction by, this court.

