OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

DIAMOND MATCH COMPANY v.ONTONAGON.
AIPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 96. Argued December 1, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

1. The village of Ontonagon, Michigan, has power, either under its charter
or under the statute of 1899 of Michigan, to assess logs in the boom or
sorting boom in the Ontonagon River belonging to plaintiff in error.
2. The legislature of M.ichigan could confer by statute upon the village of
Ontonagon the power to tax logs in transit to Ontonagon as provided in
the act of 1899 for taxing personal property; and property which was in
transit through the Ontonagon River, and then by the Chicago, Milwankee
& St. Paul Railway was properly assessed at Ontonagon, that being the
place in the State nearest to the last boom or sorting gap of the stream
in or bordering on the State in which said property naturally would be
and was intended to be last floated during the transit thereof.
3. There may be an interior movement of property within the State which
does not constitute interstate commerce though the property come from
or be destined to anotber State; and where one hundred and eighty million feet of logs are cut, hauled and put into the Ontonagon River during
two seasons for the purpose of saving, protecting and preserving the same,
and the owner cannot use more than twenty to forty million in any year,
and it was not the intention to take all the logs down at the opening of
the streams but only to take down each season the number that could
be used, the logs in the sorting gap cannot be regarded as property engaged in interstate commerce so as to be exempted from taxation under
the laws of Michigan. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 617, followed.

THIS isa bill in equity to restrain the collection of certain
taxes levied under the following law of the State of Milichigan:
":Personal property of non-residents of the State, and all forest products owned by residents or non-residents, or estates of deceased persons, shall be assessed in the township or ward where the
same may be,to the person having control of the premises, store,
mill, dock, yard, piling ground, place of storage, or warehouse
where such property is situated in such township, on the second
Monday of April of the year when the assessment is made, except that where such property is in transit to some place within

DIAMOND MATCH CO.

r.

ONTONAGON.

Statement of the Case.

the State it shall be assessed in such place, except that where
such property is in transit to some place without the State it
shall be assessed at the place in this State nearest to the last
boom or sorting gap of the stream in or bordering on this State
in which said property will naturally be last floated during the
transit thereof, and in case the transit of any such property is
to be other than through any watercourse in or bordering on
this State, then such assessment shall be made at the point
where such property will naturally leave the State in the ordinary course of its transit; and such property so in transit to any
place without the State shall be assessed to the owner or the
person, persons or corporation in possession or control thereof,
and in case such transit will pass said logs through the booms
or sorting gaps, or into the places of storage of any person, persons or corporation operating upon any such stream, then such
property may be assessed to such person, persons or corporation; and the person, persons or corporation so assessed for any
such property belonging to a non-resident of this State shall be
entitled to recover from the owner of such property, by a suit
in attachment, garnishment or for money had and received, any
amount which the person, persons or corporation so assessed is
compelled to pay because of such assessment, and shall have a
lien upon said property as security against loss or damage because of being so assessed for the property of another and may
retain possession of such property until such lien is satisfied :
Providedfurther,That any owner or person interested in said
property may secure the release of the same from such lien by
giving to the person, persons or corporation so assessed a bond in
an amount double the probable tax to be assessed thereon, but
not less than the sum of two hundred dollars, with two sufficient sureties, conditioned for the payment of such tax by said
owner or person interested, and the saving of the person, persons or corporation assessed from payment thereof, and from
costs, damages and expense on account of his non-payment,
which bond as to amount and sufficiency of surety shall be approved by the county clerk of the county in which the assessment is made." Pub. Laws, 1899, No. 32, p. 47.
It was contended that the taxes assessed were illegal and

OCTOBER "TERMA,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

void, "because said taxes were assessed in violation of and rep ugnant to the general provisions of the Constitution of the
United States; and especially because said taxes were assessed
in violation of, and said statutes of the State of Michigan are
in violation of and repugnant to, those parts of section 8 of
article I of the Constitution of the United States, which provide that: 'The Congress shall have power . . . to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States,' and section 10 of said article, which provides that:
'No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws.'"
By stipulation the bill was dismissed as to the township of
Ontonagon and the township of McMillan. As to the other
defendants the bill was submitted on an agreed statement of
facts and the pleadings. The court sustained the assessment
and dismissed the bill. This appeal was then taken under
section 5 of the judiciary act of 1891.
The following is the stipulation of facts:
"It is hereby further stipulated by and between the complainant and the defendants Village of Ontonagon, and George
Ducleau, its treasurer, that the following statements of fact
are true, and may be psed in evidence on the hearing of said
cause by either of the parties to this stipulation, subject to objections for immateriality, to wit:
"1. The complainant is a corporation organized and existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois, with
its principal office and place of business in the city of Chicago,
in said State; that it is engaged, and has been from the date
of its organization, in the manufacture and sale of matches,
and that in the prosecution of its business it purchased and became the owner of a large amount of pine wood, timber, etc.,
situate on the Ontonagon River and its tributaries in Ontonagon County and other counties in the State of Michigan, and
that for many years prior to 1896 it owned and operated extensive saw mills and plant near the mouth of the Ontonagon
River, and within the corporate limits of the defendant Village
of Ontonagon ; that, in its usual course of business, it cut or

DIAMOND MATCH CO. v. ONTONAGON.
Statement of the Case.

purchased a sufficient quantity of timber to supply its mills
during the following season, not exceeding forty million of
feet, board measure, and placed the same during the winter
upon and in said Ontonagon River and its tributaries, there to
remain until the breaking up of the ice in said river in spring
time, when they were and are driven down the river to the
pier jams, booms and sorting grounds of the complainant,
located above said mills, and outside of the limits of defendant,
The Village of Ontonagon.
"2. That in the summer of the year 1894 extensive forest
fires swept over said pine lands of the complainant, and other
pine lands, situate on said Ontonagon River, doing great damage to the timber thereon; that in order to preserve the timber
so injured by said fire, it became and was necessary to cut all
of said timber and put the same into the waters of the abovenamed stream for preservation ; that during the winter of 1894:
and 1895 said complainant, in order to preserve said timber,
was compelled to cut and did cut about one hundred and
eighty million feet of logs, and for the sole purpose of preservation placed the same in said river and its tributaries, there to
remain until the complainant could float said logs down said
river and streams to its mills to be manufactured into lumber;
that it was not the intention or purpose of the complainant
after the opening of navigation and during the season of 1896
to remove all said logs, but only such amount as could be
manufactured at its said mills during the season, and that the
capacity of said mills did not exceed about the amount of forty
million feet per annum, as hereinbefore stipulated.
"3. That the navigation of said river and stream is closed by
reason of the formation of ice about the first of December of
each year, and is not open until after the first of May, following in each year.
"4. That in the month of August, A. D. 1896, the complainant's said mills were destroyed by fire, and that thereafter it
became necessary, and the complainant did transport said logs
by the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, from Ontonagon to its saw mills located at Green Bay, in the State of Wisconsin. That in the regular prosecution of its business of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

manufacturing said logs into lumnber said complainant has not
during any season since 1896 transported a larger quantity of
said logs than it could manufacture into lumber at its mills at
Green Bay, said quantity being on an average of less than forty
million feet of logs, board measure.
"5. That for the purpose of preserving said logs and preventing the same from floating down said river and into Lake
Superior said complainant was compelled to and has utilized
certain jam piers, booms and appurtenances, constructed by
the plaintiff across said river, more than one mile above the
mouth thereof, and beyond the limits of said village of Ontonagon; that by reason of said appliances said logs have been
held in said river and upon the banks thereof above said jam
piers, booms, etc., said complainant only passing through said
piers such quantities as it could transport and manufacture into
lumber at its said mills from time to time during each successive
season since the year 1896; that during each successive season
it has been the usual and necessary practice of the complainant
to pass through said piers, booms, etc., such quantities of logs
as said railway company could furnish facilities for transportation, thence down the river to the place of delivery as described
in paragraph 9 of another stipulation of facts made herein to
said railway company, to be loaded upon cars for transportation, and that said place of delivery was near the mouth of said
river and within the corporate limits of said defendant The Village of Ontonagon ; that all of said logs so delivered to said
railway company are transported over its lines to Green Bay,
Wisconsin, leaving the State of Michigan at a, point near the
village of Iron Mountain in said State.
"6. That at the close of the season of 1898 the logs in controversy were held by said complainant and detained and prcserved by said jam piers, booms, etc., in said Ontonagon River,
above and beyond the limits of said defendant, The Village of
Ontonagon, waiting the delivery for transportation, as aforesaid, during the following season of the year 1899, and that all
of said logs were a part of the entire quantity cut and put in
said river during the winter of 1895 and 1S96, and had since
that date been so held and detained by the complainant in its

DIAMOND MATCH CO. i. ONTONAGON.
Statement of the Case.

regular course of business; that all of said logs were so held
and detained, and by reason of the ice in said river could not
be floated down the same until about the middle of May, 1899,
and that said logs so assessed, as charged in said bill of complaint, were not at the time said assessment was made, and on
the second Monday of April, A. D. 1899, were not, except as
stated in paragraph 4 of another stipulation, made herein, and
never had been within the corporate limits of the said defendant, The Village of Ontonagon.
"7. That the logs in controversy at the time said assessment
was made by said defendant, The Village of Ontonagon, were
and had been for more than one year prior thereto, in the manner above described, held and detained by the complainant
within the municipal limits of the township of McMillan in
said county of Ontonagon, and were assessed for the purpose
of levying a tax thereon, for the year 1899, by the proper officers of said township of McMillan, claiming the right so to do
under the general statutes and laws of the State of MichiGan.
"It is further stipulated and admitted by the parties to this
stipulation that the assessment of the complainant's logs in
controversy was not valid unless it shall be held as a question
of law that the defendant, The Village of Ontonagon, had the
legal right to assess said logs in said river outside and beyond
the geographical limits of said village, as being in transit under
the statutes of the State of MichiGan in such case made and
provided."
The other stipulation of facts referred to is as follows:
"1. Complainant shipped by rail from the village of Ontonagon to its mills at Green Bay, Wisconsin, for sawing there,
the following quantities of logs, at the following times out
of its logs in the Ontonagon River, described in the bill of complaint:
"Forty-two million feet in the season of 1897; thirty-seven
million feet in the season of 1898, and fourteen million feet in
the season of 1899 up to the date of the seizure of logs by the
village of Ontonagon for the satisfaction of the tax levied and
assessed in and by said village in the year last named.
"2. Within the village of Ontonagon, is, and has been, situ-

OCTOBER TERMI,

190.

Statement of the Case.

ated in and throughout the year 1899 the last boom or sorting
gap in said river, from which complainant's logs in said river
are taken and placed upon the railroad cars for shipment to its
said mills at Green Bay, and said boom or sorting gap is the
last place in said river where said logs are floated before shipment by rail as aforesaid.
"3. During the season of 1899, beginning about June 1, and
up to the time of the seizure above mentioned, about - million
feet of the ten (10) million feet of logs mentioned in the bill of
complaint, were driven down the said river from the boom,
pier jam or sorting grounds outside of said village, to the boom
or sorting gap within said village, above described, and shipped
thence by rail to complainant's said mills at Green Bay.
"14. About five hundred thousand feet of complainant's said
logs in said river have been )in said river of slough) constantly
within said village since 1898, for the purpose of shipment by
rail to the destination as aforesaid.
"5. The village of Ontonagon is a duly incorporated village
under the general law of Michigan, to wit: act number 3 of
the Laws of Michigan of the year 1895, entitled 'An act to
provide for the incorporation of villages within the State of
Michigan, and defining their powers and duties,' and is situate
on said river and in The Township of Ontonagon, one of the
defendants herein.
" 6. The water transit of said logs of complainant has heretofore always ceased since the burning of complainant's mills,
described in the bill of complaint, in said village, whence the
same are shipped by rail as aforesaid.
" 7. Said river and its tributaries are streams of water or
rivers, all within the State of Michigan and within the county
of Ontonagon (and as to some small part within the counties
of Gogebic and Houghton) in which county of Ontonagon said
village is situated.
" 8. Pursuant to and in accordance with the acts of the legislature of Michigan mentioned in the answer of said village in
this suit, namely, act number 319 of the Laws of 1893, and act
number 263 of the year 1895, and pursuant to and in accordance with a vote of the electors of the said village, duly held

DIAMOND MATCH CO. r'- ONTONAGON.
Argument for Appellants.

therein, and pursuant to, and in accordance with the action of
its council, said village, in the year 1894, borrowed the sum of
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000), and issued and sold its bonds
therefor, and in the year 1895 borrowed the further sum of
twelve thousand dollars ($12,000), and issued its bonds therefor, and all of said bonds, being in principal and interest about
forty thousand dollars ($40,000), were, at the date of filing the
bill of complaint in this cause, outstanding, and said bonds outstanding constitute a valid charge against said village and
against the taxable property thereof."
M'. Edwin Walker for the appellants argued:
I. The village of Ontonagon had no power to assess property
for taxation and levy taxes thereon, except as specially conferred by the general or special statutes of the State of Michigan. Compiled Laws of Michigan, vol. 1, p. 913, §§ 1, 2, 6;
Cooley on Taxation, pp. 96, 209, 474; Dillon's Municipal Corporations, 4th ed. § 763 ; -n re Second Ave. i. E. Church, 66
N. Y. 395 ; English v. People of the State of Illinois, 96 Illinois,
566.
II.The State of Michigan could not by legislative grant authorize the village of Ontonagon to impose a tax upon the property of non-residents when the situs of such property was beyond
Wells v. Weston, 22 Misits municipal limits and jurisdiction.
souri, 384; _&re Assessment of Lands &c., 66 N. Y. 398; Trigg
v. Glasgow, 2 Bush, 594; City of St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11
Wall. 430.
III. The statute of the State of Michigan, under and by authority of which the complainant's property was assessed for
taxation, is in contravention of, and repugnant to, the Constitution of the United States. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517; The
Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557-565; State Fi'eight Tax Case, 15
Wall. 272.
IV. Under the admitted facts equity has jurisdiction to enjoin the collection of the tax. Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed. 784;
Pacific Hotel Co. v. Lieb, 83 Illinois, 602; Railway Co. v. Cole,
75 Illinois, 591; Cook County v. Railroad Co., 35 Illinois, 460;
Bank of Kentucky v. Stone, 88 Fed. Rep. 383; Ogden City v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Amstrong, 168 U. S. 22-1; High on Injunctions, §§ 502, 530;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 515; Hazard v. O'Bannon, 36 Fed.
Rep. 855; Parmaleev. Railroad Coml)anies, 3 Dillon, 25.
.Mr. T. 1. Cadbournesubmitted a brief on behalf of appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MoKiuNNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention of appellant is presented in three propositions. (1) That the village of Ontonagon had no power to
assess the property under its charter. (2) That the legislature
could not confer such power. (3) That the property was in
the course of transportation within the meaning of the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
1. This proposition is unimportant. If the charter did not,
the statute of 1899 did, authorize the assessment.
2. To sustain this proposition would embarrass the power of
the State-indeed, make it impotent to deal with the conditions
there existing. The statute, no doubt, was enacted as a means
to subject property to taxation which had no definite or enduring locality, and because of the clash or confusion of jurisdictions. In such circumstances experience, probably, demon-,
strated that property escaped taxation or was difficult to tax,
or that controversies arose. It was competent for the legislature to defeat either result by giving moving property a definite
situs as of some day. Nor is that power impugned by the
principle that protection is the consideration of taxation. There
is protection during the transit through the municipalities of
the State and at its termination in the State-protection acconmodated to the kind of property and as efficient as links are to
the continuity of a chain.
There is nothing in the cases cited by appellant which sustains the opposite view. Trigg v. Glasgow, 2 Bush, 59-, seems
to have turned upon the interpretation of a state statute. Under a statute of the State the town of Glasgow was authorized
to subscribe to the stock of a railroad, and by the charter of

DIAMOND MATCH CO. v. ONTONAGON.
Opinion of the Court.

the town it was the duty of the trustees to "levy an ad valorem
tax on the property, both real and personal, within said town,
that is listed for state purposes, including the amount given in
under the equalization law, sufficient," etc.
By an amendatory act it was provided that "all the taxable
property in said town on the 10th of April shall be subject to
taxation for the payment of said subscription ;" and it also
provided that the taxable property in said town which may
have been removed without its limits between the 1st of January and the 10th of April, for the purpose of evading the tax,
should be listed for taxation.
The court held, as we understand its opinion, that property
to be subject to taxation under the statute must be in the town.
If it had been taken out to avoid taxation, it was subject to taxation when brought back.
St. Louis v. The Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, was also an interpretation of the state statute. The city of St. Louis had power
to tax all property within the city. It was held under the circumstances of the case that the ferryboats of the ferry company
had their situs in the State of Illinois. It was said:
"Their relation to the city was merely that of contact there,
as one of the termini of their transit across the river in the
prosecution of their business. The time of such contact was
limited by the city ordinance. Ten minutes was the maximum
of the stay they were permitted to make at any one time.
The owner was, in the eye of the law, a citizen of that State,
and from the inherent law of its nature could not emigrate or
become a citizen elsewhere. As the boats were laid up on the
Illinois shore when not in use, and the pilots and engineers who
ran them lived there, that locality, under the circumstances,
must be taken to be their home port. They did not so abide
within the city as to become incorporated with and form a part
of its personal property."
In 1Irells v. lWeston, 22 Missouri, 384, and In Assessment of
Lands in the Town of Flatbush, &c., 60 N. Y. 398, the property taxed was real estate.
The purpose of the statute of Michigan is to assess the forest
products of the State-things which are a part of the general

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

property of the State. Those "in transit" are assessable according to their destination. If that be "some place within
the State," the property is to be "assessed in such place;" if
that be "some place without the State," the property is to be
assessed at the place in the State "nearest to the last boom or
sorting gap of the same in or bordering on this State in which
said property will naturally be the last floated during the transit thereof."
But it is also provided that "in case the transit of any such
property is to be other than through any watercourse in or bordering on this State, then such assessment shall be wade at the
point where such yroperty will naturally leave the State in the
ordinary course of its transit."
We may assume for the present that the property was in
transit and to some place without the State. Was the "transit
to be other than through any watercourse in or bordering on"
the State? The appellant contends that it was because it was
to be by water and by rail; in other words, the transit was
not to be exclusively "through any watercourse." But to give
that meaning to the statute words must be added to it. It
must be made to read other than .exclusively or wholly or entirely "through any watercourse." One of these words must
be added to make the sense contended for. The word " other"
is used to express a difference-the difference being between a
transit which is and one which is not through any (the word is
significant) watercourse.
The transit in controversy was to be through (by means of)
the Ontonagon River, certainly a watercourse, and by the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway, and, therefore, the
property was properly assessed by the village of Ontonagon,
that being the place in the State nearest to the last boom or
sorting gap of the stream in or bordering on the State in which
said property naturally would be and was intended to be last
floated during the transit thereof.
3. Was the transit interstate commerce? We agree with
counsel that it is unimportant indetermining an answer whether
the transit "was by water or by railroad, or both water and
railroad." But no purpose to burden interstate commerce is

DIAMOND MATCH CO. v. ONTONAGON.
Opinion of the Court.

evident in the statute, and the power of the State to tax everything which is part of what has been called "the general property" or "the general mass of property" of the State, is undoubted. But things which have been brought to a State may
not have reached that condition. Things intended to be sent
out of a State, but which have not left it, may not have ceased
to be in that condition. The exact moment in either case may
not be easy to point out-may be confused by circumstances,
and the confident assignment of the property as subject or
not subject to taxation is not easily made. Fortunately we are
not without illustrations in prior cases, and in .Keley v. Riloads,
p. 1, ante, decided concurrently with this, we express the principles of decision.
In Brown v. .Iouston, 114 U. S. 622, the property (coal in
barges) had reached the State, but was yet in the boats in which
it had been brought into the State. While on the barges it
was offered for sale. It was held it had become part of the
property of the State and was subject to taxation. Pittsburg
&c. Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577, had facts assimilating it
to the case at bar, and it was affirmed on the authority of
Brown v. flouston. As in the latter case, the tax was on coal
in barges shipped from the mines in Pennsylvania, and consigned to New Orleans, Louisiana. The coal, however, had
not reached, as the coal in Brown v. Hiouston, its exact destination. To accommodate the exigencies of the owner's business, the barges, "about one hundred in number, were stopped
and moored in the Mississippi River at a convenient mooring
place about nine miles above the port of Baton Rouge." The
coal was held subject to taxation.
In Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, logs which had been cut in
the State of Maine, and others which had been cut in the State
of New Hampshire, were floated in course of transit down a
stream in New Hampshire to the town of Errol, in the latter
State; thence to be floated down the Androscoggin River to
the State of Maine. The town of Errol assessed upon the
property a county, town, school and highway tax. The tax
was sustained by the Supreme Court of the State of New
Hampshire as to the logs cut in that State, and abated as to

OCTOBER TERM:, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

those cut in Maine. The judgment was affirmed by this
court.
Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, expressed the contentions of the parties in two questions
A'Are the products of a State, though intended for exportation to another State, and partially prepared for that purpose
by being deposited at a place or port of shipment within the
State, liable to be taxed like other property within the State?
"Do the owner's state of mind in relation to the goods, that
is, his intent to export them, and his partial preparation to do
so, exempt them from taxation? This is the precise question
for solution."
It is obvious that like questions could be framed upon the
facts of the case at bar to express the propositions presented.
Mr. Justice Bradley's observations, therefore, become pertinent
and decisive. He discussed every consideration. ie clearly
exhibited the extent of the power of the State over the property within it, whether in motion or at rest, though destined
for points out of it. He said:
"There must be a point of time when they (goods destined
to other States) cease to be governed exclusively by the domestic law and begin to be governed and protected by the national
law of commercial regulation, and that moment seems to us
to be a legitimate one for this purpose, in which they commence their final movement for transportation from the State
of their origin to that of their destination. When the products
of the farm or the forest are collected and brough(t in from the
surrounding country to a town or station serving as a entrepot
for that particular region, whether on a river or a line of railroad, such products are not yet exports, nor are they in process of exportation, nor is exportation begun until they are
committed to the common carrier for transportation out of the
State to the State of their destination, or have started on their
ultimate passage to that State. Until then it is reasonable to
regard them as not only within the State of their origin, but
as a part of the general mass of property of that State, subject
to its jurisdiction, and liable to taxation there if not taxed by
reason of their being intended for exportation, but taxed with-

DIAMOND MATCH CO. v. ONTONAGON.
Opinion of the Court.

out any discrimination in the usual way and manner in which
such property is taxed in the State."
And further:
" But no definite rule has been adopted with regard to the
point of time at which the taxing power of the State ceases as
to goods exported to a foreign country or to another State.
What we have already said, however, in relation to the products
of a State intended for exportation to another State will indicate the view which seems to us the sound one on that subject, namely, that such goods do not cease to be part of the
general mass of property in the State, subject, as such, to its
jurisdiction, and to taxation in the usual way, until they have
been shipped or entered with a common carrier for transportation to another State, or have been started upon such transportation in a continuous route or journey. We think that this
must be the true rule on the subject. It seems to us untenable
to hold that a crop or herd is exempt from taxation merely because it is, by its owner, intended for exportation. If such
were the rule in many States there would be nothing but the
lands and real estate to bear the taxes. Some of the Western
States produce very little except wheat and corn, most of
which is intended for export; and so of cotton in the Southern
States. Certainly, as long as these products are on the lands
which produce them, they are part of the general property of
the State. And so we think they continue to be until they
have entered upon their final journey for leaving the State and
going into another State. It is true, it was said in the case of
The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 565: ' Whenever a commodity
has begun to move as an article of trade from one State to
another, commerce in that commodity between the States has
commenced.' But this movement does not begin until the
articles have been shipped or started for transportation from
the one State to the other. The carrying of them in carts or
other vehicles, or even floating them, to the depot where the
journey is to commence, is no part of that journey."
These cases are referred to in .[ielley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1,
as defining the taxing power of a State. And their substance
is declared to be "that while property is at rest for an indef-

OCTOBER TERM1,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

inite time or awaiting transportation, or awaiting sale at its
place of destination, or at an intermediate point, it is subject
to taxation. But if it be actually in transit to another State,
it becomes the subject of interstate commerce, and is exempt
from local assessment."
In further specialization of these propositions we may say
that the cases establish that there may be an interior movement of property which does -not constitute interstate commerce, though property come from or be destined to another
State. In the one case, though it have not reached its place
of disembarkation or delivery, it may be taxed. Brown v.
Houston,, 114 U. S. 662. In the other case, until it be shipped
or started on its final journey, it may be taxed. Coe v. Errol,
116 U. S. 617.
The case at bar falls within this principle. It is alleged in
the bill that during the winters of 1895 and 1896 the plaintiff
cut, hauled and put into the Ontonagon River and its tributaries, one hundred and eighty million feet of logs for the purpose of saving, protecting and preserving the same; that said
lumber was more than plaintiff could utilize in any one season
at its mills, and it was not, therefore, the intention at the
opening of the streams to make a clean drive of the same, but
only to take down the streams the following spring and summer, and each succeeding driving season, the number complainant could utilize; that complainant was at the time the
logs were cut and put in the streams an owner of lumber mills
situated at or near the corporate limits of the village of Ontonagon ; that said mills were destroyed by fire in the fall of
1896, and were not rebuilt, and that after the destruction thereof
plaintiff destined the logs for its mills at Green Bay, Wisconsin,
but that it was not its intention to take to said mills during
any one summer any more than sufficient for its purposes, and
not to exceed generally twenty million feet-according to the
stipulation forty million feet. The route of the logs from the
forests to the mills is described as follows:
"They are driven down the tributaries of said Ontonagon
River into the stream of said river and thence down said Ontonagon River to a point at or near the mouth thereof, in the

BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

township of Ontonagon, to the sorting grounds and pier jams
of the complainant; they are then loaded aboard cars and
shipped by rail to Green Bay, Wisconsin, via the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, and pass out of the State of
Michigan at a point near the village of Iron Mountain in said
State."
The number of the logs shipped by rail from Ontonagon to
Green Bay before the levy of the tax complained of is given in
the stipulation of facts, and it is stipulated that "about five
hundred thousand feet of complainant's said logs in said river
have been (in said river of slough) constantly within said village since 1898, for the purpose of shipment by rail to the
destination as aforesaid."
The appellant's contention is that the movement of the logs
commenced at the opening of navigation of the river (presumnably in the spring or summer of 1896 and 1897,) and from
that date were in continuous transit as subjects of interstate
commerce, and exempt from taxation. The contention is more
extreme than that made and rejected in Coo v. Errol.
Defree afirmed.

BILLINGS v. ILLINOIS.
tRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 106. Argued December 4, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

The claim that section 2 of the act providing for the taxation of life estates,
as construed by the highest courts of the State of Illinois, is in contra-

vention of the Fourteenth Amendment in that the classification of life
tenants is arbitrary and unreasonable and denies to life tenants the equal

protection of laws because it taxes one class of life estates where the remainder is to lineals and expressly exempts life estates where the remainder is to collaterals or to strangers in blood, cannot be sustained.
Inheritance tax laws are based upon the power of a State over testate
and intestate dispositions of property, to limit and create estates, and to
impose conditions upon their transfer or devolution. This court has
already decided in regard to this law that such power could be exercised
by distinguishing between the lineal and collateral relatives of a testator.
VOL. CLXXXVIII-7

