OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

ing could not suffice to confer jurisdiction over the subject matter where it was wanting because of the absence of domicil
within the State, we conclude that no violation of the due faith
and credit clause of the Constitution of the United States arose
from the action of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
in obeying the command of the state statute and refusing to
give effect to the decree of divorce in question.

-Affirmed.
Mn[P. JUsTIcE

BREWE-R,

MR.

JUSTICE SHInAs

and

AIR. JUSTICE

PEexHAx dissent.
M . JuSTIoE HoLMEs, not being a member of the court when
the case was argued, takes no part.

EARLE v. CARSON.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 83. Argued November 11, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.
1. The presumption of liability of a stockholder of a national bank begotten by the presence of the name on the stock register may be rebutted
if the jury finds the fact to be that a bona fide sale of the stock had been
made and every duty had been performed which the law imposed in
order to secure a transfer on the registry of the bank. The more reduction of the reserve of a national bank below the legal limit does not affect
with a legal presumption of bad faith, all transactions made with or concerning the bank during the period whilst the reserve is impaired.
2. The power of a stockholder to transfer stock in a national bank, like
other personal property, is not limited by the mere fact that at the time
of the transfer the bank, which was a going concern, was insolvent in the
sense that its assets, if liquidated, would not discharge its liabilities, unless it be shown that the seller was aware of the facts and had sold the
stock in order to avoid the impending double liability.
3. Nor is such a bonafide sale void if the person to whom the stock is sold
is, owing to his insolvency, unable to respond to the double liability, if
the fact of such insolvency was, at the time of the sale, unknown to the
seller.

WHEN the Chestnut Street National Bank of Philadelphia

EARLE v. CARSON.
Statement of the Case.

suspended payment and its doors were closed there stood on
the stock register ten shares in the name of the defendant in
error. A call having been made by the Comptroller for the
sum of the double liability, this suit was commenced to recover
the amount. The defence was: First, that prior to the suspension of the bank the defendant had in good faith sold the
stock standing in her name for a full market price, which had
been paid her; second, that, in consummation of such sale, she
had, by her agent delivered to the proper officer of the bank
in its banking house, at the place where transfers were made,
the stock certificate, with an adequate power of attorney to
make the transfer, and requested that the stock be transferred;
third, that the officer of the bank said that the transfer would
be made as requested, and the defendant was ignorant of the
fact that the officer had failed to discharge his duty; fourth,
that as the defendant had done everything which the law required her to do to secure the transfer, she had ceased to be a
stockholder, and was not responsible.
In submitting the case to the jury the court instructed, First,
that the presence of the name of the defendant on the stock
register created a presumption of liability. This, however,
the jury was informed, was not conclusive, but might be rebutted. Such rebuttal, the court charged, would result if it
was proven that the defendant had made a bonaficle sale of her
stock, and had, at the proper time and place, handed to the
proper officer of the bank a power to transfer the same, although the officer of the bank had neglected to fulfill his duty
in the premises. Second, after charging fully and accurately
as to the proof essential to show a bona fide sale of stock in a
national bank, the court, having during the trial applied a like
rule in passing on the admissibility of evidence, instructed the
jury if the evidence established that a sale of such character
had been made whilst the bank was a going concern, the defendant would not be liable, because, unknown to her, the bank
was, at the time of the sale, in fact insolvent. And the same
principle was applied to the unknown insolvency of the person
to whom the stock was sold. There was verdict and judgment
for the defendant, which was affirmed by the Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Appeals, 107 Fed. Rep. 639; thereupon this writ of error was
prosecuted.
-Mr.Asa TF. Waters and .Y'. Charles Biddle for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr. -RichardC. Dale for defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTIOE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In the argument at bar all but three of the grounds of error
specified in the Circuit Court of Appeals and assigned on the
allowance of this writ were expressly waived. In stating the
case we have therefore called attention only to the facts and
proceedings essential to an elucidation of the three questions
now pressed, and hence, disregarding the grounds of error which
are obsolete, we come to consider the real issues.
1. Treating the facts as foreclosed by the verdict, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the trial court rightly instructed that the presumption of liability begotten by the
presence of the name on the stock register would be rebutted
if the jury found the fact to be that a bonjt fide sale of the
stock had been made and that the defendant had performed
every duty which the law imposed on her in order to secure a
transfer on the registry of the bank. The correctness of this
ruling is not open to controversy. -Mattesonv. Dent, 17'6 U. S.
521; TVWitney v. Butler, 118 U. S. 655. But, it is urged, the
court erroneously assumed the lona files of the sale to have
been concluded by the verdict, since the trial court mistakenly
refused to instruct the jury that the sale of the stock, though
in every other respect lawful, could not be so treated by the
jury if, as a matter of fact, it was found that at the time of
the sale, to the knowledge of the defendant, the reserve of the
bank was below the limit fixed by law. Rev. Stat. see. 5191.
To sustain this contention it is argued that by operation of law
when the reserve of a national bank falls below the maximum
provided in the statute, every transfer of stock made by a per-

EARLE v. CARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

son having knowledge of the fact creates a legal presumption
of bad faith, and therefore, in the event of the future suspension of the bank, avoids the transaction. But the statute creates no presumption of inability to continue business as a
consequence of the reduction of the reserve below the legal
requirement. On the contrary, the statute expressly contemplates the continuance of business by a bank, although its
reserve may have fallen below the standard, since it merely
forbids the making by a bank of certain enumerated transactions during the period when the reserve is impaired. Whether
the provisions just referred to are mandatory or directory, we
are not called upon to determine, but certainly, in either event,
they clearly refute the construction of the statute which would
be necessary in order to sustain the proposition. True, the
law confers authority on the Comptroller in his discretion to
require a bank, whose reserve has fallen below the legal limit,
to restore the reserve within thirty days, and moreover gives
power to the Comptroller, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury, to appoint a receiver when a bank fails to
comply after the thirty days with the demand made. These
provisions, however, but add cogency to the view that it cannot
be implied that the mere reduction of the reserve below the
legal limit, as a matter of law, suspends the business of the
bank, or, what would be tantamount thereto, affects, with a
legal presumption of bad faith, all transactions made with
or concerning the bank during the period whilst the reserve is
impaired.
2. The proposition which arises under this head is, that it
was erroneously ruled that the insolvency of the bank when
the sale of stock was made was irrelevant unless the fact of insolvency was known to the seller and the sale was made to
avoid impending liability, that is, in contemplation of insolvency.
It is undisputed that at the date when the stock was sold the
doors of the bank were open and it had not failed in business.
Hence the proposition is this: Although a national bank has
not suspended payment, all sales of its stock, whatever may be
the good faith with which they are made, are void if it develops
that at the date of the sale the assets of the bank, if they had

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

been then realized on, would have been insufficient to pay its
debts. The proposition is supported by what is assumed to be
the essential nature of the double liability of a stockholder in
a national bank and the time when such liability by operation
of law becomes irrevocably fixed. Passing for a moment an
analysis of the premises upon which the argument proceeds, let
us determine the result to which it necessarily leads. Proceeding to do so, it becomes clear that the effect of maintaining the
argument would be to virtually prevent the exercise of the
power to transfer stock "like other personal property," which
the statute gives in express terms. Rev. Stat. sec. 5139. That
such would be the result if the validity of every sale of stock
depended, not upon the good faith of the seller, but upon the
condition of the bank as subsequently developed, is, we think,
obvious. Certainly it cannot in reason be said that the power
would exist to sell stock like any other personal property if before the power could be exercised the seller must examine the
affairs of the bank, Jharshal its assets and liabilities in order to
form an accurate judgment as to the precise condition of the
bank. But it has long since been pointed out, B2ak v. _Lanier,
11 Wall. 369, 377, that"The power to transfer their stock is one of the most valuable franchises conferred by Congress on banking associations.
Without this power, it can readily be seen the value of the stock
would be greatly lessened, and, obviously, whatever contributes
to make the shares of the stock a safe mode of investment, and
easily convertible, tends to enhance their value. It is no less
the interest of the shareholder, than the public, that the certificate representing his stock should be in a form to secure public
confidence, for without this he could not negotiate it to any
advantage.
"It is in obedience to this requirement, that stock certificates
of all kinds have been constructed in a way to invite the confidence of business men, so that they have become the basis of
commercial transactions in all the large cities of the country,
and are sold in open market the same as other securities. Although neither in form nor character negotiable paper, they
approximate to it as nearly as practicable."

EARLE v. CARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

And in the same case (p. 376) attention was called to the fact
that the purpose of Congress in making the certificates transferable had been clearly manifested by the repeal, in adopting the
national banking act of 1864, of section 36 of the act of 1863,
which subjected any transfer of stock in a national bank to
debts due to the bank by the seller of the stock. To maintain
the proposition, then, would compel us to give an interpretation
to the statute which would destroy one of its essential features
under the guise of giving effect to another provision of the same
statute; in other words, to destroy the law under the pretext
of enforcing it. But the controlling principle is, that, when
reasonably possible, a statute should be so interpreted as to
harmonize all its requirements by giving effect to the whole.
Moreover, when other parts of the statute are brought into
view the reductio ad absurdumrn to which the proposition leads
is additionally shown. Thus, it is provided, Rev. Stat. see. 5242,
that"All transfers of the notes, bonds, bills of exchange, or other
evidences of debt owing to any national banking association, or
of deposits to its credit; all assignments of mortgages, sureties
on real estate, or of judgments or decrees in its favor; all deposits of money, bullion, or other valuable thing for its use, or
for the use of any of its shareholders or creditors; and all payments of money to either, made after the commission of an act
of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, made with a view
to prevent the application of its assets in the manner prescribed
by this chapter, or with a view to the preference of one creditor
to another except in payment of its circulating notes, shall be
utterly null and void; . .
This by a negative affirmative establishes the validity of all
contracts otherwise lawful made by the bank concerning its assets before its failure albeit at the time such contracts were made
the bank was insolvent, unless the contracts come within the restrictions which the section imposes-that is, those entered into
after the commission of an act of insolvency or in contemplation
thereof or made with a view to prevent the application of the assets of the bank in the manner prescribed by law or with the purpose of giving a preference to one creditor over another. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

proposition were sustained it would thus come to pass that the
power of stockholders to freely transfer their stock like any
other personal property would be burdened with a restriction
arising from the unknown insolvency of the bank, whilst such
limitation would not apply to any other contract concerning
the property or affairs of the bank. This would be to bold that
the statute had conferred the lesser freedom of contract where
it was its avowed purpose to give the greater. It would besides
require us to say that a limitation resulting from unknown insolvency was made effective upon a stockholder in transferring
his stock when such restriction was not made operative on the
bank and its officers when they entered into contracts. But
this would cause the unknown insolvency to restrict the power
of the person less likely to be aware of its existence and to cause
it not to be controlling where knowledge was most apt to obtain. Taking into view the whole act, the provision conferring
the power to transfer stock; the one already referred to which
avoids contracts made in contemplation of insolvency; the authority conferred upon the Comptroller to constantly test the
condition of a national bank; the right given him to suspend
the business of such bank when the exigencies of its situation
.require it, and the double liability imposed on the registered
stockholders, we think it results that the power to transfer
stock, like other personal property, is not limited by the mere
fact that at the time of the transfer the bank, which was a going
concern, was insolvent in the sense that its assets, if liquidated,
would not discharge its liabilities, unless it be shown that the
seller was aware of the fact and had sold his stock to avoid the
double liability which was impending.
Let us come, however, to consider the matter in the light of
authority. It is clear that the assertion that the power to
transfer the stock was limited by the unknown insolvency of
the bank does not rest upon any express provision of the statute,
but is deduced from mere implications which it is deemed must
be drawn from the statute as a whole. But the settled rule
hitherto enunciated by this court, in accord with the rule obtaming in the English courts, is, that where an express power
is given to transfer stock, such power may not be rendered

EARLE v. CARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

nugatory by implication. This general principle, however, is,
by the decisions of this court, subjected to a limitation which
does not prevail in England; that is, that the exercise of the
power to transfer stock in a national bank is controlled by the
rules of good faith applicable to other contracts. The qualification just stated gives no support to the proposition that where
a sale of stock in a national bank is made in good faith, nevertheless the consequences of the sale are avoided if subsequently
it developed that the bank was insolvent at the time of the
transfer, in the sense that its assets were then unequal to the
discharge of its liabilities, when such fact was unknown to the
seller of the stock at the time of the sale. Without undertaking to refer to the numerous casesin which the subject has been
variously considered since the adoption of the national banking act in 1863, we advert to some of the leading authorities.
In National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 629, the proof concerning the insolvency of the bank was thus stated in the opinion
of the court:
" The Crescent City National Bank of New Orleans was organized under the national banking law in 1871. On the 13th
of February, 1873, its London correspondents failed and the
bank lost heavily by the failure-nearly the entire amount of
its capital. This loss was almost immediately known in the
community where the institution was located, and necessarily
affected its credit. On the 14th of March, 1873, payment of
checks drawn upon it by its depositors was suspended, and on
the 17th of the same month its circulating notes went to protest."
As a result of the failure of the bank its doors were closed
and suit was brought by the receiver to recover from the Germania the sum of its double liability on one hundred and three
shares of stock which had previously stood in the name of the
Germania on the stock register of the Crescent Bank. The
stock in question had been acquired and registered in the name
of the Germania on the tenth day of March, 1873, and the Germania had on the same day caused it to be transferred on the
register f,'om its own name to that of Waldo, one of its clerks.
The court, in enforcing the liability, said:
VOL. OLxxxViii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"While it is true that shareholders of the stock of a corporation generally have a right to transfer their shares, and thus
disconnect themselves from the corporation and from any responsibility on account of it, it is equally true that there are
some limits to this right. A transfer for the mere purpose of
avoiding his liability to the company or its creditors is fraudulent and void, and he remains still liable. The English cases,
it is admitted, give effect to such transfers, if they are made
(as it is called) ' out and out ; ' that is, completely, so as to divest
the transferrer of all interest in the stock. But even in them
it is held that if the transfer is merely colorable, or, as sometimes coarsely denominated, a sham-if, in fact, the transferee
is a mere tool or nominee of the trausferrer, so that, as between
themselves, there has been no real transfer, ' but in the event of
the company becoming prosperous the transferrer would become interested in the profits, the transfer will be held for
naught, and the transferrer will be put upon the list of contributories.' Williams' Case, Law Rep. 9 Eq. 225, note, where the
transfer was, as in the present case, made to a clerk of the
transferrer without consideration; Payne's Case, L. R. 9 Eq.
223; Irintrea's Case, Law Rep. 5 Oh. 95. See also Lindley on
Partnership, 2d ed. page 1352; Ckinnoc-s Case, 1 Johns. (Eng.)
chap. 'T14; Hyam s Case, 1 De G. F. & J. '75; Budd's Case, 3
De G. F. & J. 296. The American doctrine is even more
stringent. Mr. Thompson states it thus, and he is supported
by the adjudicated cases: 'A transfer of shares in a failing
corporation, made by the transferrer with tbe purpose of escaping his liability as a shareholder, to a person who, from any
cause, is incapable of responding in respect to such liability, is
void as to the creditors of the company and to other shareholders, although as between the transferrer and the transferee
it was out and out.' "
It was decided, however, that it was not necessary to apply
the more stringent American rule, since it was found that the
transfer under consideration was not real, but was fraudulent
and collusive. As from the undisputed facts stated by the
court in its opinion, the bank became insolvent in the sense
that its assets were unequal to pay its debts in February, 1873,

EARLE v. CARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

nearly a month before the alleged sale was made, it follows
that everything said in the opinion of the court as to the fraudulent and collusive nature of the transfer, was wholly unnecessary if mere insolvency avoided the sale and affixed the liability. But it clearly appears from the reasoning of the court
that the investigation of the question of fraud and collusion
was essential because it was deemed that insolvency alone did
not avoid the transfer. The ruling, therefore, was directly adverse to the construction of the law now relied upon.
Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S. 251, also involved whether a
stockholder in a national bank was liable despite a transfer
made by him of his stock. It was asserted that he was, first,
because he had made the sale with knowledge of the approaching failure of the bank and to avoid the double liability which
was impending; and, second, because the sale had been collusively made to a person who was known by the seller to be insolvent and unable to respond to the double liability. The
undoubted fact was, although the bank had not suspended,
that at the time of the transfer it was insolvent in the sense
that its assets were not equal to the discharge of its liabilities.
In considering whether the stockholder was liable, the court
said :
"As such shareholder, he became subject to the individual
liability prescribed by the statute. This liability attached to
him until, wvithout fraud as against the creditors of the bank,
for whose protection the liability was imposed, he should relieve
himself from it. He could do so by a boncsfide transfer of the
stock."
Having thus held that there could be no liability if the sale
of stock had been made in good faith, and hence excluding the
power to avoid the transfer merely because of the insolvency
of the bank at the time when the sale was made, the-court proceeded to examine the question of good faith and to re~nunciate
the principle which had been previously stated in National
Bank v. Case, supra. The court said (p. 261):
"But where the transferrer, possessed of information showing
that there is good ground to apprehend the failure of the bank,
colludes and combines, as in this case, with an irresponsible

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

transferee, with the design of substituting the latter in his
place, and of thus leaving no one with any ability to respond
for the individual liability imposed by the statute, in respect of
the shares of stock transferred, the transaction will be decreed
to be a fraud on the creditors, and he will be held to the same
liability to the creditors as before the transfer."
Answering the contention that even admitting the sale to
have been made with knowledge of impending failure to avoid
the liability to arise therefrom, it could not be avoided because
the sale was intended between the parties to be real, or, to use
the expression referred to in lTational Bank v. Case, was an out
and out sale, the court, in declining to follow the English cases
and in adhering to the broader doctrine adverted to in IVation al
Bank v. Case, said: "But it was held by this court in .Yational
Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628, that a transfer on the books of the
bank is not in all cases enough to extinguish liability. The
court, in that case, defined as one limit of the right to transfer,
that the transfer must be out and out, or one really transferring the ownership as between the parties to it. But there is
nothing in the statute excluding, as another limit, that the
transfer must not be to a person known to be irresponsible, and
collusively made, with the intent of escaping liability, and defeating the rights given by statute to creditors."
In Tiitney'v. Butler, 118 U. S. 655, the facts were these:
A stockholder in the Pacific National Bank of Boston sold his
stock on the 8th of November, 1881. Ten days thereafter, on
November the 18th, the bank suspended payment and closed
its doors. Beyond doubt the bank was insolvent on the Sth of
November when the stock was sold, since the Comptroller certified, on the 16th of December, 1881, that the result of his investigation disclosed that "the entire capital stock," amounting
to $961,300, had been lost. See statement of facts, Dclano v.
Btutler, 118 U. S. 634, 638, which statement was also a part of
the record in Wh'itney v. Butler. The defence of the stockholder, against whom the double liability was sought to be enforced, was that, having sold his stock and performed every
duty required of him to secure a transfer, he was no longer liable, although his name remained upon the register. The court,

EARLE v. CARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

after expressly stating (p. 658) the good faith of the defendant,
because he had no reason whatever " to believe that the bank
was insolvent, or was about to become so," and treating the sale
as valid for that reason, proceeded to hold that the stockholder
was not liable, because he had done everything in his power to
secure the transfer, and hence his name remained on the register
by the neglect of the officers of the bank. It requires no comment to demonstrate that that case was wrongly decided if the
contention now made is sustainable.
In Stuart v. H-ayden, 169 U. S. 2, the facts were these: Stuart
was an owner of shares in the Capital National Bank of Lincoln, Nebraska. He was a director of the bank and a member
of its finance committee. On the 22d day of December, 1892,
in consequence of contracts made by Stuart with Gruetter &
Joers, Stuart delivered to them his certificates of stock, with
the power to transfer, and a few days afterwards the stock was
transferred. On the 6th of February, 1893, the bank failed.
That the bank was insolvent at the date of the sale appears on
the face of the opinion, for the court said :
"The bank closed its doors within less than three weeks after
the stock was transferred on its books to Gruetter & Joers, its total assets being about $900,000, and total liabilities $1,463,013.17.
Its bills receivable on hand were $519,600, of which $58,596.82
were good, $141,393.27 were doubtful, and $319,611.90 were
worthless. Its bills receivable not on hand amounted to
$141,000, of which only $10,000 were worth anything."
The question presented for decision was, whether Stuart continued liable despite the transfer made to Gruetter & Joers.
The court elaborately stated the facts, directed attention to the
finding by the court below that at the time of the sale the
bank was absolutely insolvent, and proceeded to enforce the liability against Stuart solely because, being a director of the bank
and a member of its finance committee, he had knowledge of
the insolvency, and therefore the sale was in bad faith. M[anifestly, this case also reiterates the doctrine announced in the
previous cases and excludes the conception that the mere fact
of unknown insolvency avoids the transfer, since every word of
the careful statement in the opinion on the facts showing knowl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Courb.

edge would have been wholly unnecessary if the doctrine now
asserted were well founded.
From what has previously been said and the cases just referred to, it is demonstrated that the contention now made is
not supported by the statute, and is foreclosed by the decisions
of this court. But it is suggested the rule announced in the
previous cases is shown to have been a mistaken one by an observation in the opinion in Stuart v. Hayden, su'pra. The passage referred to (p. 9) is as follows:
"Whether-the bank being in fact insolvent-the transferrer
is liable to be treated as a shareholder, in respect of its existing
contracts, debts and engagements, if he believed in good faith,
at the time of transfer, that the bank was solvent, is a question
which, in the view we take of the present case, need not be discussed; although he may be so treated, even when acting in
good. faith, if the transfer is to one who is financially irresponsible."
But this remark does not purport to pass upon the question
which it suggests, but simply reserves it. The argument, however, is that the opinion would not have reserved a question
which had been conclusively foreclosed. The suggestion is
based on a misconception of the sentences relied on. Obviously
the observations in Stuart v. Hayden cannot in reason be construed as throwing doubt upon the doctrine announced in the
opinion in which the expressions relied on are contained. This
would be, however, the case if the significance now attributed
to the language were sound. The error of the argument arises
from the fact that it affixes to the word insolvency, as found in
the sentences quoted, the erroneous import hitherto pointed out;
that is, an inadequacy of the assets of a bank to pay its liabilities
instead of giving to it its true meaning, that of failure and consequent suspension of business.
3. The proposition under this head is that as the person to
whom the stock was sold in the case before us was in fact insolvent, and hence unable to respond to the double liability, the
sale was void, although the fact of such insolvency of the buyer
was unknown to the seller. But this in its last analysis merely
again reiterates the proposition which we have previously dis-

EARLE v. CARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

posed of, since it but insists that the validity of the sale of the
stock is to be tested, not by the good faith of the seller, but
upon the unknown financial condition of the buyer. The rule
on this subject was clearly stated in the passage which has already been excerpted from Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S. 251,
where in declining to follow the English rule upholding a real
or out and out sale, even if the purpose was to avoid impending
liability, the court said that "the transfer must not be to a person known to be irresponsible, and collusively made, with the
intent of escaping liability and defeating the rights given by
statute to creditors," a principle which has been since expressly
reiterated in Matteson v. Dent, 176 U. S. 521, 531. Here again
support for the proposition is sought to be derived from the
concluding sentence in the passage from the opinion in Stuart
v. Hayden.- But in any event the observation relied upon was
not essential for the decision of the case of Stuart v. Hayden,
and moreover its meaning is clearly shown by the context of
the opinion in which the difference between the American and
English rule is pointed out. When this is borne in mind it will
be seen that the expression in Stuart v. -Haydenreferred to but
stated that difference, and, being taken in connection with other
clauses of the opinion in that case, must be understood as implying that a real or out and out transfer would not be adequate to
relieve the seller from his liability as a stockholder if the sale
was made by him to escape his impending liability and to a
person whom he knew, or had reason to know, was financially
irresponsible. As the views hitherto expressed are conclusive
of the meaning of the act of Congress, we deem it unnecessary
to refer to the many cases from state courts of last resort construing state statutes referred to in the argument.
Affirmed.

