OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

BIGBY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 111. Argued December 4, 5, 1902.-Decided February 23,1903.

There is no contract, express or implied, which can be made the basis for
jurisdiction by a United States Circuit Court under the act of Congress
of March 3, 1887, known as the Tucker Act, between the United States
and a person who, while properly in a government building, sustains
injuries by the fall of an elevator belonging to the government and operated by one of its employds. An action against the United Slates to recover damages for such injuries is necessarily one sounding in tort and
is not maintainable in any court.

BIGBY, the plaintiff in error, claimed in his petition to have
been damaged to the extent of ten thousand dollars on account
of certain personal injuries received by him while entering an
elevator placed by the United States in its court-house and
post-office building in the city of Brooklyn, and asked judgment
for that sum against the Government.
The petition was demurred to upon three grounds, namely,
that the court had no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or of the subject of the action, and that the petition did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the
United States.
The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court on each
of the grounds specified, and so far as it was sustained upon
the ground that the petition did not state a cause of action, it
was sustained because the action was not authorized by the
act of Congress known as the Tucker Act, approved Marsh 3,
1887, c. 359, and entitled "An act to provide for the bringing
of suits against the Government of the United States." 24 Stat.
505. The action was accordingly dismissed. 103 Fed. Rep.
597.
The specific allegations of the petition areThat the United States is a corporation created by the Con-

BIGBY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

stitution with its principal office in Washington, and within
the meaning of the New York Code of Civil Procedure is a
foreign corporation ;
That on or about November 27, 1899, the petitioner, while
on his way to the office of the Marshal of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York, and at the request of
the United States and of its officers, employ~s and duly authorized agents, each acting within the scope of his authority,
entered into a passenger elevator in the United States courthouse and post-office building in Brooklyn, which building and
elevator was owned and controlled by the United States, and
was designed and intended by it for the use of persons on their
way to the office of its said Marshal;
That the United States "then and there entered into an
implied contract" with the petitioner, "wherein and whereby,
for a sufficient valuable consideration, it agreed to carry your
"petitioner safely, to operate said elevator with due care, and to
employ for the purposes of the operation of said elevator a
competent and experienced person;"
That in " violation of said contract, the United States failed
to carry the petitioner safely, or to operate the elevator with
due care, or to employ for the operation and to put in charge
of such elevator a competent and experienced person, and violated its contract with the petitioner in other ways; and,
That in consequence of said failures, respectively, the petitioner, "while entering the said elevator without negligence
on his part was caused to fall and his foot, ankle and leg were
crushed between said elevator and the top of the entrance into
the elevator shaft or a projection in the shaft of said elevator
or in some other manner and the back of your petitioner and
other parts of the body of your petitioner were also consequently injured and your petitioner consequently suffered a
laceration of the ligaments of his ankle and he consequently
was caused much bodily and mental pain."
The transcript contains a certificate from the Circuit Court
to the effect that in said cause the jurisdiction of that court
was in issue, and that the question was " whether a person who
is not, and has not been, an employ6 of the United States, can
VOL. cLxxxviii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

sue the United States, in the Circuit Court of the United States,
in the district where he resides, to recover damages to the
amount of ten thousand dollars, which damages were caused
by personal injury received by said person through the negligence of an employ6 of the United States, while said person injured as aforesaid, was being carried on an elevator in a public
building, owned and used by the United States as a post-office
and for other governmental uses and purposes, when said person entered said elevator for the purpose of visiting the office
of the United States Marshal of such district on official business."
.r.

Roger .Foster for plaintiff in error.

i. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for defendant in
error.
M. JUSTICE HArLAN, after making the forbgoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This being an action against the United States, the authority
of the Circuit Court to take cognizance of it depends upon the
construction of the above act of March 3, 1887. 24 Stat. 505.
By that act it is provided that the Court of Claims shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine "all claims founded upon
the Constitution of the United States or any law of Congress,
except for pensions, or upon any regulation of an Executive
Department or upon any contract, expressed or implied, with
the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect
of which claims the party would be entitled to redress against
the United States either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty
if the United States were suable: Provided, however, That
nothing in this section shall be construed as giving to either of
the courts herein mentioned, jurisdiction to hear and determine
cl aims growing out of the late civil war, and commonly known
as ' war claims,' or to hear and determine other claims, which
have heretofore been rejected, or reported on adversely by any

BIGBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

court, Department, or commission authorized to hear and determine the same." The act further provided that "the District Courts of the United States shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the Court of Claims as to all matters named in the
preceding section where the amount of the claim does not exceed one thousand dollars, and the Circuit Courts of the United
States shall have such concurrent jurisdiction in all cases where
the amount of such claim exceeds one thousand dollars and
does not exceed ten thousand dollars."
It is clear that the act excludes from judicial cognizance any
claim against the United States for damages in a case "sounding in tort." But the contention of the plaintiff is, in substance
that although the facts constituting the negligence of which he
complains, made a case of tort, he may waive the tort; that
his present claim is founded upon an implied contract with the
Government, whereby it agreed to carry him safely in its elevator, to operate the elevator with due care, and to employ
for the purposes of such carriage a competent and experienced
person; and, consequently, that his suit is embraced by the
words "upon any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the United States." The contention of the United
States is that no such implied contract with the Government
arose from the plaintiff's entering or attempting to enter and
use the elevator in question, and that the claim is distinctly for
damages in a case "sounding in tort," of which the act of Congress did not authorize the Circuit Court to take cognizance.
Can the plaintiff's cause of action be regarded as founded upon
implied contract with the Government, within the meaning of
the act of 1887?
The precise question thus presented has not been determined
by this court. But former decisions may be consulted in order
to ascertain whether this suit is embraced by the words, in that
act, " upon any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the United States." Do those words include an
action against the United States to recover damages for personal
injuries caused by the negligent management of an elevator
erected and maintained by it in one of its court-house and postoffice buildings?

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

In Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 269, 274-which was an
action in the Court of Claims to recover an amount alleged to
have been wrongfully exacted by a quartermaster of the United
States in the execution of a contract for the delivery of oatsthis court said: "But it is not to be disguised that this case is
an attempt, under the assumption of an implied contract, to
make the Govermuent responsible for the unauthorized acts of
its officer, those acts being in themselves torts. No government
has ever held itself liable to individuals for the misfeasance,
laches, or unauthorized exercise of power by its officers and
agents. In the language of Judge Story, 'it does not undertake to guarantee to any person the fidelity of any of the officers
or agents whom it employs, since that would involve it in all
its operations in endless embarrassments, and difficulties, and
losses, which would be subversive of the public interests.'
The language of the statutes which confer jurisdiction upon the
Court of Claims, excludes by the strongest implication demands
against the Government founded on torts. The general principle which we have already stated as applicable to all governments, forbids, on a policy imposed by necessity, that they should
hold themselves liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted by
their officers on the citizen, though occurring while engaged
in the discharge of official duties. . . . These reflections
admonish us to be cautious that we do not permit the decisions
of this court to become authority for the righting, in the Court
of Claims, of all wrongs done to individuals by the officers of
the General Government, though they may have been committed while serving that Government, and in the belief that it
was for its interest. In such cases, where it is proper for the
Nation to furnish a remedy, Congress has wisely reserved the
matter for its own determination. It certainly his not conferred it on the Court of Claims."
The same general question arose in Langford v. Un ited States,
101 U. S. 341, 342, 344, which was an action in the Court of
Claims to recover for the use and occupation of lands and buildings, of which certain Indian agents acting for the United States
had taken possession without the consent of the American Board
of Foreign Missions, which had erected the buildings, and under

BIGBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

* which Board the plaintiff claimed title. The United States
asserted ownership of the property and disputed the title of the
claimant. This court held that the action could not be maintained, and said that the reason for limiting suits to cases of
express and implied contracts, as distinguished from cases formed
on tort, "is very obvious on a moment's reflection. While Congress might be willing to subject the Government to the judicial enforcement of valid contracts, which could only be valid
as against the United States when made by some officer of the
Government acting under lawful authority, with power vested
in hin,to make such contracts, or to do acts which implied them,
the very essence of a tort is that it is an unlawful act, done in
violation of the legal rights of some one. For such acts, however high the position of the officer or agent of the Government who did or commanded them, Congress did not intend to
subject the Government to the results of a suit in that court.
This policy is founded in wisdom, and is clearly expressed in
the act defining the jurisdiction of the court; and it would ill
become us to fritter away the distinction between actions ex
delicto and actions ex contractu,which is well understood in our
system of jurisprudence, and thereby subject the Government
to payment of damages for all the wrongs committed by its
officers or agents, under a mistaken zeal, or actuated by less
worthy motives."
The subject was again considered in ill v. United States,
149 U. S. 593, 598-9, which was an action to recover damages
for the use and occupation of certain property in the possession
of the United States, but of which the plaintiff asserted ownership. This court said: "The United States cannot be sued in
their own courts without their consent, and have never permitted themselves to be sued in any court for torts committed
in their name by their officers. Nor can the settled distinction,
in this respect, between contract and tort, be evaded by framing
the claim as upon an implied contract. Gibbons v. United States,
8 Wall. 269, 274; Langford v. United States, 101 U. S. 341, 346 ;
inited States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1, above cited. An actign in
the nature of assumpsit for the use and occupation of real estate will never lie where there has been no relation of contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

between the parties, and where the possession has been acquired
and maintained under a different or adverse title, or where it
is tortious and makes the defendant a trespasser. Lloyd v.
Hough, 1 How. 153, 159; Ca)enter v. United States, 17 Wall.
489, 493. In 1angford v. United States, it was accordingly
adjudged that, when an officer of the United States took and
held possession of land of a private citizen, under a claim that
it belonged to the Government, the United States could not be
charged upon an implied obligation to pay for its use and occupation."
In Robertson v. Sichel, 127 U. S. 507, 515, the court said:
"The Government itself is not responsible for the misfeasances,
or wrongs, or negligences, or omissions of duty of the subordinate officers or agents employed in the public service; for it
does not undertake to guarantee to any person the fidelity of
any of the officers or agents whom it employs; since that would
involve it, in all its operations, in endless embarrassments, and
difficulties, and losses, which would be subversive of the public
interests." So in German Bank of _1erp1~is v. Uvitcd States,
148 U. S. 573, 579 : "It is a well-settled rule of law that the
Government is not liable for the nonfeasances or misfeasances
or negligence of its officers, and that the only remedy to the
injured party in such cases is by appeal to Congress."
In Schillingerv. Uv ited States, 155 U. S. 163, 168, the question
was whether a suit could be maintained against the United
States to recover damages for the use of a patent for an improvement in a concrete pavement. It appeared that the patent had been used by a contractor who undertook to construct
a pavement for the United States. The pavement was constructed, and at the time the action was brought was in use by
the Government. It was contended that the United States,
having appropriated to public use property that belonged to
the plaintiff, came under an implied obligation to' compensate
him-such implied obligation arising from the constitutional
provision that private property should not be taken for public
use except upon payment of just compensation. This view was
rejected, and the court said: "Can it be that Congress intended
that every wrongful arrest and detention of an individual, or

BIGBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

seizure of his property by an officer of the Government, should
expose it to an action for damages in the Court of Claims? If
any such breadth of jurisdiction was contemplated, language
which had already been given a restrictive meaning would have
been carefully avoided. . . . Here the claimants never authorized the use of the patent right by the Government; never
consented to, but always protested against it, threatening to
interfere by injunction or other proceedings to restrain such
use. There was no act of Congress in terms directing, or even
by implication suggesting, the use of the patent. No officer of
the Government directed its use, and the contract which was
executed by Cook did not name or describe it. There was no
recognition by the Government or any of its officers of the fact
that in the construction of the pavement there was any use of
the patent, or that any appropriation was being made of claimant's property. The Government proceeded as though it were
acting only in the management of its own property and the
exercise of its own rights, and without any trespass upon the
rights of the claimants. There was no point in the whole transaction from its commencement to its close where the minds of
the parties met or where there was anything in the semblance
of an agreement."
It thus appears that the court has steadily adhered to the
general rule that, without its consent given in some act of Congress, the Government is not liable to be sued for the torts,
misconduct, misfeasances or laches of its officers or employ~s.
There is no reason to suppose that Congress has intended to
change or modify that rule. On the contrary, such liability to
suit is expressly excluded by the act of 1887.
Cases of this kind are to be distinguished from those in which
private property was taken or used by the officers of the Government with the consent of the owner or under circumstances
showing that the title or right of the owner was recognized or
admitted. As, in United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, 626,
which was an action to recover for the use of certain steamers
used in the business of the Government pursuant to an understanding with the owner that lie should be compensated; or,
in United States v. Gieat Falls .ManufacturingCompawny, 112

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 645, in which it appeared that certain private property
was appropriated by officers of the Government for public use,
pursuant to an act of Congress, the title of the owner being recognized or not disputed; or, in United States v. Palmer, 128
U. S. 2692, 269, which was an action to recover for the use of a
patent which the Government was invited by the patentee to
use. In all such cases the law implies a meeting of the minds
of the parties, and an agreement to pay for that which was
used for the Government, no dispute existing as to the title to
the property used. The important fact in each of those cases
was that the officers who appropriated and used the property
of others were authorized to do so, and hence the implied contract that the Government would pay for such use.
But, as we have seen, the plaintiff contends that when he
entered or attempted to enter the elevator the Government
must be deemed to have contracted that its employ6 in charge
of it would use due care so as not to needlessly injure him. In
other words-for it comes to that-by the mere construction
and maintenance of such elevator the Government, contrary to
its established policy, impliedly agreed to be responsible for the
torts of an employ6 having charge of the elevator, if, by his
negligence, injury came to one using it. We find no authority
for this position in any act of Congress, and nothing short of
an act of Congress can make the United States responsible for
a personal injury done to the citizen by one of its employC-s
who, while discharging his duties, fails to exercise such care
and diligence as a proper regard to the rights of others required. "Causing harm by negligence is a tort." One of the
definitions of a tort is "an act or omission causing harm which
the person so acting or omitting did not intend to cause, but
might and should with due diligence have foreseen and prevented." Pollock on Torts, 1, 19. The elevator in question
was erected in order to facilitate the transaction of the public
business, and also, it may be assmned, for the convenience and
comfort of those who might choose to use it when going to a
room in the court-house and post-office building occupied by
public officers, and not pursuant to any agreement, express or
implied, between the United States and the general public, or

BIGBY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

under any agreement between the United States and the individual person who might seek to use it. No one was compelled or required to use it, and no officer in charge of the building had any authority to say that a person using it could sue
the Government if he was injured by reason of the want of due
care on the part of the employ6 operating it. No officer had authority to make an express contract to that effect and no contract
of that kind could be implied merely from the Government's
ownership of the elevator and from the negligence of its employ6.
The facts alleged show a case in which the plaintiff was injured
by reason of the negligence of the manager of the elevator. It is
therefore a case of pure tort on the part of such manager for
which he could be sued. It is a case "sounding in tort," because
it had its origin in and is founded on the wrongful and negligent
act of the elevator manager. There is in it no element of contract as between the plaintiff and the Government; for, as we
have said, no one was authorized to put upon the Government
a liability for damages arising from the wrongful, tortious act
of its employ6. The plaintiff therefore cannot by the device of
waiving the tort committed by the elevator operator make a
case against the Government of implied contract. A party
may in some cases waive a tort, that is, he may forbear to sue
in tort, and sue in contract, where the matter out of which his
claim arises has in it the elements both of contract and tort. But
it has been well said that "a right of action in contract cannot
be created by waiving a tort, and the duty to pay damages for
a tort does not imply a promise to pay them, upon which assumpsit can be maintained." Cooper v. Cioope', 147 Massachusetts, 370, 373. If the plaintiff could sue the elevator employ6
upon an implied contract that due care should be observed by
him in managing the elevator, it does not follow that he could
sue the Government upon implied contract. For under existing legislation no relation of contract could arise between the
Government and those who chose to use its elevator. It is
easy to perceive how disastrous to the operations of the Government would be a rule under which it could be sued for torts
committed by its agents and employes in the management of
its property. It is for Congress to determine in all such cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

what justice requires upon the part of the Government. If any
exceptions ought to be made to the general rule it is for Congress to make them.
We have not overlooked the allegation in the petition that
the plaintiff entered the elevator "at the request of the United
States, and of its officers, employ6s and duly authorized agents,
each acting within the scope of his authority." This, we assume, means at most only that the plaintiff entered, or attempted
to enter, the elevator with the assent of those who had control
of it and of the building in which it was erected. But if more
than this was meant to be alleged; if the plaintiff intended to
allege an express or affirmative request by officers or agents of
the United States, the case would not, in our view, be changed ;
for the court knows that, without the authority of an act of
Congress, no officer or agent of the United States could, in writing or verbally, make the Government liable to suit by reason
of the want of due care on the part of those having charge of
an elevator in a public building.
We are of opinion that this case is one sounding in tort, within
the meaning of the act of 1887, and therefore not maintainable
in any court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the action for
want of jurisdiction is
Affirmed.

CUMMIIGS v. CHICAGO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 136. Submitted December 19, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

1. The plaintiffs by their complaint asserted a right, under the Constitution of the United States and certain acts of Congress and a permit of
the Secretary of War, issued in conformity with those acts, to construct
a dock in the Calumet River, a navigable water of the United States
within the limits of the city of Chicago. The bill showed that this

