OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

that they ever even corresponded, or that the caveators ever
manifested any interest in him or his until after his death, when

they asserted a right to inherit his property.
Upon questions of this kind submitted to a jury the burden
of proof, in this District at least, is on the caveators. Dunlop
v. Peter, 1 Cranch C. C. 403. See also iliggins v. Carlton, 28
Maryland, 115, 143 ; Tyson v. Tyson's .Er'ecwtors, 37 Maryland,
567. The caveators in the present case failed to sustain this
burden, and we are of the opinion that the trial court did not
err in directing a verdict against them.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

SCHAEFER v. WERLING.
ERROR TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF TIE ST&ATE .OF INDIANA.
No. 151.

Argued January 27, 28, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.

The construction placed by the highest courts of the State upon a statute
providing for paving streets and distributing the assessment therefor is
conclusive upon this court.
Where a person attacking the validity of an assessment claims that the city
is estopped from proceeding to collect the benefits assessed upon lots,
the owner whereof objected in writing, and which objections were placed
on file by the common council, the question, so far as such estoppel is
concerned, is purely state, and not Federal.
Within repeated decisions of this court the statute in question in this
case is not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.r'.

S. ff. Sayler and _l'. IF I. Dudley for plaintiff in error.

.ir. John C. Chaney for defendant in error. Air. A1)phonso
fHart, -i%. TFilliam H. Bahrt, .-r.John G. Cline and .r. Clifford F. Jackman were on the brief.
IR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

In September, 1892, the plaintiff in error, the owner of five

SCHAEFER v. WERLING.
Opinion of the Court.

lots on Williams street, in Schaefer's addition to the city of
Huntington, Indiana, with other lot owners, petitioned the
city council to have the street graded and graveled. On July 10,
1893, the petition was granted and the street ordered to be so
improved. After this improvement had been ordered some of
the lot owners petitioned the city council to order the street
paved with brick. This petition was presented on August 14,
1893. A remonstrance was at the same time presented, the
plaintiff in error being one of the parties thereto. Notwithstandin'g the remonstrance the city council ordered that the
street be paved with brick, and let a contract therefor to the
defendants in error. They completed the work according to
the contract, and the lots abutting on Williams street were assessed for the cost thereof-the assessment being made by the
front foot-and a precept to collect the amount due on the lots
of the plaintiff in error issued to the city treasurer. Further
proceedings were had on appeal, in accordance with the provisions of the statute, which ended in a decision of the Supreme
Court, 156 Indiana, 704, affirming the validity of the assessment, on the authority of Adams v. City of Slielbyville, 154
Indiana, 4(7, and thereupon the case was brought here on writ
of error.
The case involves the validity of a statute of Indiana known
as the "B'arrett law," enacted in 1889. Sections 4288 to 4298,
Burns Rev. Stat. 1S94. We deem it sufficient to refer to the
opinion in A dams v. Mgty ?f S/u'lbyville, s8u)r'(, in which the
Supreme Court of Indiana closed an elaborate discussion of the
various provisions of the law in these words:
"We therefore conclude that section 3, acts 1889, ยง4290,
Burns 1894, must be construed as providing a rule of prima
fAcie assessments in street and alley improvements, which allotments by the city or town engineer, under section 6 of said act
of 1889, ยง 4293, Burns 1894, are subject to review and alteration
by the common council and board of trustees, under section 7
of said act of 1889, as amended, acts of 1891, p. 324; acts 1899,
p. 64; ยง 4294, Burns 1894, upon the basis of actual special
benefits received by the improvement; and that under said
section 7, the common council of a city, or board of trustees of

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

an incorporated town, have not only the power, but it is their
imperative duty, to adjust the assessments for street and alley
improvements, under said act, to conform to the actual special
benefits accruing to each of the abutting property owners."
Of course, the construction placed by the Supreme Court of
a State upon its statutes is, in a case of this kind, conclusive
upon this court. Fol.yth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, 518, and
cases cited. And with that construction the following recently
decided cases, in which the matter of street assessment was fully
considered, sustain the decision of the state court upholding the
validity of the law: Barber Asphalt PavingCompany v. Brench,
181 U. S. 324; Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371; Tonawa'nda
v. Lyon, 181 U. S. 389; Vebster v. _Fargo, 181 U. S. 394; Cass
Farm company v. Detroit, 181 U. S. 396; Detroit v. Parker,
181 U. S. 399; Fori'nley v. Districtqf Coltmbia,181 U. S. 402;
Sk1umate v. Heman, 181 U. S. 402; Farrell v. West Chicago
Parkk Commissioners, 181 U. S. 404; King v. Portland City,
184 U. S. 61; 7oigt v. Detroit City, 184 U. S. 115; Goodrich
v. Detroit, 184 U. S. 432.
Another question presented is this: The plaintiff in error appeared by counsel before the city council and filed written objections to the brick pavement "because the cost of said improvement will greatly exceed the benefit of said improvement;
second, said proposed improvement is not necessary to said real
estate, and is not of public utility to said real estate." The record of the city council shows that "after some discussion on
the matter Mr. Levy moved to place the communication on file,
which motion was concurred in." In her answer filed in the
Circuit Court plaintiff in error alleged that she appeared before
the common council, "and offered to present her objections to the
necessity of said improvement, but that the said common council
refused to hear her objections to the improvement of said street
with brick, treating her said objections as a mere communication, and ordering the same placed on file." She further averred
that she could and would have shown by witnesses that the improvement was not necessary, and also "that by reason of the
refusal of the said action thereon the said city of Huntington,
Indiana, is estopped from proceeding to collect any benefits as-

TARRANC9 v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

sessed on the lots herein described." The Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to this answer. It may be observed that, so
far as the question was one of estoppel, it was a purely state and
not a Federal question. Gillis v. Stinc/held, 159 U. S. 658;
Phw/ux hisurance Corpany v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Beals
v. Cone, ante, p. 184. Further, the matter was not noticed
by the Supreme Court, and its judgment is the one before us
for review.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

TARRANCE v. FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREINE COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 202. Argued April 17, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

An actual discrimination by the officers charged with the administration
of statutes unobjectionable in themselves against the race of a negro on
trial for a crime by purposely excluding negroes from the grand and petit
juries of the county, will not be presumed but must be proved. An affidavit of the persons under indictmient, annexed to a motion to quash the

indictment on the ground of such discrimination, stating that the facts
set up in the motion are true " to their best knowledge, information and
belief" is not evidence of tie facts stated. Smith v. Mllississippi, 162 U. S.
592, followed; Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, distinguished.
Under the decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida objections to the
panels of grand juries not appearing of record must be taken by plea in
abatement of, and not by motion to quash, the indictment.

TIE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Isaac L. Purcell for plaintiffs in error.
- r. IV.B. Lamar, attorney general of the State of Florida,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error were convicted in the Circuit Court of Es-

