UNITED STATES v.

BARRINGER.

Statement of the Case.

all that was sold was the right, title and interest of the receiver
therein. In the light, therefore, of all the circumstances which
have been detailed, we cannot sustain the contention of the
plaintiff in error that the guaranty clause of the decrees, transferring liens upon the property to the proceeds of sale, was intended to apply to the accounts in question without indulging
in conjecture and giving to the plaintiff in error the benefit of
the doubts which arise as to the precise meaning of the decrees.
The parties having chosen to try the case on a statement of
facts, which does not afford us the means of saying with that
certainty which is required, that the judgment below denied
due faith and credit to the decrees in question, we cannot, in
view of the burden of proof, reverse the judgment below; and
it is therefore
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 252. Argued January 5, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.
The provisions in the sundry civil appropriation act of June 11, 1896, and
in the prior acts of Congress referred to in the opinion, in regard to leaves
of absence to tile employds of the Government Printing Office, and forpro
rata extra pay to those not receiving leaves of absence, relate only to
permanent employ6s, or employds regularly employed on the Congressional Record and do not relate to temporary employds.
This construction of the statutes referred to is in accord with tile interpretation placed thereon by the Public Printer and also by Congress in appropriating for the payment of such extra pay allowed in lieu of such
leaves of absence.
THE findings of the Court of Claims upon which it predicated
the conclusion that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment
against the United States are as follows:
"I. The claimant, Arthur B. Barringer, was from time to
time employed as a compositor in the Government Printing
VOL.

CLXXXVIII-37

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Office during the following periods: December 31,1895, to February 26, 1896, inclusive; July 2, 1897, to July 31, 1897, inclusive; December 10, 1897, to July 16, 1898, inclusive; October 24, 1898, to March 4, 1899, inclusive; October 28, 1899, to
April 27, 1900, inclusive, aggregating one (1) year, eight (8)
months and twelve (12) days.
"II. During his term of service as such he was paid at the
rate of three dollars and twenty cents ($3.20) per diem of eight
hours for the time served prior to July 1, 1899, amounting to
one (1) year, two (2) months and twelve (12) days, and at the
rate of four dollars ($4) a day for such service rendered after
July 1, 1899, amounting to six (6) months.
"III. He was not during any of the times of his employment
allowed leave of absence or pro 'ata pay for leave of absence.
If allowed leave of absence of thirty (30) days a year, he would
have been entitled to fifty-one (51) days' leave.
"If instead of taking such leave he had been paid pro rata
for the same, he would have been paid three dollars and twenty
cents ($3.20) a day for thirty-six (36) days and four dollars ($4)
a day for fifteen (15) days, amounting to one hundred and
seventy-five dollars and twenty cents ($175.20).
"IV. The claimant did not, at any time during his several
terms of service, set forth in finding I, apply for a leave of absence or for a money equivalent for the same. No leave of absence was granted or allowed to the claimant, for the reason
that under the rules adopted by the Public Printer regarding
leaves of absence persons temporarily employed were not granted
leave.
"V. All emnploy~s of the Government Printing Office in service
from the 1st of July, 1886, to the 30th of June, 1895, whether
permanent or temporary, have been paid for all accrued but
unused leaves of absence. The last of the appropriations for
such unused leaves was that of fifty-seven thousand eight hundred and fifty-nine dollars and sixty cents ($57,859.60), made
by the act of July 19, 1897, 30 Stat. 134, and was based on an
estimate of the Public Printer, who in transmitting the same to
the Senate informed that body that it included ' many emplovs
whose terms of service in the office were only for periods of

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

less than one year,' and that 'the amounts of pro rata leave
which accrued to such persons are herewith include(] in the respective years in which they were earned.'" 37 C. Cl. 1.
Jl/r. Assistant Attorney General P'radt for appellant.
Assistant Attorney Anderson was on the brief.
Mir. George A. King for appellee.
was with him. on the brief.

L1r.

ilfr. WTilliam, B. ffinDg

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Although the court below found that among the rules for the
government of the Printing Office adopted by the Public
Printer, in pursuance of power conferred by law, there was a
rule forbidding the allowance of leaves of absence to temporary
employ~s, the court in effect treated the rule in question as
void, since it assumed that, by the acts of Congress governing
the Printing Office, temporary employ6s of the office were entitled to leave of absence with pay. The court deemed that the
duration of such leave of absence was such proportion of the
yearly annual leave allowed to permanent employ6s as the
period of service of the temporary employ6 in each year bore
to a year's employment. From the premise of law thus assumed
the court held that where a temporary employ6 had not been
allowed his leave of absence because of the enforcement by the
Public Printer of the rule denying the right to such leave, the
temporary employ6 was entitled to be paid an extra amount
equal to the sum of his regular wages for the period which
would have been embraced by the leave had it been granted.
In effect, therefore, the conclusion of the court was that because
the statutes were held to allow to a temporary employ6 leave
of absence with regular pay, they must be construed as allowing to such personextra pay without leave, and this upon the
theory that the employ6 who had a right to leave with pay,
who had not received it under the circumstances stated, was
entitled, so to speak, to a commutation in money at his regular
rate of wages for the period of leave of which he had been deprived.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Cour.

The conclusion thus reached was stated by the court to be
exceptional and anomalous, but was deemed to be required by
what was conceived to be the unambiguous purport of a provision, held to be mandatory, found in the act of June 11, 1896,
making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1897. 29 Stat. 413.
The provision in question was said to be entirely new in the
legislation of Congress with respect to leaves of absence to the
employ~s of the Government Printing Office. Whilst the anomalous result of the conclusion, as observed by the court below, is,
we think, apparent, it would seem to us that a yet greater anomaly is involved in the premise which was taken for granted,
that is, that the statutes contemplate the enjoyment by mere
temporary employs of the provisions of law relating to an annual leave of absence. We think this is so, because singular as
may be the conclusion that since employ~s enjoy the right to
leave with pay, they are therefore entitled to extra pay without leave, we think it is far more singular to conceive that one
who is engaged for a temporary employment, say for a day or
a week or a month or so, comes within the purview of the statutes providing for annual leaves of absence.
If, however, the acts of Congress compel the adoption of the
premise assumed or the conclusion drawn fron it by the court,
however anomalous they may be, our duty is to enforce the result. Whether the acts of Congress do either cannot be ascertained by a mere reference to the particular proviso in the appropriation act which constrained the judgment of the court
below, but must be determined by an examination of the acts
of Congress concerning leaves of absence to employ~s in the
Government Printing Office from the beginning. The review
of the statutes for the purpose of determining whether leave
with regular pay involves the right to extra pay without leave,
will also necessarily require us to examine the same statutes
upon which the right, if it exists at all, of temporary employ~s
in the Printing Office to leave of absence must rest. In proposing to first investigate such question we are not unmindful
of the fact that the government at bar did not at all dispute
the assumption indulged in by the lower court, but rested its

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

claim to reversal on other grounds. In view of the fact, however, that we must correctly administer the statutes, and that
the question as to the right of a temporary ernploy6 to leave of
absence has been fully presented by the appellees, we shall examine and decide it. The problems, then, for solution in the
order stated are, First. Do the acts of Congress which provide
for leave of absence to the employ~s of the Government Printing Office embrace mere temlporary emnployes of such office ?
and, Second. If such employ~s are so embraced, do the statutes,
whilst providing for leave in favor of the temporary employ6s
with pay during the term of the leave, provide also for extra
pay without leave where the leave has not been enjoyed because of a rule of the Printing Office forbidding its allowance?
The original grant of authority to allow leaves of absence,
with pay, to eniployes of the Printing Office was the act of
June 30, 1886. 2-4 Stat. 91. The statute consisted of two sections, in the second of which it was provided that the act should
take effect on and after the first day of July, 1886. The first
section is as follows:
"That the emploves of the Government Printing Office,
whether employed by the piece or otherwise, be allowed a leave
of absence, with pay, not exceeding fifteen days in any one
fiscal year, after the service of one year and under such regulations and at such time as the Public Printer may designate.
Such employ6s as are engaged on piece work shall receive the
same rate of pay for the said fifteen (lays' leave as will be paid
to day hands: Mrovided, That those regularly employed on the
Congressional Record shall receive leave, with pay, at the close
of each session, Pro rata, for the time of such employment."
We think the employ(s embraced within this statute were
perimanent emplloycs and not those who might be called in for
temporary or emergency purposes, since the object of the statute was to provide for annual leave during each fiscal year, and
the leave was allowed only after the service of one year. Any
doubt as to this construction is removed by the proviso which
allows a pro vrata leave to regular emnploy(s of the Congressional
Record. As the duration of the work which this class of employ(s performed was necessarily limited by the sessions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress, it is obvious that they were considered as excluded by
the general language in the prior portions of the act, and hence
an exceptional provision giving them its advantages was inserted. And the proviso itself adds emphasis to the signIicance
arising from its enactment, since it conferred the benefits only
on such employ6s as were regnldly employed for such work,
and therefore excluded those merely called in to meet an emergency in the employment in question.
It is also obvious that the Public Printer in administering
this act did not interpret it as embracing temporary employ~s,
since the rules of his office excluded employ6s of that character
from the grant of leaves of absence. And the appropriations
made by Congress to execute the act of 1886, one of the acts
being enacted by the very Congress which passed the act of
1886, serve to enforce the meaning arising on the face of the
act itself. Those appropriations were thus defined: "To enable the Public Printer to comply with the provisions of the
law granting fifteen days' annual leave to the elnploy~s of the
Government Printing Office." (Act of August 4, 1886, making
appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1887, 24 Stat.
255 ; act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 509, and the urgency deficiency appropriation act of IMarch 30, 1888, 25 Stat. 47, making appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1888.)
From the subsequent legislation, to which we shall hereafter
refer, we think that it may be inferred that those charged with
the administration of the act of 1886 construed it as meaning
that a year's service was necessary to give the right to receive
leave of absence, and that, if after earning and enjoying leave
by a year's service, before the completion of another full year,
the employ6 severed his connection with the service, he was
not entitled to any proportional leave. On August 1, 1888, an
act was approved, which, with its title, reads as follows, c. 722,
25 Stat. 352:
"An act to extend the leave of absence of employ~s in the
Government Printing Office to thirty days per annum.
"That the act entitled ' An act granting leave of absence to
employ~s in the Government Printing Office,' approved June
thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, be so amended as to

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

extend the annual leave of absence therein described to thirty
days in each fiscal year: Provided,That it shall be lawful to
allow pro rataleave to those serving fractional parts of a year."
Clearly this act was but an amendment of the act of 1886,
and did not attempt to repeal that act or to extend its benefits
to classes of employ~s not embraced by the prior act. Its object
on its face was simply to extend the period of leave of absence
from fifteen to thirty days and to confer upon the permanent
employ6s who were entitled to leave, in accordance with tile
terms of the previous act, an additional right to enjoy the benefits of a 'prorata leave, if thereafter they severed their connection with the service before they had completed another entire
year's service so as to be entitled to that year's leave.
Undoubtedly the statute was thus construed by the Public
Printer in its administration, since he continued in force the
rule forbidding leaves of absence to temporary employ~s, and
besides construed the statute as giving the right to proportional
leave of absence to only a permanent employ6 who had served
sufficient time to earn at least one annual leave. As the act of
1888 considered and dealt with the prior law, as administered
by the Public Printer in pursuance of the authority conferred
upon him by the act of 1886, and as the act of 1888 conferred
only a new right in one particular-that is, as to fractional
leaves to permanent employs-it is not probable that, if it was
intended to overthrow the construction which the Public Printer
had put upon the previous act, by formulating a rule expressly
excluding temporary employ(s from the right to leave, that
some express provision on that subject would not have been incorporated into the amendatory act.
What was intended by the act of August, 1888, is moreover
shown by an act passed by the very same Congress at the same
session. Thus, the appropriation act for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1889, became a law on October 2, 1888. That act contained an appropriation "To enable the Public Printer to comply with the provisions of the law granting thirty days' annual
leave to the employ~s of the Government Printing Office." This
was immediately followed by an appropriation "To pay pro
rata leaves of absence to employs who resign or are discharged

OCTOBER TERML 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

(decision of the First Comptroller)." We have not been referred
to the decision of the Comptroller to which the act adverts, nor
have we been able to find it. But, the appropriation made in
furtherance of the act of 1888 shows that such act was designed
for the benefit solely of the regular e'nplov6s, and the authority
to pay pro rata leaves of absence which it granted was such1)ro
9,ata leaves of absence to employas who, from the nature of their
previous and permanent service, might expect to earn a full
annual leave but were prevented from doing so by resignation
or discharge. Appropriations of like character, couched in substantially identical language, were made for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1890, 25 Stat. 980; 26 Stat. 159; for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1891, 26 Stat. 371; and for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1892, 26 Stat. 948. Indeed, the appropriation
act for the last quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1890,
makes clear what was the legislative conception of the meaning
of the right to pro rata leave, granted by the amendatory act
of 1888, and the character of the employ6s embraced by it, for
that act, after appropriating a sum to pay employ~s entitled
to annual leave of absence, added the sum necessary to pay for
the pro 9'ata leaves of "such" employ~s "who resign or are discharged."
The contention then that temporary employ~s were embraced
within the provisions of the act of 1888 not only is in conflict
with the text of that act, but is opposed to the administrative
construction placed upon the act by the Public Printer charged
with its execution. It is, besides, directly repugnant to the
legislative interpretation of that act manifested by Congress,
during a period of nearly five years, in appropriating the money
for its execution.
In the appropriation acts for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1893, 1894 and 1895, 27 Stat. 388; 27 Stat. 572; 28 Stat. 41,
whilst appropriations were made for the allowance of annual
leaves of absence to the emplovs of the Government Printing
Office, in substance in the same words as found in the previous
acts, the clause contained in the previous acts providing for the
allowance of pro rata leaves to such employ~s was omitted. It
followed, therefore, that, although the act of 1888 provided for

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

pro rata leave to the regular employ s, the appropriation acts
for the years 1893, 1894 and 1895 were susceptible, by their
silence on that subject, of the inference that they did not provide a sum to pay such pro rata leaves. The attention of Congress was evidently directed to this omission, since, on June 19,
1894, the deficiency appropriation act for the fiscal year of 1894,
28 Stat. 93, contained the following:
"To enable the Public Printer to pay to the employ~s heretofore or now employed in the Government Printing Office since
July first, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, such sums as may
be due them for leaves of absence, notwithstanding the fact that
thirty days' leave of absence, with pay, had been granted to
such persons in said fiscal y'ear on account of service rendered
in the preceding fiscal year, and also to pay all employ~s of the
said office any leave of absence which they may have failed to
obtain from the lack of necessary appropriations or other cause,
sixty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
"Hereafter the Public Printer is authorized to pay pro ratac
leave of absence out of any appropriation for leaves of absence
to employs of the Government Printing Office in any fiscal
year, notwithstanding the fact that thirty days' leave of absence, with pay, may have been granted to such "employs in
that fiscal year on account of service rendered in a previous
fiscal year." 28 Stat. 94.
This act also created no new class of beneficiaries of leaves
of absence. It recognized the right of permanent employs,
who had for annual services in a previous fiscal year earned
leave, to be granted in a succeeding year in addition their )ro
'ata leave when they were prevented from completing a full
year of service, by resignation or discharge, as provided in the
previous statute. The act besides corrected the omission, if
omission resulted, from the silence of the regular appropriation on the subject of pro rala leaves for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1894, and, looking to the future, provided a rule for
the guidance of the Public Printer, making appropriations for
leave of absence without particular specification applicable to
pro ata leaves in cases where they were allowed by law. All

OCTOBER TERAP,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

the reasoning previously adverted to on the subject of the prior
acts is applicable to this, and constitutes but another confirmation by Congress of the settled construction excluding temporary employ~s from the operation of the provisions as to leave
of absence. It would seem from a document, to which we shall
have occasion hereafter to more particularly advert, that the
construction of the pro rata&
leave of absence clause was somewhat widened in its practical administration after that, from
and including the fiscal year 1893, by allowing a).o rata leave
to a permanent employ6 who had not served a year, and therefore had not earned the full leave of thirty days because of the
termination of his permanent employment, by resignation or
discharge, before the completion of the year. The exact origin
of this broadening of the construction of the act has not been
made manifest, but it is inferable that it arose from expressions
used in an opinion of the acting Comptroller of the Treasury
of date July 3, 1894. Dec. First Comp. 1893-1894, p. 260.
Whilst the ruling in question was subsequently somewhat modified, such modification had no relation to the particular expressions in the opinion lending themselves to the construction in
question. 3 Dec. Comp. Treas. 28.
In 1895 a general act relative to the conduct of the Government Printing Office was passed. 28 Stat. 601. The twentythird section of that act, in effect, renacted and recapitulated
the existing laws on the subject of leaves of absence to the employs of the Government Printing Office, as follows:
"The employ.s of the Government Printing Office, whether
employed by the piece or otherwise, shall be allowed leaves of
absence with pay to the extent of not exceeding thirty days in
any one fiscal year under such regulations and at such times as
the Public Printer may designate at the rate of pay received
by them during the time in which said leave was earned ; but
such leaves of absence shall not be allowed to accumulate from
year to year. Such employ~s as are engaged on piece work
shall receive the same rate of pay for the said thirty days'
leave as will be paid to day hands: Provided, That those regularly employed on the Congressional Record shall receive leave,
with pay, at the close of each session, pro lata for the time of

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

such employment: And providedfurther, That it shall be lawful to allow lpo rata leave to those serving fractional parts of
the year."
The text of this section contains nothing which can, we think,
be construed as changing the past legislation so as to extend
leaves of absence to temporary employ6s. It cannot in reason
be argued that Congress, in reenacting the legislation in question, did not have in mind the class of employ~s entitled to
leaves of absence, since in the act of 1895 it expressly reproduced the exception making a class of temporary emiploysthose regularly employed on the Congressional Record-beneficiaries of the leave of absence legislation, and excluded from
the class of temporary employ6s so benefited those not regularly
employed in such temporary work. When it is considered that
the language thus reenacted had been construed by the Public
Printer, the officer charged with the execution of the previous
statutes, for nearly ten years, as excluding temporary employ~s
other than the particular class of such employ~s referred to in
the statute, viz., those regularly employed on the Congressional
Record, it follows that the reenactment of the previous laws
carried with it the settled administrative construction which
had prevailed in their enforcement from the beginning. Here
again it cannot in reason be said that the mind of the lawmaker
(lid not address itself to the necessity of making a change in
the previous laws where one was deemed necessary, since the
act as reenacted not only goes over the ground covered by the
progress of the statutes since 1886, and reenacts the legislative
steps manifested in such progress, but also adds a new provision
concerning accumulations of leaves of absence not contained in
any prior statute.
When the deficiency appropriation act for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1895, was adopted on March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 868,
the provision found in the appropriation actof June 19, 1894, was
substantially reiterated, except in some particulars not necessary
to be noticed, with no words contained therein giving rise to the
implication that there was any intention to alter the uniform rule
which had obtained from the beginning respecting leaves of absence, excluding temporary employ~s from the benefit of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

leave, except the particular class of such employs enumerated
in the previous statutes.
In the appropriation act for the year ending June 20, 1896,
28 Stat. 910, the sum set apart was simply "to enable the Public Printer to comply with the provisions of the law granting
thirty days' annual leave to the employos of the Government
Printing Office." Doubtless, any specific provision as to payment of pro ratc leaves of absence to regular emplovOs who had
severed their connection with the service was omitted because
of the general provision in the prior statute authorizing the use
of leave of absence appropriations for the payment of pro rata
leaves. In the act of June 11, 1896, making appropriations for
the fiscal year of 1897, 29 Stat. 413, the same general language
was used as contained in the previous act, making an appropriation applicable to payment of leaves of absence of employ~s
in the Government Printing Office, but such provision was
followed by a recapitulation of the previous statutes regulating
the subject of leaves of absence to such einploy~s, in the following language:
"The employ6s of the Government Printing Office, wheLher
employed by the piece or otherwise, shall be allowed leaves of
absence with pay to the extent of not exceeding thirty days in
any one fiscal year under such regulations and at such times as
the Public Printer may designate at the rate of pay received by
them during the time in which said leave was earned; but such
leaves of absence shall not be allowed to accumulate from year
to year. Such employ~s as are engaged on piece-work shall receive the same rate of pay for the said thirty days' leave as will
be paid to day hands : Provided,That those regularly employed
on the Congressional Record shall receive leave, with pay, at
the close of each session, pro rata for the time of such employment: And p ovided further, That it shall be lawful to allow
pay for pro rata leave to those serving fractional parts of a
year; also to allow pay for .2o rata leave of absence to employ0s of the Government Printing Office in any fiscal year,
notwithstanding the fact that thirty days' leave of absence, wi th
pay, may have been granted to such employOs in that fiscal
year on account of service rendered in a previous fiscal year.

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

And the Public Printer is hereby authorized to pay to the legal
representatives of any employ~s who have died during the fiscal
years of eighteen hundred and ninety-four, eighteen hundred
and ninety-five, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, or may hereafter die, who have or hereafter may have any accrued leave of
absence due them as such employ~s, and said claims to be paid
out of any unexpended balances of appropriations for the payment of leaves of absence to the employ~s of the Government
Printing Office, for the fiscal years eighteen hundred and ninetyfour, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, eighteen hundred and
ninety-six, and out of any future appropriations for leaves of
absence."
It is language contained in the provision just quoted which
the Court of Claims found to be new, and constrained it to decide that a temporary employ6 who had not been allowed leave
of absence was nevertheless entitled to pay therefor by way of
commutation. We do not stop now to consider that question,
as we are not presently concerned with it. Now, an analysis
of the act of 1896 discloses nothing which lends support to the
argument that, in reiterating the previous law in this appropriation act, it was the intention of Congress to depart from the
rule applied from the beginning by conferring the right to leave
of absence on a mere temporary employ6. On the contraryv,
this statute-like the previous ones-reiterates the exception in
favor of a particular class of temporary employ6s, and by its silence is a further manifestation of the approval by the lawmaking power of the construction of the previous statutes resulting
from the rule adopted by the Public Printer from the beginning,
excluding temporary employ6s from the right to leave. And
this recapitulation again demonstrates that the mind of Congress was addressed to the necessity of making such changes as
it deemed wise, since there is a new provision allowing the legal
representatives of deceased employ~s who were entitled to a
leave to recover the amount due therefor.
From the review of the statutes which we have just made,
our conclusion is that the assumption that temporary employ6s
of the Government Printing Office were entitled to leave, upon
which the decision of the lower court necessarily rests, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

mistakenly made, and therefore the judgment below was erroneous, unless it be that the plain text of the statutes, reiterated
time and time again, and settled by years of administrative
construction, is to be disregarded, in consequence of what is asserted to be a Congressional interpretation to the contrary, arising from an act passed in 1897, and the retroactive effect which
it is claimed must necessarily follow as the result of this law
and as a consequence of the fifth finding which the court below
made.
To the contrary, we think an analysis of the matters relied
upon serves but to confirm the construction which we have
given to the acts of Congress which we have previously reviewed. In 1896, in the first session of the Fifty-fourth Congress, a resolution was passed by the Senate calling upon the
Public Printer for information concerning the employes in the
Government Printing Office who had failed to receive their
annual leaves of absence during the fiscal years of 1890, 1891,
1892, 1893 and 1894, and asking a statement of the amoun t due
each person therefor. Temporary employ~s during the years
named could not have been included in the purposes of the
resolution, since the general appropriation act passed at that
very session contained the provision to which we have heretofore referred, reenacting the leave of absence laws, containing
no repudiation of the rule prevailing from the beginning excluding temporary employ6s from the right to leave of absence.
To conceive that the inquiry concerned leaves not granted to
temporary employ~s would be to assume that inquiry was made
as to a class of employ~s who had been deprived of their right
to leave of absence in the past, whilst at the same time such
employ~s, by the reenactment of the previous laws and the
approval of the previous rule governing the Printing Office,
had been declared at that session not to be entitled to such
leave. AMoreover, the fact that the resolution did not reach
other years than 1890 to 1894: shows that it was not the denial
of leave of absence to temporary employ~s which had been complained of and as to which the resolution made inquiry, because
undoubtedly temporary employ~s had not received a leave of
absence, not only prior to 1890, but also subsequent to 18941 and

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

up to the time of the passage of the resolution. If the denial
of leave to temporary emplovs had been the subject of the inquiry, it would have been concerning the past and existing evil,
and not to a mere fraction thereof.
The reply of the Public Printer to the resolution was made at
the following session of Congress, in 1897, and practically consisted of a transmittal of a report to the Public Printer made
by the cashier of the Government Printing Office, which was
printed by the Senate as a public document, Sen. Doe. 59, 54th
Congress, 2d Sess., and is largely reproduced in the brief of
counsel for the appellee. The report, instead of confining itself
to the years from 1890 to 1894, both inclusive, which were inquired about, proceeded to call attention to the subject of unpaid leave of absence claims prior to the year 1890, as follows:
"In view of the anticipated legislation looking forward to
the liquidation of the unpaid leave of absence claims of present
and former emnployes of this office, as indicated by Senate resolutions, it would seemingly appear in the interest of justice
and equity that the scope of such legislation should not be limited or confined simply to the fiscal years of 1890 to 1894,
inclusive, but that its provision should also embrace such accrued and unpaid leave of absence claims which were also lost
and forfeited during the fiscal years of 1887, 1888 and 1889,
and to that end I would respectfully submit for your further
consideration a supplemental statement, in detail covering such
leaves of absences as were unpaid in the fiscal years of 1887,
1888 and 1889."
This was followed by a statement of the amount which
would be needed to pay such prior claims.
Now, it cannot be that the report had in view the refusal to
give leave or pay for leave to merely temporary employ~s,
since such claims, if they existed, would have covered a much
longer period than that embraced in the report. It could not
moreover have covered such claims, inasmuch as at that very
time such leaves were not being allowed and could not be allowed under the rules of the office. What the report contemplated was loss of leave in the past sustained by permanent
employ~s of the Government Printing Office, through a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

struction of the statute which no longer obtained or for failure
of appropriations in particular fiscal years or other cause. Acting upon the report, an act was passed by Congress, which
became a law on July 19, 1897, 30 Stat. 134, authorizing the
Public Printer to pay employes, former employes and the legal
representatives of deceased former employ~s of the Government Printing Office such sums as may be due said employ~s
and former employ~s, for accrued and unpaid leaves of absence
for the fiscal years 1887 to 1894, both inclusive, and appropriating a sum of money therefor.
Now we think from what has already been said concerning
the resolution of inquiry, and the report made in answer thereto,
which were the foundations of the act in question, that it is
impossible to construe this act as at all affecting temporary cmployes without assuming that both Congress and the Public
Printer, and indeed everybody concerned, were engaged at one
and the same time in rectifying a wrong and in perpetuating
the wrong for the future. The act, however, lends itself to no
such deduction. Its provisions become clear, when the review
of the legislation which we have nmade is considered. From
that review it results that the exclusion of temporary employ~s
from the right to leave of absence had prevailed from the beginning, and the rule so excluding had been ratified and approved by Congress over and over again, whenever it considered the subject. But it was also true that, from 1886 to
1894, in which latter year the legislation as to leave of absence
in the Government Printing Office crystallized, except as to a
minor provision, added by the law of 1896, Congress had been
called upon in each successive step when it considered the subject to broaden in favor of the permanent employes entitled
to leave, the construction placed upon its prior action on the
subject. Thus, permanent employCs, at each successive consideration by Congress of the subject, had become entitled
thereafter to leaves of absence, which had been denied the employis prior thereto. And the purpose of the appropriation
act of 1897 was first, as an act of grace to equalize this condition where it had resulted from a change of legislation, and,
second, by an act of justice to provide for the cases, where, by

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

lack of appropriations, which the review we have made shows
may have sometimes been the case, leaves of absence to permanent employ~s had not been provided for.
Without going into detail, it suffices to say, we repeat, that
the confining of the appropriation in the act of 1897 to the
years covered by the act, causes the conclusion just stated we
think to be irresistible, since it conflicts with the conception
that the act was intended to or did embrace temporary employ~s
who had been denied leave from the beginning, including the
period down. to the time of the passage of the appropriation
act in question.
It remains only to consider the fifth finding made by the
court below. When the text of that finding is analyzed, we
think it but embodies an inference of law deduced by the court
from its consideration of the report of the Public Printer made
in answer to the Senate inquiry and the court's construction of
the provisions of the act of 1897. But the matters from which
such legal inference was drawn, as we have seen, are in conflict
with the import which we have given them. For instance, the
language quoted in the finding and taken from the letter of
the Public Printer in answering the resolution of inquiry of
the Senate heretofore referred to, in full is as follows:
"Your attention is also called to the fact that during the
fiscal years of 1890 to 1893, inclusive, many employ~s whose
terms of service in the office were only for periods of less than
one year have never received any pro 'akt leave of absence,
with pay, which appears to have been the practice of the office
during that period."
The construction adopted by the court below that this clause
necessarily referred to temporary employ~s is dispelled by the
history of the legislation and practice to which we have referred. That clause embraced only the permanent employes
during the years in question to whom leave of absence had not
been given, owing to the construction prevailing at the time
named, which was either departed from by express changes
made in subsequent acts of Congress, or by a construction
thereafter placed upon the same. This is the result of the coneluding words of the passage relied on, viz., " which appears to
VOL. CL.XXXVmi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

have bben the practice of the office during that period," excluding therefore temporary employ6s, since not only at that
period but at all times from the beginning, and at the time the
report was made, temporary employ~s were excluded from a
right to leave of absence by the express rule of the office. If
we were to treat the finding as one of fact, in view of the
history of the legislation, the absence of any appropriation at
any time to pay temporary employ6s for leaves of absence, the
ever presence of the rule forbidding leave to such employs,
and the findings as a whole of the court below, and what we
deem to be the only implication deducible from the act of 1897,
and the communication upon which the court below rested its
construction, we should be obliged to say that the ultimate
fact which the fifth finding embodies is not consistent with the
other findings, and is not entitled to weight.
Our conclusion that temporary employes are not entitled to
leaves of absence under the acts of Congress renders it wholly
unnecessary to consider the second question which we at the
outset proposed, that is, whether, if such employes were entitled to leave with regular pay, they had a claim for pay
without leave against the United States because of the rule
adopted for the government of the Printing Office by which
no leave was allowed. However, whilst not deciding this
question, we deem it our duty to direct attention to the fact
that the significance which the court below attached to the
language found in the act of 1896, and the statement that that
language was new in the legislation on the subject, was, we assume, caused by overlooking the various appropriation acts
between 1888 and 1894, which the court did not allude to in
its opinion, where the language in question is to be found.
The decree of the Court of Claims is reversed, and the cause is
remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the
c a mant's petition.

