108

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

What we have said suggests the answer to the objection that
a novation is not set forth. The allegations seem to mean that
the old company was discharged, but this is not a question ol
novation. We are dealing with a new bilateral contract made
up of mutual undertakings to serve and to pay. The implication that the old contract is discharged is material only so far
as it shows that the plaintiff's rights can be enforced without
unjustly disregarding the rights of a third person.
It is unnecessary to consider whether an independent ground
of jurisdiction is shown in the threatened revelation of trade
secrets, or to discuss the different position of the defendant
Schultz. Whether the obligation not to disclose secrets be independent of the express contract or not, a case is made out.
The question of independence will not arise unless a difficulty
is encountered in the evidence because of the statute of frauds,
but that is not a matter of pleading. We have not to consider
how far the injunction should go in'case the plaintiff succeeds,
or anything except the objection that the plaintiff is suing as an
assignee.
.Deoree Qeversed.

NELSON v. NORTHIERN PACIFIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 44. Argued October 16, 17, 1902.-Decided January 26, 1903.

The grant of public lands made by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, embraced only the odd-numbered
alternate sections of which the United States had at the time of definite
location "full title, not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated,
and free from pre6mption orother claims or rights," provided that whenever prior to such definite location any sections or parts of sections had
been granted, sold, reserved, "occupied by homestead settlers" or preempted or otherwise disposed of, other lands should be selected by the
company "in lieu thereof" not more than ten miles beyond the limits of
the alternate sections. By the same act the president was directed to cause

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Syllabus.
the lands to be surveyed forty miles in width on both sides of the entire line
of road after the general route was fixed and as fast as might be required
by the construction of the road; and it was provided that the odd sections of land "hereby granted " should not be liable to sale or entry or
preemption before or after they were surveyed, except by the company
as provided in the act. The general route of the road was fixed in 1873,
and in the same year the land office directed the local officers to withhold
from "sale or entry" all odd-numbered sections falling within the fortymile limits of the grant along the line of road.
In 1880 Congress passed an act for the relief of settlers on the public lands.
In 1881 Nelson, qualified to enter public lands under the homestead acts,
went upon the tract in question and thereafter continuously occupied it
as his residence with the intention in good faith to avail himself of the
benefit of the homestead acts. In 1884 the railroad company definitely
located its line of road, and by November 18, 1886, had completed a section of forty miles coterminous with the land here in controversy.
The land, when occupied by Nelson as a residence, was unsurveyed, and
was not surveyed until 1893; but as soon as surveyed, he attempted to
enter it under the homestead laws; but his application was rejected by
the local land officers. In 1805 the railroad company was given a patent
to the land in question. Held:
(1) Although the company held a patent for the land in controversy, the
occupant was entitled under the local law to judgment if it appeared
that lie was equitably entitled to possession as against the company.
(2) The occupancy of Nelson, as a homestead settler was protected by the
act of Congress of 1864, although prior to such occupancy the land
office had issued the order of withdrawal from entry or sale, based
upon the map of general route.
(3) The railroad company acquired no vested interest in the granted lands
prior to definite location; and as Nelson was in the occupancy of
the land in question as a homestead settler at the time of such location, the land did not pass by the grant to the railroad company,
and his title was the better one.
(4) The title of Nelson, if not otherwise protected, was protected by the
third section of the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, which contains a
confirmation of the rights of qualified settlers on public lands,
whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with the intention of claiming
the same under the homestead laws.
(5) The order of withdrawal directing the local land office to withhold
from "sale or entry " the odd-numbered sections within the limits
of the general route could not prevent the occupancy of land within
those sections prior to definite location by one who in good faith
intended to claim the benefit of the homestead law; such right of
occupancy being distinctly recognized by the act of 1864, and such
order of withdrawal not being required by that act. But if this
were not so, the act of 1880, in its application to public lands, which
had not become already vested in some company or person, must

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
be held to have so modified the order of withdrawal based merely
on general route, that such order would not affect any occupancy or
settlement made in good faith, as in the case of Nelson, after such
withdrawal and prior to definite location.

THE Northern Pacific Railway Company brought this action
in one of the courts of the State of Washington to recover from
the plaintiffs in error the southeast quarter of section twentyseven, township twenty, north of range fourteen, east of the
Willamette meridian, in Kittitas County, in that State-the
company claiming to be the owner in fee and alleging that the
defendants were in unlawful possession of the land.
The defendants denied each of the allegations of the petition,
and the case was tried under a stipulation of facts, which for
the purpose of the trial were conceded to be true. The facts
so conceded were as follows:
The company is a corporation of Wisconsin, and succeeded,
prior to the commencement of this action, to whatever right,
title or claim the Northern Pacific Railroad Company had, if
any, to the land in dispute. The latter corporation was created
by an act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, c. 217, granting
lands in aid of the construction of a railroad and telegraph line
from Lake Superior to Puget Sound on the Pacific coast by the
northern route, and by the acts and joint resolutions of Congress supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof. 13 Stat.
365. We will hereafter refer to those sections of the act, upon
the construction of which the decision of this case mainly depends.
The railroad company duly accepted in writing the terms of
the act of Congress, and on the 29th day of December, A. D.
1864, such acceptance was served on the President of the United States.
The company fixed the general route of its road extending
coterminous with said land, and within forty miles thereof, by
filing a plat of such route with the Commissioner of the General Land Office August 20, 1873. Thereafter, on iNovember 1,
1873, that officer transmitted to the register and receiver of the
land office for the district in which the land was situate the
following letter of instructions:

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Statement of the Case.

"Gentlemen: The Northern Pacific Railroad Company having filed in this department a map showing the general route
of their branch line, from Puget Sound to a connection with
their main line near Lake Pend d'Oreille in Idaho Territory,
I have caused to be prepared a diagram which is herewith transmitted, showing the forty-mile limits of the land grant along
said line, extending through your district, and you are hereby
directed to withhold from sale or ent'ry all the odd-numbered
sections falling within these limits not already included in the
withdrawal for the main-line period. The even sections are
increased in price to $2.50 per acre, subject to preemption and
homestead entry only. This withdrawal takes effect from August 15, 1873, the date when the map was filed by the company
with the Secretary of the Interior, as required by the sixth section of the act of July 2, 1864, organizing said company."
The letter of the Commissioner and the diagram therein referred to were received and filed in the local land office November 17, 1873.
The land in dispute was within the forty-mile limit of the
land grant as designated in the diagram.
On December 6, 1884, the railroad company defmitely located
the line of its railroad, coterminous with and within less than
forty miles of the land in controversy, by filing a plat of such
line, approved by the Secretary of the Interior, in the office of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and prior to
November 18, 1886, it constructed and completed a section of
forty miles of railroad and telegraph line extending over the
line of definite location and coterminous with the land here in
controversy. The President of the United States having appointed three commissioners to examine the same, and the commissioners having performed that duty reported to the Secretary
on the 18th day of November, 1886, that the lines were completed in all respects as required by the act of Congress.
On the 30th of November, 1886, the Secretary transmitted
that report to the President with a recommendation that the
railroad and telegraph line be accepted and on the 7th day of
December, 1886, the President approved that recommendation.

OCTOBER TERMif, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

The United States executed and delivered, May 10, 1895, to
the railroad company its letters patent, purporting to convey
to the company the above tract under the terms and provisions
of the act of 1864, and the various acts and joint resolutions of
Congress supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof.
In the year 1881, three years before the definite location of
the road, the defendant Henry Nelson went upon the above
land and occupied it, and has since continuouslyresided thereon.
It is agreed that he was at the time qualified to enter public
lands under the act of Congress approved May 20, 1862, entitled
"An act to secure homesteads to actual settlers on the public
domain," and under the various acts supplemental thereto and
amendatory thereof.
The land when occupied was unsurveyed, and was not surveyed until 1893. But as soon as surveyed Nelson attempted
to enter it under the homestead laws of the United States in
the proper United States district land office. His application
was, however, rejected by the register and receiver because, in
their opinion, it conflicted with the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company.
The defendant Peter Nelson is in the occupancy of a portion
of the land in question under license from his codefendant
Henry Nelson.
Upon the facts so stipulated, the judgment was that the railroad company was not the owner, had no claim to and was not
entitled to the possession of the land in dispute, and that the
defendant Henry Nelson was entitled to remain in possession
by virtue of the homestead laws of the United States Upon
appeal to the Supreme Court of Washington that judgment was
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter judgment for the company. 22 Washington, 521.
.Mr. James Hfamilton- ewis for plaintiffs in error. J11r. C. ff..
Ald'rich, .Mr. Thomas B. Hardin and -Mr. Ralp' -Ya/fman
were with him on the brief.
.fr. James B. Iferr for defendant in error.
was with him on the brief.

.1r. C. T. Bunn

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTIcE HAIRL&N,

1. Before considering the merits of the case it is proper to
remark that although the railroad company holds the patent of
the United States for the land in controversy, the defendant,
according to the laws of the State, was entitled to judgment,
if it appeared that he was equitably entitled to possession as
aogainst the plaintiff. 2 Hills' Codes, § 530 et se1 .; B urmeister
v. Howa.d, I Wash. Ty. 207.
2. We have seen that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was created by the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, c. 217,
making a grant of lands in aid of the construction of the road
from Lake Superior to Puget Sound. When that grant was
made substantially the entire country between those points was
untraveled as well as uninhabited except by Indians, very few
of whom, at that time, were friendly to -the United States. The
principal object of the grant, as will appear from its language,
was to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails,
troops, munitions of war and public stores, by means of a railroad and telegraph, and to that end and in order to bring the
public lands into market it was deemed important to encourage
the settlement of the country along the proposed route. The
public lands in that vast region were unsurveyed, and it was
not known when they would be surveyed. Congress, of course,
knew that if immigrants accepted the invitation of the Government to establish homes upon the unsurveyed public lands, they
would do so in the belief that the lands would be surveyed, that
their occupancy would be respected, and that they would be
given an opportunity to perfect their titles in accordance with
the homestead laws.
Such was the situation when the act of July 2, 1864, was
passed. Necessarily the act must be interpreted in the light of
that situation. It should not be so interpreted as to justify the
charge that the Government laid a trap for honest immigrants
who risked the dangers of a wild, unexplored country, in order
that they might establish homes for themselves and their families. And it should not be supposed that Congress had in view
voiL. cLxxxviii-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

only the interests of the company, which, with the aid of a
munificent grant of lands, was empowered to connect Lake
Superior and Puget Sound with a railroad and telegraph line.
Let us now see what is the fair import of the act of 1864, under
which both parties claim possession.
By the third section of that act it was, among other things,
provided as follows, to wit: "That there be, and hereby is,
granted to the ' Northern Pacific Railroad Company,' its successors and assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific coast,
and to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails,
troops, munitions of war, and public stores, over the route of
said line of railway, every alternate section of public land, not
mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty
alternate sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line,
as said company may adopt, through the Territories of the
United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on
each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any
State, and whenever on the line thereof the United States
have full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption o other claims or r'igld,
at the time the line of said road is definitely fixeed, and a
plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and whenever, priol to said time, [of definite
location,] any of said sections or parts of sections shall have
been granted, sold, reserved, occipied by homestead suttlers or
pre6ipted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected
by said company in lieu tlierecf, 'under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by
odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of
said alternate sections.

. .

By the sixth section of the act it was, among other things,
provided as follows:
"§ 6. And be it further enacted, That the President of the
United States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty
miles in width on both sides of the entire line of said road, after
the general route shall be fixed, and as fast as may be required
by the construction of said railroad; and the odd sections of

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

land hereby granted shall not be liable to sale, or entry, or preemption before or after they are surveyed, except by said company, as provided in this act." The stipulation of facts omits the
latter part of section 6; but of the words omitted this court
will take judicial notice. They are as follows: "But the provisions of the act of September, eighteen hundred and forty-one,
granting preemption rights, and the acts amendatory thereof,
and of the act entitled 'An act to secure homesteads to actual
settlers on the public domain,' approved Mlay twenty, eighteen
hundred and sixty-two, shall be, and the same are hereby, extended to all other lands on the line of said road, when surveyed, excepting those hereby granted to said company. And
the reserved alternate sections shall not be sold by the Government at a price less than two dollars and fifty cents per acre,
when offered for sale."
The railroad company insists that after the order of withdrawal from "sale or entry" made in 1873 by the Commissioner
of the Land Office, and based upon its map of general route, no
right could be acquired by a settler upon any odd-numbered
alternate section of land within the forty-mile limit indicated
by the map of general route. As the lands in question were
not surveyed until 1893, the company's contention means that
during the twenty years succeeding the withdrawal in 1873 all
the sections covered by the map of general route which would,
upon a survey appear to be odd-numbered alternate sections,
were absolutely excluded from occupancy by any settler having
in view the homestead laws.
The defendant insists that the act of 1864 recognized the right
of an immigrant to occupy any section of the public lands on
the general route up to the time of the definite location of the
road, provided it was done in good faith with the intention to
perfect his title under the homestead laws whenever it became
possible to do so, and that if at the time of definite location it
appeared that he was in the occupancy of an odd-numbered alternate section the railroad company could not disturb him.
By the sixth section of the act of July 2, 1864, it was declared
that the odd sections "hereby granted," that is, by that act
granted, should not be liable to sale, entry or preemption before

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

or after they were surveyed, except by the company, as provided in the act. But we have also seen, looking at the third
section, which was the granting section of the act, that Congress
did not grant every odd-numbered alternate section within the
general limits specified, but only the odd-numbered alternate
sections to which the United States had full title, and which
had not been previously reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and which werefree from pre6m ption or " other
claims or rights " at the time the line of the road was definitely
fixed-giving to the railroad company the right to select lands,
within certain limits, in place of such as were found, at the date
of defiite location, to have been disposed of or to be "occtujied
by homestead settlers."
The first inquiry is whether the railroad company acquired
any vested interest in the land in dispute by reason merely of
the acceptance by the Land Department of its map of general
route or by reason merely of the withdrawal order of 1873. In
other words, (lid the land, after the general route was established, become segregated from the public domain and cease to
be a part of the public lands, so as not to be subject to occupancy, in good faith, by homestead settlers, prior to definite
location . These questions have a direct bearing on the present
issues; for, if Congress did not intend-as, we think, it did not
-that the railroad company should acquire any vested interest
in these lands, prior to definite location, we can understand why
it excluded from its grant any lands "occupied by homestead
settlers" at the time of the definite location of the road.
The above questions are, we think, distinctly answered in
the negative by recent decisions of this court. Let us see if
such be not the case.
In St. Paul & Paoci v. _-Mortlern Pacific, 139 U. S. 1, 5,
it was held that after a map of a general route was filed and
up to definite location, the grant to the railroad company was
in the nature of a "float," and land which previously to definite
location had been reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, or upon which there was a pre6mption "or other claim
or right" did not pass by the grant of Congress.
In United States v. f¥orthera Pacific Railroad Company, 152

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 284, 296, 298, the court said : "The act of 1864 granted
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company only public land,
free from preemption or other claims or rights at the
time its line of road was definitelyfixed, and a plat thereof filed
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
In Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. Sanders, 166 U.
S. 620, 634, 636, it was adjudged that the railroad company
"acquired, by fixing its general route, only an inchoate right to
the odd-numbered sections granted by Congress, and no right
attached to any specific section until the road was definitely
located and the map thereof filed and accepted. Until such
definite location it was competent for Congress to dispose of
the public lands on the general route of the road as it saw
proper." In the same case the court, after observing that as
the lands there in dispute were not free from claims at the date
of definite location, it was of no consequence what was done
with them after that date, proceeded : "The only ground upon
which a contrary view can be rested is the provision in the
sixth section of the act of 1864, that ' the odd sections of land
hereby granted shall not be liable to sale or entry or preemption before or after they are surveyed, except by said company,
as provided by this act.' But this section is not to be construed without reference to other sections of the act. It must
be taken in connection with section three, which manifestly
contemplated that rights of premption or other claims and
rights might accrue or become attached to the lands granted after
the general route qf the road was fixed and before the line qf
definite location was established. Literally interpreted, the
words above quoted from section six would tie the hands of the
Government so that even it could not sell any of the odd-numbered sections of the lands after the general route was fixedan interpretation wholly inadmissible in view of the provisions
in the third section. The third and sixth sections must be
taken together, and so taken it must be adjudged that nothing
in the sixth section prevented the Government from disposing
of any of the lands prior to the fixing of the line of definitelocation, or, for the reasons stated, from receiving, under the existing
statutes, applications to purchase such lands as mineral lands."

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

The principles announced in the Sanlders case were reaffirmed
in .XaenoWti v. Dillon, 167 U. S. 703, 720, the court adding: "It.
is true, as said in many cases, that the object of an executive

order withdrawing from preemption, private entry and sale,
lands within the general route of a railroad is to preserve the
lands, unencumbered, until the completion and acceptance or
the road. But where the grant was, as here, of odd-numbered
sections, within certain exterior lines, 'not sold, reserved or
otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to which a
preemption or homestead claim may not have attached, at the
time the line of said road is definitely fixed,' the filing of a map
of general route and the issuing of a withdrawal order did not
prevent the United States, by legislation, at any time prior to
the definite location of the road, from selling, reserving or otherwise disposing of any of the lands which, but for such legislation, would have become, in virtue of such definite location,
the property of the railroad company."
In United States v. Oregon &c. Railroad,176 U. S. 28, 43,
which involved the conflicting claims of two railroad companies
to certain lands and required the court to determine the effect
of a map of general route filed by the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, as well as the extent of the grant made to it,
the court said: "If therefore the Perham map of 1865 were
conceded for the purposes of the present discussion to have
been sufficient as a map of 'general route '-and nothing more
can possibly be claimed for it-these lands could not be regarded as having been brought by that map (even if it had
been accepted) within the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and thereby have become so segregated from
the public domain as to preclude the possibility of their being
earned by other railroad companies under statutes enacted by
Congress after the filing of that map and before any definite
location by the company of its line." In the same case: "In
opposition to the views we have expressed it may be said that
the clause in the act of J;uly 25, 1866, providing for the selection
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior of lands for
the Oregon Company in lieu of any that should 'be found to
have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead set-

NELSON ii. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

tlers, preeimpted or otherwise disposed of,' shows that Congress
did not intend to include in but intended to exclude from the
grant to that company any lands that could have been earned by
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by definitely fixing its
route and filing its map of definite location. Undoubtedly
those lands would be regarded as having been appropriated
when the route of the Oregon road was -definitely located, if
prior to that date the route of the Northern Pacific Railroad
had been definitely fixed, and if such lands were within the
exterior lines of that route. But, as we have said, these lands
were within the limits of the grant of July 25, 1866, and had not,
at that time, or when the route of the Oregan road was definitely located, been appropriated for the benefit of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, for the reason that the latter company had not then filed any map of definite location. The
Northern Pacifc Railroad Company could take vo lands except
such as were unappropriated at the time its line was definitely
fixed. It accepted the grant of 1864 subject to the possibility
that Congress might, before its line was definitely fixed, authorize other railroad corporations to appropriate lands within its
general route, allowing it to select other lands in lieu of any
so appropriated. The lands here in dispute were consequently
subject to be disposed of by Congress when the act of 1866
was passed; and (the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad not
having been definitely located prior to the passage of the forfeiture act of 1890) the Oregon Company became entitled to
take the lands and to receive patents therefor in virtue of its
accepted map of definite location." See also Wilcox v. Eastern
Oregon land Co., 176 U. S. 51, and Messinger v. Same, 176
U. S. 58.
The cases above cited definitely determine that the railroad
company acquired no vested interest in any particular section
of land until after a definite location as shown by an accepted
map of its line; and that until definite location the land covered
by the map of general route was a "float," that is, at large.
In support of the proposition that the railroad company acquired an interest in the lands in dispute, upon its general route
being established, reference has been made to some expressions

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

in the opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Buttz v. TYorthern Pacific
.Railroad,119 U. S. 55, 71 and '72, to the effect that when the
general route of that road was made known by a map duly filed
and accepted, "the law withdraws from sale or pre~mption the
odd sections to the extent of forty miles on each side. The object of the law in this particular is plain ; it is to preserve the
land for the company to which, in aid of the construction of the
road, it is granted." But it is evident, in view of both prior
and subsequent decisions, that this language is not to be taken
literally or apart from the other portions of the opinions of the
eminent jurist who delivered the judgment of the court. If,
upon the filing and acceptance of the map of general route, the
law withdrew the odd-numbered sections, then the previous
holding in many cases that until definite location the grant was
a float, with no interest in specific sections being acquired by
the railroad company, would be meaningless; and there would
be some difficulty in Congress appropriating such lands prior to
definite location. Indeed, it is manifest that the court did not
mean to announce any new doctrine in the Buttz case; for Mr.
Justice Field, when delivering judgment in that case, said that
the charter of the Northern Pacific R~ailroad Company contemplated "the filing by the company, in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, of a map showing the deftnite location of the line of its road, and limits the grant to such
alternate odd sections as have not at that time, been reserved,
sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption, grant, or other claims or P'ights; . . . Nor is there
anything inconsistent with this view of the sixth section as to
the general route, in the clause in the third section making the
grant operative only upon such odd sections as have vot been
reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and to which
preemption and other rights and claims have not attached, when
a najp of the definite location has beenfiled."
Further, we had occasion in .Yorthern Pacific Railroad v.
Sanders and United States v. Oregon &c. Railroad Company,
above cited, to limit the broad language in the Biuttz case
which implied that after the general route was fixed the land
was withdrawn by the law for the railroad company. We

NELSON r. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

said in the last named case: " This language was too broad if
it is construed to express the thought that public lands, when
within the exterior lines of a ' general route,' are ' appropriated'
from the time the map of such route is filed, so as to prevent
them from being granted by Congress to and from being earned
by another railroad corporation prior to the filing of a map of
definite location by the company designating such general
route."
It results that the railroad company did not acquire any
vested interest in the land here in dispute in virtue of its map
of general route or the withdrawal order based on such map;
and if such land was not "free from preemption or other
claims or rights," or was "occupied by homestead settlers" at
the date of the definite location on December 8, 1884, it did not
pass by the grant of 1864. Now, prior to that date, that is,
in 1881, Nelson, who is conceded to have been qualified to
enter public lands under the homestead act of May 20, 1862,
went upon and occupied this land and has continuously resided
thereon. The land was not surveyed until 1893, but as soon
as it was surveyed he attempted to enter it under the homestead laws of the United States, but his application was rejected, solely because, in the judgment of the local land officers,
it conflicted with the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company. He was not a mere trespasser, but went upon the
land in good faith, and, as his conduct plainly showed, with a
view to residence thereon, not for the purposes of speculation,
and with the intention of taking the benefit of the homestead
law by perfecting his title under that law, whenever the land
was surveyed. And for fourteen years before the railroad
company by an ex pairte proceeding, and without notice to
him, so far as the record shows, obtained from the Land Office
a recognition of its claim, and for sixteen years before this action was brought, he maintained an actual residence on this
land. It is so stipulated in this case. As the railroad had
not acquired any vested interest in the land when Nelson went
upon it, his continuous occupancy of it, with a view, in good
faith, to acquire it under the homestead laws as soon as it was
surveyed, constituted, in our opinion, a claim upon the land

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

within the meaning of the Northern Pacific act of 1864; and
as that claim existed when the railroad company definitely
located its line, the land was, by the express words of that act,
excluded from the grant.
This view protects the bona fide settler in his home, established upon the invitation of the Government under great difficulties, and does no injustice to the railroad company; for,
after restricting the grant to such odd-numbered sections of
lands, within specified lateral limits, as were free from preemption or " other claims or rights" at the time the line of the
road was definitely fixed, Congress, in the act of 1864, as we
have seen, proceeded: "And whenever, prior to said time [of
definite location] any of said sections or parts of sections shall
have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead setller.s,
or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof," etc. The words "occupied by homestead settlers" show that Cohgress intended by the
charter of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company-whatever
it may have intended as to other companies receiving grants
of public lands-that occupancy by a homestead settler, with
the intention to take the benefit of the homestead laws, constituted a claimz which, existing at the date of definite location,
would exclude from the grant land that might otherwise be
covered by it. If Congress did not intend thus to protect the
occupancy of homestead settlers, the reference to lands being
"occupied by homestead settlers," at date of definite location,
was meaningless, and it was useless to reserve to the company
the privilege of selecting lands in lieu of those lost by such occupancy. Congress knew, when passing the act of 18641, that
one going west to establish his home could not know whether
the unsurveyed land occupied by him would be an even-numbered or odd-numbered section. Hence, the provision in section 3 in relation to odd-numbered sections " occupied by homestead settlers." The efficacy of such a provision could not be
destroyed except by further legislation. It is as if Congress had
in words declared that among the "other claims or rights" of
which the land must be free at the time of definite location in
order that the railroad company might take, were claims aris-

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

ing out of occupancy by homestead settlers. Such settlers Congress, in effect, declared should be protected in their rights, and
the railroad company should be reimbursed by lieu lands near
by. Nelson's occupancy, we have seen, commenced in 1881,
while the definite location of the road occurred in 1884. That
he occupied and continuously resided upon the land in dispute
as a homestead settler after 1881 is admitted.
If it be said that Nelson's claim was that of mere occupancy,
unattended by formal entry or application for the land, the answer is that that was a condition of things for which he was
not in anywise responsible, and his rights, in law, were not lessened by reason of that fact. The land was not surveyed until
twelve years after he took up his residence on it, and under the
homestead law he could not initiate his right by formal entry
of record until such survey. He acted with as much promptness as was possible under the circumstances.
In Ard v. Brtndon, 156 U. S. 537, 543, this court said: "The
law deals tenderly with one who, in good faith, goes upon the
public lands, with a view of making a home thereon. If he
does all that the statute prescribes as the condition of acquiring rights, the law protects him in those rights, and does not
make their continued existence depend alone upon the question
whether or no he takes an appeal from an adverse decision of
the officers charged with the duty of acting upon his application." In the same case the court quoted with approval these
words from Clements v. WVa,?er, 24 How. 394, 397 : "The policy of the Federal Government in favor of settlers upon public
lands has been liberal. It recognizes their superior equity to
become the purchasers of a limited extent of land, comprehending their improvements, over that of any other person."
In the recent case of Ta2ey v. fadsen, 178 U. S. 215, 219
-which was a contest between the Central Pacific Railroad
Company and a preemptor who sought to avail himself of the
act of September, 1841-it was found as a fact thaf the land in
dispute had on it, at the date of definite location, (which was
on October 20, 1868,) the improvements of a bona fide settler;
and one of the questions in the case was how far the rights of
the settler, based upon a bona fide occupancy, were affected by

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the absence of a local land office in which could be made some
record of his application or entry. This court said: "It is true
that there was then no local land office in which those seeking
to make preemption or homestead entries could file their declaratory statements or make entries, and the want of such an
office is made by the Supreme Court of the State one of the
main grounds for holding that the land did not pass to the railroad company. We agree with that court fully in its discussion
of the general principles involved in the failure of the Government to provide a local land office. The right of one who has
actually oeccupied, with intent to make a homestead orpre miption,
entr.y, cannot be defeated by the mere lack of a place in which to
make a recordof his intent. . . . If Olney was in possession
of this tract before October 20, 1868, [date of definite location]
with a view of ente?ing it as a homestead or )re~mption claim,
and was simply deprived of his ability to make his entry or declaratory statement by the lack of a local land office, he could
undoubtedly, when such office was established, have made his
entry or declaratory statement in such way as to protect his
rights." In the present case, the settler waited from 1881 to
1893 for the land to be surveyed, and as soon as that was done
he attempted to enter it under the homestead law in the proper
office, but his claim was overruled upon the theory, unfounded
in law, that the land was covered by the railroad grant.
So far we have proceeded on the ground that as the act of
1864 'granted to the railroad company the alternate sections to
which at the time of definite location the United States had
full title, not reserved, sold, granted or appropriated, and which
werefree from preemption or other claims or rights at date of
definite location,"and authorized the company to select other
lands in lieu of those then found to be "occupied by homestead
settlers," Congress excluded from the grant any land so occupied with the intention to perfect the title under the homestead
laws whenever the way to that end was opened by a survey.
3. But the case of the appellant does not depend entirely upon
this view of the act of 1864. It is placed on impregnable ground
by the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, entitled " An act for the relief of settlers on public lands," and which was in force when,

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

in 1881, Nelson settled upon the land in dispute. The act is as
follows: " 1.That when a preemption, homestead or timberculture claimant shall file a written relinquishment of his claim
in the local land office the land covered by such claim shall be
held as open to settlement and entry without further action on
the part of the Commissioner of the General Land Office. § 2. In
all cases where any person has contested, paid the land office fees,
and procured the cancellation of any preemption, homestead, or
timber-culture entry, he shall be notified by the register of the
land office of the district in which such land is situated of such
cancellation, and shall be allowed thirty days from date of such
notice to enter said lands : Provided, That said register shall be
entitled to a fee of one dollar for the giving of such notice, to
be paid by the contestant, and not to be reported. § 3. That
any settler who has settled, or who shall hereqfter settle, on any
of the public lands of the United States, whether surveyed or
unsurveyed, with the intention of claiming the same under the
homestead laws, shall be allowed the same time to file his homestead application and perfect his original entry in the United
States Land Office as is now allowed to settlers under the preemption laws to put their claims on record, and his right shall
relate back to the date of settlement, the same as if he settled
under the preemption laws." 21 Stat. 140.
The third section of this statute is a distinct confirmation of
the rights of a qualified person who had theretofore settled or
should thlereaftersettle " on any of the public lands of the United
States, whether su'veyed or -nsurveyed, with the intention of
claiming the same under the homestead laws;" though, of
course, no lands could be deemed of that character which had
prior to such settlement become vested in a railroad company
in virtue of an accepted map of de~fnite location. It is, as we
have seen, a fixed principle in the law relating to the administration of the public lands that a railroad grant is a mere float
until definite location, and that prior to that date all lands,
within the exterior limits of a general route, are entirely at the
disposal of the Government, to be appropriated as it desires.
The railroad company, as already shown, acquired, by its accepted map of general route, no interest in any specific lands,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

but only a right to take those to which, at the date of definite
location, the United States had full title, and upon which there
was no claim, and which were not "occupied by homestead
settlers." It was, therefore, competent for the United States
by the act of 1880-which was four years prior to the definite
location of the Northern Pacific Railroad-to give additional
rights to those who had then settled, or might thereafter in
good faith settle upon any of the public lands. Some who have
made comments on this act seem to overlook the broad language of section three, and to forget that that section embraces
not only those who had theretofore, but those who might thereafter, settle on the public lands, whether surveyed or unsurveyed.
Nelson settled on unsurveyed public land, in which the railroad
company had no vested or specific interest and the third section
of the act of 1880 was purposeless if it did not allow him to
perfect his title under the homestead laws, as soon as the land
was surveyed.
The meaning we have given to the words " occupied by
homestead settlers" in the act of 1864, and what has been said
about the act of 1880, finds support in decisions of the Land
Department. It will be well in view of the far-reaching consequences of the decision in the present case to refer to some of
those decisions.
In Southern Pacific Railroad (Branh) v. Lop)ez, 3 L. D. 130,
131 (1881), Secretary Teller said that the act of Jijly 27, 1866,
14 Stat. 292, relating to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, "granted only such lands as were 'not reserved, sold,
granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from pre~mption
or other clains or irights' at date of definite location ; and provided that ' whenever prior to said time any of said sections
or parts of sections shall have been occuj)ied by homestead
settlers, pre6mpted,' etc., lieu lands might be taken." It will
be observed that this was the language of the Northern Pacific
Act of 1864. The Secretary proceeded: "Now a homestead
entry, which must be made on surveyed lands, would be within
the descriptive terms 'other claims' without doubt; but the
question material to the case befdre me, wherein the land was
not surveyed, is whether a homestead settlement on unsurveyed

NELSON r. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

127

Opinion of the Court.

land, with a view to entering it when surveyed, is within said
terms. 1 think it is. Construing together the granting words
and those respecting the lieu land selection, it is evident that
one of the 'other claims or rights' excepting land from the
operation of the grant was 'occupation [occupied] by homestead settlers.' The word 'occupied' and the idea conveyed
by it were foreign to the homestead law at date of this act, as
an essential element in the reservation of land. I need not
recite the numerous decisions of the courts and of the Land
Department, which settle the principle that under the homestead law it is the ' entry' which reserves land (except for the
short period during which it is reserved by settlement under
the act of May 14, 1880,) and not any occupation by the
claimant before or after it. The language of the granting act
is therefore peculiar in this respect, and we are to suppose that
it was used deliberately, with knowledge of then-existing law,
and for a special and important purpose. We must interpret
Congress was
it in accordance with this evident purpose.
far beyond
lands
qf
grants
making
was
it
act
this
by
aware that
and to be
occupied
in
regions
surveys,
the line qf the government
surveyor
f
the
advent
the
awaiting
occupied largely by settlers
law was
homestead
the
6
toprefer their claims. By section
extended to the even sections after survey, and expressly withheld from the odd sections before and after survey, and yet in
section 3 land I occupied by homestead settlers' was excepted
from the grant. Congress knew that unsurveyed land could not
be ' entered ' as homestead ; it had in terms prohibitedhomestead
' entry' on these lands; it was aware that only by such 'entry'
could a claim, be appropriated and reserved .fronm the grant,
without express exception; and therefore in the use of the words
occupied by homestead settlers' it intended to make such express exception, and to indicate a differentl ind of appropriation
by a class of settlers not within the letter qf the homestead law,
though clearly within its spirit,namely, those who had made a
home on the public domain in advance of the surveys, with the
intention of subsequently claiming it under said law. If this
was not the purpose, then the employment of the peculiar
language referred to was a vain and useless thing; and such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

thing we are not to suppose Congress had done.

92 U. S. 733.

It therefore follows that the land claimed by Lopez, whose
proofs are not questioned in any. particular, and who preferred
his claim promptly upon survey, was 'occupied by a homestead settler' when the grant to this comnpany took effect, and
hence excepted from the operation of the grant."
In Mrthern,Pacific Railroad Company v. Anrys, 10 L. D.
258-9 (1890), which was a contest between the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company and a homesteader who had settled
on unsurveyed public lands, Secretary Noble said: "It is urged
that the land was not subject to the operation of the homestead
law at the date of Newland's settlement, because unsurveycd,
and that the homestead claim could haveattached only by entry.
But it must be remembered that the rights of the parties here
must be determined by a proper construction of the railroad
grant rather than of the general homestead law. It must be
admitted that the ruling in the case at bar is in line with those
of the Department for many years. In the case of Southern
Pacific Rlailroad Company v. Lopez, 3 L. D. 130, the quesLion
here presented was fully discussed in connection with a grant
framed in words identical with those used in the grant for the
Northern Pacific Company, and it was hcld that a homestead
settlement on unsurveyed land with a view to entering it when
surveyed is within the term 'other claims,' and that 'it is
evident that one of the "other claims or rights" excepting
land from the operation of the grant was "occupation by
homestead settlers."' In support thereof it was urged that
Congress was aware that by the act in aid of a road extending
across the western half of the continent, it was making a
grant far beyond the line of government surveys, in regions
occupied and to be occupied largely by settlers awaiting the
advent of the surveyor to prefer their claims. In this view I
concur. It seems beyond question that it was to protect such
settlers as described above that Congress excepted from the
operation of the grant tracts 'occupied by homestead settlers.'
Had Congress intended to extend its protection only to those
who had made entry, it would have said so, in other and appropriate words. The ordinary exception of 'lands to which

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

129

Opinion of the Court.

a homestead right has attached' would have fully protected'
that class of settlers. But Congress went further and made
occupation the test, instead of entry. I do not deem it necessary to cite cases to show that the views of the Department
on this point have not changed."
In Spicer v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 10 L. D. 440, 443,
the rights of an Indian were disputed by the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company under the act of larch 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 402,
420, c. 131, extending the benefit of the homestead laws of the
United States, with certain restrictions upon the title when obtained, to Indians twenty-one years of age, or the head of a
family having abandoned the tribal relations. Secretary Noble said: " The provisions of this act were in force at the date
when the company's rights attached on definite location of its
road, and, if the matters alleged relative to the claim of the Indian, Enoch, be true, he was at that date, and had been for many
years prior thereto, living upon the land in question, as his home,
with the intention to acquire title thereto as a homestead; he had
valuable and )ermanent improvements thereon, and had cultivated the sanw for many years, during all of which time he
claimed it as his home. Such a claim, it seems to me, is clearly
covered by the excepting clause of the grant to the company,
and, if proven, would be sufficient, in my judgment, to defeat
the claim of the conpany to the land. True, the Indian had
put no claim of record for the land, but it is well settled by departinental rulings that while such omission might defeat the
claim as against a subsequent settler who duly places his claim
of record, it will not defeat such claim as against the United
States, and the land covered thereby will be excel)tedfroin the
operation qf any grantfor the benefit of a railroadconm)any attaching subsequently to the inception of the settlement right.
Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. Evans, 7 L. D. 131, and
authorities there cited. It is also well settled that a claim resting on settlement, residence and improvements, acquired prior
right to the date when the company's rights attached under its
grant, is sufficient to except the land covered thereby from the
operation of such grant."
In Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. 3locrimmon, 12
VOL. CLXXXVIII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

L. D. 554, it was said : "In support of this appeal, counsel for

the railroad company contend that Thomas did not claim the
land as government land, but as railroad land, and that, although
the land was excepted from the withdrawal on general route,
yet Thomas did not insist upon the right to take it as government land, but was satisfied to claim it under the railroad company. Under the ruling of the Department, as announced'in
the cases of N'orthern Pacific Railroad Company v. Bowman,
t L. D. 238, and NYorthern Pacific Railroad Comp)any v. Potter,
11 L. D. 531, the only question to be determined is, whether
there was a settlement on the land at date of definite location
by one having the qualifieation to enter the landunder the settlement laws, and, if these facts are shown, the land would be exceptedfrom the operation of the grant, although such settler
might not have known of his right, but held the land under the
belief that it was railroad land."
In .orthern Pacifie Railroad Company v. Plumb, 16 L. D.
80, it appeared that the land in dispute was within the primary
limits of the company's grant as shown by map of definite location filed July 6, 1882, and was also within the limits of the
withdrawal on map of general route filed February 21, 1872.
Secretary Noble said: "The only question raised by the appeal
is as to whether the occupancy shown by Plum was sufficient
to defeat the grant. It appears that in 1881 Plumb took possession of the tract in question, together with an adjoining
forty-acre tract, upon which he resided. In the spring of 1882
he broke the entire tract in question and enclosed it with a
fence, and has since had possession of and improved the land.
ie had never exercised the preemption right, and was therefore duly qualified to claim the land under his settlement right.
In 1886 be contracted to purchase the adjoining forty acres,
upon which he had resided, from the company, and at the hearing it was sought to show that he also claimed the land in
question under the grant at the date of the definite location of
the road, but the testimony will not warrant such a finding.
Being in possession of the land in question at the date of the
definite location of the roadwith valuable improvements thereon,
and duly qualified to assert a right thereto under the settlement

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

131

Opinion of the Court.

laws, he had such a right to the land as serced to defeat the grant,
and the fact that the claim subsequently asserted by him was under a different law from those providing for settlement can in nowise affect his rights in the premises. Being excepted from the
grant by reason of his settlement, Plumb was at liberty to seek
title from the Government under any law under which such
lands might be taken."
In Northern Pacfie Railroad Company v. Benz, 19 L. D.
229, the land in dispute was within the limits of the grant to
the company, as shown by map of definite location filed July 6,
1882, and was covered by the withdrawal upon general route
of February 21, 1872. Secretary Smith said: "The present
contest is between the railroad company on one part, and Hoy
and Benz on the other. If it can be made to appear affirmatively, by good and sufficient testimony, that either of these
parties, IHoy or Benz, was inpossession of said land July 6, 1882,
when the line qf the road opposite thereto was definitely fixed,
and, at the same time, had the right to perfect title to the same
undej the pre iaption or homestead laws, suchpossession e.ce ted
the landfrom, the grant to the railroadcompany and reduced the
contest to one between Hoy and Benz; or, rather, to one between Iloy and the legal representatives of Benz, he having died
since entering his appeal." It was found that on July 6, 1882,
Hoyt was a competent entryman under the homestead laws.
What has been said as to the meaning and scope of the acts
of 1864 and 1880 is not inconsistent with anything decided in
Xfaddox v. Burnham, 156 U. S. 544, and Wood v. Beach, 156
U. S. 548.
In .faddox v. Burnham the question was as to the rights of
a homestead occupant as against a certain railway company.
Referring to the third section of the act of 1880, the court said:
"By this section for the first time the right of a party entering
land under the homestead law was made to relate back to the
time of his settlement. But this act was passed long after the
rights of the railway conTany hadaccrued and the legal title had
passed to it. It is not operative, therefore, to divest such legal
title, or enlarge as against such title any equitable rights which
the defendant theretofore had." This was a case therefore in

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

which the claim based upon occupancy accrued after the legal
title had become vested in the railroad company, not a case in
which the grant was, as here, a float with no right attached to
any specific section.
In Wood v. Beach-which was a contest between a homestead
settler and a railway company-it appeared that the map of
the line of definite location was filed December 6, 1866, and a
withdrawal followed in 1867, while the occupation and settlement of the homesteader did not commence until June 8, 1870.
Of course, the legal title to the sections granted vested in the
railway company upon the filing and acceptance of the map of
definite location. Besides the withdrawal in 1867 was pursuant to the express command of the act of Congress of July 26,
1866, 14 Stat. 290, § 4, which provided that as soon as the railway company should "file with the Secretary of the Interior
maps of its line, designating the route thereof, it shall be the
duty of said Secretary to withdraw from the market the lands
granted by this act in such manner as may be best calculated
to effect the purpose of this act and subserve the public interest."
It might well be, therefore, that one whose right, resting upon
occupancy, had accrued, as in _Vaddox v. Burnham, after the
legal title passed to the railroad company, or one who, as in
Wood v. Beach, did not settle upon the public lands until after
the railroad company had definitely located its road, and after
the lands had been withdrawn from market pursuant to the directions of an express act of Congress, could not, as against the
railroad company, acquire an interest in them in virtue of the
act of ISSO.
Nor is there any conflict between the decision now rendered
and -Yorthern Paci~tc Railroad v. colburn, 164 U. S.383 ; for,
as appears from the opinion and record in that case, the land
there claimed to have been occupied by a homestead settler, at
the date of definite location, was surveyed public land, and the
good faith of the occupation was not manifested by an entry,
or an attempt at entry, at any time in the local land office. It
was held that the inchoate right of the homesteader must be
initiated by a filing in the land office. In the present case, as
we have seen, the land occupied was unsurveyed, and at the

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

time or such occupancy, the land being unsurveyed, there could
not then have been any filing or entry in the land office.
The case before us is altogether different. Nelson's occupancy occurred after the passage of the act of 1880. While
that act did not apply to a railroad company which had acquired the legal title, by a definite location of its road, it distinctly recognized the right prior to such time to settle upon the
public lands, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with the intention of claiming the same under the homestead lairs. In occupying the land here in dispute Nelson did not infringe upon
any vested right of the railroad company; for there had not
been at the (late of such occupancy in 1881 any definite location
of the line of the railroad, and the land, so occupied, with other
lands embraced by the map of general route, constituted only a
"float," the company having, at most, only an inchoate interest
in them, a right to acquire them, if, at the time qf definite location, it was not "occupied by homestead settlers" nor incumnbered with "other claims or rights." The withdrawal merely
from "sale or entry" in 1873, based only on a map of the general route of the road, did not identify any specific sections,
was not expressly directed or required by the act of 1864, was
made only out of abundant caution and in accordance with a
practice in the Land Department, and did not and could not
affect any rights given to homestead occupants by Congress in
the acts of 1864 and 1880. Besides, the order made in 1873 to
withhold from sale or entry all the odd-numbered sections falling within the limits of the general route was without practical
value so far as the land in dispute was concerned ; for such land
had not been surveyed, and there could not have been any sale
or entry of unsurveyed lands. At any rate, the order of withdrawal directing the local land office to withhold from "sale or
entry" the odd-numbered sections within the limits of the general route could not prevent the occipancy of one of those sections prior to definite location by one who in good faith intended to claim the benefit of the homestead law; this, because
such right of occupancy was distinctly recognized by the act of
1864. But if this were not so, the act of 1880, in its application
to public lands, which have not become already vested in some

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTIcES BREWER,

BROWN and

SIUIRAS,

dissenting.

company or person, must be held to have so modifed the order
of withdrawal based merely on general route, that such or'der
would not affect any occupancy ar settlement made in goodfaith,
as in the ease of .1'elson, after the passage of that act, and prior
to defnite location. This conclusion cannot be doubted, because
the act of 1880 made no exception of public lands covered by
orders of withdrawal from sale or entry based merely on general route, and because also public lands, which had not become
vested in the railroad company, by the definite location of its
line, were subject to the power of ConGress.
It results that the Supreme Court of the State of Washington
erred in not affirming the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction in favor of the defendants.
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause rerandedfor
such further proceedings as way not be inconsistent with this
opinion.
AIR. JUsTIoE BREIVER, with whom MR. JusTICE BxowN and
M. JUSTIcE SHmAs concur, dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment in this case. It overrules a unanimous judgment of this court, one which for nearly twenty
years has been a guide to the Land Department in the construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad grant. Further, in effect
it declares that an entire section in the act of Congress making
the grant, a section which from the inception of the work of construction has always been regarded by the parties interested as a
provision intended to secure to the company the full measure of
lands granted, is meaningless, and gave the company absolutely
no protection whatever.
It is admitted that the company fixed the general route of
its road coterminous with the road in controversy and within
forty miles thereof, by filing a plat of such route with the
Commissioner of the General Land Office on August 20, 1 73,
and that on November 1, 1873, the odd-numbered sections
within the forty-mile limits of this route were by the Land
Department withdrawn from sale or entry and the even-numbered sections increased in price to $2.50, notice of which

NELSON ,,. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN

and

SHIRAS,

135

dissenting.

order was immediately filed in the local land office. In 1881,
eight years thereafter, the plaintiff in error for the first time
It
entered upon the lands and commenced its occupation.
is also admitted that by construction of its road the company
has perfected its title to its land grant. Now, when the coinpany filed its map of general route and obtained from the
Land Department the order of withdrawal, it believed that it
acquired something. It did not suppose that it was doing
a vain and useless thing. It did not believe that Congress
had cheated it with a delusive expectation of a benefit which
it did not intend to give.
Was it justified in such belief ? To answer this it is well to
look back to the condition of things at the time the granting
act was passed. In 1862, Congress created the Union Pacific
Railroad Company to build a railroad from the Mississippi
River to the Pacific Ocean along the only then frequented line
of travel. It made to the company a land grant, one fourth the
size of the Northern Pacific grant, and agreed to lend it $16,000
anl upwards per mile to aid in the construction, taking a first
mortgage on the road as security for the loan. Notwithstanding this grant of land, this loan of money, and the fact that the
road was to be along the only frequented line of travel, capital
could not be induced to invest in the enterprise. Two years
thereafter, and in 1864, Congress passed an amendatory act
which doubled the land grant, making it half as large as that
of the Northern Pacific, and agreed to take as security for its
loan a second mortgage, giving to the company the right to
place a first mortgage on the road in an amount equal to the
government loan. And only after this large financial assistance
and increased land grant was the work of construction commenced. On the same day Congress passed the act incorporating the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and making to it its
grant. It promised no assistance in money, but only in lands.
In order to give the company assurance that it would obtain its
full grant it placed in the act section 6, the section which this
court now holds is absolutely ineffectual therefor. That section
reads :
" And be itfurt/hel enacted, That the President of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN and SHIRAS, dissenting.

States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty miles in
width on both sides of the entire line of said road, after the
general route shall be fixed, and as fast as may be required by
the construction of said railroad; and the odd sections of land
hereby granted shall not be liable to sale, or entry, or preemption before or after they are surveyed, except by said company,
as provided in this act; but the provisions of the act of September, eighteen hundred and forty-one, granting preemption
rights, and the acts amendatory thereof, and of the act entitled
'An act to secure homesteads to actual settlers on the public
domain,' approved May twenty, eighteen hundred and sixtytwo, shall be, and the same are hereby, extended to all other
lands on the line of said road, when surveyed, excepting those
hereby granted to said company. And the reserved alternate
sections shall not be sold by the government at a price less than
two dollars and fifty cents per acre, when offered for sale."
At the time of the passage of the act the entire body of the
country from the western boundary of Minnesota to the Cascade
Range was unoccupied, untraveled, and almost wholly unexplored. As said by Senator Hendricks, when the bill was before
the Senate: "Everybody can see at a glance that it is a work
of national importance. It proposes to grant lands in a northern latitude where, without the construction of a work like that,
the lands are comparatively without value to the government.
No person acquainted with the condition of that section of
country supposes that there can be very extensive settlements
until the government shall encourage those settlements by the
construction of some work like this." And by Senator Hlarlan,
the chairman of the Committee on Public Lands: "The Committee on Public Lands agree to report this bill favorably on
account of the vast consequence that will attach to the completion of the road. The land is to be conveyed to the company
only as the road progresses. The committee were of opinion
that if the road should be built the government could well afford to give one half the land, for the distance of forty miles on
each side of the road, to secure its completion. If it should not
be built, no lands will have been conveyed." In other words,
the proposition was to give half of the lands within forty miles

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
JUSTICES BREWEII, I31oWN

and SHIRAS, dissenting.

of the road to the company-not to give as much land as would
be equal to half the lands within forty miles of the road, but
The
to give half of those lands. The difference is obvious.
contiguous
of
value
the
construction of a railroad increases
seclands. Congress doubles the price of the even-numbered
coma
to
difference
tions which it retains. It makes no little
pany whether it receives lands along the line of the road which
reason
it constructs, lands which have been increased in value by
away
miles
thereof, or an equal amount of lands hundreds of
and not so increased in value.
The withdrawal was not left to the discretion of the company, but was to be made by the President, after the general
route had been fixed, and "as fast as may be required by the
construction of said railroad." True, the language is that he
"shall cause the lands to be surveyed;" but this, coupled with
the prohibition against sale or entry, was tantamount to a
direction to withdraw, and has always been so regarded by the
Land Department and all parties interested. Thus he was to
determine whether the time had arrived for a withdrawal.
The withdrawal was in fact made. The President exercised
his judgment and decided that the time had arrived for a withdrawal, and the Land Department through all its officials proceeded to act accordingly. The direction in the withdrawal
was "to withhold from sale or entry all the odd-numbered
sections falling within these limits." Surely this action of the
President and the Land Department is entitled to the highest
consideration. As said by Chief Justice Marshall in Cohens v.
Vi rginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 418: "Great weight has always been
attached, and very rightly attached, to contemporaneous exposition." See the many authorities on this proposition collected in Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 307.
But notwithstanding this section, notwithstanding the action
of the executive officers in directing a withdrawal of this land
from sale or entry, it is now held by the court that it was subject to homestead entry, and that the entryman acquired a'
right to obtain title by an entry made eight years after the
withdrawal. Of course, as I said, such a ruling nullifies the
section. A withdrawal from sale or entry which leaves un-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
JUSTICES BiEwER, BROWx

and

SIRAS,

dissenting.

affected the right of purchase or entry is an irreconcilable contradiction. But can there be any reasonable doubt as to the
meaning of section 6 or that Congress intended exactly what
was done by the executive officers, to wit, the withdrawal of
all the odd sections within the forty-mile limit from sale, entry
or preemption? The significant words are these: "The odd
sections of land hereby granted shall not be liable to sale, or
entry, or preeinption before or after they are surveyed, except
by said company." Now it is said in the opinion of the majority that section 3 defines what is "hereby granted" as "every
alternate section" to which "the United States have full title,
not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free
from preenmption or other claims or rights at the time the line
of said road is definitely fixed," that those lands, and those
only, are the ones not liable to sale, entry or preemption, except by the company. It will help to write out the sentence
with a substitution for the words "hereby granted" of the
definition thereof which is presented, and it will read substantially as follows: The odd sections of land within the withdrawal limits to which the United States have full title, not
reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from.
preemption or other claims or rights at the time the line of
the road is definitely fixed shall not from the time of the withdrawal until the filing of the map of definite, location be liable
to sale, entry or preemption before or after they are surveyed,
except by the company. Or, to put it in another form, the odd
sections within the withdrawal limits, which no one purchases
or enters before the filing of the map of definite location, shall
not be purchased or entered by anybody except the company.
It would be a failure of due respect to Congress to use language adequately expressive of the absurdity of such legislation. But Congress never meant any such thing. While it
may be that the use of the words "hereby granted" was unfortunate, yet what was intended is clear. Congress intended
to grant the odd-numbered sections and retain the even-numbered, and while in the granting clause some qualifications were
placed in respect to the odd-numbered sections, in order to protect individual rights then existing, or which Congress might

NELSON r. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

139

JUSTICES BREWER, BilowN and SIHIRAS, dissenting,

thereafter specifically create, yet as Congress was here not attempting a precise definition of what should pass by the grant,
it used the term "granted lands" as descriptive generally of
the odd-numbered sections, to distinguish them from the land
retained, the even-numbered sections. It obviously intended
that no rights should be acquired, either by sale, entry or preemption, to any of the odd-numbered sections after the filing
of the map of general route, and this whether the lands were
surveyed or unsurveyed. This is made clear by the last sentence in the paragraph. It says, "and the reserved alternate
sections shall not be sold by the government at a price less
than two dollars and fifty cents per acre." Clearly that meant
all the even-numbered sections, and not simply those which
happened to be alternate to odd-numbered sections passing to
the company. The truth is that in section 3 Congress defines
specifically and carefully the lands which it granted. Its attention was directed in that clause to the matter of definition.
While in section 6 it was not attempting to define, but to provide for a withdrawal before the filing of the map of definite
location, and was simply endeavoring to make effective rights
which it intended should accompany such withdrawal.
Again, in hfewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, it was held that
the withdrawal directed by Congress in section 6, coupled
with the provision extending homestead and preemption rights
to all other lands on the line of the road, created an implied
prohibition of any withdrawal of lands within the indemnity
limits provided in section 3. It is unquestioned that, whenever a grant had been made of lands, the power of the Land
Department to withdraw such body of lands, as might seem
reasonably necessary for the satisfaction of the grant, had been
frequently upheld by this court. See the long list of cases cited
in the dissenting opinion on page 159. There is no express
prohibition of like action by the Land Department in respect
to lands within the Northern Pacific indemnity limits, and the
judgment was based solely on the implied prohibition above
referred to. The opinion of the court rested mainly on the
rulings of the Land Department, as primarily expressed in the
opinion of Secretary Vilas in Northtern Pacific Railroad Com-

OCTOBER TERM'T, 1902.
JUSTICES BREWER, BRoWN and SHIRAS, dissenting.

pany v. Miller, 'I Land Dec. 100, from whose opinion large
quotations were made, and in respect to rulings of the Land
Department generally, it was said, conceding that the question
involved was one of doubt (p. 157):
"'It is the settled doctrine of this court,' as was said in
United &ates v. Alabama Gq'eat Southern Railroad, 142 U. S.
615, 621, 'that, in case of ambiguity, the judicial department
will lean in favor of a construction given to a statute by the
department charged with the execution of such statute, and, if
such construction be acted upon for a number of years, will
look with disfavor upon any sudden change, whereby parties
who have contracted with the government upon the faith of
such construction may be prejudiced.'"
Turning to the opinion of Mr. Secretary Vilas, we find him
saying (pp. 110, 111, 113, 119):
"But a peculiarity in legislation of this character is found in
the sixth section of the act, in which a provision authorized the
'general route' to be fixed, and required lands to be surveyed
for forty miles in width on both sides of the entire line so fixed,
and directed that the odd-numbered sections granted by the
act should not be liable to sale or entry or preemption before
or after they were surveyed, excepL by said company. In the
language of the Supreme Court, in Buttz v. .Yorthern Pacific
R. R., 119 U. S. 71: 'The act of Congress not only contemplates the filing by the company, in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, of a map showing the definite location of the line of its road, and limits the grant to such
alternate odd sections as have not, at that time, been reserved,
sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and are free from preemption, grant, or other claims or right; but it also contemplates a preliminary designation of the general route of the
road, and the exclusion from sale, entry, or preemption of the
adjoining odd sections within forty miles on each side until the
definite location is made.'
"The facts which have been recited, show beyond all reasonable question that the privilege given to the company of fixing,
first, a line of general route, upon the basis of which the oddnumbered sections within forty-mile limits on either side were

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

141

JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN and SHIRAS, dissenting,

to be withdrawn from sale or entry or preemption before
and after survey, was fully exercised by the company in Washington Territory, from the eastern boundary to the mouth of
the Walla Walla River, and thence along the Columbia to the
first range line west of the Willamette principal meridian, and
thence north to the international boundary, by its filing and
the department's approval of its maps of location on the 30th
of July, 1870. These maps and the action taken thereon fully
met every requirement of the statute in that behalf. The
company, by resolution fixed this line as the basis of withdrawal, made its formal request that the land should be withdrawn thereon, the line was plainly and sufficiently described,
the department accepted it, and applied the statutory consequence by directing the local land officers in Washington Territory to withdraw the odd-numbered sections along that line as
far north as the town of Steilacoom, first, for a width of twenty
miles on either side, and, later in the same year, within the
limit of an additional twenty miles; and also by increasing
the minimum price of the even-numbered sections within the
same limits to two dollars and fifty cents per acre. Thus the
action of the company and of the department cooperated to
give official determination to the fact upon which the statute
became applicable, both to withdraw the odd-numbered sections and to double the minimum price of the even-numbered
sections, and both effects were formally recognized and declared. It cannot be doubted that, had no other action been
taken before the line of the road for construction was definitely
located, this action in regard to the line of the general route of
1870, must have remained continuously operative upon all lands
within the limit of forty miles on either side of the line so established. So obvious is this, indeed, that from the mouth of
the Walla Walla River, westwardly along the Columbia, that
withdrawal remains to this day obligatory and operative by
force of the statute and of that location.

.

.

.

By virtue of

that withdrawal the odd-numbered sections within forty miles
of all that portion of the route lying east of the Columbia remained for nearly two years at least segregated from the public domain, and all purchasers of the even-numbered sections

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES BREWER, Bnowvx

and SIRAs, dissenting.

were required to pay the double minimum price for the land
they bought.

.

.

.Having

provided the condition upon

which a withdrawal of the public domain should be operative
upon a preliminary general route for the benefit of this company, without any latitude of authority for any other, the legislative will must be regarded as exclusive of any other.
Thus, the meaning of the act apears to be that the provisional
line of general route should, in the first place, be taken as the
line upon which. the grant was made, and, during the period
while no other line was fixed than such line of genelral route, the
lands in the odd-numbered sections within forty miles should be
taken as the granted lands, and, therefore, they are declared by
the statute to be the 'hereby granted' lands." (The italics are
mine.)
Thus the court held that, because by section 6 the odd-numbered sections were withdrawn from sale or entry, and at the
same time it was declared that the homestead and preemption
laws should apply to all other lands, there was an implied
prohibition upon the Land Department's withdrawal of oddnumbered sections within the indemnity limits. Now it is
held that the withdrawal directed by section 6 and made by
the Secretary of the Interior was absolutely meaningless and
secured nothing to the company. If the withdrawal directed
by section 6 intended nothing, accomplished nothing, it should
not have been made the basis for an implied prohibition of
the hitherto unquestioned power of the Land Department to
withdraw lands in indemnity limits. There is an incongruity
in the two decisions which, to my mind, is, to use no stronger
expression, both sad and staftling.
Further, the Land Department did in fact withdraw from sale
or entry all the odd-numbered sections within the forty-mile
limits of the general route-and this withdrawal included the
tract in controversy as well as the other odd-numbered sections
-and notice thereof was filed in the local land office, and this
many years before the plaintiff in error went upon the land.
As heretofore stated, the power of the Land Department to
withdraw from private entry lands which it has ieason to believe may be necessary to satisfy a land grant has never been

NELSON r. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN and SIIRAS,

143

dissenting.

denied. It is a power which has been exercised again and again
from the inception of land grants. In one case, (Wolcott v.
Des 2lfoines Company, 5 Wall. 681,) we sustained a withdrawal
made by the department beyond the real terminus of the grant

on the ground that there was some doubt where the grant terminated, and therefore the department was justified in making
the withdrawal cover any possible conclusion as to such terminus. There was in the Northern Pacific act no prohibition
on the Land Department's exercise of this customary power.
Indeed, as I have shown, it was held in Hewitt v. Schultz, 180
U. S. 139, supra, that the express direction to withdraw lands
in the place limits was the foundation of an implied prohibition
on a withdrawal of lands within the indemnity limits. The
purpose and effect of a withdrawal are not to vest any title in
the beneficiary of the grant, but to preserve the lands from private entry in order that when the time arrives the grantee
may receive the full measure of its grant. As said in .'enotti
v. Dillon, 167 U. S. 703, 720, 721:
"It is true, as said in many cases, that the object of an executive order withdrawing from preemption, private entry and
sale, lands within the general route of a railroad is to preserve
the lands, unencumbered, until the completion and acceptance
of the road.

.

.

.

That order took these lands out of the

public domain as between the railroad company and individuals, but they remained public lands under the full control of
Congress, to be disposed of by it in its discretion at any time
before they became the property of the company under an accepted definite location of its road."
This language was quoted with approval in U'ited States v.
Oregon &c. Railroad Company, 176 U. S. 28, 48.
Again, in NVorthern PacificRailroadv. 1uXsser-Sauntry Com-

pany, 168 U. S. 604, 607, we said:
"The withdrawal by the Secretary in aid of the grant to the
State of Wisconsin was valid, and operated to withdraw the
odd-numbered sections within its limits from disposal by the
land officers of the government under the general land laws.
The act of the Secretary was in effect a reservation."
And the same doctrine has been affirmed in many cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES BREvmt, BRowN and SHIAS,

dissenting.

Turning to the rulings of the Land Department, in Blestehin
v. St. Paul &e. Railway Conpany, 12 Land Dec. 27, 28, it
was said by Secretary Koble:
"The legal effect of the withdrawal is to preclude the disposal of the land covered thereby, under any of the land laws.
In other words, so long as the withdrawal remains in force the
land covered thereby is simply held for the purpose for which
the withdrawal was made."
And again, in the same volume, in In re Chicago &c. Railway Company, pp. 259, 261:
"In the case of Riley v. WVlhs, referred to and quoted in the
Shire case, it was said by the Supreme Court that settlement
upon and possession of land within the limits of an executive
withdrawal were 'without right,' and that the subsequent recognition by the land officers of such settlement and possession,
and the permission to the party to make proof and entry mder
the preemption law, and the issuing patent ' were acts in violation of law and void.' This case of Riley v. ]1'ells has never
been overruled or modified, but has been referred to and approved
in a number of the decisions of the Supreme Court, and must
therefore be accepted as expressing the opinion of that tribunal
as to the absolute invalidity of settlements upon lands withdrawn
by executive order."
In -n 7re ilans Oleson, 28 Land Dec. 25, 31, Secretary Bliss
thus defined the word " withdrawal" :
"In the nomenclature of the public land laws the word ' withdrawal' is generally used to denote an order issued by the President, Secretary of the Interior, Commissioner of the General
Land Office, or other proper officer, whereby public lands are
withheld from sale and entry under the general land laws, in
order that presently or ultimately they may be applied to some
designated public use, or disposed of in some special way. Sometimes these orders are not made until there is an immediate
necessity therefor, but more frequently the necessity for their
making is anticipated."
And in the same volume (1Inman v. Marorthtern Pacific Railroad) the same Secretary uses this language (pp. 95, 100):
"From the authorities cited the following rules are clearly

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

1415

JUSTICES BREWER, BnowN and SHIRAS, dissenting.

deducible: First. Subject only to the control and power of disposition remaining in Congress, an anticipatory withdrawal,
whether legislative or executive, during the time it remains in
force, withholds the lands embraced therein from other appropriation or disposition, and prevents the acquisition of any legal
or equitable title or right by settlement or entry in violation of
such withdrawal."

Similar declarations may be found in almost every volume of
the Land Decisions.
In the execution of this Northern Pacific land grant many
withdrawals were made as called for from time to time along
the line of general route and the Land Department has uniformly recognized the validity and effect of such withdrawals.
In Yorthern Pacific Railroad v. Pressey, 2 Land Dec. 551, it
appeared that Pressey settled upon a tract within forty miles of
the line of general route; that the lands at the time of his settlement were unsurveyed ; that after survey he made application
for a homestead entry, and it was held that he acquired no
rights by his settlement, inasmuch as the land had been withdrawn by order of the Land Department, Secretary Teller saying (p. 553):
"The settlement by Pressey upon the odd section was clearly
in violation of the order of withdrawal, and he could acquire no
rights or equities under such a settlement."
In 2rorlhern Pacfie Railroad v. Miller, 7 Land Dec. 100, a
case in which the implied prohibition of the withdrawal of indemnity lands was first distinctly decided in the Land Department, Secretary Vilas said (p. 110) in reference to the withdrawal
of lands within the place limits of the line of general route:
"Thus the action of the company and of the department cooperated to give official determination to the fact upon which
the statute became applicable, both to withdraw the odd-nunibered sections and to double the minimum price of the evennumbered sections, and both effects were formally recognized
and declared. It cannot be doubted that, had no other action
been taken before the line of the road for construction was definitely located, this action in regard to the line of the general
route of 1870, must have remained continuously operative upon
VOL. CLXXXVIII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTIcEs BREWER, BRoWN and SImRAs, dissenting.

all lands within the limit of forty miles on either side of the
line so established. So obvious is this, indeed, that from the
mouth of the Walla Walla River, westwardly along the Columbia, that withdrawal remains to this day obligatory and operative by force of the statute and of that location.
"If authority be wanting to so manifest a proposition, it is
found in the following language of the Supreme Court in the
case already referred to."
In Mcclure v. N;orthern Pacific Railroad,9 Land Dec. 155,
in an opinion by Secretary Noble, it was held that, "when the
map of general route was filed, the withdrawal thereunder became at once effective, and reserved from general disposal the
odd-numbered sections embraced therein."
In 3T orthern Pacific Railroad v. Collins, 14 Land Dec. 484,
it was again decided by the same Secretary that " lands withdrawn for the benefit of said grant are not subject to settlement."
In CentralPacific Railroadv. Beck, 19 Land Dec. 100, which
was also a settlement upon uusurveyed land within the place
limits of the general route of the road, and in which a withdrawal had been ordered in accordance with the provisions of
the act making the grant, Secretary Smith, sustaining the title
of the railroad company, said (p. 103):
"I am clearly of the opinion that after the withdrawal made
upon the map of general route, no rights could be acquired adverse to the company by settlement upon the land, and that a
settlement so made, even though it existed at the date of the
filing of the map of definite location, would not serve to except the land settled upon from the operation of the grant to
said company."
In the very last volume of the Land Decisions (vol. 30,
p. 247,) in rdspect to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
whose granting act contained a similar provision in reference
to withdrawal on the filing of a map of general route, it was
said by Secretary Hitchcock (p. 249):
"As between individual claimants and the company no claim
could be predicated upon settlement or entry made after the
filing of the map of general route, and as against such claims

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

147

JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN and SHIRAs, dissenting.

the grant in effect was operative from April 3, 1871, the date
upon which the map of general route was filed."
So that from the beginning until the present time in construing this grant and others containing like provision there has
been an unbroken line of decisions in the Land Department to
the effect that a withdrawal made on the filing of the map of
general route prevents any private claims attaching to the oddnumbered sections of land; and this whether the lands were
surveyed or unsurveyed. Indeed, when Congress in the sixth
section expressly declared that the lands "shall not be liable to
sale, or entry, or preemption before or after they are surveyed,"
it would seem as though it had made every provision which
language was capable of expressing to reserve from private entry for the benefit of the railroad company all odd-numbered
sections, surveyed or unsurveyed, within the place limits of the
line of general route.
I have already quoted from Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139,
in reference to the duty of following, in case of ambiguity, the
construction given to a statute by the department charged with
the execution of such statute. That doctrine was there applied
although it appeared that the practice of the department during
the building of the railroad had been one way and only changed
after its completion, and the latter construction was upheld by
this court as the ruling of the department. It was said (p. 156):
"It was admitted at the hearing that the construction of the
Northern Pacific act of 1864 announced by Secretary Vilas had
been adhered to in the administration of the public lands by the
Land Department. We are now asked to overthrow that construction by holding that it was competent for the Land Department, immediately upon the definite location of the line of
the railroad, to withdraw from the settlement laws all the oddnumbered sections within the indemnity limits as defined by
the act of Congress. If this were done it is to be apprehended
that great if not endless confusion would ensue in the administration of the public lands and that the rights of a vast number
of people who have acquired homes under the preemption and
homestead laws, in reliance upon the ruling of Secretary Vilas
and his successors in office, would be destroyed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES BiEwLR,

Biowx

and SHiRAS, dissenting.

Now we have a case in which the ruling of the department
has been unchanged from the commencement to the present
time-a ruling which Secretary Vilas in 1 Land Dec. supra,
called" so manifest a proposition," and it is wholly disregarded.
The recent and temporary ruling of the Land Department was
in the former case sustained in order, as was said, to protect
the settler. Here the continuous practice of the department is
disregarded and the patent issued by it to the railroad company is overthrown.
Still again, the company, by reason of section 6, believing
that a withdrawal was to be made which should operate to its
benefit, filed a map of general route, and a withdrawal was
made of the odd-numbered sections of land. It is now held
that such withdrawal did not withdraw the odd-numbered sections from entry and sale, but they remained still open to entry
or purchase under the land laws. If that be the true construction, it follows that, whereas, if the company had filed no map
of general route, no one would know where its line of road was
to be until after it filed the map of definite location, and then
the title would attach to all odd-numbered sections not burdened with existing claims. But by filing the map of general
route, as it did eleven years before filing the map of definite
location, it notified everybody of the proposed route, and so all
settlers could take advantage of that knowledge and enter the
odd-numbered sections contiguous thereto. Having this knowledge of where the line was to be located, of course settlers would
come as near to that line as possible, in order to take advantage
of the increased value coming from the construction of the road,
and so taking advantage of the notice given would deplete the
grant of lands which Congress had intended for the benefit of
the company.
But this question has been definitely decided by this court.
Battz v. Norther'n Pacific Railroad Company, 119 U. S.55.

That was an action brought by the railroad company for the
possession of a tract of land within forty miles of the general
route as also of the line of definite location of plaintiff's road.
The defendant entered upon the land in October, 1871, he at
the time possessing all the qualifications of a preemptor and in-

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

149

JUSTICEs BREWER, BRowx and SMRAs dissenting.

tending to obtain title by preemption. At that time the tract
was, with others, in the occupation of the Sioux Indians. An
agreement for the surrender by the Indians of all their rights
was ratified on May 19, 1873. On May 26, 1873, the company
filed in the Land Department its map of definite location. The
defendant was therefore in occupation of the tract with intent
to preempt it for seven days after the rights of the Indians had
ceased and before the filing of the map of definite location. So
if the opinion of the court now announced had prevailed the
defendant was entitled to hold that tract as against the company. On the 11th of August, 1873, he presented his application for entry, which was refused, and refused because it was
within the forty-mile limit, as shown by a map of general route
filed on February 21, 1872. This presents the precise question
here involved. The unanimous opinion of the court sustained
the action of the Land Department in refusing defendant's application to enter and confirmed the title of the railroad company. In the course of the opinion, by Mr. Justice Field, it
was said (p. 72):
"When the general route of the road is thus fixed in good
faith, and information thereof given to the Land Department
by filing the map thereof with the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or the Secretary of the Interior, the law withdraws from sale or preemption the odd sections to the extent
of forty miles on each side. The object of the law in this particular is plain; it is to preserve the land for the company to
which, in aid of the construction of the road, it is granted.
Nor is there anything inconsistent with this view of the sixth
section as to the general route, in the clause in the third section
making the grant operative only upon such odd sections as have
not been reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated,
and to which pre6mption and other rights and claims have not
attached, when a map of the definite location has been filed.
The third section does not embrace sales and preemptions in
cases where the sixth section declares that the land shall not
be subject to sale or preemption. The two sections must be
so construed as to give effect to both, if that be practicable."
This decision, rendered seventeen years ago, has never hitherto

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1902.
JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN and SIlmAs dissenting.

been overruled. It was reaffirmed in St. Paul& Paciflc Railroad Company v. 7rt/wie ,n .Pacijic Railroad Company, 139
U. S. 1, 17, 18, in which, speaking for a unanimous court, Mr.
Justice Field said:
"Besides, the withdrawal made by the Secretary of the Interior of lands within the forty-mile limit, on the 13th of August, 1870, preserved the lands for the benefit of the Northern
Pacific Railroad from the operation of any subsequent grants
to other companies not specifically declared to cover the premises. The Northern Pacific act directed that the President
should cause the lands to be surveyed forty miles in width on
both sides of the entire line of the road, after the general route
should be fixed, and as fast as might be required by the construction of the road, and provided that the odd sections of
lands granted should not be liable to sale, entry or preemption
before or after they were surveyed, except by the company.
They were therefore excepted by that legislation from grants,
independently of the withdrawal by the Secretary of the Interior. His action in formally announcing their withdrawal
was only giving publicity to what the law itself declared. The
object of the withdrawal was to preserve the land unencumbered
until the completion and acceptance of the road.

.

.

.

After

such withdrawal, no interest in the lands granted can be acquired, against the rights of the company, except by special
legislative declaration, nor, indeed, in the absence of its announcement, after the general route is fixed."
In the opinion of the majority some later cases are referred
to which are said to qualify the decision in Buttz v. Nortiern.
Pacific Railroadl Company. But even the slightest attention
to what was decided in those cases shows that in no manner
do they qualify or limit that decision so far as it affects the
present question. Before noticing those cases it is well to consider what was the purpose and effect of section 6. It was not
a granting section. It did not purport to give title to anything
to the company. Its whole scope and effect was to withdraw
from sale, entry or preemption the odd-numbered sections in
order that when the company filed its map of definite location
it might secure those odd-numbered sections. The grant was

NELSON ?.. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

151

JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN and SHIRAS dissenting.

made only by section 3 and attached to particular lands when
the map of definite location was filed, but the proposition laid
down in the Buttz case-and the proposition I am contending
for here-is that this plaintiff in error could acquire nothing
by his entry upon an odd-numbered section after the filing of
the map of general route and the withdrawal; that the tract
was therefore free from a claim of any kind when the map of
definite location was filed, and so there was nothing to prevent
the railroad company from receiving title.
Now the cases referred to are St. Paul & Pacific v. 2Vorthern Pacific, 139 U. S. 1 ; United States v. Nortern Pacific
Railroad ( onpany, 152 U. S. 284; Vorthern Pacific Railroad
Company v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620; Menotti v. Dillon, 167
U. S. 703; United States v. Oregon &a. -Land Company, 176
U. S. 28; Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon Land Company, 176 U. S.
51, and 3fessinger v. Same, 176 U. S. 58. After quoting from the
opinions in some the court sums up by saying "the cases above
cited definitely determine that the railroad company acquired
no vested interest in any particular section of land until after
a definite location was shown by an accepted map of its line."
This is a proposition among the A, B, C's of public land law
and needed no authorities in support thereof. But that proposition throws no light on the question as to the scope of the
withdrawal given by section 6, and when the cases themselves
are referred to not one of them conflicts with the proposition
I have heretofore laid down. I have already shown what was
decided in St. Paul & Pacific v. Northern Pacific, and need
not repeat. In United States v. Nortlee'n Pacific Railroad
Company it appeared that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company had attempted to locate a line from Portland directly
north to Puget Sound, and in 1865 had filed a map of the general route thereof. Such a line was not within the authority
granted by the act of Congress incorporating the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company. On -May 4, 1870, Congress made
a land grant to the Oregon Central Railroad Company which
included some of the lands within the forty-mile limits of the
above-mentioned general route. On May 31, 1870, and twentyseven days after the grant to the Oregon Central Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JusTIcEs BRErWEr, BROWN and SiRAs dissenting.

Company, Congress passed an act which authorized the Northern Pacific Company to construct a line from Portland to
Puget Sound, with the privileges and grants provided for in
the original act of incorporation, and it was held that the
rights of the Oregon Central Railroad Company antedated and
were superior to those of the Northern Pacific. First in time,
first in right, is as to lands within place limits the settled rule
of railroad land grants. What possible bearing this decision
can have upon the case before us it is hard to conceive. In
Nrthlern Pacific Railroad Compvany v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620,
the lands in controversy were claimed as mineral lands, and
applications for entry of them as such were pending in the
Land Department. The court had held in Barden v. .NorthLern Paoific R ailroad Corn)any, 154 U. S. 288, that mineral
lands did not pass under the grant to the railroad company,
and that whether they were known or not known to be mineral
lands at the time of the filing of the map of definite location
was immaterial. Of course, it followed that whether they
were known or not known at the time of the filing of the map
of general route was also immaterial. The lands were of such
a character as could not in any event pass to the railroad company any more than the even-numbered sections. They were
not withdrawn by filing the map of general route; they did
not pass by filing the map of definite location. The four remaining cases all proceeded upon the one proposition that the
mere filing of the map of general route does not preclude Congress from making subsequently thereto and prior to the filing
of the map of definite location-that is, prior to the time when
title vested in the company-any other specific grant of the
reserved lands. In other words, until the proposed grantee
shall have done all that is necessary to vest title in it, there remains in Congress the power to make other disposition of the
lands. But this was no new doctrine in the public land law.
It was laid down in Frisbie v. W]iitney, 9 Wall. 187; in the
well-known Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, and has been
followed in many cases since. Of course, Congress could at
any time before the filing of the map of definite location and
while the title of the company was still inchoate, reserve any

NELSON

. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

JUSTICES BREWER,

BRowN and

S11IRAS

153

dissenting.

of the lands for military or other purposes or make a specific
grant of them to individuals or corporations. But as said in
St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Company v. Hortherm,Pacific
Railroad Company, 139 U. S. 1, 18, "after such withdrawal,
no interest in the lands granted can be acquired, against the
rights of the company, except by special legislative declaration,"
and in this case there has been no such legislative declaration.
But it is said that the case of the plaintiff in error is "placed
on impregnable ground by the act of May 4, 1880, c. 89." I
pass the proposition that this is a general act for the relief of
settlers on public lands and the familiar doctrine that a general
law passed after a special act does not interfere with the provisions of that act, provided there is room for the operation of
both, and there is ample room for the operation of this act on
public lands generally without interfering with the special provisions made in the Northern Pacific grant. But the act itself
has no force whatever as applied to the present question. The
provision is that one who is a settler on any of the public lands
of the United States "with the intention of claiming the same
under the homestead laws, shall be allowed the same time to
file his homestead application and perfect his original entry in
the United States land office as is now allowed to settlers under the predmption laws to put their claims on record, and his
right shall relate back to the date of settlement, the same as if
he settled under the preemption laws." If we turn to the preemption law we find, Revised Statutes, section 2264, that a
person intending to pre~mpt shall "within thirty days after the
date of such settlement, file with the register of the proper disThat is, the pre6mptioner had
trict a written statement."
thirty days after settlement within which to make his entry,
while when we turn to the homestead law, Revised Statutes,
section 2290, we find that a party seeking to homestead "shall,
upon application to the register of the land office in which he
is about to make such entry, make affidavit . . . that his
entry is made for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation." In other words, his right is initiated by the application
to enter, and does not relate back to any settlement, and this
statute simply gives him a right of thirty days' occupancy be-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
JUSTICES BREWErt BRowN and SMRAS dissenting.

fore making his application to enter. How such a statute,
equalizing the rights of one seeking to make a homestead entry
with those of one seeking to make pregmption, can have any
pertinency to the question before us passes my comprehension.
Again, several pages of the opinion are taken up with references to quotations from opinions in the Land Department as
to the meaning of the term "occupied by homestead settlers."
Hlere again I am unable to see the pertinency of these references. If there had been no withdrawal and the question arose
as to the effect of plaintiff in error's occupancy of the land as
against the rights of the company obtained by the map of definite location these authorities might be worth considering, but
they throw no light upon the effect of the withdrawal, which
is the question before us.
The fact that this tract was not surveyed at the time the
plaintiff in error entered upon it nor until after the completion
of the road is immaterial. By the terms of section 6 the prohibition against sale, entry or preemption extended to lands
"before or after they are surveyed." Reference is made to several cases in which we held that the rights of a settler were
not lost by the failure of the government to make a survey
prior to his occupation. But those decisions were to the effect
that the settler loses nothing by the neglect of the government.
Here it is held that he gains something. If the survey had
been completed before he commenced his occupation, and he
could not then enter an odd-numbered section, surely he could
not, in face of the prohibition of the section, enter the land
after it had been surveyed. If instead of going upon lands
that had been surveyed the settler chose to go into unsurveyed
territory, he took his chances of placing his improvements upon
an odd or even-numbered section. If he placed them upon what
proved to be an odd-numbered section, he acquired no right as
against the grant to the company. If he put them on what
proved to be an even-numbered section, he would be compelled
to pay the government double price. In the latter event does
any one for a moment suppose that it would be an answer to
the demand for a double price that the government had failed
to make a survey before he chose to occupy the land and make

NELSON v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
JUSTICES BREWER, BROWN

155

and SHIRAS dissenting.

improvements thereon? The construction placed by the majority not only takes from the railroad company the land which
was granted to it, but deprives the government of that which
it intended to obtain, a double price for the lands it reserved
for sale.
Finally, I may say this decision clouds the title to all the
lands granted to the railroad company. At the time the map
of definite location was filed, as well as at the time the road
was completed, there was not on the records of the Land Department a single word or mark which indicated to anybody
that plaintiff in error was on the land or claiming it, or that the
title of the railroad company was other than perfect. But because plaintiff in error was on the land it is held that the patent
of the government to the railroad company conveyed to it no
title, and that this occupant by parol testimony may show the
fact of his occupancy and overthrow the record title. Yet this
court unanimously held in N'orthern Pacfic Railroad v. Colburn, 164 U. S. 383, that mere occupation, unaccompanied by
the filing of a claim in the land office, did not exclude a tract
from the operation of the land grant. And that there was no
oversight or lack of attention to this particular matter is shown
by the fact that the United States promptly filed a brief of
thirty-six pages, quoting the principal land decisions referred to
in the opinion of the majority, and asked the court to reconsider its decision, which application was denied without dissent.
Indeed, as appears from the authorities cited in that opinion,
the conclusion was in accord with prior rulings, to the effect
that there must be something of record in the Land Department
to support the contention of an adverse right. That unanimous
opinion of the court is put one side by the assertion that the
land there in controversy had been surveyed while in this it had
not been. No distinction was made in the discussion between
surveyed and unsurveyed lands, no suggestion that it affected
the question in the slightest degree, and, as we have seen, the
prohibition against sale, entry or preemption in section 6 extended to lands unsurveyed as well as surveyed. How can one
say in respect to any tract claimed by the railroad company
that it was not at the time of the filing of the map of definite

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

location in the occupation of some one intending to preempt or
homestead it? If such occupation is sufficient to avoid the patent of the United States, has the company sure title to any
lands?
I think the judgment ought to be affirmed.

SMYTHE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE OIRUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 85. Argued November 12, 1902.-Decided January 26, 1903.

An action upon the official bond of a superintendent of the Mint at New
Orleans, conditioned among other things that he would "faithfully and
diligently perform, execute and discharge all and singular the duties of
said office according to the laws of the United States" and "receive and
safely keep, until legally withdrawn, all moneys or bullion which slall
be for the use or expenses of the Mint." The claim was that the defendant had received and not paid over to the United States $25,000 in treasury notes which had come to his hands. The defence was that the treasury notes bad been totally destroyed by fire, without any negligence on
the part of the superintendent, except that $1182 of such notes had been
recovered in a charred condition and turned over to the United States,
being in such condition that they could be identified as to amount and
date of issue. Held:
(1) That the obligations of the superintendent were not determinable by
the law of bailment but by the terms of his bond, and he could not
escape responsibility for treasury notes that came to his hands aud
which were lost, unless such loss was attributable to overruling
necessity or the public enemy; that their loss by reason of fire constituted no defence.
(2) No deduction could be allowed on account of the $1182 of charred
notes, because no previous application had been made to the proper
accounting officers for the allowance of such a credit.
(3) The superintendent was liable on his bond for interest at six per cent
from the date on which his accounts were stated at the Treasury
Department.

THIs was an action upon the official bond of Andrew W.
Smythe as Superintendent of the Mint of the United States at

