OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

BEALS v. CONE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 84. Argued November 11, 12, 1902.-Decided January 26, 1903.
There is no general right to a writ of error from this court to the courts of a
State; nor does the mere fact that the action was brought under sections
2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes in support of an adverse claim,
entitle the defeated party to a writ of error to the state court. There is
but a special right to bring such cases, and such cases only, as disclose a
Federal question distinctly ruled adversely to the plaintiff in error.
Where no title, right, privilege or immunity of a Federal nature was set
up and claimed, nor the validity of any Federal statute denied in the
state court, nor the validity of any state statute challenged prior to the
judgment of affirmance in the highest court of the State, on the ground
of its repugnance to paramount Federal law, this court is not justified in
taking jurisdiction.
Generally speaking estoppel and res judicata present questions of local,
and not of Federal, law.

Tis is what is known in the mining regions as an "adverse
suit," brought under the authority of sections 2325 and 2326,
Rev. Stat., in the District Court of the county of El Paso, Colorado, to contest the right of defendants to a patent for the
Ophir lode mining claim. The plaintiff claimed a portion of
this ground as a part of his own mining claim, and the question
presented was as to the.priority of right thereto of the respective parties by virtue of discovery and location. Judgment
was rendered in the District Court in favor of the defendants,
which judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. 27 Colorado, 473. Thereupon the case was brought
here on writ of error.
In the complaint plaintiff averred that on or about January 1,
1893, and ever since, he was the owner and in possession of the
Tecumseh lode mining claim; that on or about April 1, 1896,
the defendants wrongfully entered upon a parcel of said claim,
to wit, all that part thereof included within the exterior lines
of the Ophir lode mining claim, and that they have ever since

BEALS i. CONE.
Counsel for Parties.

wrongfully withheld the possession of said parcel from the
plaintiff. The answer denied the allegations of the complaint,
and pleaded as a second defence that before the alleged discovery of the Tecumseh lode mining claim, to wit, on February 3,
1892, the defendants, or their grantors, were and defendants
still are the owners of the Ophir lode mining claim; and that
by reason of such ownership they are entitled to the possession
of the ground in dispute. To this answer a replication was
filed, setting forth that defendants on February 10, 1S93, made
a mineral entry which included said Ophir lode; that subsequently plaintiff, with others, filed a protest against that portion of the entry which related to the Ophir lode-such protest
charging, among other things, that there had been no discovery
of any vein, lode, ledge or deposit of mineral therein; that on a
hearing there was an adjudication by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior,
that no discovery had been made, and canceling the entry.
Plaintiff also alleged that at the hearing on said protest Cone,
one of the defendants, testified that no vein had been discovered
in the Ophir claim- and no work done on any lode therein during the year 1893, and that the plaintiff was induced by such
testimony to go to large expenditures in exploring for mineral
in the ground in conflict between the two claims, the defendants knowing at all times that such expenditures were being
made in reliance upon the truth of such testimony. In other
words, the plaintiff in his replication pleaded two defences to
defendants' claim of title, first re. judicata by reason of the
action of the Secretary of the Interior in setting aside the original application for entry of the Ophir lode; and, second, estoppel by reason of the testimony given by one of the defendants. A demurrer to this replication was sustained, and the
case went to trial upon the complaint and answer.
Hr.
. B. Johnson for plaintiff in error.
)Mr. Ohalrles S. Thomas for defendants in error. Z. WilH
,yant and X/'. Harry H. Lee were with him on the
Ham H.
brief.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court..

after making the foregoing statement,
the court.
of
opinion
the
delivered
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

The jurisdiction of this court is denied. The validity of a
treaty or statute of or authority exercised under the United
States was not drawn in question in the state courts, nor was
the validity of a statute of or authority exercised under the
State of Colorado challenged on the ground of being repugnant
to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States. So
that the jurisdiction of this court depends on whether some title,
right, privilege or immunity of a Federal nature was specially
set up and claimed by the plaintiff in error and denied by the
state courts. Rev. Stat. sec. 709.
The mere fact that this is an action brought under sections 2325 and 2326,. Rev. Stat., in support of an adverse claim
does not of itself entitle the defeated party to a writ of error.
Although brought under the authority of a Federal statute, the
questions involved may be only of general or local law. _lackburn v. Portland Gold XIining Conp)any, 175 U. S. 571 ; S oshone -Mining Company v. Butter, 177 U. S. 505.
Two questions of law arose on the pleadings. Both were presented by the demurrer to the replication; one, a question of
estoppel; the other, of resjudicata. The estoppel was not one
of record, but in~pais, arising, as contended from contradictory
statements made by one of the defendants, at a different time
and place. Whether such statements work an estoppel depends
not upon the Constitution or any law of Congress, involves no
Federal question, but is determined by rules of general law.
With respect to the other question, this may be said: The
validiky of the denial of the original application for entry was
not challenged. It was accepted as conclusive, and a subsequent
entry was relied upon. The rule of 'esjtdicatawas, however,
invoked by plaintiff on the ground that a question of fact had
been decided in the first application, which, as alleged, was conclusive between the parties in this action. But the applicability
of the rule depends on the fact that the parties to the two actions or proceedings are the same and also acting in the same
right. Here the parties to the prior proceeding were the ap-

BEALS v. CONE.
Opinion of the Court.

plicants for the patent and the United States, and the matters
decided bound them, and them only. The fact that this plaintiff, with others, filed a protest against the entry did not make
them parties to the application to the extent that they were concluded by a decision either way. There is no suggestion in the
pleadings that the protestants were in any way interested in
the ground applied for, or that they were acting other than as
good citizens, seeking to prevent a wrong upon the government.
Their standing in the proceeding was in the nature of amiez
curice. As such, whatever the result, no rule of 9,esjudicata
could be invoked by or against them. Hence the ruling on the
demurrer was not concerning the effect of a decision made by
the Land Department upon the parties to the proceeding, but
a mere determination that one who was not a party could not
claim the advantages of a party. It is not open to question
that the trial court properly sustained the demurrer to this portion of the replication. To call this the decision of a Federal
question adverse to the plaintiff is so manifestly without foundation that it may rightfully be disregarded.
The record of the trial, which took place before a jury, is
voluminous-the bill of exceptions containing the testimony,
the instructions and the proceedings on the motion for a new
trial filling 436 printed pages. The testimony was mainly directed to such matters of fact as the time and place of discovery of mineral, the character of the veins, the per cent of mineral and the general nature of the rock formations in which the
veins were alleged to have been discovered. From the beginning of the trial to the end of the testimony there appears no
single distinct claim based upon the Constitution or statutes of
the United States. No statute of the State of Colorado was
questioned, nor was any title, right, privilege or immunity under
the Constitution or laws of the United States specially set up
or claimed. In the instructions asked and refused, as well as
in those given, there is only a general mention of the laws of
the United States and none of any particular statute. In the
motion for a new trial as well as in the assignments of error
in the Supreme Court of the State there is not the slightest
reference to the Constitution, the laws of the United States or

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

any section or part thereof. And in the opinion of the Supreme Court, outside of the matters of estoppel andi'esjudicata
before referred to, there is nothing to even suggest that it was
requested to consider any question of a title, right, privilege or
immunity under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Indeed, while this case has evidently been hotly contested, yet
the matters which were subjects of controversy and determination were questions of fact concerning the time, extent and effect of the alleged discoveries of mineral, and also alleged
wrongs in respect to the jury. To those matters, and to those
alone, was the attention of the parties and the courts directed.
Counsel for plaintiff in error has filed an elaborate brief of 249
printed pages, which is able and exhaustive, both on questions
of mining law and the conduct of the trial. One cannot, however, fail to be impressed, after a perusal thereof, with the fact
of a failure to recognize that there is no general right to a writ
of error from this court to the courts of a State; that there is
but a special right, a right to bring such cases, and such cases
only, as disclose a Federal question distinctly ruled adversely
to the plaintiff in error. We fail to see that any title, right,
privilege or immunity of a Federal nature was specially set up
and clained. Very likely the construction and the effect of
Federal statutes were, in a general way, discussed and considered, but nowhere do we find that special setting up or claiming of a Federal right which justifies us in taking jurisdiction.
As we have stated, the validity of no Federal statute was denied in the state courts. Neither did the plaintiff in error,
prior to the judgment of affirmance in the Supreme Court, challenge the validity of any state statute on the ground of its repugnance to paramount Federal law.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.

