BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LTHOGRAPHING CO. 239
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

viduals, and made payable to or at a national bank, was a distinct and separate offence, indictable under the laws of the
State.
Undoubtedly a State has the legitimate power to define and
punish crimes by general laws applicable to all persons within
its jurisdiction. So, likewise, it may declare, by special laws,
certain acts to be criminal offences when committed by officers
or agents of its own banks and institutions. But it is without
lawful power to make such special laws applicable to banks organized and operating under the laws of the United States.
It was by failing to observe the distinction between the two
classes of cases that, we think, the courts below fell into error.
T]iejudgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is reversed, and
the cause isremanded to that co urt to take further action
not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 117.

Argued

-Decided

February 2, 1903.

Chromolithographs representing actual groups of persons and things, which
have been designed from hints or descriptions of the scenes represented,
and which are to be used as advertisements for a circus are "pictorial
illustrations" within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 4952, allowing a copyof any engraving,
right to the "author, designer, or proprietor ...
. or chromo" as affected by the act of 1874, chap. 301,
cut, print...
§ 3, 18 Stat. 78, 79. And on complying with all the statutory requirements the proprietors are entitled to the protection of the copyright
laws.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Afr. Ansley Wilcox and AJf'. Arthur von Briesen for plaintiffs in error:
This action comes here upon writ of error to the Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which court heard it on writ
of error directed to the United States Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky. The Circuit Court, at the close of plaintiffs'
case, instructed the jury to find a verdict for defendant, which
was done and judgment entered thereon. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed said judgment.
There were three causes of action which were all based upon
sec. 4965 of the Revised Statutes, quoted on page 60. By order
of the Circuit Court, dated June 10, 1899, the marshal seized
10,590 eight-page prints and 13,205 four-page prints, described
in the writ, and also five metal electrotype plates, all of which
he found in the defendant's possession (page 13).
1The action was tried at Covington, Kentucky, on December 12 and 13, 1899, before Hon. Walter Evans, sitting as Circuit Judge, and a jury.
At the outset of the trial, during the direct examination of
the first witness, the court anticipated the question upon which
it afterwards took the case away from the jury and decided it,
by the following remark: " The real controversy will ble
whether
this is a subject of copyright, whethee it comes within the Copyright law."
At the close of the plaintiffs' case, defendant moved for "peremptory instructions for the defendant."
The court said,
" State why, in a word," to which defendant's counsel answered:
"In the first place I want to say with reference to the Statuary
Exhibit. . . . It is alleged in the petition, and is in fact
copyrighted on the 18th of April, and the publication plainly
shows it was prior to that. That is a specilic objection to
that one upon that ground specifically-that is the Statuary.
"The Court: Now as to the other two.
"Counsel: The specific objection to this one, the Ballet, is
that it is an immoral picture.
"And the general objection that I make to them all is that
they are none of them subject matter of copyright. They are
all mere matter of advertising."
The next day the court delivered a written opinion which concludes as follows:
"The case must turn upon the others (other questions), and

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING CO. 241
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

especially upon the general proposition that the things copyrighted in this case were by no means such as either the Constitution or the legislation of Congress intended to protect by
the privilege of copyright. The court cannot bring its mind to
yield to the conclusion that such tawdry pictures as these were
ever meant to be given the enormous protection of not only the
exclusive right to print them, but the additional protection of
a penalty of a dollar each for reprints from them.
"As previously stated, they are neither' pictorial illustrations'
nor' works connected with the fine arts' within the meaning
of section 4952. Not being so, there was no authority to grant
the copyrights, whether the Constitution authorizes Congress
to promote the fine arts or not.
"The judgment of the court is, that the plaintiffs, on their
own showing, are not entitled to recover, and for that reason
the motion of defendant will be granted, and I will instruct the
jury to find a verdict for it."
The jury, in accordance with said instruction, returned a verdict for the defendant.
There is no question as to the fact of infringement.
The sheets in evidence, made by defendant, contain reproductions by means of cheap .electrotype plates of each of the

plaintiffs' designs. These reproductions are not in colors.
The principal questions are:
First. Whether on the question of artistic merit or value of
these lithographic prints or chromos, the Circuit Court was justified in taking the case from the jury, and condemning them

entirely as not being fit subjects for copyright.
Second. Whether the copyrights were obtained for these
prints in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and are valid copyrights.
The second question involves the inquiries: Whether the
copyrights were properly taken out by the plaintiffs, in their

trade names of "The Courier Co." and "The Courier Lithographing Co.," and, incidentally, whether plaintiffs have the
right to sue in their individual names for infringement of these
copyrights; and whether the Statuary Act Design was copy-

righted before it was published.
YOJ. CLXXXVIII-16

OCTOBER TER-A,

1902.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The three pictures in question are show-bills or circus bills,
also called posters and, more definitely, picture-posters. They
are colored lithographs or chromolithographs, commonly called
" chromos." They were designed primarily to be sold to the
proprietors of circuses and other shows, and by them to be used
for advertising; but they could be sold to any one, or used for
any purpose for which they were adapted.
They were made in the plaintiffs' lithographing establishment under a special contract with the proprietor of a circus,
by which the plaintiffs agreed to design and get up certain
representations of scenes supposed to be exhibited at the show,
the plaintiffs reserving rights of design and of copyright, and
with the usual understanding that so long as the proprietor of
the circus used these designs he had the right to them, but if
he ceased to use any of them, the plaintiffs could sell the design
or the pictures which embodied it, to any one.
The fundamental question of the right to copyright such
show-bills or posters, is a question of great importance, involving the protection of an immense industry. The foundation
of the copyright law is in the provision of the Constitution
(art. 1, sec. 8), which authorizes Congress"To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries."
It is settled that the words "authors" and " writings," in
this section, are not confined to literary writers and their
works, but include, among others, designers, engravers and
lithographers, as well as photographers. Burrow-Giles itiw.
Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53; Trade .larle Cases, 100 U. S. 82.
Picture-posters or show bills, such as these chromolithographs
were, are not designed for close inspection or long-continued
study, like an oil painting, a steel or wood engraving, or an
etching, and they are not to be judged by the same standards.
They are intended to catch the eye of the passer on the street,
or any one who merely glances at them, and to challenge his
attention,-if possible to compel him to look again, so that he
will observe what is the subject of the poster and have this
forced upon his mind, and will be attracted by it. Their func-

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING CO. 243
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

tion is to illustrate something, and to advertise it by appealing
quickly to the imagination, and conveying instantly a strong
and favorable impression. Thus, to be successful, they require
artistic ability, and above all things creativeness or originality
of a high order, but peculiar. They must be designed boldly,
and executed on broad lines, with not much attention to detail,
so that the spirit of the picture will stand out at once, and almost leap at you, and will not be lost in a mass of details and
minor features.
Such is the ideal picture-poster, a special and peculiar branch
of pictorial art, and one into which many gifted artists, highly
successful in other fields, have ventured with greater or less
success. Charles Hiatt's work entitled "Picture Posters,"
published in 1895 by George Bell & Sons, London ; "The Modern Poster," by Alexandre and others, published in 1895 by
Charles Scribner's Sons.
Certainly it does not lie in the mouth of the pirate, who has
stolen and copied them at some expense and considerable risk,
to deny that they have merit and value.
I. The designs were proper subjects of copyright and each
of these picture-posters was a proper subject of copyright,
within the language and the spirit of the copyright law. There
was abundant evidence of originality of design, of artistic
merit, and of practical value and usefulness, as to each of the
pictures.
If any of these qualities was seriously questioned by the defence, it became the duty of the court to send the case to the
jury.

All of the pictures are new and original designs and involve
new and original conceptions and creations. There was enough
evidence on this subject to require the case to be submitted to the
jury if any question was raised about it, citing, and in some instances distinguishing, as to definition of author, writings, etc.,
T/e Ti'ade 3lark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; Litwgraph Co. v. Sarony,
111 U. S. 53 ; Vottage v. Jackson, 11 Q. B. Div. 627 ; Brightly

v. Littleton, 37 Fed. Rep. 103 ; Carlisle v. Colusa County, 57
Fed. Rep. 979; Drury v. Ewing, Fed. Cases, No. 4095.
If any one of the pictures was sufficiently proved to be new

OCTOBER TEHM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

and original, this was enough to carry the case to the jury upon
this question ; they were all proved to be new and original.
II. As to artistic merit and value. The pictures being original designs, we maintain that they are of sufficient artistic
merit and of sufficient value and usefulness to be entitled to
copyright. At least there was enough evidence of this to require the case to be submitted to the jury, if any question was
raised about it,-and furthermore no such question was raised
by the defence.
"If a copyrighted article has merit and value enough to be
the object of piracy, it should also be of sufficient importance to
be entitled to protection." Drone on Copyright, p. 212, cited
with approval in Henderson v. Tomkins, 60 Fed. iRep. 758, 765 ;
Churck v. .Lintmo, 25 Ont. Rep. 121; .IBegeman v. S)rniger, 110
Fed. Rep. 374; BolleZs v. Outing Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 966; 175 U.
S. 262; Richardson v. .iller, Fed. Cases, No. 11,791.
We have nothing to do with cases involving attempts to copyright mere cataloguesor price lists, or labels, sometimes con taining pictures, reproduced by photographic or other mechanical
processes, of articles intended for sale, but which obviously have
no artistic merit or originality. These decisions, whether condemning or upholding such copyrights, do not touch the questions involved in the case at bar. Distinguishing _Mott Iron
Works v. Clow, 82 Fed. Rep. 216; also citing Yuengling v.
Scltile, 12 Fed. Rep. 97, 101; Sehurmaker v. Schwencke, 25 Fed.
Rep. 466 ; 1amb v. Grand Ra )ids School FurnitureCo., 39 Fed.
Rep. 474; Drone on Copyright, 164, 165; Grace v. Newman,
L. R. 19 Eq. Cases, 623 ; Maple v. JuniorArmy &,.Navy Stores,
L. R. 21 Ch. Div. 369; Church v. Linton, 25 Ont. Rep. 131;
Carlislev. Colusa, County, 57 Fed Rep. 979.
"The degree of merit of the copyrighted matter the law is
not concerned with. Any is legally enough. To use it or not
use it, is voluntary on the part of the public."
III. The copyrights were properly taken out by the plaintiffs
in their trade names of "The Courier Co." and "The Courier
Litho. Co.," and the plaintiffs have the right to sue in their individual names for infringement of these copyrights.
That copartners in business, who are the proprietors of a

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING CO. 245
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

copyrighted article, may take out a copyright in either of their
copartnership or trade names, is well settled. Scribner v. Clark,
50 Fed. Rep. 473; affirmed as Belford v. Scribnee, 144 U. S.
488; Callaghaan v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617; Scribner v. Allen Co.,
49 Fed. Rep. 854; TVerckmeister v. Springer Lith. Co., 63 Fed.
Rep. 808; Rock v. Lazarus, Law Rep. 15 Eq. Cases, 104; lVdon v. Dicks, Law Rep. 10 Ch. Div. 247; Fruit-CleaningCo.
v. Fresno )7ome Packing Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 845.
Finally, the plaintiffs were the "prol)rietors" of each of the
copyrighted prints, and as such were authorized to take out the
copyrights by the express language of the copyright law, Rev.
Stat., sec. 4952, which includes "proprietors" with "authors,
inventors (and) designers." Colliery Eng. Co. v. United etc.,
Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 152.
No formal assignment of the right to a copyright is necessary. Consent is sufficient to constitute one the proprietor.
Carte v. Evans, 27 Fed. Rep. 861. See also Schumacher v.
Schwencke, 25 Fed. Rep. 466; Little v. Gould, Fed. Cases,
No. 8395 ; Lawrence v. Dana, Fed. Cases, No. 8136 ; Sweet v.
Benning, 81 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 459; 16 Com. Bench Rep.
459; Gill v. United States, 160 U. S. 426, 435.
All of the pictures, and particularly the Statuary Act Design,
were copyrighted before publication.
The law is well settled that there was no publication of these
prints when they were shipped from Buffalo on April 11, or
when they were received by MHr. Wallace at Peru, Indiana, on
or about April 15. There was no publication until they were
exposed to the general public, so that the public, without discrimination as to persons, might enjoy them. This must have
been some time after April 15, when the last copyright was
surely completed.
Publication is a legal conclusion which follows from certain
acts. Drone on Copyright, p. 291 ; Jewelers -Mere. Agency v:
Jewelers Pub. Co., 84 Hun (N. Y. Sup. Ct.), 12, 16; Callag7ian
v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617; Black v. Henry G. Allen Co., 56 Fed.
Rep. 764; Belford v. Scribner,144 U. S. 488; Garlandv. Gemmill, 14 Canada Sup. Ct. Rep. 321; Prince Albert v. Strange, 2
De Gex & Smale, 652; 1 MacNaghten & Gorden; 47 Eng. Oh.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Rep. 25. The representation of a play upon the stage regularly
at a theatre, does not constitute a publication. Tompkins v.
Halleck, 133 Massachusetts, 32 ; Palmer v. .De Vitt, 47 NI.Y.
532; Boucicault v. UEart, Fed. Cases, No. 1692.
The use by a teacher of his manuscript and allowing pupils to
make copies for the purpose of obtaining his instruction, does
not amount to a publication. Bartlettv. Crittenden, Fed. Cases,
Nos. 1076 and 1082. The printing of copies of an operetta and
distributing them to artists, for private use only in learning their
parts, and the representing of the operetta on the stage, is not
a publication. French v. E;relng, 63 Fed. Rep. 621; Reed v.
Carztsi, Fed. Cases, No. 11,642; Blume v. Spear, 30 Fed. Rep.
629; Exch. Tel. Co. v. Cent. -ews, Law Rep. 2 Oh. Div. 48.,
.lfr. Edmund W..Zittredge, with whom Ifr. oseph IMlby
was on the brief, for defendant in error, contended that the
plaintiff in error was not entitled to copyright. The evidence
established that these three prints were ordered by B. E. Wallace, proprietor of the circus known as the "Wallace Shows,"
under contract with him as an 'advertisement for his show, and
they have never been made for anybody else. All of these
pictures purported to be representations of acts to be done in
the Wallace Shows, and all were made under a representation
by Wallace, expressed on the face of the pictures, that his show
was going to do these things. All these posters contain reading matter indicating that these were pictures of acts to be
done in the Wallace Shows, and they all included pictures of
M-r.Wallace himself.
They were prints and the copyright inscription was insufficient. But for the provision in the first clause of this act the
inscription, "Copyright, 1898, Courier Litho. Co., Buffalo,
N. Y.," would have been fatal to the plaintiffs' right of action.
Tnompsom v. Iubbard, 131 U. S. 123. The inscription prescribed by section 4962 of the Revised Statutes was otherwise
indispensable to the maintenance of an action for the infringement of a copyright. The notice given on each one of these
pictures was that authorized by the act of June 18, 1874.
Having thus availed themselves of the provisions of this act,

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING CO. 247
Argument for Defendant in Error.

clearly the plaintiffs are not in position to claim that the pictures are not covered by its provisions. Again, if these pictures
were chromos, and not prints, cuts or engravings, then under
the allegations of the petition they were not admissible in evidence because they were not in support of the allegations of
the petition. As to what a chromo is and how statute should
be construed, Yuengling v. Schile, 12 Fed. Rep. 107; Bolles v.
Outing Conpany, 175 U. S. 262; Thornton v. Schreiber, 124
U. S. 612; Rosenbach v. Dreyfuss, 2 Fed. Rep. 217; Ehret v.
Pierce, 10 Fed. Rep. 554; S. C., 18 Blatch. 302; Schumacher
v. Wrogra, 35 Fed. Rep. 210; Higgins v. Kuefel, 140 U. S.
428. As to advertisements and copyrights, citing Cobbett v.
W1oodward, L. R. 14 Eq. 407, cited with approval by this court
in Baker v. Selden, 101 U. S. 106; Clayton v. Stone & Hall,
2 Paine, 392; _Mott 1ron Works v. Clow, 82 Fed. Rep. 216.
There was no evidence tending to show that the plaintiffs
themselves, or either of them, were the authors of these prints.
It was claimed that they were the proprietors because, as they
also claimed, the design or conception was that of their employ~s, working for them, under salaries, and that their designs
were the property of the employer. If they were not themselves the authors, then it was incumbent upon them to allege
how they acquired title as proprietors from the author, inventor
or designer. Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53; Nottage v. Jackson, 11 Q. B. D. 627; Atwell v. Ferret,2 Blatch.
46; Bimias v. Toodworth, 4 Wash. 0. 0. Rep. 48; Black v.
Allen Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 618; S. C., 56 Fed. Rep. 764; Press
Pub. Co. v. Falk, 59 Fed. Rep. 524; Pollardv. PhotographCo.,
40 Oh. Div. 345; Mloore v. Rugg, 46 N. W. 141 ; Dielman v.
White, 102 Fed. Rep. 892; Parton v. Prang,3 Clifford, 537;
-Little v. Good, 2 Blatch. 166.
It is incumbent upon the plaintiffs, in a case like this, for the
recovery of penalties, to allege and to prove as alleged, every
fact essential to the validity of their copyright. Jones v. Van
Zandt, 5 How. 372.
The copyright law does not protect what is immoral in its
tendency. A print representing unchaste acts or scenes calculated to excite lustful or sensual desires in those whose minds

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

are open to such influences, and to attract them to witness the
performance of such scenes, is manifestly of that character. It
is the young and immature and those who are sensually inclined
who are liable to be influenced by such scenes and representations, and it is their influence upon such persons that should be
considered in determining their character. Broder v. Zeno
Mlauvais 3fusic Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 74; Dunlop v. United States,
165 U. S. 501; .fartinetti v. i3faguire, Fed. Cases, No. 9173,
The Black Crook case.
MR. JUSTIcE HOL,.iES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here from the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit by writ of error. Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 6, 26 Stat. 828. It is an action brought
by the plaintiffs in error to recover the penalties prescribed for
infringements of copyrights. Rev. Stat. §§ 4952, 4956, 4965,
amended by act of -Iarch 3, 1891, c. 565, 26 Stat. 1109, and
act of March 2, 1895, c. 194, 28 Stat. 965. The alleged infringements consisted in the copying in reduced form of three
chromolithographs prepared by employOs of the plaintiffs for advertisements of a circus owned by one Wallace. Each of the
three contained a portrait of Wallace in the corner and lettering
bearing some slight relation to the scheme of decoration, indicating the subject of the design and the fact that the reality was to
be seen at the circus. One of the designs was of an ordinar\y
ballet, one of a number of men and women, described as the
Stirk family, performing on bicycles, and one of groups of men
and women whitened to represent statues. The Circuit Court
directed a verdict for the defendant on the ground that the
chromolithographs were not within the protection of the copyright law, and this ruling was sustained by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. CourierLithograyhing 6o. v. Donaldson Litlogral)hing Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 993.
There was evidence warranting the inference that the designs
belonged to the plaintiffs, they having been produced by persons
employed and paid by the plaintiffs in their establishment to
make those very things. Gill v. United States, 160 U. S. 426,

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING CO. 249
Opinion of the Court.

435; Colliery Engineer Company v. United Correspondence
Schools Company, 94 Fed. Rep. 152; Carte v. Evans, 27 Fed.
Rep. 861. It fairly might be found also that the copyrights
were taken out in the proper names. One of them was taken
out in the name of the Courier Cow pany and the other two in
the names of the Courier LithograpLing Company. The former
was the name of an unincorporated joint stock association formed
under the laws of New York, Laws of 1894, c. 235, and made
up of the plaintiffs, the other a trade variant on that name.
Scribner v. Olar-k, 50 Fed. Rep. 473, 474, 475 ; S. C., sub nora.
Belford v. Scribner, 144 U. S. 488.
Finally, there was evidence that the pictures were copyrighted
before publication. There may be a question whether the use
by the defendant for Wallace was not lawful within the terms
of the contract with Wallace, or a more general one as to what
rights the plaintiffs reserved. But we cannot pass upon these
questions as matter of law; they will be for the jury when the
case is tried again, and therefore we come at once to the ground
of decision in the courts below. That ground was not found
in any variance between pleading and proof, such as was put
forward in argument, but in the nature and purpose of the designs.
We shall do no more than mention the suggestion that painting and engraving unless for a mechanical end are not among
the useful arts, the progress of which Congress is empowered
by the Constitution to promote. The Constitution does not
limit the useful to that which satisfies immediate bodily needs.
Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53. It is
obvious also that the plaintiffs' case is not affected by the fact,
if it be one, that the pictures repre sent actual groups-visible
things. They seem from the testimony to have been composed
from hints or description, not from sight of a performance.
But even if they had been drawn from the life, that fact would
not deprive them of protection. The opposite proposition would
mean that a portrait by Velasquez or Whistler was common
property because others might try their hand on the same face.
Others are free to copy the original. They are not free to copy
the copy. Blunt v. Patten, 2 Paine, 397, 400. See Kelly v.

OCTOBER TERMH, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Morris, L. R. 1 Eq. 697; .3farris v. l5ight, L. R. 5 Ch. 279.

The copy is the personal reaction of an individual upon nature.
Personality always contains something unique. It expresses
its singularity even in handwriting, and a very modest grade
of art has in it something irreducible, which is one man's alone.
That something he may copyright unless there is a restriction
in the words of the act.
If there is a restriction it is not to be found in the limited
pretensions of these particular works. The least pretentious
picture has more originality in it than directories and the like,
which may be copyrighted. Drone, Copyright, 153. See Hender.so v. Tomkins, 60 Fed. Rep. 75S, 765. The amount of
training required for humbler efforts than those before us is
well indicated by Ruskin. "If any young person, after being
taught what is, in polite circles, called 'drawing,' will try to
copy the commonest piece of real work,-suppose a lithograph
on the title page of a new opera air, or a woodcut in the cheapest illustrated newspaper of the day-they will find themselves
entirely beaten." Elements of Drawing, 1st ed. 3. There is
no reason to doubt that these prints in their ensemble and in all
their details, in their design and particular combinations of figures, lines and colors, are the original work of the plaintiffs'
designer. If it be necessary, there is express testimony to that
effect. It would be pressing the defendant's right to the verge,
if not beyond, to leave the question of originality to the jury
upon the evidence in this case, as was done in Hegema? v.
Springer,110 Fed. Rep. 374.
We assume that the construction of IRev. Stat. § 4952, allowing a copyright to the "author, inventor, designer, or proprietor
of any engraving, cut, print

.

.

.

[or] chromo" is

affected by the act of 1874, c. 301, § 3, 18 Stat. 78, 79. That
section provides that "in the construction of this act the words
' engraving,' ' cut' and ' print' shall be applied only to pictorial
illustrations or works connected with the fine arts." We see no
reason for taking the words "connected with the fine arts" as
qualifying anything except the word "works," but it would not
change our decision if we should assume further that they also
qualified "pictorial illustrations," as the defendant contends.

BLEIT'FEIN r. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPHING CO. 251
Opinion of the Court.

These chromolithographs are "pictorial illustrations." The
word "illustrations" does not mean that they must illustrate
the text of a book, and that the etchings of Rembrandt or
Steinla's engraving of the Madonna di San Sisto could not be
protected to-day if any man were able to produce them. Again,
the act however construed, does not rmean that ordinary posters
are not good enough to be considered within its scope. The
antithesis to "illustrations or works connected with the fine
arts" is not works of little merit or of hunble degree, or illustrations addressed to the less educated classes ; it is " prints or
labels designed to be used for any other articles of manufacture."
Certainly works are not the less connected with the fine arts
because their pictorial quality attracts the crowd and therefore
gives them a real use-if use means to increase trade and to
help to make money. A picture is none the less a picture and
none the less a subject of copyright that it is used for an advertisement. And if pictures may be used to advertise soap, or the
theatre, or monthly magazines, as they are, they may be used
to advertise a circus. Of course, the ballet is as legitimate a
subject for illustration as any other. A rule cannot be laid
down that would excommunicate the paintings of Degas.
Finally, the special adaptation of these pictures to the advertisement of the Wallace shows does not prevent a copyright.
That may be a circumstance for the jury to consider in determining the extent of Mr. Wallace's rights, but it is not a bar.
Moreover, on the evidence, such prints are used by less pretentious exhibitions when those for whom they were prepared have
given them up.
It would be a dangerous undertaking for persons trained only
to the law to constitute themselves final judges of the worth of
pictorial illustrations, outside of the narrowest and most obvious
limits. At the one extreme some works of genius would be
sure to miss appreciation. Their very novelty would make
them repulsive until the public had learned the new language
in which their author spoke. It may be more than doubted,
for instance, whether the etchings of Goya or the paintings of
Manet would have been sure of protection when seen for the
first time. At the other end, copyright would be denied to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES HARLAN and MCKENTNA, dissenting.

pictures which appealed to a public less educated than the judge.
Yet if they command the interest of any public, they have a
commercial value-it would be bold to say that they have not
an aesthetic and educational value-and the taste of any public is not to be treated with contempt. It is an ultimate fact
for the moment, whatever may be our hopes for a change.
That these pictures had their worth and their success is suficiently shown by the desire to reproduce them without regard
to the plaintiffs' rights. See Henderson v. Tomkins, 60 Fed.
Rep. 758, 765. We are of opinion that there was evidence
that the plaintiffs have rights entitled to the protection of the
law.
Te judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is r-eversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed and t]/e
cause remanded to that court with directions to set aside the
verdict and grant a vew trial.
Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
MOKENNA, dissenting.
Judges Lurton, Day and Severens, of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, concurred in affirming the judgment of the District
Court. Their views were thus expressed in an opinion delivered by Judge Lurton: "What we hold is this: That if a
chromo, lithograph, or other print, engraving, or picture has
no other use than that of a mere advertisement, and no value
aside from this function, it would not be promotive of the useful arts, within the meaning of the constitutional provision,
to protect the 'author' in the exclusive use thereof, and the
copyright statute should not be construed as including such
a publication, if any other construction is admissible. If a
mere label simply designating or describing an article to which
it is attached, and which has no value separated from the article, does not come within the constitutional clause upon the
subject of copyright, it must follow that a pictorial illustration
designed and useful only as an advertisement, and having no
intrinsic value other than its function as an advertisement, must
be equally without the obvious meaning of the Constitution.

BLEISTEIN v. DONALDSON LITHOGRAPIHING CO. 253
JUSTICES HARLAN

and McKENNA, dissenting.

It must have some connection with the. fine arts to give it intrinsic value, and that it shall have is the meaning which we
attach to the act of June 18, 1874, amending the provisions of
the copyright law. We are unable to discover anything useful
or meritorious in the design copyrighted by the plaintiffs in
error other than as an advertisement of acts to be done or exhibited to the public in Wallace's show. No evidence, aside
from the deductions which are to be drawn from the prints
themselves, was offered to show that these designs had any
original artistic qualities. The jury could not reasonably have
found merit or value aside from the purely business object of
advertising a show, and the instruction to find for the defendant was not error. Many other points have been urged as
justifying the result reached in the court below. We find it
unnecessary to express any opinion upon them, in view of the
conclusion already announced. The judgment must be affirmed." Co rier Lithographing Co. v. Donaldson .Lithograph,ig Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 993, 996.
I entirely concur in these views, and therefore dissent from
the opinion and judgment of this court. The clause of the
Constitution giving Congress power to promote the progress
of science and useful arts, by securing for limited terms to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective works
and discoveries, does not, as I think, embrace a mere advertisement of a circus.
MR. Jus'rICE M'OKNNA authorizes me to say that he also
dissents.

