OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. RICKERT.
CE RTIFICA.TE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No.216.

Argued January 28, 29, 1903.-Decided Februai

23, 1903.

By the act of Congress of February 8, 1887, c. 119, known as the Indian
General Allotment Act it was provided: " That upon the approval of the
allotments provided for in this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he
shall cause patents to issue therefor in the name of the allottees, which
patents shall be of the legal effect, and declare, that the United Stales
does and will hold the land thus allotted, for the period of twenty-five
years, in trust for the sole use and benefit of the Indian to whoiu such
allotment shall have been made, or, in case of his decease, of his heirs
according to the laws of the State or Territory where such land is located,
and that at the expiration of said period the United States will convey the
same by patent to said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged
of said trust and free of all charge or incumbrance whatsoever: Providcd,
That the President of the United States may in any case in his discretion
extend the period. And if any conveyance shall be made of the lands set
apart and allotted, as herein provided, or any contract made touching the
same, before the expiration of the time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract shall be absolutely null and void." Held:
(1) That neither the lands allotted nor the permanent improvements
thereon nor tile personal property obtained from the United States
and used by tie Indians on the allotted lands, are subject to slate
or local taxation during the period of the trust provided by the
above act of 1887.
(2) The United States has such an interest in the question as to entille
it to maintain a suit to protect the Indians against local or state
taxation.
(3)This suit was properly brought in equity and not at. law, the remedy
at law not being as adequate and efficacious as was necessary.

THis suit was instituted under the direction of the Attorney
General of the United States, for the purpose of restraining the
collection of taxes alleged to be due the county of Roberts, South
Dakota, in respect of certain permanent improvements on, and
personal property used in the cultivation of, lands in that county
occupied by members of the Sisseton Band of Sioux Indians in
the State of South Dakota.

UNITED STATES v. RICKERT.
Statement of the Case.

The case is here upon questions certified by the judges of the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
According to the certificate the bill alleged that Charles R.
Crawford, Adam Little Thunder, Solomon Two Stars and Victor Renville are Indians and members of the Sisseton Band of
Sioux Indians in the State of South Dakota, wards of the United
States and under its guardianship and supervision, and residents
of that portion of the Sisseton Agency, situated in the county
of Roberts; that the said Indians are holding, and for several
years last past have held, allotted lands in that county, and
within the former Sisseton Indian Reservation, which lands
were allotted to those Indians under the provisions of the
agreement of December the 12th, 1889, as ratified by the act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1035, 1036, and more particularly
under section 5 of the General Allotment Act of Congress approved February the 8th, 1887, 24 Stat. 389 ; and that the lands
so allotted by the United States are held in trust by the United
States under the provisions of the last named act.
The bill then alleged that during the year 1900 the duly authorized officers of Roberts County listed certain improvements
on the allotted lands of Crawford and returned the assessment
thereon at the sum of $630, such improvements consisting of a
large frame house and barn attached thereto (a fixture and permanent improvement upon the allotted lands), and other improvements of a permanent character attached to these lands;
that the amount of taxes extended on the tax roll of such improvements for state and county taxes for the year 1900 was the sum of
$21.42 ; that for that year the officers of Roberts County listed,
assessed and returned upon the tax rolls of the county certain
personal property against Crawford, consisting of horses, one
cow and two wagons, at the aggregate valuation of $129, upon
which was assessed and levied a tax of $4.90; and that said
personal property was issued to the allottee by the United
States pursuant to the acts of Congress and the treaties between the United States and the band of Indians to which
Crawford belongs, was branded " I. D.," and was then and
there in the possession of the allottee, being kept and used by
him upon his allotment.
VOL. CLXXXVII-98

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

Similar allegations were made in reference to the other Indians named in the bill, covering the years 1899 and 1900.
It was also alleged that the defendant was County Treasurer
and collector of taxes for the county, and threatened to sell and
was about to sell the property just described as that of the Indians named in the bill and assessed for the years above stated
and would sell the same unless restrained, whereby the United
States would be subjected to and compelled to defend a multitude of actions, suits and proceedings which would greatly
embarrass it; that the assessments of said property and the
amount of taxes so assessed and returned upon the tax roll of
the county are upon the books of the county and of record in
the office of the County Auditor and Treasurer, and constitute
a cloud upon the title of the lands of the United States above
referred to.
It was further alleged that the United States was without
any plain, adequate and speedy remedy at law, and could only
have relief in a court of equity, and that irreparable injury
would be inflicted upon it in case the enforcement, assessment
and collection of such taxes were not enjoined.
The defendant demurred to the bill upon the following
grounds: That it did not disclose any equity nor entitle the
United States to the relief prayed ; that the United States bad
no interest in the subject-matter of the suit; that the property
assessed by Roberts County was personal property and the
injunction would not lie to restrain the collection of the tax,
and that the United States had an adequate remedy at law.
The demurrer to the bill was sustained, and the Government, failing to amend, the bill was dismissed upon the merits. 106 Fed. Rep. 1. Subsequently the case was carried to
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Thereupon that court made a certificate of certain questions
in respect to which it desired the instructions of this court.
These questions will be referred to in the course of this opinion.
1[r.Assistasnt Attorney General Van Devanter for appellant.
.i%Assistant Attorney Webster was with him on the brief.

UNITED STATES v. RICKERT.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. B. I[ittredgeand Xr. W. D. l-ane for appellee.

after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.JUSTICE

HARLAN,

I. Vere the lands heid by the allottees, Charles B. Crawford
and the other Indians named inc the bill, saiject to assessment
and taxation by the taxing authoritiesqf Roberts County, South
Dakota?
This is the first of the questions certified by the judges of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. It is not, in our opinion, difficult of
solution.
By the act of Congress of February 8, 1887, c. 119, referred
to in the certificate and known as the General Allotment Act,
provision was made for the allotment of lands in severalty to
Indians on the various reservations, and for extending the protection of the laws of the United States and the Territories
over the Indians. To that end the President was authorized,
whenever, in his opinion, a reservation or any part thereof was
advantageous for agricultural and grazing purposes, to cause it,
or any part thereof, to be surveyed or resurveyed if necessary,
and to allot the lands in the reservation in severalty to any Indian located thereon in certain quantities specified in the statute-the allotments to be male by special agents appointed for
that purpose, and by the agents in charge of the special reservations on which the allotments were made. 24 Stat. 388, 38990, ยง 1.
What interest, if any, did the Indian allottee acquire in the
land allotted to him ? That question is answered by the fifth
section of the allotment act, which provides: "That upon the
approval of the allotments provided for in this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall cause patents to issue therefor in
the name of the allottees, which patents shall be of the legal
effect, and declare that the United States does and will hold the
land thus allotted, for the period of twenty-five years, in trust
for the sole use and benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment shall have been made, or, in case of his decease, of his
heirs according to the laws of the State or Territory where

OCTOBERT 'ERM,

j902.

Opinion of the Court.

such land is located, and that at the expiration of said period
the United States will convey the same by patent to said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust
and free of all charge or inctunbrance whatsoever: I'mvided,
That the President of the United States may in any case in his
discretion extend the period. And if any conveyance shall be
made of the lands set apart and allotted as herein provided, or
any contract made touching the same, before the expiration of
the time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract shall
be absolutely null and void: Prolvided, That the law of descent
and partition in force in the State or Territory where such lands
are situate shall apply thereto after patents therefor have been
executed and delivered, except as herein otherwise provided;
24 Stat. 389, ยง 5.
"
The word "patents," where it is first used in this section, was
not happily chosen to express the thought which, it is clear, all
parts of the section being considered, Congress intended to express. The "patents" here referred to (although that word has
various meanings) were, as the statute plainly imports, nothing
more than instrunents or memoranda in writing, designed to
show that for a period of twenty-five years the United States
would hold the land allotted, in trust for the sole use and benefit of the allottee, or, in case of his death, of his heirs, and subsequently, at the expiration of that period--mless the time was
extended by the President-convey the fee, discharged of the
trust and free of all charge or incumbrance. In other words,
the United States retained the legal title, givng the Indian
allottee a paper or writing, improperly called a patent, showing
that at a particular the in the future, unless it was extended
by the President, he would be entitled to a regular patent conveying the fee. This interpretation of the statute is in harmony
of the land,
with the explicit declaration that any conveyance
or any contract touching the same, while the United States held
the title in trust, should be absolutely null and void. So that
the United States retained its hold on the land allotted for the
period of twenty-five years after the allotment, and as much
longer as the President, in his discretion, should determine.
The bill, as appears from the certificate of the judges, shows

UNITED STATES v. RICKERT.
Opinion of the Court.

that the lands in question were allotted "under provisions of
the agreement of December 12, 1889, as ratified by the act of
March 3, 1891, and more particularly under section V of the
General Allotment Act approved February 8, 1887." Upon
inspection of that agreement we find nothing that indicates
any different relation of the United States to the allotted lands
from that created or recognized by the act of 1887. On the
contrary, the agreement contemplates that patents shall issue
for the lands allotted under it "upon the same terms and conditions and limitations as is provided in section five of the act
of Congress approved February 8, 1887." 26 Stat. 1035, 1036,
art. IV.
If, as is undoubtedly the case, these lands are held by the
United States in execution of its plans relating to the Indians
-without any right in the Indians to make contracts in reference to them or to do more than to occupy and cultivate them
-until a regular patent conveying the fee was issued to the
several allottees, it would follow that there was no power in the
State of South Dakota, for state or municipal purposes, to assess and tax the lands in question until at least the fee was
conveyed to the Indians. These Indians are yet wards of the
Nation, in a condition of pupilage or dependency, and have
not been discharged from that condition. They occupy these
lands with the consent and authority of the United States;
and the holding of them by the United States under the act of
1887, and the agreement of 1889, ratified by the act of 1891,
is part of the national policy by which the Indians are to be
maintained as well as prepared for assuming the habits of
civilized life, and ultimately the privileges of citizenship. To
tax these lands is to tax an instrumnentality employed by the
United States for the benefit and control of this dependent
race, and to accomplish beneficent objects with reference to a
race of which this court has said that "from their very weakness and helplessness, so largely due to the course of dealing
of the Federal Government with them and the treaties in which
it has been promised, there arises the duty of protection, and
with it the power. This has always been recognized by the
Executive and by Congress, and by this court, whenever the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

question has arisen." Uhited States v. Eagama, 118 IT. S.
375, 381. So that if they may be taxed, then the obligations
which the Government has assumed in reference to these Indians may be entirely defeated; for by the act of 1887 the
Government has agreed at a named time to convey the land
to the allottee in fee, discharged of the trust, "and f ree of all
charge or incumbrances whatsoever." To say that these lands
may be assessed and taxed by the county of Roberts under
the authority of the State, is to say they may be sold for the
taxes, and thus become so burdened that the United States
could not discharge its obligations to the Indians without itself
paying the taxes imposed from year to year, and thereby keeping the lands free from incumbrances.
In 7an Brociclin v. State of Tennessee, 117 U. S.151, 155,
the court held that property of the United States was exempt by the Constitution of the United States from taxation
under the authority of any State. Giving the outlines of the
grounds of the judgnient delivered by Chief Justice farshall
in f3IoCulloch v. .31aryland, 4 Wheat. 316, the court said:
"That Constitution and the laws made in pursuance thereof are
supreme; they control the constitutions and laws of the respective States, and cannot be controlled by them. The people
of a State give to their government a right of taxing themselves
and their property at its discretion. But the means employed
by the Government of the Union are not given by the people
of a particular State, but by the people of all the States; and
being given by all, for the benefit of all, should be subjected to
that Government only which belongs to all. All subjects over
which the sovereign power of a State extends are objects of
taxation, but those over which it does not extend are, upon
the soundest principles, exempt from taxation. The sovereignty
of a State extends to everything which exists by its own authority, or is introduced by its permission ; but does not extend to
those means which are employed by Congress to carry into
execution powers conferred on that body by the people of the
United States. The attempt to use the taxing power of a State
on the means employed by the Government of the Union, in
pursuance of the Constitution, is itself an abuse, because it is

UNITED STATES v. RICKERT.
Opinion of the Court.

the usurpation of a power which the people of a single State
cannot give. The power to tax involves the power to destroy;
the power to destroy may defeat and render useless the power
to create; and there is a plain repugnance in conferring on one
government a power to control the constitutional measures of
another, which other, with respect to those very measures, is
declared to be supreme over that which exerts the control. The
States have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner control, the operations of the
constitutional laws enacted by Congress to carry into execution
the powers vested in the General Government."
These principles were recognized and applied in lWisconsin
Railroad Co. v. Pr ice County, 133 U. S. 496, 504, in which the
court said: "The Constitution vests in Congress the power to
'dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United
States.' And this implies an exclusion of all other authority
over the property which could interfere with this right or obstruct its exercise."
It was therefore well said by the Attorney General of the
United States, in an opinion delivered in 1888, "that the allotment lands provided for in the act of 1887 are exempt from
state or territorial taxation upon the ground above stated,
namely, that the lands covered by the act are held by
the United States for the period of twenty-five years in trust for
the Indians, such trust being an agency for the exercise of a
Federal power, and therefore outside the province of state or
territorial authority." 19 O). Atty. Gen. 161, 169.
In support of these general views reference may be made to
t
the following cases: Weston v. City if C]arleston, 2 Pet. 467;
Ale Culloch v. 3laryland,4 Wheat. 316 ; Osborn v. Bank of the
United States, 9 Wheat. 738; United States v. Rogers, 4 How.
567; New iork 1bdians, 5 Wall. 761; Choclaw Nation v.
United States, 119 U. S. 1, 27; Ste)hens v. Cherokee Nation,
174 U. S. 445, 483 ; Cherokee Nation v. Southern. Kansas Railway Co., 135 U. S. 641, 653 ; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187
U. S. 294; lone Wolf v. Ilitchcock, 187 U. S. 553.
Another suggestion by the defendant deserves to be noticed.

OCT1O3FE,

TERmi,

1902,

Opinion of the Court.

It is that there is a "compact" between the United States and
the State of South Dakota which, if regarded, determines this
case for the State. Let us see what there is of substance in this
view.
By the act of February 22, 1889, c. 180, providing among
other things for the division of the Territory of Dakota into
two States, it was declared that the conventions called to frame
constitutions for them should provide, " by ordinances irrevocable without the consent of the United States and the people
of said States," as follows:
"Second. That the people inhabiting said proposed States
do agree and declare that they forever disclaim all right and
title to the unappropriated public lands lying iwitbin the boundaries thereof, and to all lands lying within said limits owned
or held by any Indian or Indian tribes; and that until the title
thereto shall have been extinguished by the United States, the
same shall be and remain subject to the disposition of the United States, and said Indian lands shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the Congress of the United
States;

.

.

.

that no taxes shall beimposed by the States on

lands or property therein belonging to or which may hereafter
be purchased by the United States or reserved for its use. But
nothing herein, or in the ordinances herein provided for, shall
preclude the said States from taxing as other lands are taxed
'any lands owned or held by any Indian who has severed his
tribal relations, and has obtained from the United States or
from any person a title thereto by patent or other grant, save
and except such lands as have been or may be granted to any
Indian or Indians under any act of Congress containing a provision exempting the lands thus granted from taxation; but
said ordinances shall provide that all such lands shall be exempt from taxation by said States so long and to such extent as
such act of Congress may prescribe." 25 Stat. 677.
That provision was embodied in the constitution of South
Dakota-for the purpose no doubt of meeting the views of
Congress expressed in the Enabling Act of 1889-and was declared by that instrument to be irrevocable without the consent
of the United States and the people of the State expressed by

UNITED STATES :. RICKERT.
Opinion of the Court.

their legislative assembly ; and this action of the United States
and of the State constitutes the "compact" referred to, and
upon which the appellee relies in support of the taxation in
question.
We pass by, as unnecessary to be considered, whether the
above provision in the act of Congress of 1889 had any legal
efficacy in itself, after the admission of South Dakota into the
Union upon an equal footing with the other States; for the
same provision, in the state constitution, deliberately adopted
by the State, is, without reference to the act of Congress, the
law for its legislature and people, until abrogated by the State.
Looking at that provision, we find nothing in it sustaining the
contention that the county of Roberts has any authority to tax
these lands. On the contrary, it is declared in the state constitution that lands within the limits of the State, owned or held
by any Indian or Indian tribe, shall, until the title has been extinguished by the United States, remain under the absolute
jurisdiction and control of the Congress of the United States.
And when the State comes to declare, in its constitution, what
taxes it shall not be precluded from imposing, the provision is
that it shall not be precluded from taxing, as other lands, "any
lands owned or held by any Indian who has severed his tribal
relation, and has obtained from the United States, or from any
person, a title thereto by patent or other grant." Art. XXII.
The patent or grant here referred to is the final patent or grant
which invests the patentee or grantee with the title in fee, that
is, with absolute ownership. No such patent or grant has been
issued to these Indians. So that the appellee cannot sustain
the taxation in question under the clause of the state constitution to which he refers, and the right to tax these lands must
rest upon the general authority of the legislature to impose
taxes. But, as already said, no authority exists for the State
to tax lands which are held in trust by the United States for
the purpose of carrying out its policy in reference to these Indians.
II. lVere the permanent imp)roements, such as houses and
other sth'uetures iil)On the lands hld by allotmen t by G]arles Je.
Grawford and the other Indians named in the bill, subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

assessment and taxaNon, by the taxiny qfcers of Roberts CouNty
as personalproperty in 1899 and 1900? This is the second

of the questions certified by the Judges of the Circuit Cotu't of
Appeals.
Looking at the object to be accomplished by allotting Indian
lands in severalty, it is evident that Congress expected that the
lands so allotted would be improved and cultivated by the allottee. But that object would be defeated if the improvements
could be assessed and sold for taxes. The improvements to
which the question refers were of a permanent dnd. While
the title to the land remained in the United States, the permanent improvements could no more be sold for local taxes than
could the land to which they belonged. Every reason that can
be urged to show that the land was not subject to local taxation
applies to the assessment and taxation of the permanent improvements.
It is true that the statutes of South Dakota, for the purposes
of taxation, classify "all improvements made by persons upon
lands held by them under the laws of the United States" as
personal property. But that classification cannot apply to permanent improvements upon lands allotted to and occupied by
Indians, the title to which remains with the United States, the
occupants still being wards of the Nation, and as such under
its complete authority and protection. The fact remains that
the improvements here in question are essentially a part of the
lands, and their use by the Indians is necessary to effectuate the
policy of the United States.
Counsel for the appellee suggests that the only interest of the
United States is to be able at the end of twenty-five years from
the date of allotment to convey the land free from any charge
or enemubrance; that if a house upon Indian land were seized
and sold for taxes, that would not prevent the United States
from conveying the land free from any charge or incmnbrance;
and that, in such case, the Indians could not claim any breach
of contract on the part of the United States. These suggestions
entirely ignore the relation existing between the United States
and the Indians. It is not a relation sinply of contract, each
party to which is capable of guarding his own interests, but the

UNITED STATES v. RICKERT.
Opinion of the Court.

Indians are in a state of dependency and pupilage, entitled to
the care and protection of the Government. When they shall
be let out of that state is for the United States to determine
without interference by the courts or by any State. The Government would not adequately discharge its duty to these people if it placed its engagements with them upon the basis merely
of contract and failed to exercise any power it possessed to protect them in the possession of such improvements and personal
property as were necessary to the enjoyment of the land held
in trust for them. In Uhoetaw NXation v. United States, 119
IT. S. 1, 28, this court said: "The recognized relation between
the parties to this controversy, therefore, is that between a superior and an inferior, whereby the latter is placed under the
care and control of the former, and which, while it authorizes
the adoption on the part of the United States of such policy as
their own ulblic interests may dictate, recognizes, on the other
hand, such an interpretation of their acts and promises as justice and reason demand in all cases where power is exerted by
the strong over those to whom they owe care and protection.
The parties are not on an equal footing, and that inequality is
to be made good by the superior justice which looks only to the
substance of the right, without regard to technical rules framed
under a system of municipal jurisprudence, formulating the
rights and obligations of private persons, equally subject to the
same laws." See also 3finnesota v. Ititchcoek, 185 U. S. 373,
396.
l was the personal pr1opelty, consisting qf cattle, horses
Il.
and other property of like c'haaeter, whieh, had been issued to
these Indians by the United States, and whieh they wvere using
upon their allotments, liable to asse.ssments and taxation by the
offiree's qf Rober's county in 1899 and 1900 ? This is the third
one of the certified questions.
The answer to this question is indicated by what has been
said in reference to the assessment and taxation of the land and
the permanent improvements thereon. The personal property
in question was purchased with the money of the Government
and was furnished to the Indians in order to maintain them on
the land allotted during the period of the trust estate, and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

induce them to adopt the habits of civilized life. It was, in
fact, the property of the United States, and was put into the
hands of the Indians to be used in execution of the purpose of
the Government in reference to them. The assessment and
taxation of the personal property would necessarily have the
effect to defeat that purpose.
IV. has the Uvited States such an interest in this con trover-./
or in its subjects as entitlesit to maintain this suit? This is the
fourth one of the certified questions.
In view of the relation of the United States to the real and
personal property in question, as well as to these dependent
Indians still under national control, and in view of the injurious
effect of the assessment and taxation complained of upon the
plans of the Government with reference to the Indians, it is
clear that the United States is entitled to maintain this suit.
No argument to establish that proposition is necessary.
V. flas the United States a 9,emedy at law so promp)t and qfl,
cacious that it is dep ived of all relief i,n equity ? This is th 6
last of the certified questions.
We do not perceive that the Government has any remedy at
law that could be at all efficacious for the protection of its rights
in the property in question and for the attainment of its purposes in reference to these Indians. If the personaL )roperty
and the structures on the land were sold for taxes and possession
taken by the purchaser, then the Indians could not be maintained on the allotted lands and the Government, unless it abandoned its policy to maintain these Indians on the allotted lands,
would be compelled to appropriate more money and apply it in
the erection of other necessary structures on the land and in
the purchase of other stock required for purposes of cultivation.
And so on, every year. It is manifest that no proceedings at
law can be prompt and efficacious for the protection of the rights
of tfie Government, and that adequate relief can only be had
in a court of equity, which, by a comprehensive decree, can
finally determine once for all the question of the validity of the
assessment and taxation in question, and thus give security
against any action upon the part of the local authorities tending
to interfere with the complete control, not only of the Indians

UNITED STATES c. LYNAH.
Syllabus.

by the Government, but of the property supplied to them by the
Government and in use on the allotted lands. Railway Co. v.
.JcShane,22 Wall. 444; Uoosaw .iaing Co. v. South Carolina,
144 U. S. 550, 564-66.
Some observations may be made that are applicable to the
whole case. It is said that the State has conferred upon these
Indians the right of suffrage and other rights that ordinarily
belong only to citizens, and that they ought, therefore, to share
the burdens of government like other people who enjoy such
rights. These are considerations to be addressed to Congress.
It is for the legislative branch of the Government to say when
these Indians shall cease to be dependent and assume the responsibilities attaching to citizenship. That is a political question, which the courts may not determine. We can only deal
with the case as it exists under the legislation of Congress.
We answer the fourth question in the affirmative, and the
first, second, third and fifth questions in the negative. It will
be so certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Answers certified.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT
OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 45. Argued January 9, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903

All private property is held subject to the necessities of government and
the right of eminent domain underlies all such rights of property.
When the United States government appropriates property which it does
not claim as its own, it does so under an implied contract that it will
pay the value of the property it so appropriates.
When it is alleged in an action that the government of the United States in
the exercise of its powers of eminent domain and regulation of comnierce, through officers and agents duly empowered thereto by acts of

