THE INIFANTA MARIA TERESA.
Syllabus.

such conditions as to be able to render effective aid, if required,
are not entitled to share in any of the prize property."
Notwithstanding the ingenious argument on behalf of the
intervenors, we are not able to arrive at any different conclusion, and to hold that the Nansban and Zafiro were part of the
fighting force of the Navy in the battle, or present under such
circumstances and in such condition as to be able to render effective aid in that engagement, as prescribed by the statute.
They participated neither actually nor constructively in the
captures.
The rights to share of the commissioned officers and enlisted
men of the United States Navy on board these two vessels depend on other considerations.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
on the intervening libel is qbfirined. The decree on the libel
isreversed and the cause remanded with directions to enter
a decree in,accordance with this opinion.

1
THE INFANTA MARIA TERESA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPRE'ME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No.273. Argued October 27, 28, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.
The Spanish war vessel Infanta Maria Teresa at the engagement at Santi-

ago on July 3, 1898, was so far stunk and destroyed that she could not be
sent in for adjudication, and no survey was had nor was any sale directed
by the commanding officer, nor was she taken by and appropriated for the
use of the United States and the value deposited under sec. 4625, Rev.

Stat. Subsequently she was raised by a wrecking company under a contract with the Government and taken as far as Guantanamo, whence, after
certain temporary repairs were made, it being impossible to completely
repair her at that port, she proceeded in tow and partially under her own
steam to Norfolk, the nearest government navy yard and the nearest point
where permanent repairs could be made. On the way she was lost at Cat
1 Docket title-United States v. Taylor, originally United States v. Sampson. See 187 U. S.436.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
Island as a result of inability to withstand the storm on account of injuries
received in the action at Santiago, became a total wreck, and was abandoned. The commanding officer concurred with the Government in the
effort at salvage.
Held, that as the salvage was not actually accomplished, there was no appropriation to its use by the Government in the meaning of the statute
and the captors were entitled to bounty only and not to prize money.
Held, that the disposition of the property taken from the vessel must follow the rule laid down in The Manila Prize Cases, ante, p. 254.

THis is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the

District of Columbia, sitting as a District Court of the United
States in admiralty, on a libel in prize filed by William T. Sampson, Rear Admiral, United States Navy, in behalf of himself
and the officers and men of the naval force on the North Atlantic Station, who took part in the naval engagement off Santiago. During the pendency of the appeal in this court Admiral
Sampson died, and his death being suggested, Admiral Henry
C. Taylor was substituted by direction of the court. 187 U. S.
436.
The engagement took place July 3, 1898, when the Spanish
fleet, consisting of the Infanta Maria Teresa, Cristobal Colon,
Yiscaya, Almfrante Oquendo, and the torpedo boats Furor and
Pluton, which had been lying in the harbor of Santiago, made
a sortie and attempted to force its way past the American fleet
then blockading the port. None of the Spanish vessels were
afloat at the close of the action. The least injured was the
Cristobal Colon, which was sunk by her commander, and lay
nearly on her beam ends. The vessel in the next best condition
was the Infanta Maria Teresa, whose bottom had been pierced
by a point of rock, while she was completely burned out above
the protective deck. She lay nearly upright, being submerged
to about her normal water line aft, and a little less than this
forward.
On July 6, 1898, a board of eight officers was designated by
Admiral Sampson, the commander-in-chief, to make "a thorough examination of the condition of the wrecked Spanish
vessels," and to consider and report on the possibility of saving any of them. July 13, 1898, the board reported that it
was "possible and desirable to float the Infanta Maria Teresa,"

THE INFANTA MARIA TERESA.
Statement of the Case.

and as to the Cristobal Colon, "that if the weather continues
favorable the probabilities are good for saving the vessel."
July 6, 1898, a contract was entered into between the MerrittChapman Derrick Wrecking Company and the United States,
stating in its preamble that the United States was " desirous
of raising and saving as many as possible of the Spanish vessels composing the fleet of Admiral Cervera," and providing
that the contractors should, upon "arriving at the scene of
the wreck of the Cristobal Colon, at once begin the work of
raising that vessel," with so much of her armament, stores, etc.,
as it might be possible to recover, the vessel and appurtenances,
if so required by the United States, to be transported to the navy
yard at Norfolk, Virginia. The contract further stated : "Inasmuch as it is believed that the Cristobal Colon is the least
damaged of all the Spanish vessels above referred to, the party
of the first part will endeavor to float her, and in case of success in that undertaking, or if it should in the judgment of the
senior United States naval officer present, be impossible to save
that vessel, or if in his judgment, during the work on the Cristobal Colon, it should be practicable to devote any time, attention, or labor to the saving of any of the other of the said
vessels, then the party of the first part shall do all in its power
towards the accomplishment of that end," etc. And further:
"An officer of the Navy, to be designated by the commanderin-chief, and at all times subject to his orders, under the direction of the Secretary, shall be present at the scene of the work
as the Department's representative, to supervise and inspect the
operations under this contract, and the party of the first part
shall subsist such officer on board its vessel during the performance of such work and until the return to the navy yard at Norfolk, if so required."
Soon after the report of the board convened by Admiral
Sampson, the contractors began work on the Colon, and on.
July 29, 1898, a supplemental contract was made in regard to
the work on that vessel. The operations were carried on for
some time for the purpose of raising and floating both the
Colon and the Teresa, but work on the Colon was stopped on
or about August 31, 1898, and the efforts were concentrated

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

on the Teresa, which was finally floated September 23, and
reached Guantanamo, September 24. She there received certain temporary repairs, and on October 29, 1898, started for
N orfolk, Virginia, convoyed by the U. S. S. Leonidas, and in
tow of the United States repair ship Vulcan, and the wrecking
tug Merritt, also using her own steam as far as the condition
of her engines permitted. She was in charge of the wrecliDng
company, but an officer of the Navy had charge of the government men and employes on board, at the request of the
wreck master, to assist the company in taking the ship to Norfolk. On November 1 she encountered a severe storm, and,
after some hours, being apparently in a sinking condition, she
was cast off, and ultimately drifted on to Cat Island, where
she struck on the rocks and became a hopeless wreck. The
evidence showed that her inability to withstand the storm was
because of injuries sustained in action. There was no contention as to -negligence, and a naval court of inquiry made findings and a report to the effect that the ship was not prematurely
abandoned, and that the abandonment was in nowise due to
the fault or negligence of any officer of the Navy.
July 11, 1899, libellants filed a petition in the Court of Claims
for bounty under section 4635, Revised Statutes, for the destruction of the Viscaya, Oquendo, Colon, Furor and Pluton,
which went to decree in their favor. 35 C. Cl. 578.
July 31, 1899, the libel in the present case was filed, setting
forth that the Teresa, and all property taken from her, as well
as that taken from the Colon and other sunken vessels, were
prize of war, and had been appropriated to the use of the
United States. The libel averred that the Teresa, "after being
taken for and appropriated to the use of the United States,
and while in the possession of the United States, under the
control of the Secretary of the Navy, being in charge of contractors employed by him," was abandoned at sea, driven
ashore, and finally abandoned, "and for that reason cannot be
sent in for adjudication."
The District Court entered a decree of condemnation, July 30,
1901, to the effect that the Infanta MAaria Teresa and all the
property taken from her and from the other vessels were law-

THE INFANTA MARIA TERESA.
Opinion of the Court.

ful prize of war, and directing upon the ascertainment of their
value the amount should be deposited subject to the further
order of the court, and that libellants were entitled to receive
a moiety thereof. This appeal was then taken.
XLi. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt and .Mr. iSpecial Attorney Charles . Binney for appellant.
ilr. lFilliamB. Khing for appellees.
rJ'.William E. Hflarvey
and .Xr.. George A. -[ingwere with him on the brief.
Al>. James TI. Ihayden for appellees.
Cammon was with him on the brief.

Al>. Joseph If Mc-

MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

After the engagement, the Teresa, as she lay shattered on
the shore, was not in condition to be sent in for adjudication,
and no survey and appraisement were thereupon had, nor was
any sale directed by the commanding officer, as provided in
section 4615, Revised Statutes; nor was the Teresa taken for
and appropriated to the use of the United States and the value
deposited under section 4624; nor were proceedings for adjudication commenced under section 4625, until by this libel.
But the attention of the Government and of the commanding
officer was directed from the first to the question of salvage.
The commanding officer was of opinion that the Colon and the
Teresa could both be raised and reconstructed, and the Government was desirous that this should be done if possible. The
proceedings to that end were conducted in perfect good faith,
and there was no suggestion that by the attempt to save these
ships the Government was appropriating them or either of
them to its use within the intent and meaning of the statute.
The Government argues, and with great force, that the Teresa
having been sunk and destroyed to such an extent that the
naval force was powerless to save her by its own resources, her
legal status as sunk or destroyed became fixed immediately
after the engagement, and that nothing but bounty could be

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

recovered. In [lie :Manila Prize Cases, ante, p. 254, we
ruled that this was applying too rigid a construction to the
statute, and that if an enemy's vessel of war sunk in battle was
subsequently raised and reconstructed by the Government, she
might properly be adjudicated as prize, the result being to let
in the captors for prize money after the expense and cost of reconstruction and refitting bad been deducted.
But the facts in this case are wholly different. The Teresa
was raised and floated, but she was lost before she reached the
Norfolk Navy Yard, which was the nearest practicable point
at which she could be reconstructed.
We cannot concur in the view that the UJnited States appropriated the Teresa to its own use within the meaning of the
statute by attempting, with the advice and concurrence of the
captors, to save her, or by the mere act of raising, and as soon
as she floated, for that was only a step in the effort at salvage,
and until salvage was accomplished, she was not appropriated
to use. And this is true of. the Colon, though the effort to salve
her was given up before she floated.
Libellants' counsel agree with counsel for the Government
that the question of prize or no prize must be determined as of
the close of the engagement on July 3, 1898, but they contend
that the Teresa was not sunk or destroyed as she lay stranded
on the beach, and in her then condition could have been condemned as prize; that the Secretary of the Navy, in arranging
to salve her, acted voluntarily, and "without the knowledge
of the captors ;" and that the latter, at least, yielded to his
superior authority.
The statute makes no provision for adjudicating wrecks as
prize. By section 4625 proceedings may be had in respect of
proceeds of property appraised and sold; in respect of the
value of property appropriated to use; and in respect of property entirely lost or destroyed.
In this case there was no appraisal and sale; there was no
appropriation to the use of the Government in the meaning of
the statute ; the vessel had not been in condition to be sent in
and then been "entirely lost or destroyed."
And it must be remembered that the Teresa could never

THE INFANTA MARIA TERESA.
Opinion of the Court.

have been raised and saved by the captors alone. Yet her salvability seems to have been generally conceded. The commanding officer took no measures to have the wreck appraised
and sold, but concurred with the Government in the effort at
salvage. In doing so he represented all who would have been
interested if the ship had been saved, and while the chance of
obtaining considerable prize money was quite good, no risk
was run of losing bounty by taking that chance.
The Government acted with due prudence in employing persons, whose business it was to do such work, to raise and deliver the vessel at the .Norfolk Navy Yard. If no attempt had
been made, the vessel would finally have gone to pieces where
she lay.
Salvors are not held responsible for a loss when attempting
salvage in good faith, and with reasonable judgment and skill,
Te -Laura,14 Wall. '336, and we know of no reason why the
Government should be held to a more rigorous accountability
even if it could in any case be regarded from the standpoint of
a mere salvor of the property of another.
Where a hostile vessel of war has been so far destroyed that
she cannot be brought in by the naval force, which reduced
her to that condition, but she is raised, reconstructed and appropriated to use by the Government, the statute may be so
construed as to permit the application of the doctrine of relation, but this case does not come within that view, and the
claim for prize money in respect of the wreck itself is not sanctioned by the act of Congress. But libellants did not waive
their right to bounty by seeking to recover prize money, and
to bounty they are still entitled.
As to the property taken from the Teresa and the other
wrecks, its disposition must follow the rule laid down in The
.ManilaPrize Cases, ante, p. 254.
In our opinion the words " ship or vessel of war belonging
to an enemy," as employed in ยง 4635, covered armament, outfit, and appurtenances, including provisions, money to pay the
crew or for necessary expenditures, everything necessary to
be used for the purposes of the vessel, and as a vessel of war.
The grant of prize money and the grant of bounty were disVOL. CLXXXVII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JusTIcEs BRowN and BREWER, dissenting.

tinct grants, and the applicable general rule ought not to be
deprived of its force by particular exceptions.
T]te decree is 'reversed, without costs in this court, and the
cause vemainded witk a direction to dismiss the libel.
MR. JUSTIE BRowN,

with whom was

MR. JUSTIOE BREWER,

dissenting.
I am unable to distinguish this case in principle from that of
the Thle .JanilaPrize Cases, ante, p. 254, just decided.

There

the vessels were sunk and partially destroyed, but were subsequently raised, hauled into the slip, sufficiently cleaned up and
overhauled to put to sea for Hong Kong under their own
steam. The repairs were completed at Hong Kong, and the
vessels commissioned as a part of the Navy.
In the present case, the Infanta Maria Teresa was also sunk
and partially destroyed, but was raised, taken to Guantanamo,
temporarily repaired, a crew put on board, was started for a
port in the United States under her own steam, and was subsequently lost in a gale of wind. All the operations connected
with her raising and repair were conducted by contractors engaged by the Navy Department, and supervised by a board of
that department.
I submit that the fact that the vessels in Manila Bay were
actually repaired and commissioned as vessels of the Navy and
the Infanta Maria Teresa does not constitute a distinction in
principle between the two cases; but the fact that in both
cases the government elected to take possession of the vessels,
and undertook to repair them for purposes of its own, is the
turning point in the case. Had the vessels in Manila Bay been
abandoned after being raised, and before they were repaired
temporarily, had the Infanta Maria Teresa been either abandoned or lost before reaching Guantanamo Bay, or had she
been there abandoned, I should have had no doubt that they
could not either of them be considered as prizes of war. But
the fact that, after being examined, the Maria Teresa was temporarily repaired at Guantanamo and sent to Norfolk, with a
crew on board and under her own steam, indicates clearly to my

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Statement of the Case.

mind that the government had elected to make the vessel its
own property, and her subsequent loss was the loss of the government and not of the captors. In fact, it is the election, and
not the result of the election, which determines the ownership
of the property.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. McGREW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 109. Argued January 15, 16, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

To maintain a writ of error asserted under the third of the classes of cases
enumerated in section 709, Rev. Stat., the right, title, privilege or immunity relied on must not only be specially set up or claimed, but (1) at the
proper time, which is in the trial court whenever that is required by the
state practice, as it is in California, and (2) in the proper way, by pleading, motion, exception, or other action, part or being made part, of the
record, showing that the claim was presented to the court.
Where it is claimed that the decision of a state court was against a right,
title or immunity claimed under a treaty between the United States and
a foreign country and no claim under the treaty was made in the trial
court and it is a rule of practice of the highest court of the State that it
will not pass on questions raised for the first time in that court and
which might and should have been raised in the trial court, the writ of
error will be dismissed.
The mere pleading of a decree in a foreign country or of a statute of such
country and the construction of the same by the courts thereof do not
amount to specifically asserting rights under a treaty with that country.
Judicial knowledge cannot be resorted to to raise controversies not presented
by the record.
The raising of a point in this court as to the faith and credit which should
be given judicial proceedings of a foreign country, which ceased to be
foreign before judgment was rendered in a state supreme court, but was
not brought to the attention of that court, comes too late.

THis is a writ of error to revise the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of California, affirming a judgment of the
Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco in favor
of Alphonsine McGrew and against the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York. 132 California, 85.

