COMMIERCIAL PUBLISHING CO. v. BECKWITH.

567

Statement of the Case.

COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING COMPANY v. BECKWITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 132. Argued December 19, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.
1. Where a right to recover as the result of a judicial sale made under decrees, both of the courts of the United States and of a State other than
that in which the action is brought, is unquestionably set up in the complaint, Federal questions exist in the record and a motion to dismiss
must be denied.
2. Questions involved in the construction of a contract for the advancement
of money and its repayment and the effect of tile lien which the lender
has on the accounts pledged as security for such repayment, are not
Federal in their nature, and this court must assume that the construction
given by the highest court of the State in which the action was brought

is correct.
3. Where the highest court of a State has construed decrees made by a
United States court and a state court of another State authorizing the
sale of certain accounts by a receiver as merely authorizing a sale of the
receiver's right, title and interest in such accounts, and that such right,
title and interest was subject to the lien of one who had advanced money
on the faith of a contract authorizing him to collect such accounts and
repay himself thereout, such construction is not an unreasonable one,
and the burden rests upon the plaintiff in error to show that such construction is in violation of the due faith and credit clause of the Federal
Constitution. And the judgment will be affirmed unless the record
shows with certainty that such construction did deny due faith and credit
to the decrees in question.

A TENNESSEE corporation, styled the Commercial Publishing
Company, brought this action in a court of the State of New
York to recover from Samuel C. Beckwith a sum of money
which, it was averred, belonged to the publishing company. It
was alleged in the complaint that the right was derived from
one Crawford, who, it was averred, became the owner of certain newspaper advertising accounts, on which payments had
been made to Beckwith, the aggregate thereof constituting the
amount sued for. The manner in which Crawford was asserted
to have acquired the ownership of the accounts will appear in
the following statement summarized from the pleadings:

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

On September 30, 1893, an action was begun in the Chancery
Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, to foreclose a deed of trust
which had been made by the Memphis Appeal Company, publishers of a newspaper known as the Memphis Appeal-Avalanche.
Samuel C. Beckwith was made a party defendant to the cause.
Cotemporaneously with the filin g of the bill, a receiver of the
assets of the newspaper company was appointed, and he continued the publication of the paper. Although the complaint
in the action at bar did not set out the nature of the controversy in the Tennessee suit between the trustees, who were
plaintiffs in the action, and Beckwith, it was alleged that a
short time after the bill was filed Beckwith procured the removal to a Circuit Court of the United States of a separate
controversy existing between himself and the trustees, in which
court it was averred such controversy thereafter continued.
Subsequently, it was alleged, other actions were filed in the
Tennessee court against the Memphis Appeal Company, which
actions were ultimately consolidated with the trustee cause.
It was charged that in the month of April, 1894-, like decrees
were simultaneously entered in the consolidated actions in the
state court and in the one which had been removed to the
United States court, and that, under such decrees, a sale was
had on June 16, 189-, of the property vested in the receiver,
including the accounts due said receiver, representing moneys
earned by the receiver in the operation of the newspaper, of
which the accounts upon which Beckwith had collected the
money sued for formed a part. At this sale, it was alleged,
Crawford became the purchaser of all the property embraced
in the order of sale, and he thereafter assigned his purchase to
the plaintiff.
In an amended answer Beckwith admitted having collected
and retained the moneys sued for, and specially denied the
other allegations of the complaint. He also set up as a defence
that he had collected the moneys in question rightfully, under
the authority of an agreement with the Memphis Appeal Company made prior to the execution of the deed of trust heretofore referred to. He further alleged that the receiver never
acquired title to the moneys, and had never offered for sale or

COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO. v. BECKWITH.

569

Opinion of the Court.

sohl any right or title thereto. Subsequently, by supplemental
answer, it was alleged that after the execution of the decrees

of sale, and on appeal from a final decree which had been entered in the consolidated cause, the Supreme Court of the State
of Tennessee adjudicated that the trust deed and all proceedings
based thereon were null and void, and that, by reason thereof,
the sale in question was a nullity.
The action at bar was tried by a jury, upon an agreed statement of facts. By direction of the court there was a verdict
in favor of the plaintiff for the full amount claimed. This
judgment was affirmed by the appellate division of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York. An appeal was then taken to
the Court of Appeals of the State, which reversed the judgment, and ordered the complaint to be dismissed with costs.
167 N. Y. 329. The judgment of the Court of Appeals having
been made that of the trial court, a writ of error from this
court was prosecuted.
Mr. A. Walker Otis for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Aithony B. Porter for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
As in the complaint the plaintiff in error unquestionably set
up a right to recover as the result of a judicial sale made under
decrees, both of courts of the United States and of a State,
Federal questions exist in the record, and the motion which
has been made to dismiss is therefore denied.
Coming to the merits, the questions for decision are whether
due effect was given by the Court of Appeals of New York to
the decrees in question. Jacobs v. MaTrks, 182 T. S. 583, 587.
Two questions were considered by the state court in its opinion, viz. : 1, the meaning and effect of the contract entered
into between Beckwith and the IMemphis Appeal Company;
and, 2, whether the rights of Beckwith under the contract had
been conclusively adjudicated by the prior litigation in Tennessee.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

The agreement referred to was evidenced by two letters and
endorsements thereon, and a copy thereof is contained in the
margin.
I Memphis,

Tenn., Jan. 3, 1891.

S. C. BEOKWITiE,
48 Tribune Building, New York City.
DEAR Sin: In consideration of special efforts which you pledge yourself
to make in our behalf to the best of your efforts and ability, and furthermore, in consideration of allowing you nothing in the shape of salary,
office rents or traveling expenses, we hereby authorize and appoint you
our sole and exclusive agent for a term of five years from September 1,
1891, and sooner if possible, on a plain commission basis of twenty-five per
cent on all business for all that portion of the United States, north of a
line running east and west with the southerly boundary of Ohio, Missouri,
embracing Cincinnati and St. Louis, including these two points.
All applications for rates, space, etc., from aforesaid territory to be referred to you, and in case we should make a deal direct with any parties,
agent or advertisers, from your territory (which, however, is not contemplated,) we will allow you the commission named upon same, and refer
it to you for collection.
You are to collect all bills and render monthly statements, and to be
held responsible for all accounts, except where a concern should fail
through no fault of yours, and, in event of that, you are simply to lose
your commission, but not to be liable beyond that.
You are not to represent any other morning paper in the State of Tennessee or Arkansas without our consent in writing, but to do all you can
in every way, and at all times, within the above territory, to advance the
interests of the Appeal-Avalanche.
MEitniis APPEAL-AVALANCIIE

Accepted.

T. B. H
S. C. BEcxWITIH.

OIMPA'NY.

CHErTT, Bits. .lfonager.

Memphis, Tenn., Jan. 3, 1891.
COMPANY,
APPEAL
mis
TiiE Mmn
Memphis, Tenn.
by and
GENTLEMEN: In consideration of a contract this day entered into
between us, I hereby agree to advance to you thirty thousand dollars
($30,000.00,) as follows:
.$5000 in cash on or before January 7tb, $5000 on or before the 12th of
January, 1891, then $5000 on the 26th of January, 1891, to take up your
note now in the Nassau Bank of N. Y. for that amount. And $15,000 from
time to time as you may advise me and so desire.
The amount named of $30,000.00 to be loaned you on the Appeal Company's notes, endorsed by V. A. Collier, and I am to be further secured by
a deposit as collateral of an equal amount of the capital stock of your

COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO. v. BECKWITH.

571

Opinion of the Court.

In disposing of the first question the court held that "The
clause of the agreement giving to Beckwith the right to collect
all of the bills was evidently intended to give him the control
of the proceeds resulting from the advertisements, so that he
could apply the same upon his loan to the amount of $1000
per month," and that the clause referred to " was in the nature
of an equitable pledge of the receipts for that purpose." It
was further held that the receiver of the newspaper took possession of the assets and business thereof subject to the liens
and obligations of the corporation, (in other words, took only
the interest which the corporation had in the property which
it assumed to possess and own,) and as the receiver "accepted
and published the advertisements procured by the defendant
(Beckw~ith), he (the receiver) must be deemed to have done so
under the contract which the defendant (Beckwith) had with
the corporation, and under that contract the defendant had the
right to collect the moneys accruing for such advertisements,
and to retain out of such collections a sum not to exceed
$1000 per month, to be applied upon the loan." It is manifest
that the question of the proper construction of this contract
being non-Federal in its nature, is not subject to review, and
we consequently assume that the construction was correct.
The second question was treated as involving only the issue
of res judicata. Considering the final decree entered in the
consolidated action, and the decree as subsequently entered by
the trial court upon the mandate of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, it was decided that the Tennessee court "did not
adjudicate nor attempt to determine the right of Beckwith to
company, and which stock shall not be increased without my consent
during the term of this loan; neither shall any encumbrance be placed
upon same.

Said loan and interest at six per cent to be paid me in monthly installments by monies coining into my hands from the advertising in your
paper, in amounts, say $1000 per month, until paid.
S. C. BECKWITH.
0. K.: AfmnuP~is APPEAL COMPANY.
T. B. HATcHETr, Business Manager.
(Endorsed): As the debt is reduced I will surrender stock collateral pro
rata.-S. C. BECKWITH.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

the moneys received by him for advertisements inserted in the
paper by the receiver after his appointment." The court then
said-evidently assuming that the last decree embodied the
direction for sale-" Under the judgment the purchaser became
entitled to all the moneys due and owing to the receiver by
reason of the publication of the paper, but moneys that did not
belong to the receiver, or to which he was not entitled, did not
pass to the purchaser, and we find nothing in the prior decree
that is an adjudication upon this question." In effect, therefore, the Court of Appeals of New York construed the decrees
of sale and held that the direction to sell merely authorized a
sale of the right, title and interest of the receiver in the accounts in question and left for future determination, in any
controversy which might arise in respect thereto, the question
of the extent of the interest, if any, of the receiver in such
accounts.
The sole contentions which are open for our consideration
are, did this judgment fail to give full faith and credit to the
judicial proceedings in the Tennessee courts as required by section 1 of article IV of the Constitution, and did it deny due
efficacy to a title or right claimed under an authority exercised
under the United States. It is strenuously argued that, properly interpreted, the decrees directed a sale of the accounts as
they stood on the books of the receiver, and that the effect of
the decrees and the sale made thereunder was that any right to
or lien possessed by Beckwith in the moneys due upon the accounts was transferred to the proceeds of sale of all the property
of the vemphis Appeal.
In considering this question it is to be observed that the records of the proceedings in the actions in which the decrees relied
upon were rendered were not offered at the trial below, but that
the case was disposed of solely upon an agreed statement of
facts, to which certain of the decrees made in those actions were
annexed as exhibits. To this agreed statement therefore, and
to it alone, we are to look, for the purpose of determining the
question presented for decision. A summary of the statement
will be found in the margin.'
1On

January3, 1891, the Memphis Appeal Company, then engaged in pub-

COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO. v. BECKWITH.

573

Opinion of the Court.

It is to be borne in mind that upon the plaintiff in error rested
the burden of establishing that the decrees of sale were not
given the due effect to which they were entitled, and if it has
lishing a newspaper at Memphis, entered into the contract with Beckwith
which has heretofore been set out. Beckwith made the advances stipulated
and $20,000 thereof was owing to him at the time the action at bar was instituted. While the Memphis Appeal Company was a going concern Beckwith, under the contract aforesaid, procured advertising orders, the indebtedness upon which collected by him was the basis of the recovery sought
in this action. After the making of the contract and prior to September 30,
1893, the Memphis Appeal Company executed a deed of trust upon its property to secure certain creditors. On the date named Andrew D. Gwynne
and others, the trustees under the deed of trust, brought suit to enforce
that instrument. Beckwith was made a party defendant, and a receiver
was appointed, who took possession of the property of the Memphis Appeal Company and continued the publication of its newspaper from September 30, 1893, to June 16, 1894. On October 5, 1893, Beckwith procured the
removal of the controversy between himself and the trustees into a court
of the United States, and that controversy there continued, though it does
not appear how it was terminated, if it ever was.
Beckwith served written notice on the receiver that he claimed that his
rights under the contract were not affected by the appointment of the
receiver, and the receiver replied disputing the right of Beckwith to collect moneys for advertising matter which might be published by the receiver.
After the institution of the trustee suit sundry actions were filed in the
same court by general creditors and others against the Memphis Appeal
Company, which were afterwards consolidated with the trustee suit. In
April, 1894, in the consolidated action, and in the action pending in the
United States court, a decree of sale was entered, "on tile motion of the
several complainants," directing a sale of the property in the hands of the
receiver, because of the asserted fact that the property was deteriorating
and was not self-supporting. The property which was ordered to be sold,
after due advertisement, was thus described in the order:
"The Memphis Appeal-Avalanche newspaper, with all the rights, privileges, benefits, franchises, etc., belonging to or in any way pertaining to
same, together with its good will, subscription list, advertising patronage,
income and profits, and all the machinery, appliances, furniture, material,
property, assets, etc., of every kind and description, and the general outfit
of the newspaper now in the hands of the receiver in these causes.
" He will sell all and every kind and description of property in his hands,
saving and except the uncollected book accounts of the Memphis Appeal
Company, accruing prior to his appointment as receiver, and which were
placed in his hands for collection. Such of these accounts as remain uncollected will not be sold,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

failed to sustain such burden this court cannot say that error
was committed by the judgment below rendered.
The decrees of sale were made in the consolidated action in
"All accounts which may be or are to become due to the receiver by
reason of the operation of the newspaper in his hands will pass to and be
acquired by the purchaser at this sale, who will become the f ill owner
of the same. And such purchaser will take the property decreed to be sold
herein, subject to all of the contract obligations incurred by the receiver,
and will assume the payment of same, including any amount due the
receiver on the day of sale for overchecks made by him for personal
advances on account of the property in his hands. Excepting only the
certificates issued by the receiver for the payment of which the purchaser
shall in no way be liable."
After directing that the receiver report his proceedings under the decmee
to the court, it was further recited as follows:
"The purchaser at thesale herein ordered will acquire the absolute title
to all the property decreed to be sold, free from all claims, liens, and encumbrances whatever, save as provided above as to the contract obligations
of the receiver; and the proceeds of sale will stand in these causes in lieu
and place of the property itself."
Subsequently the decree of sale was modified by directing a sale to be
made by the clerks of the respective courts, as commissioners. Respecting the sale and the confirmation thereof, it is recited in the agreed statement as follows (italics not in original):
" 13. Thereafter and on the 16th day of June, 1894, said commissioners,
acting under the decrees aforesaid, sold at public auction in the city of
Memphis, the property aforesaid, and also all the right, title and interest of
said receiver to the various sums set forth in Exhibit B annexed to the complaint herein, and in and to the claims of said receiver against the parties
therein mentionedfor said advertisementspublished by said receiverfor their
account in said Memphis Appeal-Avalanche between September 30, 1893, and
June 16, 1894, as aforesaid, when and where same was struck off to one
West J. Crawford, he paying therefor to said J. B. Clough and E. B. MeHenry as such commissioners the suns of $65,200, and he being the highest,
best and last bidder therefor. That whatever title the receiver had to said
sums set forth in Exhibit 13 was derived from said trust deed and his appointment as such receiver. On the 3d day of July, 1894, decrees were
simultaneously entered in said actions thus pending in said Chancery Court
of Shelby County, and said Circuit Court of the United States, confirming
the sale."
On March 26, 1896, a final decree was entered in the consolidated action
determining the rights of a large number of persons, one such being Beckwith, whose claim of a lien on the fund under an execution issued in an
action brought by a named party other than Beckwith, in which action
judgment had been obtained against the Memphis Appeal Company was

COMMERCIAL PUBLISHING CO. v. BECKWITH.

575

Opinion of the Court.

the state court and in the action pending in the United States
court, and preceded, by nearly two years, the making of the
final decree, which however was entered only in the consolidated cause, and not in the action pending in the United States
court. It is disclosed by the record that in two of the actions
which were consolidated-that filed by the trustee and one on
behalf of certain employ~s of the AMemphis Appeal Companyliens were asserted upon all the assets which came into the possession of the receiver, viz., those embraced in the deed of trust
which was sought to be foreclosed. The deed of trust was
made long after the execution of the contract between Beckwith and the Memphis Appeal Company, and vested rights, if
any, of Beckwith were not affected by the execution of the deed
or by the appointment of a receiver. The agreed statement is
silent as to what was the controversy between the trustees and
Beckwith, but Beckwith, in the correspondence with the receiver claimed that his contract right was unaffected bv the
receivership. Now, in the recital in the decrees of sale of the
property to be sold there is first an enumeration of property
generally, in language similar to that contained in the deed of
trust; there is then an exemption from sale of uncollected book
accounts accruing prior to the appointment of the receiver;
and next is the following recital: "All accounts which may be
or are to become due to the receiver by reason of the operation
of the newspaper in his hands will pass to and be acquired by
the purchaser at this sale, who will become the full owner of
the same." It may be fairly inferred, that Beckwith then was
overruled and he was allowed an appeal. A portion of the defendants
thereafter prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and
after the decision of that appeal a decree was entered in the trial court in
conformity to the directions of the Appellate Court, on July 8, 1896.
The appeal of Beckwith was disposed of by a general affirmance of the decree below, except as particularly specified in the judgment of the Appellate Court.
Crawford, the purchaser at the sale, "duly assigned and transferred to
the plaintiff all his claims, demands and rightof action against the defendant, which he acquired by virtue of the sale of June 16, 1894, above referred to." As heretofore stated, the collections made by Beckwith sought
to be recovered in the action at bar were made on advertising orders procured by Beckwith under the contract and published by the receiver.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and prior thereto had been maling direct collections from advertisers under the assumed authority of the contract, and he
was undoubtedly asserting the right to retain the moneys which
he might collect upon advertisements which had been procured
by him. The sum due upon such accounts for advertisements
published by the receiver was small as compared with the main
assets in the custody of the receiver, yet, in that portion of the
decree which made the liens and encumbrances operative against
the proceeds of sale, the entire proceeds of sale and not the
proceeds of a particular portion of the property sold were made
subject to all liens and encumbrances sought to be enforced in
the litigation.
As before stated, the record shows that, in two of the actions
which had been consolidated, the complainants were asserting
liens against all the property which had come into the possession of the receiver, and the decree of sale recites that the sale
was ordered upon the motion of the complainants. Beckwith
nowhere appears to have been an active participant in obtaining such decree or assenting thereto. It does not even appear
that, at the time of the entry of the decrees of sale, he was a
party to any of the actions which had been consolidated, for it
cannot in reason be so inferred from the mere circumstance
that nearly two years after, on the entry of the final decree, he
is referred to therein as being a cross complainant in one of the
actions seeking to enforce a lien, the nature of which was not
disclosed.
The stipulations contained in the agreed statement, particularly the recitals in subdivision numbered 13, lend color to the
construction that, as respects the accounts in question, all that
was intended to be sold was the right, title and interest of the
receiver therein, the nature and extent of which title was left
unadjudicated. The expression, "the property aforesaid," used
in the paragraph, it may well be argued, was intended to refer
to something distinct from the accounts in question, and the
language may properly be interpreted as relating to the property
covered by the trust deed, which came into the possession of
the receiver. A reasonable construction of the paragraph can
be adopted supporting the claim that, as regards the accounts,

UNITED STATES v.

BARRINGER.

Statement of the Case.

all that was sold was the right, title and interest of the receiver
therein. In the light, therefore, of all the circumstances which
have been detailed, we cannot sustain the contention of the
plaintiff in error that the guaranty clause of the decrees, transferring liens upon the property to the proceeds of sale, was intended to apply to the accounts in question without indulging
in conjecture and giving to the plaintiff in error the benefit of
the doubts which arise as to the precise meaning of the decrees.
The parties having chosen to try the case on a statement of
facts, which does not afford us the means of saying with that
certainty which is required, that the judgment below denied
due faith and credit to the decrees in question, we cannot, in
view of the burden of proof, reverse the judgment below; and
it is therefore
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BARRINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 252. Argued January 5, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903.
The provisions in the sundry civil appropriation act of June 11, 1896, and
in the prior acts of Congress referred to in the opinion, in regard to leaves
of absence to tile employds of the Government Printing Office, and forpro
rata extra pay to those not receiving leaves of absence, relate only to
permanent employ6s, or employds regularly employed on the Congressional Record and do not relate to temporary employds.
This construction of the statutes referred to is in accord with tile interpretation placed thereon by the Public Printer and also by Congress in appropriating for the payment of such extra pay allowed in lieu of such
leaves of absence.
THE findings of the Court of Claims upon which it predicated
the conclusion that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment
against the United States are as follows:
"I. The claimant, Arthur B. Barringer, was from time to
time employed as a compositor in the Government Printing
VOL.

CLXXXVIII-37

