UNITED STATES c. LYNAH.
Syllabus.

by the Government, but of the property supplied to them by the
Government and in use on the allotted lands. Railway Co. v.
.JcShane,22 Wall. 444; Uoosaw .iaing Co. v. South Carolina,
144 U. S. 550, 564-66.
Some observations may be made that are applicable to the
whole case. It is said that the State has conferred upon these
Indians the right of suffrage and other rights that ordinarily
belong only to citizens, and that they ought, therefore, to share
the burdens of government like other people who enjoy such
rights. These are considerations to be addressed to Congress.
It is for the legislative branch of the Government to say when
these Indians shall cease to be dependent and assume the responsibilities attaching to citizenship. That is a political question, which the courts may not determine. We can only deal
with the case as it exists under the legislation of Congress.
We answer the fourth question in the affirmative, and the
first, second, third and fifth questions in the negative. It will
be so certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Answers certified.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT
OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 45. Argued January 9, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1903

All private property is held subject to the necessities of government and
the right of eminent domain underlies all such rights of property.
When the United States government appropriates property which it does
not claim as its own, it does so under an implied contract that it will
pay the value of the property it so appropriates.
When it is alleged in an action that the government of the United States in
the exercise of its powers of eminent domain and regulation of comnierce, through officers and agents duly empowered thereto by acts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.
Congress, places dams, training walls and other obstructions in the
Savannah River in such manner as to hinder its natural flow and to raise
the water so as to overflow the laud of plaintiff along the banks to such
an extent as to cause a total destruction of its value, and the government
does not deny the ownership, admits that the work was done by authority of Congress, and simply denies that the work has produced the alleged injury and destruction, the Circuit Court of the United States has
jurisdiction to inquire whether the acts done by the officers of the United
States under the direction of Congress have resulted in such an overflow
and injury of the land as to render it absolutely valueless and, if thereby
the property was, in contemplation of law, taken and appropriated by the
government, to render judgment against it for the value of the property
so taken and appropriated.
Where the government of the United States by the construction of a dam,
or other public works, so floods lands belonging to an individual as to
totally destroy its value, there is a taking of private property within the
scope of the Fifth Amendment.
The proceeding must be regarded as an actual appropriation of the land,
including the possession and the fee and, when the amount awarded as
compensation is paid, the title, the fee and whatever rights may attach
thereto pass to the government which becomes henceforth the full owner.
Notwithstanding that the work causing the injury was done in improving
the navigability of a navigable river and by the Constitution Congress is
given full control over such improvements, the injuries cannot be regarded as purely consequential, and the government cannot appropriate
property without being liable to the obligation created by the Fifth
Amendment of paying just compensation.

ON February 4, 1897, defendants in error commenced their
action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of South Carolina to recover of the United States the stun of
$10,000 as compensation for certain real estate (being a part of
a plantation known as Yerzenobre) taken and appropriated by
the defendant.
The petition alleged in the first paragraph the citizenship and
residence of the petitioners; in the second, that they had a
claim against the United States under an implied contract for
compensation for the value of property taken by the United
States for public -use; third, that they were the owners as
tenants in common of the plantation; and in the fourth and
seventh paragTaphs:

"Fourth. That for several years continuously, and now con-

tinuously, the said government of the United States of America,

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Statement of the Case.

in the exercise of its power of eminent domain under the Constitution of the United States and by authority of the acts of
Congress, duly empowering its officers and agents thereto, in
that case made and provided, (lid erect, build and maintain, and
continuously since have been erecting, building and maintaining,
and are now building, erecting and maintaining in and across
the said Savannah River, in the bed of the said Savannah
River, certain dams, training walls and other obstructions, obstructing and hindering the natural flow of the said Savannah
River through, in and along the natural bed thereof and raising
feet at the point of and above the
the said Savannah River the bed of the said Savannah
in
dams
and
obstructions
said
River, and causing the said waters of the Savannah River aforesaid to be kept back and to flow back and to be raised and
elevated above the natural height of the Savannah River along
its natural bed at the points of the said dams, training walls and
obstructions, and at points above the said dams, training walls
and obstructions in said river."
"Seventh. And your petitioners further show that the said
acts of the government of the United States, as aforesaid, have
been done and are being (lone lawfully by the officers and
agents of the United States under the authority of the United
States in the exercise of its powers of eminent domain and
regulation of commerce under the Constitution of the United
States and the laws of Congress for the public purpose of the
improvement of the harbor of Savannah and deepening the
waters of the Savannah River at the port of Savannah, a port
of entry of the United States and seaport of the United States
of America, situated within the State of Georgia., on the Savannah River, and with the purpose of deepening and enlarging
the navigable channel and highway for commerce of the said
Savannah River for the public use, purpose and benefit of interstate and foreign and international trade and commerce, and
for other public purposes, uses and benefits."
The remaining paragraphs set forth the effect of the placing
by the government of the dams, restraining walls and other
obstructions in the river, together with the value of the property
appropriated by the overflow. The answer of the government
averred:

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

"First. That this defendant has no knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of the allegations
contained in the first and third paragraphs of the said petition
and complaint.
"Second. That this defendant denies all of the allegations
contained in the second, fourth, fifth, sxth, seventh and eighth
paragraphs of the said petition and complaint except so much of
the fourth paragraph as alleges that the said United States heretofore erected certain dams in the Savannah River pursuant to
power vested in it by law, and except so much of the seventh
paragraph as alleges that the said damns heretofore erected by
the United States were lawfully erected by its officers and
agents."
For a further defence the statute of limitations was pleaded.
The case came on for trial before the court without a jury, which
made findings of fact, and from them deduced conclusions of
law and entered a judgment against the defendant for the stun
of $10,000. The findings were to the effect that the plaintiffs
were the owners of the plantation, deriving title by proper
mesne conveyances from "a grant by the lords proprietors of
South Carolina," made in 1736. Other findings pertinent to the
questions which must be considered in deciding this case were
as follows:
"IV. A certain parcel of these plantations, measuring about
420 acres, had been reclaimed by drainage and had been in
actual continued use for seventy years and upwards as a rice
plantation, used solely for this purpose. This rice plantation
was dependent for its irrigation upon the waters of the Savannah River and its ditches, drains and canals, through and
by which the waters of the river were flowed in and upon the
lands, and were then drained therefrom, were adapted to the
natural level of the said Savannah River, and dependent for
their proper drainage and cultivation upon the maintenance of
the natural flow of the said river in, through and over its natural
channel along its natural bed to the waters of the ocean.
"V. This portion of the plantation fronting on the river and
dedicated to the culture of rice, extended almost up to if not
quite to low water mark, and a large part of it was between

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Statement of the Case.

mean high water and low water mark, protected from the river
by an embankment. Through this embankment trunks or waterways were constructed, with flood gates therein. The outer
opening of the trunk was about a foot or a little less above the
mean low water mark of the river, in which the tide ebbs and
flows. When it is desired to flow the lands the flood gates are
opened and the water comes in. When it is desired to draw
off this water and to effect the drainage of the lands, the flood
gates are opened at low water and the water escapes. It is essential that the outlets of the trunks or waterways should always be above the mean low water mark.
"VII. For several years last past and at the present time
the government of the United States, under its proper officers,
authorized thereto by the act of Congress, have been engaged
in the improvement of the navigation of the Savannah River, a
navigable water of the United States, this improvement being
carried on by virtue of the provisions of section 8, article I, of
the Constitution, giving to the Congress the power to regulate
commerce.
"VIII. In thus improving navigation of this navigable water
the United States has built and maintained and is now building
and maintaining in and across the Savannah River, in the bed
thereof, certain dams, training walls and other obstructions,
obstructing the natural flow of said river in and along its natural bed, and so raising the level of said river above said obstructions, and causing its vaters to be kept back and to flow
back and to be elevated above its natural height in its natural
bed.
" IX. This rice plantation Verzenobre is above these obstructions. The direct effect thereof is to raise the level of the
Savannah River at this plantation, and to keep the point of
mean low water above its natural point, so that the outlet of
the trunks and waterways above spoken of in the bank of said
plantation, instead of being above this point of low water
mark, is now below this point. Another direct result was that
by seepage and percolation the water rose in the plantation
until the water level in the land gradually rose to the height
VOL. cLxxxVIm-29

OCTOBER TERAE, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

of the increased water level in the river, and the superinduced

addition of water in the plantation was about eighteen inches
thereby. By reason of this it gradually became cliflictlt,, and
has now become impossible, to let off the water on this plantation or to crain the same, so that these acres dedicated to the
culture of rice have become boggy, unfit for cultivation and
impossible to be cultivated in rice.
"X. By the raising of the level of the Savannah river by
these dams and obstructions the water thereof has been backed
up against the embankment on the river and has been caused
to flow back upon and in this plantation above the obstruction,
and has actually invaded said plantation, directly raising the
water in said plantation about eighteen inches, which it is impossible to remove from said plantation. This flooding is the
permanent condition now, and the rice plantation is thereby
practically destroyed for the purpose of rice culture or any
other known agriculture, and is an irreclaimable bog and has
no value.
"XI. By reason of this superinduced addition of water actually invading the said rice plantation and its destruction
thereby for all purposes of agriculture, plaintiffs have been
compelled to abandon the cultivation of said rice plantation
and have been forced to pursue their calling of planting rice on
other plantations below the dams. The direct result to plaintiffs is an actual and practical ouster of possession from this
rice plantation, cultivated by themselves and family for many
years.
"XII. Beyond the bacldng up of the water on and in the
plantation by reason of the dams and obstruction, and the invasion of these lands by this superinduced addition of water at
and in the plantation as above described, rendered necessary by
the execution of the government's plans, the United States is
not in actual possession of these lands.
11XIII. Up to this time no other use has been discovered for
these lands than for rice culture, and the direct results above
stated have totally destroyed the market value of the lands.
They now have no value.
"XIV. The value of these rice lands before the obstructions

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Statement of the Case.

aforesaid were put into the river was about thirty dollars per
acre, between twenty-five and thirty dollars per acre. The
value of the rice plantation, 420 acres, thus destroyed is ten
thousand dollars."
Upon these findings of fact the important conclusions of law
were thus stated:
"V. The crucial question in this case is, Was there a taldng
of this land in the sense of the Constitution ?
"The facts found show that by reason of the obstruction in
the Savannah River the water has been directly backed up
against the embankment on the river and the banks on and in
this plantation, the superinduced addition of water actually invading it and destroying its drainage and leaving it useless for
all practical purposes. The government does not in a sense take
this land for the purposes of putting its obstructions on it. But
it forces back the water of the river on the land as a result necessary to its purpose, without which its purpose could not be
accomplished. For the purpose of the government, that water
in the river must be raised. The banks of this plantation materially assist this operation, for by their resistance the water is
kept in the channel. The backing up of the water against the
banks to create this resistance raises the water in the plantation
and destroys the drainage of the plantation. This is a taking.
'It would,' says Mr. J ustice Miller, ' be a very curious and unsatisfactory result if, in construing a provision of constitutional
law, always understood to have been adopted for protection and
security to the rights of the indivividual as against the government, and which had received the commendation of jurists,
statesmen and commentators as placing the just principles of
the common law on that subject beyond the power of ordinary
legislation to change or control them, it shall be held that if the
government refrains from the absolute conversion of real property to the uses of. the public, it can destroy its value entirely,
can inflict irreparable and permanent injury to any extent; can,
in effect, subject to total destruction without making any compensation, because in the narrowest sense of that word it has
not been taken for the public use.' Pmpelly v. Geeen Bay

OCTOBER TERTM,

1902.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Co., 13 Wall. 177, 178. In that case the backing up of water on
land was held to be a taking.
"TI. The plantation of plaintiffs being actually invaded by
superinduced addition of water directly caused by the government dams and obstructions backing up the water of the Savannah River and raising the water level at and in the rice plantation and making it unfit for rice cultivation or for any other
known agriculture, and plaintiffs have been compelled thereby
to abandon the plantation, and this actual and practical ouster
of possession being continued and permanent by reason of the
permanent condition of the flooding of the plantation, and the
plantation being thereby now an irreclaimable bog of no value,
makes the action of the government a taking of lands for public
purposes within the meaning of the Fifth Amenhnent, for which
compensation is due to the plaintiffs. Pumpcelly v. Green Bay
Co., 13 Wall. 182; 3frugler v. Eans"a, 123 U. S.668.
"1VII. The government has not gone into actual occupancy
of this land, but by reason of these dams and obstructions made
necessary by this public work and fulfilling its purpose the water
in the Savannah River has been raised at the plaintiffs' plantation and has been backed up on it and remains on it so that the
drainage has been destroyed and ditches filled up and superadded water permanently kept on the land and forced up into
it, making it wholly unfit for cultivation, and the plaintiffs have
thereby been practically and actually ousted of their possession.
This is taking of the land for public purposes, for which compensation must be provided. Pzwmpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 181."
The case involving the application of the Constitution of the
United States was brought by wvrit of error directly to this
court.
-21f. 1obert A. TH-ward for the plaintiff inerror with whom
-3fr.Solicitor Ge2eral Ric]lards was on the brief.
As the original grantors of the defendants in error obtained
grants the boumdaries whereof were "on the Savannah River"
the grants only extend to high water mark. Uhited States
v. Pach4eco, 2 Wall. 587; State v. Pinckney, 22 S.0.484, 507;

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
'Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.lfartirnv. I Vadlell, 16 Peters, 367; Slicely v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.
1 ; .Morris v. United States, 174 U. S. 196, 226.
An individual may be the owner of a portion of the shore by
a grant from the State but he takes the ownership subject to
the trust for the people which cannot be destroyed or diminished. Iall, Sea Shore, 15; Hale de Jure Maris Hay, L. T.
c. V.; 5 Co. 107 ; illinois Cent. R?. R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.
387, 435, 452; Stockton v. Balt. &f N. Y. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep.
19 ; 3 Kent, 377; Common wealth v. ]oxbt.y, 9 Gray, 451 ; tale
v. Pacific Guano Co., 22 S. C. 48, 83; -tlorney General v.
J]armenter, 10 Price, 378.
The government has not taken possession of these lands by
the erection of structures thereon or physical entering upon
them, but whatever was done was under the direction of Congress to accomplish the purpose of improving the navigability
of the Savannah River which is complete. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 196 ; Hloboken v. RailroadCo., 124 U. S.659; JL obile
v. i bizmall, 102 U. S. 691; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall.
724; So ut/i Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S.4; Telegraph Co. v.
Telephone Co., 96 U. S.1.
The power in the United States includes "all the powers
which existed in the States before the adoption of the Constition." Whatever consequences follow in its exercise are to be
provided for exactly as they had been or would be in the British
Isles or in the States of the Union.
One of the primary objects, as has been so often stated, was
to regulate commerce, and, in doing so, to reach out and absolutely control navigation and all the navigable waters of the
country for the benefit of the )eople. When this court said, in
Jlart?2 v. I Vaddell, that the sovereign people of each State hold
the absolute right to all their navigable waters, and the soils
under them, for their own common use subject onlV to the rights
since surrendered by the Constitution to the general government, and that the grants made by their authority must be deternined by different principles from those which apply to
grants of the British Crown, it was not meant, simply, that the
pel,
col%
ps
people, through their representatives, could arbitrarily dispose
of the trust property. That is not the theory of representative

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

government. That would not be tolerated long in a, fierce democracy.
The court below found, it being a question of law and fact,
that there had been such a taling of the land as entitled the
parties to compensation. Reliance for this conclusion was had
upon the principles laid down by this court in the cases of .1I nongalielt V. Co. v. tUited States, 148 U. S. 336-337; Gibson,
v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, and explicitly Pul2elly v.
G'een Bay Co., 13 Wall. 181; but these cases do not sustain the
contention of the plaintiffs, the defendants in error, and can be
distinguished from the cases at bar.
But what private property was taken for which compensation
should be made under this guarantee of the Constitution, which
is only affirmative of a right to the individual in a free government like this? The Croi-n had property rights in these lands
in trust. The State had property rights to these lands in trust.
They were never surrendered. They could not be. And when
the United States reached out her hand and took possession of
them to execute the trust to which she had succeeded, and which
she was legally bound to execute, the inferior right had to yield,
even to extermination. It is not for the courts to say that the
individual has suffered and therefore should be reimbursed or
compensated. If he has been, under a mistaken idea of his
rights, put to labor and expense and hope, he has a remedy by
application to the bounty of a government which will, it is
opined, do him justice. But no wrong has been done him. Ie
has enjoyed these lands and their profits without money and
without price. They were the common property of the whole
people. The accident of adjacent ownership gave him the license and the privilege; for, in the last instance, it was a privilege. South Ca'olina v. Geogia, 93 U. S. 1; &1canton v.
Wheelerz, 179 U. S. 141; Ifebber v. Pere .lMarquette Boom, Co.,
62 M1fichigan, 626, and cases there cited.
It is equally well settled in that State that the rights of the
riparian owner are subject to the public easement or servitude
of navigation. Lorynan v. Benson, 8 Michigan, 18, 32; Ryan
v. Brown, 18 Michigan, 196, 207. So that whether the title to
the submerged lands of navigable waters is in the State or in the

UNITED STATES v. LYNATI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

riparian owners, it was acquired subject to the rights which the
public have in the navigation of such waters. The primary use
of the waters and the lands under them is for purposes of navigation, and the erection of piers in them to improve navigation
for the public is entirely consistent with such use, and infringes
no right of the riparian owner. Whatever the nature of the
interest of a riparian owner in the submerged lands in front of
his upland bordering on a public navigable water, his title is not
as full and complete as his title to fast land which has no direct
connection with the navigation of such water. It is a qualified
title, a bare technical title, not at his absolute disposal, as is his
upland, but to be held at all times subordinate to such use of
the submerged lands and of the waters flowing over them as
may be consistent with or demanded by the public right of navigation.
In our opinion, it was not intended that the paramount authority of Congress to improve the navigation of the public
navigable waters of the United States to meet the demands of
international and interstate commerce should be crippled by compelling the government to make compensation for the injury to a
riparian owner's right of access to navigability that might incidentally result from an improvement ordered by Congress. The
subject with which Congress dealt was navigation. That which
was sought to be accomplished was simply to improve navigation on the waters in question so as to meet the wants of the
vast commerce passing and to pass over them. Consequently
the agents designated to perform the work ordered or authorized
by Congress had the right to proceed in all proper ways without
taking into account the injury that might possibly or indirectly
result from such work to the right of access by riparian owners
to navigability. To conclude: The plaintiff in error claims
that, conceding the interest and property which the defendants
in error had in these lands, there was not in them a title to
"such kind of property as was susceptible of pecuniary compensation, within the meaning of the Constitution." What the
government took, and takes under similar circumstances, was
the public property. It is not going too far, maybe, to assert
that no private property is taken at all. The private property

OCTOBER TERMI, 102.
Argument for Plaintiff in Errot.

under the grant is eclipsed when the necessity for public use ig
properly determined. How could there be a settlement of the
value of the private property? By what rule could the measure
of damage and injury be arrived at? All the land on all the
coasts and tide waters of the country might be affected by the
exercise of this necessary and sovereign and paramount power
-paramount against States and individuals in exactly the same
degree. And it is not extravagant to say that the power might
be dangerously hurt and imperiled if it was subject to doubt or
cavil or diminution.
In the supplemental and reply briefs additional authorities
were cited. On the question of jurisdiction, Keener on QuasiContracts, pp. 159 et seg.; Nrational Trust Co. v. Gleason, 77
N. Y. 400; United States v. Great Falls 3fg. Co., 112 U. S.
657; Great Falls Afg. Co. v. Attorney General, 124 U. S. 597.
As to liability of United States, Sh7ively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1,
and authorities reviewed ; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371;
cases cited in Hoboken v. Penn. R. R. Co., 124 U. S. 668;
People v. Nf. Y. & S. 1. Ferry Co., 68 N. Y. 71; Lloyd v.
Rough, 1 How. 153 ; .Langford v. UnitedStates, 101 U. S. 3-41 ;
luill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593; Schillinger v. Uhnited
States, 155 U. S. 163. The soil under navigable waters being
held by the people of the State in trust for the common use,
and as a portion of their inherent sovereignty, any act of legislation concerning their use affects the public welfare. ill. Cent.
R2. 1. Co. v. illinois, 146 U. S. 459; .McCready v. lirginia,
94 U. S. 391; Pollardv. Jlagan, 3 How. 212; Boston v. Lecraw, 17 How. 426, Commonwealth v. Charlestown, 1 Pickering,
180; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cushing 53, 78; 22undle v.
Del. & RZaritan Canal Co., 14 How. 186; Phear on Waters, 52,
53.
While it is true that these lands have been reclaimed, yet
they have been only temporarily relieved from the action of the
ordinary tides; their relation to the Savannah River was only
interrupted-not destroyed. Davidson v. Boston & -Maine ?.
1?. Co., 3 Cush. 91, 105.
These cases cannot be brought within the Pump)elly case
which was a suit in trespass, as was also Eaton v. Boston &c. R.

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

R. Co., 51 N. FT. 501; and there cases are also different from
United States v. ilfonongahela, Aav. Co., 148 U. S. 312, and
Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay cc. Co., 142 U. S.
254.
Ml,. J. P. Kennedy Bryan for defendant in error in No. 45.
-Mr.,Julian .Mitchell, Jr., with whom Mr. Julian 3/itelieli alld
jfr. h7enry A. _2L Smith were on the brief for defendants in
error in No. 59.
The cause of action accrued within six years. Saulet v. Shepherd, 4 Wall. 507; Steel v. Bryant, 49 Iowa, 116; 19 Am. &
Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed. 195, and cases cited ; Aendall v.
United States, 107 U. S. 125 ; ligh Br'idye Lumber Co. v.
United States, 69 Fed. Rep. 3123.
There has been an actual taking of the property. The principle that a permanent flooding was " a taking" thereof as established in Pumrj)ely v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 117, has never
been modified. l]Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 667; Gibson v.
United States, 166 tT. S. 275; Meyer v. Richmond, 172 U. S.
96 ; Scran ton v. Thteeler, 179 U. S. 154; UnitedStates v. Alexander, 148 U. S. 187; Transp)ortation Co. v. Ohicago, 99 U. S.
635. The Fifth Amendment should be construed liberally. 1
Blackstone's Com. 139; Sinnickson.v. Johnson, 17 N. J. L. 129;
Eaton v. Boston &c. R. R. Co., 51 N. H. 504.
The ownership of the defendants in error was not always subservient to the right of the government to flood the same for the
benefit of navigation. The facts found show that they were the
owners in fee simple and that a portion of the lands lie between
high and low water mark. Under the rule in South Carolina the
ownership extends to low water mark. State v. -PacificGuano
Co., 22 S. C. 50; 24 S.C. 598 ; State v. Pinckney, 22 S.C. 492;
Heyward v. Farmers _llining Co., 42 S. C. 138; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 13, 26 ; Lowndes v. Boawrd &c., 153 U. S.
18 ; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 IT. S.371.
The power conferred by the States on Congress by the adoption of the Constitution giving to Congress the control of cominerce, and of navigation in furtherance thereof, is limited by
the Fifth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

The national government possesses no greater power over
commerce than that possessed by each individual State, and
which was ceded by the terms of the Constitution to the general
government. The State of South Carolina could not take these
lands nor can the United States take them without compensation. XJonongahela
h
rav. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 341.
There was an implied contract on the part of the government
to compensate for the taling. Cases cited spi'a, and ]faukauna WVater Co. v. Green Bay &c. Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254;
Uvited States v. Gi-eat TFalls J'fg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; Kohl v.
UitedStates,91 U. S. 367; Parsons on Contracts, vol. 1, 5; 15
Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law. 1078; Cooleyon Torts, 109; 2 Austin,
Jurisprudence, 5th ed. 912; 2 fHarvard Law Review, History
of Assumpsit, 64 ; Gilliam v. United States, 8 Wall. 274 ; Langford v. United States, 101 U. S. 345.
.MR. JusrIcE BEEWiER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

There are three principal questions in this case: First, did the
Circuit Court have jurisdiction; second, was there a taldng of
the land within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment; and,
third, if there was a taking, was the government subject to the
obligation of making compensation therefor ?
Did the Circuit Court have jurisdiction? It may be premised
that this question was not raised in the Circuit Court, nor was
it presented to this court on the first argmnent but only upon,
the reargument. This omission on the part of the learned counsel for the government is certainly suggestive. Nevertheless as
the question, now for the first time presented, is one of jurisdiction it must be considered and determined. To sustain the
challenge of jurisdiction it is insisted by the government that
there was no implied contract, but shply tortious acts on the
part of its officers, and lHill v. United &ates, 149 U. S. 593, and
Schillingerv. United States, 155 U. S. 163, are relied upon. Let
us see what those cases were and what they decided. In the
former the plaintiff sued to recover from the United States for
the use and occupation of land for a lighthouse. The land upon
which the lighthouse was built was submerged land in Chesa-

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

peake Bay. The government pleaded that it had a paramount
right to the use of the land, and that plea was demurred to. It
was held that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, and in the
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Gray it was said, after referring to several cases (pp. 598-9):
"In Lan(ford v. Uvited States, it was accordingly adjudged
that, when an officer of the United States took and held possession of land of a private citizen, under a claim that it belonged
to the government, the United States could not be charged upon
an implied obligation to pay for its use and occupation.
"It has since been held that if the United States appropriate
to a public use land which they admit to be private property,
they may be held, as upon an implied contract, to pay its value
to the owner. United Sttes v. Great ]ialls lfan ftetring Ownpany, 112 U. S. 645, and 124 U. S. 581. It has likewise been
held that the United States may be sued in the Court of Claims
for the use of a patent for an invention, the plaintiff's right in
which they have acknowledged. Hollister v. Benedict _Manu.fact tring Copany, 113 U. S. 59; [Tnited States v. Palmer,
128 U. S. 262. But in each of these cases the title of the plaintiff was admitted, and in none of them was any doubt thrown
upon the correctness of the decision in Lan gford's case. See
Seltillinger v. United States, 24 C. Cl. 278.
"The case at bar is governed by _Lanvford's case. It was not
alleged in this petition, nor admitted in the plea, that the United
States had ever in any way acknowledged any right of property
in the plaintiff as against the. United States. The plaintiff asserted a title in the land in question, with the exclusive right of
building thereon, and claimed damages of the United States for
the use and occupation of the land for a lighthouse. The United
States positively and precisely pleaded that the land was submerged under the waters of Chesapeake Bay, one of the navigable waters of the United States, and that the United States,
' under the law, for the purpose of a lighthouse, has a paramount
right to its use as against the plaintiff or any other person;' and
the plaintiff demurred to this plea."
In the other case it appeared that the architect of the Capitol
contracted with G. W. Cook for the laying of pavement in the

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

Capitol grounds. The contractor in laying the pavement infringed, as petitioners claimed, upon rights granted to them by
patent. Thereafter this suit was brought, not against the party
guilty of the alleged infringement, but against the United States
which had accepted the pavement in the construction of which,
as petitioners claimed, the contractor had infringed upon their
rights. In the opinion it was said (p. 170):
"Here the claimants never authorized the use of the patent
right by the government; never consented to, but always protested against it, threatening to interfere by injunction or other
proceedings to restrain such use. There was no act of Congress
in terms directing, or even by implication suggesting, the use of
the patent. No officer of the government directed its use,
and the contract which was executed by Cook did not name or
describe it. There was no recognition by the govermuent or
any of its officers of the fact that in the construction of the
pavement there was any use of the patent, or that any appropriation was being made of claimant's property. The government proceeded as though it were acting only in the management of its own property and the exercise of its own rights,
and without any trespass upon the rights of the claimants.
There was no point in the whole transaction from its commencement to its close where the minds of the parties met or where
there was anything in the semblance of an agreement. So not
only does the petition count upon a tort, but also the findings
show a tort. That is the essential fact underlying the transaction and upon which rests every pretence of a right to recover.
There was no suggestion of a waiver of the tort or a pretence
of any implied contract until after the decision of the Court of
Claims that it had no jurisdiction over an action to recover for
the tort."
How different is the case at bar! The government did not
deny the title of the plaintiffs. It averred in the answer simply
that it had "no knowledge or information sufficient to form a
belief," but did not couple such averment with any denial, nor
did it pretend that it owned the property or had a paramount
proprietary right to its possession. It did not put in issue the
question of title, but rested upon a denial that the acts its offi-

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

cers had done by its direction had overflowed the land and
wrought the injury as alleged, or that such overflow and injury
created an implied contract, and also upon the bar of the statute of limitations. Nowhere in the record (lid it set up any title
to the property antagonistic to that claimed by the plaintiffs.
It simply denied responsibility for what it had caused to be done,
and pleaded that if it had ever been liable, the statute of limitations had worked a bar. No officer of the government, as in
the Lan.gfordcase, claimed that the property found by the court
to be the property of the plaintiffs, belonged to the government.
While there was no formal admission of record that the land
belonged to the plaintiffs, the case was tried alone upon the theory that the government could not be held responsible for what
it had done. It did not repudiate the actions of its officers
and agents, but on the contrary in terms admitted that they
acted by authority of Congress, and that all that they did was
lawfully done. So that if the overflow and destruction of this
property was, as we shall presently inquire, a taking and appropriation within the scope of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, the jurisdictional question now presented is whether
such appropriation directed by Congress created an implied contract on the part of the government to pay for the value of the
property so appropriated. Let us see what this court has decided. In United States v. Great Falls Manffacturing Com)avy,112 U. S. 645, Congress having made an appropriation
therefor, a dam Was constructed across the Potomac with the
view of supplying the city of Washington with water. In the
construction of such dam certain lands belonging to the plaintiff were taken, although such lands were not by the act of Congress specifically ordered to be taken. The property so taken
not having been paid for, plaintiff brought this action in the
Court of Claims to recover the value thereof, and it was held
that the action might be maintained, and in the opinion it was
said (p.656):
"It seems clear that these property rights have been held and
used by the agents of the United States, under the sanction of
legislative enactments by Congress; for, the appropriation of
money specifically for the construction of the dam from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

Maryland shore to Conn's Island was, all the circumstances considered, equivalent to an express direction by the legislative and
executive branches of the government to its officers to take this
particular property for the public objects contemplated by the
scheme for supplying the capital of the nation with wholesome
water. The making of the improvements necessarily involves
the taking of the property; and if, for the want of formal proceedings for its condemnation to public use, the claimant was
entitled, at the beginning of the work, to have the agents of the
government enjoined from prosecuting it umtil provision was
made for securing, in some way, payment of the compensation
required by the Constitution-upon which question we express
no opinion-there is no sound reason why the clahnant might
not waive that right, and, electing to regard the action of the
government as a taking under its sovereign right of eminent
domain, demand just compensation. .Kohl v. United States, 91
U. S. 367, 374. In that view we are of opinion that the United
States, having by its agents, proceeding under the authority of
an act of Congress, taken the property of the claimant for public use, are under an obligation, imposed by the Constitution, to
make compensation. The law will imply a promise to make
the required compensation, where property to which the government asserts no title, is taken, pursuant to an act of Congress,
as private property to be applied for public uses. Such an implication being consistent with the constitutional duty of the
government, as well as with common justice, the claimant's cause
of action is one that arises out of implied contract, within the
meaning of the statute which confers jurisdiction upon the Court
of Claims of actions founded 'upon any contract, express or implied, with the government of the United States.'"
In Great Falls XJfanufacturing Company v. [Te Attorney
General, 124 U. S. 581, an action, which, like the preceding,
grew out of provisions made by Congress to supply water to
the city of Washington, and in which the relief sought was the
removal of all structures on the premises, or if it should appear
that the property had been legally condemned, the framing of
an issue, triable by jury, to ascertain the plaintiff's damages, and
judgment for the amount thereof, it was said, referring to the

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

contention that there were certain defects in the proceedings
taken by the government (p. 597):
"Even if the Secretary's survey and map, and the publication of the Attorney General's notice did not, in strict law,
justify the former in taking possession of the land and water
rights in question, it was competent for the company to waive
the tort, and proceed against the United States, as upon an implied contract, it appearing, as it does here, that the government recognizes and retains the possession taken in its behalf
for the public purposes indicated in the act under which its officers have proceeded."
In Iiollister v.Benedict X!anufacturing Comtpany, 113 U. S.
59, an action by the assignees of a patent against a United
States collector for infringement, the law is thus stated (p. 67):
"If the right of the patentee was acknowledged, and, without his consent, an officer of the government, acting under
legislative authority, made use of the invention in the discharge
of his official duties, it would seem to be a clear case of the exercise of the right of eminent domain, upon which the law
would imply a promise of compensation, an action on which
would lie within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, such
as was entertained and sanctioned in the case of The United
States v. The Great Falls .3faniufacturing Company, 112 U. S.
645."
In United States v. Palmer, 128 U. S.262, an action in the
Court of Claims by a patentee against the government to recover upon an implied contract for the use of the patented invention, it appeared that the petitioner was the patentee of cer-tain improvements in infantry equipments which were adopted
by the Secretary of War as a part of the equipment of the infantry soldiers of the United States, and, sustaining the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, it was said (p. 269):
"No tort was committed or claimed to have been committed.
The government used the claimant's improvements with his
consent; and, certainly, with the expectation on his part of
receiving a reasonable compensation for the license. This is
not a claim for an infringement, but a claim of compensation
for an authorized use-two things totally distinct in the law, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

distinct as trespass on lands is from use and occupation under a
lease."
In United States v. Berdan i'e-Arms Comnpany, 156 U. S.
552, a judgment of the Court of Claims against the United
States on an implied contract for the use of an improvement in
breechloading firearms was sustained, although there was no
act of Congress expressly directing the use of such improvement.
In the opinion it was said (p. 567):
"While the findings are not so specific and emphatic as to
the assent of the government to the terms of any contract, yet
we think they are sufficient. There was certainly no denial of
the patentee's rights to the invention ; no assertion on the part
of the government that the patent was wrongfully issued; no
claim of a right to use the invention regardless of the patent;
no disregard of all claims of the patentee, and no use, in spite
of protest or remonstrance. Negatively, at least, the findings
are clear. The government used the invention with the consent
and express permission of the owner, and it did not, while so
using it repudiate the title of such owner."
And then, after quoting from several of the findings, it was
added (p. 569):
"The import of these findings is this: That the officers of the
government, charged specially with the duty of superin tending
the manufacture of muskets, regarded Derdan as the inventor
of this extractor-ejector; that the difference between the spiral
and flat spring was an immaterial difference; that., therefore,
they were using in the Springfield musket Berdan's invention
that they used it with his permission as well as that of his assignee, the petitioner, and that they used it with the understanding that the government would pay for such use as for other"
private property which it might take, and this, although they
did not believe themselves to have the authority to agree upon
the price."
The rule deducible from these cases is that when the government appropriates property which it does not claim as its own
it does so under an implied contract that it will pay the value
of the property it so appropriates. It is earnestly contended in
argument that the government had a right to appropriate this

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

property. This may be conceded, but there is a vast difference
between a proprietary and a governmental right. When the
government owns property, or claims to own it, it deals with it
as owner and by virtue of its ownership, and if an officer of the
government takes possession of property under the claim that
it belongs to the government (when in fact it does not) that may
well be considered a tortious act on his part, for there can be
no implication of an intent on the part of the government to
pay for that which it claims to own. Very different from this
proprietary right of the government in respect to property
which it owns is its governmental right to appropriate the property of individuals. All private property is held subject to the
necessities of government. The right of eminent domain underlies all such rights of property. The government may take
personal or real property whenever its necessities or the exigencies of the occasion demand. So the contention that the
government had a paramount right to appropriate this property
may be conceded, but the Constitution in the Fifth Amendment
guarantees that when this governmental right of appropriation-this asserted paramount right-is exercised it shall be attended by compensation.
The government may take real estate for a post office, a court
house. a fortification or a highvay; or in time of war it may
take merchant vessels and make them part of its naval force.
But can this be done without an obligation to pay for the value
of that which is so taken and appropriated? Whenever in the
exercise of its governmental rights it takes property, the ownership of which it concedes to be in an individual, it impliedly
promises to pay therefor. Such is the import of the cases cited
as well as of many others.
The action which was taken, resulting in the overflow and
injury to these plaintiffs, is not to be regarded as the personal
act of the officers but as the act of the government. That which
the officers did is admitted by the answer to have been done by
authority of the government, and although there may have been
no specific act of Congress directing the appropriation of this
property of the plaintiffs, yet if that which the officers of the
government did, acting under its direction, resulted in an apVOL. cLxxxviii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

propriation it is to be treated as the act of the government.
South Caolikav. Georgia,93 U. S. 4, 13 ; Wisconsin v. Duluih,
96 U. S. 379 ; Uited States v. Great Falls.MamafacturingComnPany, suyra.
Congress for many successive terms appropriated money for
the improvement of the Savannah River. 21 Stat. 470, 480 ;
22 Stat. 194, 200; 23 Stat. 140 ; 2-4 Stat. 321, 331; 25 Stat. 413;
26 Stat. 442; 27 Stat. 101; 2S Stat. 351. These appropriations were in the river and harbor bills, and were generally of
so much money for improving the river, but some deserve special mention. Thus, in 21 Stat. 470, it was provided that "one
thousand dollars may be applied to payment of damages for
land taken for widening the channel opposite Savannah." In
24 Stat. 331, the Secretary of War was directed to cause a
survey to be made of the "Savannah River from cross tides
above Savannah to the bar, with a view to obtaining twentyeight feet of water in the channel." The appropriation in 25
Stat. 413 was for the improvement of the river, "completing
the present project and commencing the extended project contained in the report of Engineer for year ending June 30, 1887."
And by the same statute, 431, among the matters referred to
the Secretary of War for survey and examination was" whether
the damage to the Vernezobie Freshet Bank in 1887 was caused
by the work at cross tides, and whether the maintenance of said
bank is essential to the success of the work at cross tides, and
what will be the cost of so constructing said bank as to confine
the water of said river to its bed." The report of the engineers
for the year 1887, referred to in the section above quoted, shows
that part of the work which was being done by the government
was in the construction of training walls, and wing dams, by
which the width of the waterway was reduced.
Further, the same year, 25 Stat. 94, an act was passed, entitled "An act to facilitate the prosecution of works projected
for the improvement of rivers and harbors," which authorized
the Secretary of War to commence proceedings "for the acquirement by condemnation of any land, right of way, or material needed to enable him to maintain, operate or prosecute
works for the improvement of rivers and harbors for which pro-

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

vision has been made by law;
_Povided, however,
That when the owner of such land, right of way, or material
shall fix a price for the same, which in the opinion of the Secretary of War, shall be reasonable, he may purchase the same at
such price without further delay."
Thus, beyond the effect of the admission in the answer, and
beyond the presumption of knowledge which attends the action
of all legislative bodies, it affirmatively appears not only that
Congress was making appropriations from year to year for the
improvement of the river, but also that it had express notice of
damage to the banks along this very plantation; that the works
which were being done by the engineers had in view the narrowing of the width of the waterway; that land would be damaged as the result of those works, and that it authorized the
Secretary of War to take proceedings in eminent domain to acquire the land, right of way and material which might be necessary for maintaining, operating or prosecuting works of river
improvement, or, if the price could be agreed upon, to purchase
the same.
This brings the case directly within the scope of the decision
in United States v. Great FallsManufacturing Compainy, supra,
where, as here, there was no direction to take the particular
property, but a direction to do that which resulted in a taking,
anl it was held that the owner might waive the rioht to insist
on condemnation proceedings and sue to recover the value.
It does not appear that the plaintiffs took any action to stop
the work done by the government, or protested against it. Their
inaction and silence amount to an acquiescence-an assent to
the appropriation by the government. In this respect the case
is not dissimilar to that of a landowner who, knowing that a
railroad company has entered upon his land and is engaged in
constructing its road without having complied with the statute
in respect to condemnation, is estopped from thereafter maintaining either trespass or ejectment, but is limited to a recovery
of compensation. Roberts v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 158
U. S. 1, 11; Northern.Pacific Railroad v. Smnith, 171 U. S. 260,
and cases cited in the opinion.
The case, therefore, amounts to this: The plaintiffs alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

that they were the owners of certain real estate bordering on
the Savannah River; that the government, in the exercise of
its powers of eminent domain and regulation of commerce,
through officers and agents duly empowered thereto by acts of
Congress, placed dams, training walls and other obstructions
in the river in such manner as to hinder its natural flow and to
raise its waters so as to overflow the land of plaintiffs, and overflow it to such an extent as to cause a total destruction of its
value. The government, not denying the ownership of plaintiffs, admitted that the work which was done by their officers
and agents was done by authority of Congress, but denied that
those works had produced the alleged injury and destruction.
We are of opinion that under these pleadings and the issues
raised thereby the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to inquire
whether the acts done by the officers of the United States under the direction of Congress had resulted in such an overflow
and injury of the plaintiff's land as to render it absolutely valueless, and if thereby the property was, in contemplation of
law, taken and appropriated by the government, to render judgment against it for the value of the property so taken and appropriated.
Was there a taking ? There was no proceeding in condemnation instituted by the government; no attempt in terms to
take and appropriate the title. There was no adjudication that
the fee had passed from the landowner to the government, and
if either of these be an essential element in the taking of lands,
within the scope of the Fifth Amendment, there was no taking.
Some question is made as to the meaning of the findings. It
appears from the fifth finding, as amended, that a large portion
of the land flooded was in its natural condition between highwater mark and low water mark, and was subject to overflow
as the water passed from one stage to the other ; that this natural overflow was stopped by an embankment, and in lieu
thereof, by means of flood gates, the land was flooded and
drained at the will of the owner. From this it is contended
that the only result of the raising of the level of the river by
the government works was to take away the possibility of drainage. But findings nine and ten show that, both by seepage and

UNITED STATES V. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

percolation through the embankment, and an actual flowing
upon the plantation above the obstruction, the water has been
raised in the plantation about eighteen inches, that it is impossible to remove this overflow of water, and, as a consequence,
the property has become an irreclaimable bog, unfit for the
purpose of rice culture or any other known agriculture, and deprived of all value. It is clear from these findings that what
was a valuable rice plantation has been permanently flooded,
wholly destroyed in value, and turned into an irreclaimable
boo-; and this as the necessary result of the work which the
government has undertaken. Does this amount to a taking?
The case of Putoj)elly v. Green Bay Company, 13 Wall. 166,
answers this question in the affirmative. And on the argument
it was conceded by the learned counsel for the government (and
properly conceded in view of the findings) that so far as respects
the mere matter of overflow and injury there was no substantial
distinction between the two cases. In that case the Green Bay
Company, as authorized by statute, constructed a dam across
Fox River, by means of which the land of Pumpelly was overflowed and rendered practically useless to him. There, as here,
no proceedings had been taken to formally condemn the land.
Referring to this it was said (p. 177):
"The argument of the defendant is that there is no taking of
the land within the meaning of the constitutional provision, and
that the damage is a consequential result of such use of a navigable stream as the government had a right to for the improvement of its navigation.
"It would be a very curious and unsatisfactory result, if in
construing a provision of constitutional law, always understood
to have been adopted for protection and security to the rights
of the individual as against the government, and which has received the commendation of jurists, statesmen, and commentators as placing the just principles of the conunon law on that
subject beyond the power of ordinary legislation to change or
control them, it shall be held that if the government refrains
from the absolute conversion of real property to the uses of the
public it can destroy its value entirely, can inflict irreparable
and permanent injury to any extent, can, in effect, subject it to

OCTOBER TEIRM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

total destruction without making any compensation, because, in
the narrowest sense of that word, it is not taken for the public
use. Such a construction would pervert the constitutional provision into a restriction upon the rights of the citizen, as those

rights stood at the common law, instead of the government, and
make it an authority for invasion of private right under the
pretext of the public good, which had no warrant in the laws or
practices of our ancestors."
Reference was also made to the case of Siniekcson v. Johnson, 2 Harr. (17 N. J. Law) 129, in respect to which it was said:
"The case is mainly valuable here as showing that overflowing
land by backing the water on it was considered as 'taking' it
within the meaning of the principle." Again, on page 179, it,
was said: "But there are nmnerous authorities to sustain the
doctrine that a serious interruption to the common and necessary use of property may be, in the language of Mr. Angell, in
his work on Water Courses, equivalent to the taking of it., and
that under the constitutional provisions it is not necessary that
the land should be absolutely taken." And in a foot-note the
following authorities were cited: Angell on Water Courses,
sec. 465a; Hfooker v. iYew ffaven &53Yorthampton Co., 14 Connecticut, 146; Rowe v. Granite Bridge Coqoratiov, 21 Pick.
344; Canal Appraisersv. The People, 17 Wend. 571, 604; Zacklandv. Xorth fissouzri Railroad Co., 31 Missouri, 180; stee,en
v. Proprietorsof .Jliddlesex Canal, 12 Massachusetts, 466.
It is clear from these authorities that where the government
floods
by the construction of a dam or other public works sodestroy
lands belonging to an individual as to substantially
their vahle there is a taking within the scope of the Fifth
Amendment. While the government does not directly proceed
to appropriate the title, yet it takes away the use and value;
when that is done it is of little consequence in whom the fee
may be vested. Of course, it results from this that the proceeding must be regarded as an actual appropriation of the
land, including the possession, the right of possession and the
fee; and when the amount awarded as compensation is paid
the title, the fee, with whatever rights may attach theretoin this case those at least which belong to a riparian proprie-

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

tor-pass to the government and it becomes henceforth the full
owner.
Passing to the third question, it is contended that what was
done by the government was done in improving the navigability of a navigable river, that it is given by the Constitution
full control over such improvements, and that if in doing any
work therefor injury results to riparian proprietors or others
it is an injury which is purely consequential, and for which the
government is not liable. But if any one proposition can be
considered as settled by the decisions of this court it is that,
although in the discharge of its duties the government may
appropriate property, it cannot do so without being liable to
the obligation cast by the Fifth Amendment of paying just
compensation.
In .Xonongaliela Navigation Comypany v. Chnited States,
148 U. S. 312, 336, it was said:
"But like the other powers granted to Congress by the Constitution, the power to regulate commerce is subject to all the
limitations imposed by such instrument, and among them is
that of the Fifth Amendment we have heretofore quoted.
Congress has supreme control over the regulation of commerce, but if, in exercising that supreme control, it deems it
necessary to take private property, then it must proceed subject to the limitations imposed by this Fifth Amendment, and
can take only on payment of just compensation."
In that case Congress had passed an act for condemning
what was known as "the upper lock and dam of the Mlonongahela Navigation Company," and provided "that in estimating
the sum to be paid by the United States, the franchise of said
corporation to collect tolls should not be considered or estimated," but we held that this proviso was beyond the power of
Congress; that it could not appropriate the property of the
navigation company without paying its full value, and that a
part of that value consisted in the franchise to take tolls. So
in the recent case of Scranton v. lVheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 153,
we repeated the proposition in these words:
"Undoubtedly compensation must be made or secured to the
owner when that which is done is to be regarded as a taking

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

of private property for public use within the meaning of the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution; and of course in its
exercise of the power to regulate commerce, Congress may not
override the provision that just compensation must be made
when private property is taken for public use."
It is true that a majority of the court held, in that case, that
the destruction of access to land abutting on a navigable river
-bythe construction by Congress of a pier on the submerged
lands in front of the upland, was not a taking of private property for public uses, but only an instance of consequential injury
to the property of the riparian owner. But the right of compensation in case of a taking was conceded. There have been
many cases in which a distinction has been drawn between the
taking of property for public uses and a consequential injury
to such property, by reason of some public work. In the one
class the law implies a contract, a promise to pay for the property taken, which, if the taking was by the general government, will uphold an action in the Court of Claims; while in
the other class there is simply a tortious act doing injury, over
which the Court of Claims has no jurisdiction. Thus, in T.anportation; Comany v. CMcago, 99 U. S. 635, the city, duly
authorized by statute, constructed a tunnel along the line of
La Salle street and under the Chicago River. The company
claimed that it was deprived of access to its premises by and
during the construction. This deprivation was not permanent,
but continued only during the time necessary to complete the
tunnel, and it was held that there was no taking of the property,
but only an injury, and that a temporary injury thereto. In
the course of the opinion, after referring to the Pitwp)elly case,
sulpra, and Eaton v. Boston, Con cord & lfontreal Railroad
Company, 51 N. 1-. 504, we said (p. 642):
"In those cases, it was held that permanent flooding of private property may be regarded as a 'taking.' In those cases
there was physical invasion of real estate of the private owner,
and a practical ouster of his possession. But in the present
case there was no such invasion. No entry was made upon the
plaintiff's lot. All that was done was to render for a time its
use more inconvenient."

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
Opinion of the Court.

Chicago v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161, while recognizing and reaffirming the rule there laid down, was decided upon the
grround that a new rule was established by the Illinois constitution of 1870, which provided that "private property shall
not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation." Montanga Conpany v. St. Louis 3fining &c. Cornpany,
152 U. S. 160, held that a mere order for inspection of mining
property was not a taking thereof, because all that was done
was a temporary and limited interruption of the exclusive use.
Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, decided that, where by
the construction of a dyke by the United States in the improvement of the Ohio River the plaintiff, a riparian owner, was
through the greater part of the gardening season deprived of
the use of her landing for the shipment of products from and
supplies to her farm, whereby the value of her farm was reduced
$150 to $200 per acre, there was no taking of the propierty, but
only a consequential injury. See also iar'chantv. Pennsylvania Railroad, 153 U. S.380; iXfeyer v. Richmond, 172 U. S.
82. In this connection Xfills v. United States, 46 Fed. Rep.
738, decided in the District Court for the Southern District of
Georgia, is worthy of notice by reason of its similarity in many
respects and its clearly marked distinction in an essential matter. It was an action for injuries to a rice plantation on the
banks of the Savannah River resulting from works done by the
United States in improving the navigability of that river, apparently the very improvement made by the government in the
present case. The condition of the claimant's rice plantation
prior to the improvement was substantially that of these plaintiffs' property, and the lands were drained by opening the gates
when the river was at low water mark. The complaint was
that the erection by the government of what was called the
"cross tides dam," running from the upper end of Hutchinson's
Island to the lower end of Argyle Island, cut off all the flow
of water from the stream connecting the front and back rivers,
raised both the high and low water levels in the front river,
and not only destroyed the facilities for draining these lands
into the front river, but rendered it necessary to raise the levees
around the rice fields, to prevent flooding the fields at high

OCTOBER TERMr, 1902.
JUSTIcE BROIWV,

concurring.

water. This, it was alleged, unfitted the lands for rice culture
and made it necessary that new drainage into back river be
provided where the water levels were suitable. Obviously,
there was no taking of the plaintiff's lands, but simply an injury
which could be remedied at an expense as alleged of ,10,000,
and the action was one to recover the amount of this consequential injury. The court rightfully held that it could not be
sustained. Here there is no finding, no suggestion, that by any
expense the flooding could be averted. We may, of course,
know that there is theoretically no limit to that which engineering skill may accomplish. We know that vast tracts have
in different parts of the world been reclaimed by levees and
other works, and so we may believe that this flooding may be
prevented, that some day all these submerged lands may be reclaimed. But as a practical matter, and for the purposes of
this case, we must under the findings regard the lands in con-

troversy as irreclaimable and their value wholly and finally destroyed.
Therefore, following the settled law of this court, we hold
that there has been a taking of the lands for public uses and
that the government is under am implied contract to make just
compensation therefor.
The judgment is

MR. JuscE

BRowN concurring.

I concur in the opinion of the court both with respect to its
jurisdiction and the merits of the case, but I am unable to assent to the ground upon which our jurisdiction is rested. While
I think the overflowing of the lands in controversy constitutes
a taking within the meang of the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution, I see no reason for holding that there was an implied contract to pay for them within the meaning of the
Tucker act. The taking appears to me an ordinary case of
trespass to real estate, containing no element whatever of contract. In such case there can be no waiver of the tort. Jones
v. I1cr, 5 Pick. 285 ; Smith v. Hatch, 46 N. 11. 146.

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
JUSTIoCE BROWN,

concurring.

But I think our jurisdiction may be supported, irrespective
of the question of contract or tort, under that clause of the
Tucker act which vests the Court of Claims with jurisdiction
of "all claims founded upon the Constitution of the United
States or any law of Congress."
As we had occasion to remark in Dooley v. United States, 182
U. S. 2212-224, the first section of the Tucker act evidently
contemplates four distinct classes of cases: (1) those founded
upon the Constitution or any law of Congress, with an exception of pension cases; (2) cases founded upon a regulation of an
Executive Department; (3) cases of contract, express or implied, with the government; (4) actions for damages, liquidated
or unliquidated, in cases not soundling in tort. The words "not
sounding in tort " are in terms referable only to the fourth
class of cases.
In my view, claims founded upon the Constitution may be
prosecuted in the Court of Claims, whether sounding in contract or in tort; and wherever the United States may take proceedings in eminent domain for the condemnation of lands for
public use, the owner of such lands may seek relief in the Court
of Claims if his lands be taken without such proceedings,
whether such taking be tortious or by virtue of some contract,
express or implied, to that effect. That the case under consideration is one of that class is made clear by the act of
April 24, 1888, 25 Stat. 94, which enacts "that the Secretary
of War may cause proceedings to be instituted, in the name of
the United States, in any court having jurisdiction of such proceedings, for the acquirement 1y condemnation of any land,
right of way, or material needed to enable hini to maintain,
operate or prosecute works for the improvement of rivers and
harbors for which provision has been made by law ; such proceedings to be prosecuted in accordance with the laws relating
to suits for the condemnation of property of the States wherein
the proceedings may be instituted."
I fully concur in the opinion of the court that "the government may take real estate for a post office, a court house, a fortification or highway, or in time of war it may take merchant
vessels and made them part of its naval force," but this cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICE BROWN,

concurring.

be "done without an obligation to pay for the value of that
which is so taken and appropriated." I am also of opinion that
whenever in the exercise of its governmental rights it takes
property, the ownership of which it concedes to be in an individual, it is bound to pay therefor, but I do not think that there
is any distinction between cases where the government impliedly
promises to pay by taking property with the assent of the
owner, and those where it takes property forcibly and against
the will of the owner. It does not seem reasonable to hold
that, where the invasion of the owner's right to property is the
greater, his remedy for the recovery of its value should be less,
and that he should be compelled to resort to the tedious and
unsatisfactory method of appealing to the bounty of Congress
for relief.
Suppose, for instance, in time of war and under threat of invasion it seizes upon vessels without the consent of the owner
and against his protest. There is certainly the same moral obligationi to pay for them as if they had been appropriated with
his consent, and I see no reason why an action for their value
may not be maintained in the Court of Claims. Yet, as I
understand the opinion of the court in this case, it holds indirectly, if not directly, that no such action would lie unless the
property were taken with the consent of the owner and under
an implied contract to pay for it. The consequences of recognizing such distinctions seem to me so serious that nothing short
of clear language in the statute will justify it.
None such is evdn hinted at in United Slates v. Russell, 13
Wall. 623, one of the earliest cases, wherein the owner of three
steamers seized under "imperative military necessity " sought
to recover compensation for their services. These steamers were
impressed into the public service and employed as transports
for carrying government freight for a certain length of time,
when they were returned to the owner. ie was held entitled
to recover, the court holding that" extraordinary and unforeseen
occasons arise, however, beyond all doubt, in cases of extreme
necessity, in time of war or of immediate and impending public
danger, in which private property may be impressed into the
public service, or may be seized and appropriated to the public

UNITED STATES ?. LYNAH.
JUSTICE BROWVN, concurring.

use, or may be even destroyed without the consent of the
owner." The case followed that of MAfitchiell v. ffarinony, 13
How.115, and was distinguished from that of Filor v. United
States, 9 Wall. 45.
While the cases reported prior to 131 U. S. are based upon
the original Court of Claims act, which limited the jurisdiction
of that court to "claims founded upon any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of an Executive Department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the government of the
United States," and are therefore not strictly pertinent under
Co., 112
Cafcwttring
the Tucker act, that of the Great Falls
U. S. 645, is almost exactly in point, and is strongly corroborative of the position here taken. This was a claim for land taken
at the Great Falls of the Potomac in the construction of an
aqueduct for bringing water to Washington. Proceedings were
taken in Maryland for condemnation, which were discontinued,
and the government took possession of the land. Whether
such possession was taken with or without the consent of the
owner does not appear, although there had been negotiations
between the parties. The claimant was held to be entitled to
recover upon the ground that the appropriation of the money
for the construction of the improvements was equivalent to an
express direction by Congress to take this particular property
for the objects conteml )lated by the scheme, and that there was
no sound reason why the claimant might not waive any right
he might have to an injunction, and elect to regard the action
as a taking by the government under its sovereign right of eminent domain, and therefore demand compensation. The case
was not put upon the ground that the owner had consented to
the taking.
In Lanvg/ord's case, 101 U. S. 341, the action was brought to
recover for the use and occupation of certain lands and buildings to which the claimant asserted title, which were seized for
the use of the government under claim that they were public
property. It was admitted that if the government takes property for public use, acknowledging its ownership to be private
or individual, there arises an implied obligation to pay the owner
it value; but that it was a different matter when the govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JusTIcE BROWN, concurring.

ment claimed the property as its own and recognized no superior title. This was also the case in Hiill v. United States,
149 U. S. 593, where the government erected a lighthouse upon
submerged land which it claimed as its own. The case was
held to be governed by that of Langford.
None of the more recent cases under the Tucker act conflicts
with the position here taken: That wherever the United States
may proceed to condemn property under its sovereign right of
eminent domain, the owner may maintain a petition in the
Court of Claims to recover its value, in case no such proceedings are taken. That act, 24 Stat. 505, first introduced among
the cognizable claims all such as were founded upon the Constitution of the United States, and also introduced, after the
words "for damages, liquidated or unliquidated," the words "in
cases not sounding in tort." Construing this statute, it was
held in the Jones case, 131 U. S. 1, that it did not confer jurisdiction in equity to compel the issue and delivery of a patent
for public land; and in Sclllinyeis case, 155 U. S. 163, that
the owner of a patent which had been infringed by the United
States could not recover damages for such infringement in the
Court of Claims, though it would be otherwise if the property
had been appropriated with the consent of the patentee and in
view of compensation therefor. Although there was in Sciillinger's case an appropriation of the right of a patentee to the
monopoly of his invention, the case was nothing more in its essence than the infringement of a patent, and so the action was
really one for damages sounding in tort. While it is possible
an individual might be able to condemn the patentee's right by
proceedings in eminent domain, that remedy would be at least
doubtful, when the government sought merely to appropriate
so much of it as was necessary for its own use. It would be
an unprecedented exercise of the right of eminent domain, and
could scarcely be held to be a claim arising under the Constitution. The case was not put upon the ground that it was such
a case, but that it was merely an action to recover damages for
infringement. Said the court: "It was plainly and solely an
action for infringement and one sounding in tort." The question
whether it was a claim arising under the Constitution was not

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
WHITE, J., FULLER, C. J.,

and HARLAN,

J.,

dissenting.

considered, except in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Harlan, who said: "The constitutional obligation cannot be evaded
by showing that the original appropriation was without the express direction of the government, nor by simply interposing a
denial of the title of the claimant to the property or property
rights alleged to have been appropriated." If there were any
doubt in that case of the power of the government to condemn
the right of the patentee by proceedings in eminent domain,
there is certainly none such in this case, where the land was
taken by the government with no pretence of consent by the
owner.
I think it is going too far to hold that the words of the
Tucker act, "not sounding in tort," must be referred back to
the first class of cases, namely, "those founded upon the Constitution," and that they should be limited to actions for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, and, hence, the consent of the
owner cuts no figure in this case. I freely admit that, if property were seized or taken by officers of the government without authority of law, or subsequent ratification, by taking
possession or occupying property for public use, there could be
no recovery, since neither the government nor any other principal is bound by the unauthorized acts of its agents. But in
endeavoring to raise an implied contract to pay for an ordinary
trespass to real estate I think the opinion of the court mnisconceives the true source of our jurisdiction.
and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAIN concurred in
far as it holds that the court had jurisso
in
opinion
the above
stated therein, as well as upon the
ground
the
diction on
of the court.
opinion
the
in
ground stated
MR.

MIR.
case.
M .

JUSTICE SnIRAS

JUSTICE MoKENNA

JUSTICE WHITE,

FULLER and

took no part in the decision of this

with whom concur MIR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

MR. JUsTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

The court now holds that it has jurisdiction, because as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
WHITn,

J., FULLER, C. J., and HEALvN, J., dissenting.

legal conclusion from the findings of fact it is held that the
property of the appellee has been taken for public use by the
United States, and the judgment below is airmed on the
merits for the same reason. As, in my opinion, the findings of
fact do not support the conclusion that the property has been
taken by the United States, I dissent both on the subject of
jurisdiction and on the merits.
The findings of fact are in most respects sufficiently reproduced in the opinion of the court, and need not here be set out
in full. It results from the findings that the land is situated
on the Savannah River; that it is between high and low water
mark, and naturally subject to be overflowed, but that it is
protected in some measure from overflow by an embankment,
and that through this embankment sluices or waterways were
placed, by means of which water was let in on the land for
irrigation in the cultivation of rice, and was dirawn off when
the land was required to be drained in order to carry on the
same culture. This was done by gates in the sluices, which
were opened to allow the water to flow through the waterways
to the inner side of the embankment and thus flood the land
when it was requisite to do so, and by opening the gates at
low tide to allow the water to flow off when it was required

to chain the land. As the exact situation of the waterways
through the embankment is important, I reproduce the statement on the subject contained in the findings:
"Through this embankment trnnks or waterways were constructed, with flood gates therein. The outer opening of the
trunk was about a foot or a little less above the mean low water
mark of the river, in which the tide ebbs and flows. When it,
is desired to flow the lands the flood gates are opened and tle
water comes in. When it is desired to draw off this water and
to effect the drainage of the lands, the flood gates are opened
at low water and the water escapes. It is essential that the,
outlets of the trunks or waterways should be above the mean
low watermark."
It is now decided that there has been a,taking of the property by the United States, because it is thought that the findings establish that the obstructions placed by the govermnent

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
WHITE,

J.,

FULLER, C.

J., and HARLAN, J., dissenting.

in the bed of the river at a point lower down the stream, than
is the plantation, for the purpose of improving the navigation
of the river, have so raised the water as to cause it to flow over
the embankment at the plantation and flood the same, thus
destroying its value. On this subject the court says: " Findings nine and ten show that, both by seepage and percolation
through the embankment, and an aetua jftwing u_pon tihelantation above the obstruction, the water has been raised in the
plantation about eighteen inches," etc. Whilst it is not disputable that the findings show a percolation through the embankment I can discover nothing in them supporting the conclusion that the obstructions placed by the government in the
bed of the river below the point where the plantation is situated
have caused the water in the river to go over the embankment
at the plantation and flood the land. On the contrary, to me
it seems that the findings necessitate the conclusion that the
permanent damage which the property has suffered arises
solely from the fact that the drainage of the plantation into
the river has been rendered impossible. And this because the
work done by the government has resulted in raising the mean
low tide about twelve to fifteen inches, so as to cause the water
in the river at mean low tide to be above the point of discharge
of the waterways, thus rendering drainage through them no
longer possible. There may be a wide legal difference arising
from damage consequent on an interference with the drainage
of property situated, as this is, by work done by the government in the improvement of navigation, and damage caused
by the actual flooding of such property resulting from such
work. To determine whether the findings show an actual flowing, or a mere injury to drainage, findings VIII, IX and X
need to be considered. Let us see whether they give support
to the claim of actual flooding by an overflow of the embankment at the plantation. Finding VIII says:
"VIII. In thus improving navigation of this navigable water
the United States has built and maintained and is now building and maintaining in and across the Savannah River, in the
bed thereof, certain dams, training walls and other obstructions,
obstructing the natural flow of said river in and along its natVOL. CLXXxvIII-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
WHITE, J., FULLER, C. J., and HARLAN, J., dissenting.

ural bed, and so raising the level of said river above said obstructions, and causing its waters to be kept back and to flow
back, and to be elevated above its natural height in its natural
bed."
Certainly there is nothing in this finding supporting the inference that the government work has caused the river to overflow the plantation embankment. Finding IX says:
"This rice plantation Vernezobre is above these obstructions.
The direct effect thereof is to raise the level of the Savannah
River at this plantation, and to keep the point of mean low
water above its natural point, so that the outlet of the trunks
and waterways above spoken of in the bank of said plantation,
instead of being above this point of low water mark, is now
below this point."
Here, then, is the statement that the effect resulting from
the government work was simply to raise the mean lov water
mark as previously existing, so as to cause it to cover the
waterways which were-as declared by the previous findinga little less than a foot above the former low water mark. The
finding continues:
"Another direct result was that by seepage and percolation
the water rose in the plantation until the water level in the
land gradually rose to the height of the increased water level
in the river, and the superinduced addition of water in the
plantation was about eighteen inches thereby. By reason of
this it gradually became difficult, and has now become impossible, to let off the water on this plantation, or to drain the
same, so that these acres dedicated to the culture of rice have
become boggy, unfit for cultivation, and impossible to be cultivated in rice."
This but declares that because the mean low stage of the
water had been raised by the government work so as to cause
it to be about eight inches above the mouth of the waterways
and to rest against the embankment about eighteen inches,
that percolation took place and the drainage was destroyed,
the result of the loss of drainage being to render the plantation
a bog and no longer suitable for the cultivation of rice. It is
submitted nothing in the findings hitherto referred to even in-

UNITE)
WHITE, J., FULLER,

STATES v,. LYNAH.
C. J., and

HARLAIX,

J., dissenting.

timate that the effect of the work of the government caused
the water to flow over the embankment and flood the plantation. On the contrary, the very opposite is the result of the
findings.
Let me next consider the tenth finding. It reads as follows:
"By the raising of the level of the Savannah River by these
dams and obstructions the water thereof has been backed up
against the embankment on the river and has been caused to
flow back upon and in this plantation above the obstruction,
and has actually invaded said plantation, directly raising the
water in said plantation about eighteen inches, which it is impossible to remove from said plantation."
Now, the flowing described here can only relate to the seepage and percolation referred to in the previous finding. The
words "above the obstructions" relate not to the embankment
on the plantation, but to the obstructions put in the bed of the
river by the government below the point where the plantation
is situated; and, therefore, what the finding means is that
above this obstruction the water is caused to flow back against,
not over the embankment, as described in the previous finding.
And this finding shows besides that it was the impossibility of
removing the water which percolated or was the result of rain
fall-in other words, the injury to the drainage-which was
the cause of the damage.
Thus eliminating all question of the flooding of the land by
the overflow of the embankment, the question for decision is
this: When a plantation or a portion thereof is situated on the
bank of a navigable river, below high water mark, and because
of such situation is dependent for its profitable operation upon
drainage into the river at mean low tide, does the United States
appropriate the property by the simple fact that in improving
the navigation of the river it raises the mean low tide slightly
above the height where it was wont theretofore to be, and by
reason of which the drainage of the land below high water
mark is destroyed. It seems to me to state this question is to
answer it in the negative. The owner of the land situated below high water mark acquired no easement or servitude in the
bed of the river by the construction of an embankment along

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
WnITE, J., FULLER,

C. J., and

HARLAN, J.,

dissenting.

the margin of his land at the river below high water, by which
he could forever exact that the level of the water within the
natural banks of the river couhl never be changed without his
consent, and thus deprive the United States of its control over
the improvement of navigable rivers conferred by the Constitution. If damage, by the loss of drainage, into the river at
mean low tide of land so situated was caused by the lawful exercise by the United States of its power to improve navigation
it was damnum absque injuria, and redress must be sought at
the hands of Congress and cannot be judicially afforded by a
ruling that a damage so resulting constitutes a taking of the
property by the United States and creates an implied contract
to pay the value of the property. Such a doctrine is directlyas I see it-in conflict with the decisions of this court in Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, and iScranton v. Whecler,
179 U. S. 141. The far-reaching consequence of the doctrine
now announced cannot be overestimated.
But even under the hypothesis that the government work
caused the land to be overflowed by raising the water above
the embankment, I do not conceive that there would be a taking, even in that case, of the property, for a remedy would be
easily afforded for any permanent injury to the land by raising
the embankment. The quantum of damages would thus not
be the value of the property, but the mere cost of increasing
the height of the embankment so as to prevent the water from
flowing over it. The fact then that a taking is now held to
exist, and therefore the United States is compelled to pay the
value of the entire property, submits the United States, in the
exercise of a power conferred upon it by the Constitution, to a
rule which no individual would be subjected to in a controversy
between private parties. Nor is this answered by the suggestion that there is a taking because the paying by the United
States of the sum of money necessary to raise the level of the
embankment so as to prevent the overflow would not compensate the owner, as the property would still be worthless because
of the want of drainage. To so suggest is but to admit that
the damage complained of results from the inability to drain
the land, which, for the reasons already pointed out does not
in my opinion constitute a taking.

UNITED STATES v. LYNAH.
WHITE,

J.,

FULLER,

C. J., and HARLAN, J., dissenting.

Indeed, the reasoning hitherto indicated as to the assumed
overflow of the embankment is equally apposite to the damage
by loss of drainage. For injury to the drainage the remedy
would be readily afforded by, if possible, draining the plantation elsewhere than into the river, or by resort to the pumping
appliances necessary to lift out the water accumulating from
rainfall or percolation. The cost of doing these things would
then be the measure of damages. That a resort to these simple
expedients is unavailing as to this particular property because
of its being situated below high water mark does not, I submit,
show that the government has taken the property for public
use, but simply establishes that the property is so situated that
it is subjected to a loss necessarily arising from the fact that it
is below high water mark and therefore absolutely dependent
for its drainage on the right of the owner to exact that the
mean low tide of the river should be forever unchanged. As
the right to so exact does not exist, the loss of drainage does
not constitute an appropriation of the property by the United
States, anl is but the result of the natural situation of the land.
If equities exist Congress is alone capable of providing for
them.

I am authorized to say that the CHIEF
TIOE HARLAN concur in this dissent.

JusTIcE

and MR. Jus-

No. 59. Error to the Circuit
UNITED STATES V. WILLIAMS.
Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina.

This case is in all substantial respects similar to the one just
decided, and for the reasons given in the opinion therein the
judgment is
Affirmed.
For the reasons stated in their dissenting opinion in -the prior
case, the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE
WHITE dissent also in this case.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the decision of this
case.

