TARRANC9 v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

sessed on the lots herein described." The Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to this answer. It may be observed that, so
far as the question was one of estoppel, it was a purely state and
not a Federal question. Gillis v. Stinc/held, 159 U. S. 658;
Phw/ux hisurance Corpany v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Beals
v. Cone, ante, p. 184. Further, the matter was not noticed
by the Supreme Court, and its judgment is the one before us
for review.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

TARRANCE v. FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREINE COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 202. Argued April 17, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

An actual discrimination by the officers charged with the administration
of statutes unobjectionable in themselves against the race of a negro on
trial for a crime by purposely excluding negroes from the grand and petit
juries of the county, will not be presumed but must be proved. An affidavit of the persons under indictmient, annexed to a motion to quash the

indictment on the ground of such discrimination, stating that the facts
set up in the motion are true " to their best knowledge, information and
belief" is not evidence of tie facts stated. Smith v. Mllississippi, 162 U. S.
592, followed; Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, distinguished.
Under the decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida objections to the
panels of grand juries not appearing of record must be taken by plea in
abatement of, and not by motion to quash, the indictment.

TIE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Isaac L. Purcell for plaintiffs in error.
- r. IV.B. Lamar, attorney general of the State of Florida,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error were convicted in the Circuit Court of Es-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

cambia County, Florida, of the crime of murder and sentenced
to fifteen years in prison. The Supreme Court of the State
having affirmed this sentence, 30 So. Rep. 685, the case was
brought here on writ of error.
The contention of plaintiffs in error is that they were denied
the equal protection of the laws by reason of an actual discrimination against their race. The law of the State is not
challenged but its administration is complained of. As said by
their counsel:
"We do not contend that the colored men are discriminated
against by any law of this State in the selection of names for jury
duty, nor do we contend that a negro being tried for a criminal
offence is entitled to a jury composed wholly or in part of
members of his race; but do claim that when a negro is tried
for a criminal offence he is entitled to a jury selected without
any discrimination against his race on account of race, color or
previous condition of servitude; and when this is not the case,
he is denied the equal protection of the laws as guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States."
Such an actual discrimination is as potential in creating a
denial of equality of rights as a discrimination made by law.
But such an actual discrimination is not presumed. It must be
proved or admitted. The record discloses these facts: On December 3, 1900, a grand jury was empanelled, and on December 5 returned an indictment charging the defendants with the
crime of murder. On December 5 they filed a motion to quash
the venire and the panels of the grand and petit jurors. In the
motion it was stated that there were in the county as many colored citizens of sound judgment, approved integrity, fair character and fully qualified for jury duty as white, and stated as
grounds for the motions "that the county commissioners, in
selecting the lists of names for jury duty for and during the
present year, discriminated against all colored men of African
descent, on account of their race, color and previous condition
of servitude, and from said lists were drawn the grand jury
which found the indictment against these defendants and the
petit jury which is to try them." And that "for many years

TARRANCE v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

all colored men of African descent have been discriminated
against, and none have been selected or drawn or summoned as
grand or petit jurors in this or in any of the courts of this
county, although there are more than fourteen hundred colored
men in said county, a large number of whom are taxpayers, and
of approved integrity, fair character, sound judgment and intelligence, well known to the county commissioners to be such,
and this discrimination is based entirely on race, color and previous condition of servitude."
On December 6 the State's attorney moved the court to
strike out the defendants' motion on the Grounds that it was
impertinent, submitted nothing for the court's determination
or consideration, was not such a motion as the court could consider, and set up no state of facts which, if true, would justify
the quashing of the venire. On the same day this motion of
the State's attorney was sustained, and the motion of the defendants to quash was stricken out. On the same day they filed
a motion to quash the indictment on substantially the same
grounds. This motion was overruled. Special venires were
issued before the trial jury was finally empanelled, and as one
by one these venires were returned the defendants challenged
the array of jurors on the ground that the sheriff in the selection
of jurors knowingly discriminated against all colored men, and
refused and failed to select any to serve on the jury, although
knowing, that there were more than five hundred colored men
in the county fully qualified to serve. No evidence was received or offered in support of any of these several motions except an affidavit of the defendants attached to the motion to
quash the indictment, stating that the facts set up in the motion
were true -to their best knowledge, information and belief."
In respect to all these motions, except the one to quash the
venire an( panels of the grand and petit jurors, it is sufficient
to refer to Smith v. Jfississijpi, 162 U. S. 592, 600 ; Carter,v.
Texas, 177 U. S.442. In the first case the motion to quash
was supported by an affidavit similar to the one here presented,
and it was held no evidence of the facts stated, and that therefore the denial of the motion was not erroneous. In the second case the bill of exceptions showed that the defendant asked

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

leave to introduce witnesses and offered to introduce witnesses
to prove the allegations in his motion, but that the court refused to hear any evidence in support of the motion, but overruled it without investigating into the truth or falsity of the
allegations therein, and this was adjudged error.
We pass, therefore, to a consideration of the ruling on the
first motion. No evidence was received or offered in its support, but the motion itself was stricken out, and it is contended
that the motion to strike out was equivalent to a demurrer which
admitted the truth of the allegations challenged thereby, and
in support thereof .Veal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, and Aliteltell v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633, are cited. But in the former case
the court held that an agreement by the attorney general, appearing for the State, was to be regarded as an admission of
the truth of the facts stated in the motion and therefore waived
the necessity for further evidence; and in the second case there
was only a distinct ruling upon a demurrer to a plea.
In reference to the action of the trial court in this matter the
Supreme Court of the State said:
"The first motion filed by defendants was to quash the venire
drawn for the term, and the panels of grand and petit jurors.
The venire drawn for the term at that time consisted only of
the grand and petit jurors then in attendance. In so far as
the panel of petit jurors was concerned, the defendants had no
right to move to quash that. It was summoned for the first
week of the term only, and had and could have no connection
whatever with defendants' case, because their case was not to
be tried until a subsequent week, when another and different
panel of petit jurors would be in attendance. The petit jury
objected to had not been called to try defendants' case, and
would not be, as their term of service would, under the law,
expire long before defendants' case would be called for trial.
The defendants had no right to challenge the array of pehit
jurors until their case was called for trial, and it was proposed
to empanel upon the jury to try them some member of the objectionable panel.
"As to the grand jury, the defendants had no right at that
time to move to quash the panel. If defendants could properly

TARRANCE v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

move to quash the panel or challenge the array of grand jurors
for the reasons stated in this motion, it could only be done before the grand jury was empanelled, or at least before the indictment was found. Whether it could be done in that way,
we do not now decide. We are clear, however, that a motion
to quash the panel of grand jurors by one who has been indicted
by such jurors is not proper practice. Gladden v. State, 13
Florida, 623. As we shall show further on, a plea in abatement of the indictment is the proper remedy. We regard the
ruling sustaining the motion to strike as equivalent to holding
that the motion to quash was not the proper method of raising
the question sought to be raised; and, while we do not approve
of the practice of moving to strike a motion, we do not see
that the defendants have been injured by the form of the ruling complained of.
"We are of opinion that the proper method of presenting
the question sought to be presented by this motion is by plea
in abatement of the indictment, and not by motion to quash,
and that the ruling upon the motion can be sustained upon that
ground. It has for many years been the practice in this State,
sanctioned by repeated rulings of this court, that all objections
to the competency of, and to irregularities in selecting, drawing
and empanelling grand jurors, not appearing of record, must be
taken advantage of by plea in abatement of the indictment, and
lroodward v. State, 33 Florida,
not by motion to quash it.
508 ; Kitrol v. State, 9 Florida, 9; Gladden v. Slate, supra;
Tervin v. State, 37 Florida, 396. See also State v. .Foster,9
Texas, 65."
The authorities cited in this opinion sustain the propositions
laid down. In Kitrol v. The State, 9 Florida, 9, 13, it was said:
"We are, therefore, of the opinion that the incompetency of
the grand jurors by whom indictment is preferred may be
pleaded by the defendant in abatement."
In Gladden v. T]he State, 13 Florida, 623, 630, the court uses
this language:
"In Massachusetts, New York and other States, it has been
held that objections to the legality of the returns of grand

OCTOBER TtRM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

jurors cannot affect an indictment found by them after it has
been received by the court and filed; that such objection must
be interposed before indictment found, and even before the
grand jury is sworn. But it seems to be now settled that such
objection may be made by plea in abatement to the indictment
at any time before pleading in bar. This is substantially the
rule announced by the Supreme Court of this State in 1x)trO7 V.
The State, 9 Florida, 9. The opinion of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi in AfcQuillen, v. T]ie State, 8 S. & M. 587, delivered
by Chief Justice Sharkey, announces what we consider the true
and correct practice in such a case. Such matters are reached
by plea in abatement only, (though in some States a challenge
to the array is treated, we do not say properly so, as a substitute for a plea in abatement) and matters in abatement in criminal as well as in civil cases must be pleaded before pleading in
bar."
In Burroughs v. The State, 17 Florida, 643, 661, where the
validity of the composition of the jury was sought to be challenged on a motion in arrest of judgment, the court said:
"Aside from the fact that there is no such bill of exceptions
as is required to present any question of that character to this
court, if it had been properly raised, we are of the opinion, that
all objections to the legality of grand jurors must be made by
plea in abatement to the indictment before pleading in bar.
Such is the rule as announced by this court in Gladden v. The
State, 13 Florida, 623."
The force of this decision is not weakened by what was said
by the same court in Potsdamer v. The State, 17 Florida, 895,
897:
"The rule is that such objections must be taken by motion
or plea in abatement before pleading to the indictment. It is
not proper ground of a motion for a new trial;" for Gladden
v. The State, and Hiu-rougis v. The State, are both cited as authority. What kind of a motion the Chief Justice had in mind
when he spoke of "motion or plea in abatement" is not disclosed. At any rate, such a general statement cannot be considered as overruling prior decisions.

TARRANCE v. FLORIDA.
Opinion of the Court.

In Te2rvin v. The State, 37 Florida, 396, the ruling of the
court was expressed in these words (p. 403):
"On the 2-5th of October, 1895, the defendant moved to
quash the indictment and for his discharge upon the ground
that 'there is nothing upon the records of this court to show
that the grand jurors who found the indictment were drawn in
accordance with chapter 1015 of the acts of the legislature of
A. )., 1891.' This motion was overruled, and such ruling constitutes the fourth assignment of error. There is no merit in
this assignnent. If there was any such irregularity in the
drawing or empanelling of the grand jury that found the indictinent as would render such indictment void or illegal, the
proper way to make it appear was by plea in abatement, instead of by motion to quash."
Neither is there anything in the cases referred to by counsel
for plaintiff in error against this ruling. So we have not
merely the declaration of the court in this particular case as to
the practice to be observed, but a declaration supported by
many prior decisions. Obviously it is the settled rule in the
State.
These are all the matters called to our attention by counsel,
and in them appearing no error, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Florida is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTiCE, ITARLAN did not hear the argument or take part
in the decision of this case.

