CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

KELLEY v. RHOADS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WYOMING.

No. 93.

Submitted November 12, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

A herd of sheep driven at a reasonable rate of speed from a point in Utah,
across the State of Wyoming, a distance of about five hundred miles, to
a point in Nebraska, for the purpose of shipment by rail from the latter
point, is property engaged in interstate commerce to such an extent as to
be exempt from taxation by the State of Wyoming undera statute taxing

all live stock brought into the State "for the purpose of being grazed;"
and this notwithstanding that the sheep were maintained by grazing along
the route and that tile owner could have shipped them to their ultimate
destination from a point on the same railroad, which could have been
reached from the starting point without entering the State of Wyoming.
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Pittsburg &c. Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S.
577;Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 317, distinguished.

was a petition originally filed in the District Court of
Laramie County, Wyoming, by Kelley against Rhoads, county
assessor of the county of Laramie, to recover back certain taxes
to the amount of $250 upon a flock of sheep owned by theplaintiff and in charge of a shepherd who was driving them
through the State of Wyoming, from the then Territory of Utah
to the State of Nebraska.
The case was finally presented to the District Court upon the
following agreed statement of facts, upon which the court enTHIs

VOL. cLXXXVIII-

(1)

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

tered judgment in favor of the defendant, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, 9 Wyoming, 352:
"Agreed Statement of Pacts.
"1. John Kelley is now and was at all times mentioned in
the petition filed herein a citizen and resident of the State of
Kansas.
"2. Oliver F. Rhoads was the duly elected, qualified and acting county assessor of the county of Laramie, State of Wyoming',
from the 7th day of January, A. D. 1895, until the 4th day of
January, A. D. 1897.
"3. Plaintiff at all times mentioned in the petition herein was
the owner of the sheep mentioned in said petition, and that
said sheep on or about the 29th day of October, A. D. 1895,
were in the county of Laramie, in charge of James Af. Yeates,
the agent of the plaintiff, who was driving and transporling
said sheep through the State of Wyoming from the then Territory of Utah, to the State of Nebraska.
" 4. In driving said sheep in such manner it was the practice
of the person in charge to permit them to spread out at times
in the neighborhood of a quarter of a mile, and while so being
driven the sheep were permitted to graze over land of that
width. They were driven in some instances through large
pastures, in other instances through the public domain and in
other instances through pastures enclosed by fences. While
being driven from the western boundary of the State to Pine
Bluffs station, they were maintained by grazing along the route
of travel.
"5. Said sheep were duly returned by plaintiff for taxation
and assessed by the assessor and collector of taxes for the year
1895 in the county of Juab, Territory of Utah.
"6. On the 29th day of October, A. D. 1895, wvhile the said
herd of sheep were in charge of the agent of the plaintiff in
the county of Laramie, State of Wyoming, the defendant, in
company with S. J. Robb, deputy sheriff, of Laramie County,
Wyoming, collected from said plaintiff's agent the sum of two
hundred and fifty dollars, ($250,) alleged to be taxes due for the
current year 1895, and that before the collection of said tax,

KELLEY v. RHOADS.
Statement of the Case.

upon demand for the payment of the same by the said defendant, the plaintiff's agent refused to pay the same, whereupon
the said defendant said to the agent of plaintiff that the said
defendant could or would take enough sheep and sell them, and
from the proceeds retain the said anibunt of two hundred and
fifty dollars, ($250,) with costs; whereupon the plaintiff's agent,
to prevent the seizure and sale of plaintiff's property and the
damage that would thereby accrue to plaintiff, paid the said
defendant the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250).
"7. It was a fact and defendant bad knowledge of the fact
and was notified by plaintiff's agent that said herd of sheep
was being driven across the State of Wyoming to Pine Bluffs
station for the purpose of shipment, and that the same were
not brought into the State for the purpose of being maintained permanently therein.
" 8. At the time of the regular assessment of property for
the purpose of taxation in the county of Laramie in the year
1895, plaintiff had no property of any kind whatever in the
county of Laramie, or in the State of Wyoming.
"9. At the time the assessment of property in the county of
Laramie for the year 1895 was equalized by the board of equalization of the county of Laramie, plaintiff had no notice of the
time or place of meeting of said board of equalization, or that
any assessment had been made against him for any purpose
whatever within the State of Wyoming or the county of Laramie.
" 10. At the time the taxes for the current year 1895 were
regularly and legally levied in the said county of Laramie,
plaintiff had no property whatever in the county of Laramie
or State of Wyoming.
"11. Plaintiff has demanded of defendant a return to him of
the amount of tax so collected from plaintiff's agent, but defendant refused and still refuses to return to plaintiff the amount so
collected.
" 12. The time consumed in driving said sheep from the western boundary of the State of Wyoming to Pine Bluffs station, in
Laramie County, was from six to eight weeks, and by the route
followed the distance travelled was about five hundred miles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"13. The said taxes were assessed, levied and collected by
the defendant without the action, authority or assistance of
the board of county commissioners, or of any other officer or
officers of Laramie County.
"14. The said property so owned by the plaintiff had not
been regularly assessed in any other county of the State for
that year and no taxes had been paid thereon in any other
county in the State.
"15. That for the purpose of shipping said sheep it was not
necessary that they should be driven into the State of Wyoming, and that the railroad over which they were shipped
could be reached from the point where the sheep were first
driven by travelling a less distance than was necessary to travel
from the place where they were first driven to any point in the
State of Wyoming.
"16. That at the time the two hundred and fifty dollars was
paid to the defendant, it was paid without any protest other
than appears in the other paragraphs of this agreed statement
of facts."
.3L'. J A. 'Fan Orsdel for plaintiff in error.
.lr. Willis VFan Devanter for defendant in error.
R. Stoll was with him on the brief.

XA&r. IF.

IR. JUSTIOE BnowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case resolves itself into the single question whether the
property of the plaintiff was engaged in interstate commerce
to such an extent as to be exempt from taxation by the State
of Wyoming, through which it was being transported.
The statute of the State upon this subject, Laws, 1895, c. 61,
is as follows :
"Sic. 1. All live stock brought into this Statefor th1epzrpose of being grazed shall be taxed for the fiscal year during
which it shall have been brought into the State.
"SEc. 2. Assessors are, for the purpose of enforcing this act,

KELLEY v.RHOADS.
Opinion of the Court.

hereby vested with the powers, and charged with the duties
vested in and conferred upon other officers for the collection
of taxes.
"SEc. 3. It shall be the duty of the assessors in the several
counties to levy and immediately collect the taxes provided for
in this act, as soon as live stock is brought into their counties
to graze; and to pay, without delay, such sums to the treasuters
of their respective counties.
" SEc. 4. Whenever the owner of any live stock upon which
a tax has been levied as provided in this act, shall refuse to immediately pay the amount of such tax to the assessor who levied
it, such assessor shall proceed forthwith to collect such tax as
provided by law for the collection of delinquent taxes on other
kinds of personal property."
The question to be determined, then, is, whether the stock of
the plaintiff was brought into the Statefor theparpose of being
grazed at the time it was assessed for taxation. This question
must be answered by the agreed statement of facts. While this
statement is binding upon this court, as well as the state courts,
different inferences may be drawn from these facts as to the
applicability of the state statute. Had the state court found
directly the ultimate fact that these sheep were brought into
the State for the purpose of being grazed, such finding might
have bound us, but, under the facts actually found or agreed
upon, we are at liberty to inquire whether they support the
judgment. h1arrison v. Perea, 168 U. S. 311.
The law upon this subject, so far as it concerns interference
with interstate commerce, is settled by several cases in this
court, which hold that property actually intransit is exempt
from local taxation, although if it be stored for an indefinite
time during such transit, at least for other than natural causes,
or lack of facilities for immediate transportation, it may be lawfully assessed by the local authorities. State v. Engle, 34 N.
J. Law, 425; Standard Oil Co. v. Bachelor, 89 Indiana, 1:
Burlington Lumbe" Co. v. lilletts, 118 Illinois, 559.
The first case in which the question arose is that of Brown
v. Ifouslon, 114 U. S. 622, in which it was held that coal
mined in Pennsylvania and sent by water to New Orleans to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

be sold in the open market there on account of bhe owners in
Pennsylvania, and lying at New Orleans in iatboats for sale,
became intermingled, on its arrival there, with the general
property of the State, and was subject to taxation under the
general laws of Louisiana, although it might have been, after
arrival, sold from the vessel on which the transportation was
made, without being landed, and for the purpose of being
taken out of the country by a vessel bound to a foreign port.
The case was affirmed in Pittsburg &c. Coal Co. v. Bates, 156
U. S. 577, which differed from the former only in the fact that
the coal did not reach New Orleans, the port of destination,
but was still on the Mississippi River, nine miles above Baton
Rouge, where it was held for sale. It appeared that the boats
were held subject to the orders of plaintiff to be navigated to
such place or places as he might deem convenient or advantageous to the trade in which he was engaged.
In Coe v. -Errol,116 U. S. 517, it was held that logs cut in
New tampshire, which were hauled down to the town of
Errol on the Androscoggin River in that State, to be thence
floated down the river to Lewiston, Maine, and were awaiting
a convenient opportunity for such transportation, were still a
part of the general mass of property of the State liable to
taxation, if taxed in the usual way in which such property was
taxed in that State. It was a stipulated fact that the timber
thus cut had lain over one season, being about a year, in the
Androscoggin River in that State either in Errol, Dumnmer or
Milan; and that other timber referred to in the petition as
having been cut in Maine had lain over in Errol since the
spring or summer before the taxation. The question is thus
stated by Mr. Justice Bradley: "Are the products of a State,
though intended for exportation to another State, and partially
prepared for that purpose by being deposited at a place or
port of shipment within the State, liable to be taxed like other
property within the State " Said he: "There must be a
point of time when they cease to be governed exclusively by
the domestic law and begin to be governed and protected by
the national law of commercial regulation, and that moment
seems to us to be a legitimate one for this purpose, in which

KELLEY v. RHOADS.
Opinion of the Court.

they commence their final movement for transportation from
the State of their origin to that of their destination.
Until then it is reasonable to regard them as not only within
the State of their origin, but as a part of the general mass of
property of that State, subject to its jurisdiction, and liable to
taxation there."
The substance of these cases is that, while the property is at
rest for an indefinite time awaiting transportation, or awaiting
a sale at its place of destination, or at an intermediate point,
it is subject to taxation. But if it be actually in transit to another State, it becomes the subject of interstate commerce and
is exempt from local assessment.
We place no reliance upon the fact in this case that plaintiff's
sheep had been duly returned for taxation, and assessed for the
taxes of 1895 in the Territory of Utah, since, although this
may have some bearing upon the equities of the case, it was
declared in Coe v. Eqrrol to have no significance as a matter of
law.
The question turns upon the purpose for which the sheep
were driven into the State. If for the purpose of being grazed,
they are expressly within the first section of the act. But if
for the purpose of being driven through the State to a market,
they would be exempt as a subject of interstate commerce,
though they might incidentally have supported themselves
in grazing while actually in transit. We think the question
is sufficiently answered by the statement of facts, from which
it appears (3) that the sheep were in charge of plaintiff's
agent, "who was driving and transporting said sheep through
said State of Wyoming from the then Territory of Utah to the
State of Nebraska ;" (4)" While being driven from the western
boundary of the State to Pine Bluffs station, on the eastern
boundary, they were maintained by grazing along the route of
travel." (7) "It was a fact, and defendant had knowledge of
the fact, and was notified by plaintiff's agent, that said herd of
sheep were being driven across the State of Wyoming to Pine
Bluffs station for the lu,?pose qf shijwment, and that the same
were not brought into the State for the purpose of being maintained permanently there." (12) "The time consumed in driv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

ing said sheep from the western boundary of the State of Wyoming to Pine Bluffs station, in Laramie County, was from six
to eight weeks and by the route followed the distance travelled
was about 500 miles."
It thus appears that the only purpose found for which this
herd of sheep was being driven across the State was for shipment, and the agreed statement wholly fails to show that they
were detained at any place within the State for the purpose of
grazing or otherwise. As they consumed from six to eight
weeks in travelling about 500 miles, or, as the Supreme Court
found, at the rate of about nine miles per day, it does not even
appear that they loitered unnecessarily on the way. As they
required sustenance on the journey, and could obtain it only by
grazing, it would appear, though there is no testimony upon
that point, that they could hardly have been driven more
rapidly without a loss of flesh during the transit. The only
evidence as to the manner in which such grazing was conducted
is contained in the fourth stipulation: "In driving said sheep in
such manner it was the practice of the person in charge to permit them to spread out at times in the neighborhood of a quarter of a mile, and while being so driven the sheep were permitted to graze over land of that width. They were driven, in
some instances, through large pastures; in other instances
through the public domain, and in other instances through
pastures enclosed by fences." Considering that the herd numbered about 10,000 sheep, and were moved eastward at the
rate of nine miles a day, it does not seem as though the fact
that they were permitted to graze over a width of a quarter
of a mile was evidence of any unnecessary delay; and while
the owner would undoubtedly be liable for any damage done to
pasturage en 2route, there is no evidence at all that the transit
of the sheep was delayed for the purpose of grazing while
going through the State. Bearing in mind that the weight
of all the previous cases in this court has been laid upon the
fact of an indefinite delay, awaiting transportation at the
commencement of the journey, or awaiting sale or delivery
at its termination, the facts of this case fail completely to bring
it within those authorities. The fact that the sheep may not

KELLEY v. RHOADS.
Opinion of the Cout.

have lost flesh, or may even have gained flesh, during their
transit through the State, is impertinent, unless the primary
purpose of their being driven there was for grazing.
It is true that the sheep might have been transported by
rail from Utah to Pine Bluffs, but the statement fails to show
whether that course would have been more or less expensive
than the one adopted. It is clear that the owner had the right
to avail himself of such means of transportation as he preto
ferred, and in estimating the probable cost he was at liberty
pubthe
of
use
make
to
licensed
was
he
consider the fact that
lic lands of the United States without charge for the sustenance
of his sheep. Buford v. Houtz, 133 U. S. 320. Why he shipped
them by rail from Pine Bluffs is not explained, but it seems quite
Neprobable that it was due to the fact that the public lands in
be
not
would
sheep
the
braska had been so far taken up that
through
driven
were
able to obtain sufficient nourishment if they
that State. We do not deny that it may have been plaintiff's
en,
intention not only to graze but to fatten his sheep while
there
but
route through Wyoming. Indeed, we may suspect it,
is nothing in the agreed statement of facts to justify that inference. While the fifteenth finding states that for the purpose of
shipping said sheep it was not necessary that they should be
driven into the State of Wyoming and that they might have
been shipped on the railroad much farther west than Pine
Bluffs station, that finding really resolves itself back to the
proposition already stated, that the owner or his shepherd was
at liberty to choose his own method of transportation, and as
he took a direct route through the State, deviating neither to
the right nor to the left, and travelled as rapidly as a due regard
for the condition of his flock permitted, we think there could
be no fair inference from these facts that the sheep were introduced into the State for the purpose of grazing.
There is another consideration worthy of attention, and that
is that the right which the State of Wyoming had to tax this
property might have been exercised in every State through
which the sheep were driven. In this particular case it would
appear that they were shipped at Pine Bluffs, but they might
with equal propriety have been driven through Nebraska and

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

Iowa before reaching their final destination. Indeed, section 3
of the act, which provides "it shall be the duty of the assessors
in the several counties to levy and immediately collect taxes as
provided for in this act, as soon as live stock is brought into
their counties to graze," leaves it an open question whether
these taxes may not have been assessed in every county through
which these sheep were driven.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wyoming is therefore
Reversed, and the case lemnded to that cou'tfor fu't/her pr ceedings not inconsistent with this opvnion.

WEBER v. ROGA_.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 107. Submitted December 1, 1902.-Decided January 19, 1903.

The Supreme Court of the State of Texas having decided that the statute
of that State, Acts of 1807, c. 129, providing that certain lands may be
sold at a specified price under certain conditions bythe Commissioner of
the General Land Office was not mandatory, but that it was discretionary
with the Commissioner whether to sell such lands or not, no Federal
question arises which this court can consider in a proceeding brought to
compel the Commissioner to convey certain lands under such act to a
person offering to purchase the same at the price specified in the act.
The constitutional inhibition against the impairment of contracts applies
only to legislative enactments of the States and not to the judicial decisions or acts of the state tribunals or officers, under statutes in force at
the time of the making of the contract, the obligation of which is alleged
to have been impaired.

THIs was an original petition filed in the Supreme Court of
Texas by the plaintiff in error, Weber, against Charles Rogan,
Commissioner of the General Land Office of the State, prayin-

for a writ of mandamus directing such Commissioner to award
to the petitioner two isolated and detached sections of the

public school lands, situated respectively in Polk and Jefferson
Counties in the State of Texas.

