MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Statement of the Case.

mind that the government had elected to make the vessel its
own property, and her subsequent loss was the loss of the government and not of the captors. In fact, it is the election, and
not the result of the election, which determines the ownership
of the property.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. McGREW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 109. Argued January 15, 16, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

To maintain a writ of error asserted under the third of the classes of cases
enumerated in section 709, Rev. Stat., the right, title, privilege or immunity relied on must not only be specially set up or claimed, but (1) at the
proper time, which is in the trial court whenever that is required by the
state practice, as it is in California, and (2) in the proper way, by pleading, motion, exception, or other action, part or being made part, of the
record, showing that the claim was presented to the court.
Where it is claimed that the decision of a state court was against a right,
title or immunity claimed under a treaty between the United States and
a foreign country and no claim under the treaty was made in the trial
court and it is a rule of practice of the highest court of the State that it
will not pass on questions raised for the first time in that court and
which might and should have been raised in the trial court, the writ of
error will be dismissed.
The mere pleading of a decree in a foreign country or of a statute of such
country and the construction of the same by the courts thereof do not
amount to specifically asserting rights under a treaty with that country.
Judicial knowledge cannot be resorted to to raise controversies not presented
by the record.
The raising of a point in this court as to the faith and credit which should
be given judicial proceedings of a foreign country, which ceased to be
foreign before judgment was rendered in a state supreme court, but was
not brought to the attention of that court, comes too late.

THis is a writ of error to revise the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of California, affirming a judgment of the
Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco in favor
of Alphonsine McGrew and against the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York. 132 California, 85.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

The action was brought on a policy of insurance payable to
Alphonsine C. McGrew, and in the amended answer to the
complaint the recovery of a decree of divorce was averred, and
it was alleged: "That under and by virtue of the Hawaiian law
in force at the time said decree of divorce was granted and now
in force, it is provided: ' When a divorce is decreed for the
adultery or other offence amounting thereto, of the wife, the
husband shall hold her ijersonal estate forever, and he shall
hold her real estate so long as they shall live; and if he shall
survive her, and there shall be issue of the marriage born alive,
he shall hold her real estate for the term of his own life, as a
tenant by the curtesy; provided that the court may make such
reasonable provision for the divorced wife out of any real estate that may have belonged to her, as it may deem proper.'
That under and by virtue of the foregoing provision of law, and
decree of divorce, all rights of the said Alphonsine C. McGrew
in and to said policy of insurance did pass to the said Henri
Golden McGrew and become his absolute property free and
clear of any claims of the said Alphonsine C. McGrew, plaintiff
herein, whatsoever."
The amended answer also averred that after McGrew's death,
one Carter was duly appointed in Hawaii administrator of his
estate; that as such administrator he commenced suit against
the insurance company in a Circuit Court of Hawaii on the
policy of insurance; recovered judgment October 15, 1895, for
the full amount; that the Supreme Court of Hawaii affirmed
the judgment, and subsequently denied an application for rehearing, and that the judgment was thereafter paid.
The trial court made findings of fact as follows:
"1. On the 14th day of September, 1892, this defendant
made, executed, and delivered to Henri G. McGrew, a certain
policy of insurance, being the same policy mentioned in the
complaint herein, wherein and whereby the said defendant promised and agreed to pay unto the plaintiff, Alphonsine McGrew,
the sum of five thousand dollars ($5000.00), upon the death of
the said Henri G. McGrew, during the continuance of said policy of insurance, provided said Alphonsine McGrew were living
at the time of the death of said Henri G. McGrew, and upon

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Statement of the Case.

acceptance of satisfactory proof of the death of said Henri G.
McGrew, during the continuance of said policy.
"2. Henri G. McGrew died on the 22d day of October, 1894,
in Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, and said plaintiff survived him.
"3. Said Henri G. McGrew, upon said 14th day of September, 1892, and continuously and up to the time of his death, was
a resident of, and domiciled in, the Hawaiian Islands.
"4. On the 9th day of February, 1895, plaintiff presented to
said defendant satisfactory proof of the death of said Henri G.
McGrew, and demanded of said defendant the payment of the
sum of five thousand ($5000.00) dollars, under and in accordance
with the terms of said policy of insurance, but defendant has
never paid the same, or any part thereof.
"5. Subsequent to the said 14th day of September, 1892, and
prior to the 8th day of February, 1894, the said Henri G. McGrew became of unsound mind, and thereafter, upon due proceedings had, Charles L. Carter, residing in the city of Honolulu,
was duly appointed the guardian of the person and estate of
said Henri G. McGrew, an incompetent person, and continued
to hold such office of guardian at the time of the filing of the
libel of divorce, and the proceedings thereunder hereinafter
mentioned.
"6. On the 8th day of February, in the year 1894, Charles L.
Carter, as guardian and on behalf of Henri G. McGrew, an incompetent person, filed in the Circuit Court of the first judicial
circuit of the Republic of Hawaii, which said court has jurisdiction over said parties and over libels for divorce, a libel praying
for a divorce from said plaintiff on the ground of her adultery;
and thereafter, and on the 11th day of April, 1894, this plaintiff
being then a resident of, and domiciled in, said Hawaiian Islands,
appeared in said action and contested the same.
"7. On the 23d day of August, 1894, a decision was rendered,
and on the 24th day of August, 1894, a decree was signed in
said cause by the said Circuit Court, dissolving the bonds of
matrimony theretofore existing between said Henri G. McGrew
and this plaintiff, upon the ground of the adultery of this plaintiff.
"8. On the 5th day of April, 1894, this plaintiff left the Ha-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

waiian Islands with the intention of not returning to said islands,
but of coming to the State of California and of making her home
in, and permanently residing in, said State. And thereafter,
and in due course of her voyage from the Hawaiian Islands and
in said month of April, this plaintiff arrived in the State of
California, and with said intention above mentioned, thereupon
took up her residence in, and made her home in, said State, and
with said intention has ever since continuously remained in,
and resided in, and made her home in, said State of California;
and on the 23d and 24th days of August, 1894, was actually in,
and residing in, said State, with the intention above mentioned

of permanently residing and making her home in said State of
California.
"9. Prior to said 5th day of April, 1894, this plaintiff had been
excluded by said Charles L. Carter, as such guardian, from the
home of said Henri G. McGrew, and was by him thereafter
prevented from returning, and has ever since and until the
death of said Henri G. McGrew been by him prevented from
returning to the same, and was, on said 5th day of April, excluded from said home by said guardian.
"10. On said 5th day of April, 1894, this plaintiff had no
home, and has never since had a home in the Hawaiian Islands."
[Findings 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 1'referred to the filing of a
bill of exceptions by Mrs. McGrew in the divorce suit, and the
statute and rule of court of Hawaii in respect of the practice in
relation thereto.]
"15. The following Hawaiian law was in force in the Hawaiian Islands at the time said decree of divorce was granted,
to wit: When a divorce is decreed for the adultery or other
offence amounting thereto of the wife, the husband shall hold
her personal estate forever."
And the court concluded as matter of law that the rights of
Mrs. McGrew in and to the policy and the moneys due thereunder never passed to her husband, nor did the policy or money
due thereunder ever become his property; and that the insurance company was indebted to Mrs. McGrew on said policy in
the sum of $5000 and interest. Judgment was rendered ac-

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. 'McGREW.
Statement of the Case.

cordingly October 11, 1897, and the case was carried to the
Supreme Court of the State, and the record filed therein December 13, 1897. The judgment was affirmed February 28, 1901,
and a petition for rehearing denied. 132 California, 85. This
writ of error was allowed by the Chief Justice of that court.
The Supreme Court of California held that the construction
given by the courts of the Republic of Hawaii to the statute of
that republic that permitted an action for a divorce to be maintained by the guardian of an incompetent person should be accepted, although such was not the law of California, and that the
judgment of divorce rendered in that republic, in pursuance of
the statute so construed, should, by comity, be given effect by the
courts of California as a decree of divorce ; that the statute of
Hawaii declaring that, where a divorce is decreed for the adultery of the wife, the husband shall take her personal estate,
could have no operation pending the suit for divorce, and not
until after the entry of judgment; that Mrs. McGrew was
bound by the decree of divorce in Hawaii, so far as the dissolution of the bond of matrimony was concerned, she having appeared to the action; that when a husband commences a suit
for divorce, the wife may acquire a separate actual domicil by
change of residence from one country to another pending the
suit; that Mrs. McGrew became domiciled in California prior
to the entry of the decree, and that the statute of Hawaii declaring the forfeiture of her personal property to the husband
could not operate in California to affect her, or to give to the
husband a policy of insurance, which, by its terms, was payable
to her, and which, at the time of the decree, was governed by
the law of her domicil in California. No allusion whatever was
made by the Supreme Court to the treaty between Hawaii and
the United States.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Hawaii are reported,
XocGrew, a _person non conpos, by his Guardian, Charles L.
Carter, v. Allionsine 2cGrew, 9 Hawaii, 475; JlcG-rew &c.,
v. ito Grew, 10 Hawaii, 600 ; Carter v. fhitual fIfe insurance
Comp)any, 10 Hawaii, 117; S. C., 10 Hawaii, 559; S. C., 10
Hawaii, 562.
In the opinion on the last hearing, December 16, 1896, the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

court observed: "The company, not having brought the widow
into court by interpleader, is in the unfortunate position of being subjected to two suits-one by the administrator here, the
other by the widow in California. It must now rely on the
assumption that the two courts will take the same view of
the law." The court also considered the point that the statute
in question, section 1331 of the Civil Code, was repealed by implication by the Married Women's act of 1888. But it held
that the section was not inconsistent with that act, and that it
might "be regarded as a special provision for a penalty or forfeiture in case of a divorce for the offence of adultery." And
the court said that it was glad to know that the section had
been repealed. Section 1331 was repealed May 12, 1896, Laws
Hawaii, 1896, p. 70, act 24.
Article VIII of the treaty between the United States and
the Kingdom of Hawaii was as follows:
"The contracting parties engage, in regard to the personal
privileges, that the citizens of the United States of America
shall enjoy in the dominions of his Majesty, the King of the
Hawaiian Islands, and the subjects of his said Majesty in the
United States of America, that they shall have free and undoubted right to travel and to reside in the states of the two
high contracting parties, subject to the same precautions of
police which are practiced towards the subjects or citizens of
the most favored nations. They shall be entitled to occupy
dwellings and warehouses, and to dispose of their personal property of every kind and description,

.

.

.

and their heirs or

representatives, being subjects or citizens of the other contracting party, shall succeed to their personal goods, whether by
testament or ab intestato; and may take possession thereof,

either by themselves or by others acting for them, and dispose
of the same at will, paying to the profit of the respective governments, such dues only as the inhabitants of the country
wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases.
And in case of the absence of the heir and representative, such
care shall be taken of the said goods as would be taken of the
goods of a native of the same country in like case, until the
lawful owner may take measures for receiving them. And if a

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

question should arise among several claimants as to which of
them said goods belong, the same shall be decided finally by
the laws and judges of the land wherein the said goods are.
Where, on the decease of any person holding real estate within
the territories of one party, such real estate would, by the laws
of the land, descend on a citizen or subject of the other, were
he not disqualified by alienage, such citizen or subject," etc.
9 Stat. 977.
Firederic D. Xclfenney for
Xi. Julien T. Davies and .'.
plaintiff in error. 31r. Edward -LymanShort, Mr. William I.
Chickering and X2. Waqren Gregory were on the brief.
1. The Federal questions were sufficiently claimed in the
California courts by the pleadings, proof and assignments of
error in the trial court. The mind of the state court was directed to the fact that a right protected by treaty was relied
upon. French v. I1opkins, 124 U. S. 524; Butler v. Gage, 138
U. S. 61; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 184; Powell v. Brunswick Co., 150 U. S. 400, 433 ; Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler Co., 166
U. S. 653.
Submitting this case to these tests, it will be manifest that it
can be readily inferred from the California opinion that that
court was informed by contention of the plaintiff in error that
a Federal right was intended to be asserted and denied the right
so asserted. It would be preposterous in this case to claim that
the California court proceeded in its determination without any
thought that it was expected to decide a Federal question.
The question is, did the party bringing the case here intend
to assert below a Federal right? 3ficltigan Sugar CJo. v. Michigan, 185 U. S. 113.
The Supreme Court of California itself construed the record
as raising a Federal question. They say: "The defence is rather
a remarkable one; it rests upon a decree of divorce rendered
by a court of the Republic of Hawaii, a decree which could not
have been obtained here; and upon an Hawaiian statute which
has no force except by comity." As to definition of comity see
Barnett's T-rusts, 1902, 1 Ch. 858; Fergusson's Will, 1902, 1
Ch. 486.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

This court has frequently taken jurisdiction where the judgment of a sister State is pleaded as r'es adjudicatain the state
court, although no specification in so many words was made in
the pleading that such judgment violates the faith and credit
clause of the Constitution, Art. IV.
That is, the pleading was a sufficient compliance with the
clause in § 709, "specially set up or claimed." Bell v. Bell,
181 U. S. 175; Sweringen v. &t. louis, 185 U. S. 45.
The answer shows that the courts of Hawaii subsequently
determined in the action of Carter v. 3fJutual Life Insurance
Co., 10 Hawaii, 117, 570, that the decree referred to did operate upon the interest of Mrs. McGrew in this very policy of
insurance, and that the administrator of her former husband's
estate was entitled to recover upon it.
The California court refused to follow the Hawaiian laws
and judges, and decided that AMrs. McGrew did not lose her
beneficial interest by the divorce proceedings.
Thus the company would be compelled to pay the same policy
twice, though paid for but once, notwithstanding the treaty, and
Constitution properly prevent it. This treaty was "as much a
part of the law of every State as its own local laws and constitution." llauenstein v. Zyniam, 100 U. S. 483, 490; ,lkicie
v. Starke, 1 Pet. 98; -Hurrayv. Charleston, 96 U. S. 442; C(apital City Dairy Company v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238; Green Bay
&o. Canal Co. v. Patten PaperCompany, 172 U. S. 58, 68; R oby
v. Colehour, 146 U. S. 153, 159; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken
Co., 1 Wall. 116. The decision of the alleged Federal question
was necessary to the judgment rendered, and hence gives jurisdiction. Brooks v. .3iissouri,124 U. S. 394, 400; Armstrong v.
Treasurerqf Athen8. County, 16 Peters, 281, 285; Eureka Lace
Company v. Yuba County, 116 U. S. 410, 415 Avrowsmill v.
Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194; Furman v. .2Vichol, 8 Wall. 44, 56;
ifickie v. Starke, 1 Peters, 94; .3fartin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1
Wheat. 305, 355; Craig v. State of AMissouri, 4 Peters, 410.
The record shows a "complete"1 right under a treaty, and that
the judgment of the court is in violation of that treaty. .Afayoi
&c. v. Do Armas, 9 Peters, 224; Crowell v. ]?andell,10 Peters,
368.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. r. McGREW.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The findings of the trial court and the admitted statement
of facts upon which the case was tried, deal wholly with these
Hawaiian judgments and Hawaiian law.
The following cases do not sustain contention of defendant
in error: Parmelee v. Lawrence, 78 U. S. 38 ; Brooks v.
jlrissouri, 124 U. S. 394; Baldwin v. Kansas, 129 U. S. 57;
Brown, v. .AMassachusetts, 144 U. S. 579; Oxley Stave Co. v.
Butler Co., 166 U. S. 653; Water Co. v. Electric Co., 172
U. S. 488; Chiapin v. Fye, 179 U. S. 129.
II. The Federal questions were, therefore, necessarily involved in the Supreme Court of California on appeal, and were
fully presented there by counsel.
The rights of the insurance company under the treaty, and
the errors of the trial court in its rulings thereon, were fully
called to the attention of the appellate court in California, and
specially set up and claimed there, and were there argued by counsel for both parties and were considered by the court. lNew
York Central Railroad Co. v. New York, 186 U. S. 269, 273.
The record shows not only that the state appellate court
could not escape deciding this treaty question, but it also shows
that the treaty question was presented to the trial court and
passed on by it when it decided such evidence to be immaterial
and excluded it.
III. The treaty and constitutional point in question were involved in the decision of the Supreme Court of California and
apply to this case. Tullock v. .uvane, 184 U. S. 497. Raising the question on appeal is sufficient. Sweringen v. St. Louis,
185 U. S. 45; Mutual Life v. Cohen, 179 U. S. 262.
This court further has jurisdiction to determine whether the
Supreme Court of California should not have applied section 1,
article IV of the United States Constitution in regard to full
faith and credit. Keokuk &c. Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S.
633; Dewey v. Des _ffoi-nes, 173 U. S. 193.
When the company claimed the protection of the treaty it
claimed the protection of the Constitution. When the Constitution was extended to Hawaii while the California court had
the case under advisement, the constitutional points were added
to the treaty points, by operation of law, for the California

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

court was bound to take judicial notice of the Constitution as
the supreme law. Pleading was a sufficient compliance with
the clause in § 709, "specially set up or claimed." Bell v. Bell,
181 U. S. 175; Bridge Prolprietors v. Hfoboken Co., 1 Wall.
116, 142. The record shows that the public acts of Hawaii had
an effect there not given them by the California court. Lloyd
v. Xatthews, 155 U. S. 227.
IV. The opinion of the Supreme Court of California impliedly referred to the Federal question. This point, taken in
connection with the others showing that the Federal question
was sufficiently claimed and set up is conclusive against the motion to dismiss.
A treaty and constitutional right may be denied as well by
evading a direct decision thereon as by positive action.
h/at)man v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540, 548; Des .Aoines Nay. Co. v.
Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552, 555.
Raising the Federal question for the first time in the appellate state court, if it be there considered, or necessarily involved
in the decision, gives the right of review in this court. 3/issouri, _ansas, etc. Ry. Co. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 530; iilallett
v. -North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589, 592;
'ie R. R. Conqpany v.
Pur ly, 185 U. S. 148; .3faxwell v. Newbold, 18 How. 511, 516.
If the mind of the state court is directed to the fact that a
right protected by the treaty is relied upon, it is sufficient.
Eastern,Building Assn. v. N'elling, 181 U. S. 47.
V. The Federal question was presented a second time to the
Supreme Court in the petition for rehearing which was denied,
and such decision necessarily involved a second consideration
of the Federal question by the state court.
This brief determination "motion denied" is not equivalent
to "motion dismissed" without consideration but it involves
judicial action on the merits of the matter presented. Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. 5. 548; .fichigan Sugar Co. v. .ufichigan, 185 U. S. 113; Rothschild v. Knight, 184 U. S. 339, 341 ;
.Kingv. C'ross, 175 U. S. 396 ; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
v. Sturmn, 174 U. S. 710.
VI. Questions arose among several claimants, namely, Henri
G. McGrew by his guardian, Charles L. Carter, Alphonsine Mc-

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Grew, J. 0. Carter, administrator of the estate of Henri G. lfcGrew, deceased, as to which of them said policy belonged to,
and the same were decided finally by the laws and judges of
Hawaii, wherein the said policy was.
The decisions were that the policy belonged to Henri McGrew
and his estate and the California court was bound under the
treaty by the law as laid down by the Hawaiian judges and
their decisions, and under the Constitution of the United States
was bound to give full faith and credit to the divorce decree,
the public act of Hawaii in regard to the effect of such decree,
and the judgment in the administrator's action.
The general object of this particular clause of the treaty involved in this action was to provide that the laws and judges of
the land wherein the goods were, were to decide finally to
whom they belonged in any controversy as to their ownership.
The broad scope of the treaty was that if any question arose in
the courts of either country where the goods were between subjects or citizens of the respective countries, the decision of the
courts of that country, whichever it might be, should be final.
The laws and judges of Hawaii had under the treaty power
to decide finally to whom the policy belonged, because that
was the land wherein the goods were. The policy was covered
by the word "goods" in the treaty.
A liberal and not a restrictive construction of the rights to
be claimed under it should be followed. S/tanks v. Dupont, 3
Pet. 242; ZHauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, 487, and cases
cited; Tacker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 437.
The term "goods" is by no means limited to strictly tangible movables such as ordinary chattels, but in many cases it
has been held to include such choses in action as policies, bonds,
etc. Dowdel v. H7amm, 2 Watts, 61, 65; Tisdale v. farris,20
Pickering, 9; Greenwood v. Law, 25 Atl. Rep. 134; Terhune
v. Bray's Ex., 16 N. J. Law, 53. Kirtland v. Hotckkiss, 100
U. S.491, 498, distinguished.
The situs of the goods was in Hawaii, either because their
actual location was there, or because they were enforceable
there against the debtor, the Mutual Life. Equitable Life v.
Brown, 187 U. S. 308; N. E. Life v. Woodworth, 111 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

. 1. Amssn., 145 N. Y. 563; lfyman v.
138; Sulz v. X L .
HMalstead, 109 U. S. 654; Holland's Jurisprudence, 9th ed. 391;
Wharton's Conflict of Laws, §§ 305-307. It is evident that
the treaty selected not the lex domicilii but the lex loci rc i
site, and the United States had power by the treaty to declare that the law of the domicil should not govern, and it is
merely a question of what was the intention. Eidmatn v. 2al,'tinez, 184 U. S. 578, 581 ; Cross v. United States Trust Co., 131
N. Y. 330; -Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 400, 424; Da niuert v.
Osborn, 141 N. Y. 564. Serious encroachments have been made
upon the ancient maxim. Green v. Van Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307;
S. C., 7 Wall. 139 ; ilervey v. Rhode Island Locomotive Works,
93 U. S. 661; TFalworth v. Harris, 129 U. S. 355; Security
Trust Company v. Dodd, 173 U. S. 624, and cases there cited.
"The same principle has been applied not only to tangible
property but to credits and effects." Tappan v.._-erehavts' ir(1tional Bank, 19 Wall. 490; Savings Society v. J.ultNomah Co.,
169 U. S. 421; 117ew Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol
v. Washington Co., 177 U. S. 133; 3'Iager v. Grima, 8 How.
490; Story's Conflict of Laws, §§ 379, 385; Minor, Conflict of
Laws, § 121, et seq.; Wharton, Conflict of Laws, §§ 299, 309,
311.
The treaty has removed the danger of any collision between
independent systems of law.
The administrator's action was within the treaty and the
goods were in Hawaii. On the death of Henri McGrew, Carter, administrator, a subject or citizen of Hawaii, and the Mutual Life Insurance Company, a subject or citizen of the United
States, were parties to a controversy as to whom the policy
belonged to, it having already been decided in the divorce case,
and the Hawaiian court decided that Alphonsine was a necessary party to the later suit.
The instant the Constitution of the United States went into
effect, the Supreme Court of California was bound by it to give
full faith and credit to the divorce decree and public acts of
Hawaii and the judgment in the administrator's action, as well
as by the treaty. Ex yarte Edwards, 13 Hawaii, 32, 38; Ex
_parte A7 Oi, 13 Hawaii, 556.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Constitution of the United States protected the company
on account of the divorce decree. Civil Code, Hawaii, section 1331.
The Constitution of the United States required full faith and
credit to be given to the decree in the divorce action in Hawaii.
Laing v. Rigney, 160 U. S. 544; .Lynde v. Lynde, 181 U. S.
186; Bullock v. Bullock, 57 New Jersey Law Reports, 508.
The statute in question is not a penal statute in an international
sense within the meaning of Huntington v. Attrvill, 146 U. S.
657.
In the last case Mr. Justice Gray states that the question
whether a statute of one State, which in some aspects may be
called penal, is a penal law in the international sense, so that
it cannot be enforced in the courts of another State, depends
upon the question whether its purpose is to punish an offence
against the public justice of the State, or to afford a private
remedy to a person injured by the wrongful act. Boston . .. R.
1?. Co. v. H1lurd, 108 Fed. Rep. 116, 119; lIisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265.
The Supreme Court of California was bound always by the
treaty and after 1898 by the Constitution of the United States.
31 Stat. 143.
The Supreme Court of California was bound to take notice
of the change in the operation of the supreme law of the land
effected by the annexation of Hawaii and the extension of the
Constitution thereto. Pugh v. XMc6ormick, 14 Wallace, 361 ;
.Paiifax v. h1unter, 7 Cranch, 603, 627; United States v. Peggy,
1 Cranch, 103; Whhitehead v. TWatson, 19 La. Ann. 68; Stutsman Co. v. Mlallace, 142 U. S. 293 ; Price v. Nresbitt, 29 Maryland, 264; Turner v. Bryan, 83 Maryland, 374; Ferry v.
(amp bell, 110 Iowa, 290.
This question is important in view of recent past and possible
future annexations. But the question has been already decided. Armstrong v. Carson's Executors, 2 Dallas, 302.
The attempted change of domicil by Alphonsine could not
deprive the Hawaiian court of jurisdiction over the contingent
interest in the policy any more than it could change the grounds
for the divorce itself. Jurisdiction once acquired cannot be

OCTOBER TERM, 19'02.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ousted by subsequent events. Koppel v. Heinrichs, 1 Barb. 450;
Tindall v. 3feek-er, 1 Scamm. 137 ; Hard v. Shipman, 6 Barb.
., 25 lN. J. Eq. 375. The actual
631; Upton,v. iY. . So. 1.
not changed.
was
goods
the
physical location of
The treaty should be construed liberally. The Pizarro,2
Wheaton, 227; United States v. Clong Sam, 417 Fed. Rep. 885;
The Fqiendschaft, 3 Wheat. 114; The Venus, 8 Cranch, 252;
State v. Blackrno, 6 Blackf. (Ind.) 489 ; Case v. Clarke, 5 Mason,
70; Poppenhauser v. India Rubber Co., 14: Fed. Rep. 707;
Burn am v. Rangeley, 4 Fed. Cas. 775.
While this is not the case of a double payment to identically
the same person, yet the principle that a construction requiring
a double payment should not be adopted applies. American,
Central Ins. Co. v. llettler, 37 Nebraska, 853; Jardin v. 1Tahdeiros, 9 Hawaii, 503; Kolb v. Swann, 68 Maryland, 521; .ffatter of ffowa-rd, 26 N. Y. Misc. 233; Haggerty v. Amory, 89
Massachusetts, 462, and cases cited.
VII. The laws and judges of Hawaii had the final decision
of this controversy, and the Hawaiian proceedings and statutes
were entitled to full faith and credit in California. Ilancoek
Bank v. Farnumrn, 176 U. S. 643.
Titles, rights, privileges or immunities claimed under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States have been
placed under the final guardianship of this court, on whatever
question of law the same might depend. The United States
Supreme Court will not compel this insurance company to
pay a second time to the wife of the deceased the amount of
this policy, when it has already paid the amount thereof for
the benefit of the son of the deceased on judgments based on
Hawaiian law which the proper rules of international law, the
treaty with the United States and the Constitution of the United States say shall be final.
Xir. J Hubley Ashton for defendant in error. X2. Richard
Bayne and 2M'. 7 G. Plattwere on the brief.
I. There is no Federal question in this case, because plaintiff
in error did not claim in or for itself any right under the
treaty. Plaintiff in error here does not claim in or for itself

MUTUAL LIFE INS CO. v. McGREW.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

any right under the treaty with Hawaii, or any right which is
protected by that treaty, but only that a third person has a right
under that treaty, or which is protected thereby, and that, by
virtue of such alleged right, such third person, and not the defendant in error, is the owner of, and entitled to the subject
matter of this action, to wit, said policy of insurance and the
money due thereon ; and therefore, that said third person and
not the defendant in error, is entitled to have and recover the
amount of said policy from plaintiff in error. Hence, plaintiff
in error is not asserting a right in itself under the treaty, but
in a third person; which, if established, might be a defence in
the state court, but presents no Federal question. Owings v.
NSorwood, 5 Cranch, 344; Verden v. Coleman, 1 Black, 472;
Henderson v. Tennessee, 10 How. 323; H1ale v. Gaines, 22 How.
160 ; Giles v. Little, 134 U. S. 650; Tyler v. Judyes, 179 U. S.
407.
II. This writ should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
this court to entertain it, because no Federal question was specially set up or claimed in the California courts. Water Power
Co. v. Columbia, 172 U. S. 488; Yazoo v. Adams, 180 U. S.
14. These cases disposed of the contention of plaintiff in error
that a Federal question under clause 3 of § 709 can be raised by
inference or implication. Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler Co., 166
U. S. 655; Green Bay v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 67.
A right, title, privilege or immunity under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, or under a treaty, must be especially set up or claimed at the proper time and in the proper
way, i. e.,specially set up in the trial court. Spies v. Illinois,
123 U. S. 181; Baldwin v. _-ansas, 129 U. S. 57; J3filler v.
Texas, 153 U. S. 538; Parmalee v. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 39.
It cannot be first set up in the.argument in the state Supreme
Court. Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler Co., 166 U. S. 655; 3faxwell v. Newbold, 18 How. 516. This court did not mean that
such a question can be presented to the state Supreme Court only
in the oral or printed arguments. Baldwin v. .Kansas,129 U. S.
57; Zadig v. Baldwin, 166 U. S. 488; Sayward v. Denvy, 158
U. S. 183 ; Parmalee v. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 49 ; Gulf, etc., B.
R. Co. v. lewes, 183 U. S. 66; Loeb v. Colu-nbia, 179 U. S. 485;
VOL. OLXXXVII-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Capital Bank v. Cadiz, 172 U. S. 431 ; -Vallett v. Yorth Carolina, 181 U. S. 592. Also by analogy, under § 5 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, TV U. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor, 178
U. S. 243; Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S. 697; Jtduse v.
Arlington, 168 U. S. 435.
The writ of error must be dismissed, unless it is shown
that the particular Federal question relied upon, to wit, a right
under the treaty, was specially set up or claimed at the proper
time, and in the proper way, or that this case is one of the rare
exceptions to the rule laid down in Wfrater Power Co. v. Columbia,
supra. This court has repeatedly held that it will take jurisdiction only when a Federal question was actually raised and
decided, not when it simply might have been raised. .laxwell v.
.Hewbold,18 How. 511; Crowel v. Jiandell, 10 Pet. 368, 398;
Brown v. colorado, 106 U. S. 639; flagar v. california, 154
U. S. 639; Clouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200. Bell v. Bell, 181
U. S. 175, and other cases on brief of plaintiff in error distinguished.
III. No Federal question was involved in the decision of the
California court, nor is any Federal question apparent in the
record. It not only does not appear from the record that the
treaty in question was in any way involved in the decision, but
on the contrary, it appears from the record that it was not so
involved.
It was intended to protect only the citizens of the United
States and the subjects of the Hawaiian kingdom in disputes
between such citizens on the one side and such subjects on the
other side, whereas the record shows or attempts to show that
both the defendant in error and her husband (the only claimants to this policy of insurance) were both citizens of the Republic of I-Hawaii (successor to the kingdom of Hawaii) at the time
of the beginning of the divorce proceedings.
The policy of insurance is not covered by the terms of the
treaty. The term "goods" was clearly not intended to cover
intangible property, such as a policy of insurance, as it cannot
be said to be in any land, but must be in the owner thereof,
whereas a horse, a piano, a barrel of sugar, necessarily has a corporeal situs, which may be different from the situs of its owner.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW¥.
Opinion of the Court.

16 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 843; People v. Eastman, 25 California, 604; Estate of Fair, 128 California, 612; .[irtlandv.
Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 498. N. E. Life v. lMoodworth, 111 U. S.
138, distinguished. The decision of the state court that the
domicil of the defendant in error at the time of the divorce was
in California, though a non-Federal question, is in line with the
decisions of this court. Anderson v. Matt, 138 U. S. 706
Cheever v. Wilson, 19 Wall. 108, 123, 124. _Mutual Life v.
Cohien, 179 U. S. 262; Hfuntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 664, distinguished.
M . CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellate jurisdiction was conferred on this court by the
twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789, over final judgments and decrees in any suit in the highest court of law or
equity of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had,
in three classes of cases: The first class was where the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under,
the United States, was drawn in question, and the decision was
against their validity; the second was where the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or
laws of the United States, was drawn in question, and the decision was in favor of their validity; and the third was "or where
is drawn in question the construction of any clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission held under
the United States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilege or exemption specially set up or claimed by either
party, under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty, statute or commission." I Stat. 73, 85, c. 20, § 25.
By the second section of the act of February 5, 1867, 14 Stat.
385, 386, c. 28, the original twenty-fifth section was regnacted
with certain changes, and, among others, the words just quoted
were made to read: "Or where any title, right, privilege, or
immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or
statute of or commission held, or authority exercised under the
United States, and the decision is against the title, right, priv-

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

ilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed by either party
under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority." And this was reproduced in § 709 of the Revised Statutes. The change from the drawing in question of the construction of a clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, statute,
or commission, to the claim of a right under the Constitution,
treaty, statute, commission, or authority, emphasized the necessity that the right must be specially set up, and denied.
In Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Cor2panyv. Iopkins, 130
U. S. 210, the distinction between the denial of validity and the
denial of a title, right, privilege or immunity specially set up or
claimed, is pointed out, as well as the distinction between the
construction of a statute or the extent of an authority and the
validity of a statute or of an authority.
Our jurisdiction of this writ of error is asserted under the
third of the classes of cases enumerated in § 709, and it is thoroughly settled that in order to maintain it, the right, title, privilege or immunity relied on must not only be specially set up
or claimed, but at the proper time and in the proper way.
The proper time is in the trial court whenever that is required
by the state practice, in accordance with which the highest
court of a State will not revise the judgment of the court below
on questions not therein raised. Spies v. linois, 123 U. S.131;
Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S. 133; Layton v. .Missouri, 187
U. S. 356; .E'ieRailroad Company v. Purdy, 185 U. S.148.
The proper way is by pleading, motion, exception, or other
action, part, or being made part, of the record, showing that
the claim was presented to the court. loeb v. fT'u.tecs, 179
U. S.472, 481. It is not properly made when made for the first
time in a petition for rehearing after judgment ; or in the petition for writ of error; or in the briefs of counsel not made part
of the record. Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; Zadig v.
Baldwin, 166 U. S.485, 488. The assertion of the right must
be made unmistakably and not left to mere inference. O.ley
Stave Company v. Bfutler Countly, 166 U. S. 648.
If the highest court of a State entertains a petition for rehearing, which raises Federal questions, and decides them, that
will be sufficient Mllallett v. iAorth Carolina,1S1 U. S.589; or

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. r. McGREW.
Opinion of the Court.

if the court decides a Federal question which it assumes is distinctly presented to it in some way. Home for Incurables v.
New York, 187 U. S. 155 ; Sweringen v. St. Louis, 185 U. S.
38, 46.
Jurisdiction may be maintained where a definite issue as to
the possession of the right is distinctly deducible from the record and necessarily disposed of, but this cannot be made out
by resort to judicial knowledge. Powell v. Brunswick County,
150 U. S. 433; Mountain View Xining & Milling Company
v. JcFiadden, 180 U. S. 533; Arkansas v. Kansas and Texas
Coal Comtany, 183 U. S. 185.
Counsel by their specification of errors, under rule 21, assert
the Federal questions to be that the decision of the Supreme
Court of California was against a title, right, privilege or immunity claimed by plaintiff in error under the treaty between
the United States and Hawaii. And that the decision was in
contravention of section 1 of Article IV of the Constitution.
1. We do not find that any claim under the treaty was made
in the trial court, and the rule of practice of the Supreme Court
of California is that it will not pass on questions raised for the
first time in that court, and which might and should have been
raised in the trial court. Stoddard v. Treadwell, 29 California,
281 ; King v. MAfeyer, 35 California, 646; Deady v. Townsend,
57 California, 298 ; WVilliams v. lcfDonald, 58 California, 527;
Anderson v. Black, 70 California, 226, 231.
Neither the pleading of the decree of divorce nor of the
statute of Hawaii providing for the forfeiture of Mrs. ]UcGrew's
rights in the policy of insurance, as construed by the Supreme
Court of Hawaii, nor of both together, amounted to specially
asserting any right under the treaty. Those averments (lid
not assert that claim in the trial court in such manner as to
bring it to the attention of that court, nor indeed, to show
that any right under the treaty was present in the mind of
counsel.
To give them that effect would be in the teeth of our decision in Oxley Stave Company v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648,
and numerous other decisions. That case involved a decree, in
respect of which there was a general allegation that it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

rendered against dead persons, as well as in the absence of
necessary parties who had no notice of the suit; and we held
that such general allegations did not meet the statutory requirement that the final judgment of a state court may be reexamined here if it denies some title, right, privilege, or immunity " specially set up or claimed" inder the Constitution
or authority of the United States. Mr. Justice Harlan said
(p. 655): "This statutory requirement is not met if such declaration is so general in its character that the purpose of the
party to assert a Federal right is left to mere inference. It is
the settled doctrine of this court that the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts of the United States must appear affirmatively
from the record, and that it is not sufficient that it may be inferred argumentatively from the facts stated.

.

.

.

Upon

like grounds the jurisdiction of this court to reexanine the
final judgment of a state court cannot arise from mere inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as to
place it beyond question that the party bringing a case here
from such court intended to assert a Federal right."
This also disposes of the suggestion that the offering in evidence of the judgment in the suit by the administrator, and of
evidence of its payment, raised a Federal question under the
treaty, for no such ground was taken in relation to that evidence, to say nothing of the fact that Mrs. McGrew was not a
party to that suit.
In the bill of exceptions there is an enumeration of certain
objections to the entry of judgment and certain errors of law
alleged to have occurred during the trial, and to have been excepted to by defendant, which embraces the objection that. the
decision of the trial court was against law because, among other
things, the findings of fact did not determine the issues raised
by the allegation in the answer quoted in the statement preceding this opinion, and that the court erred in sustaining the
objection of plaintiff to the introduction of evidence of payment by the company to the administrator of the amount due
on the policy. But there is no reference to the treaty, and all
this no more set up the claim than the answer itself.
In fact, the question was not even raised in the Supreme

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Opinion of the Court.

Court, though, if so, the court was not then bound to regard
it. Reference was made in the briefs in the Supreme Court to
the treaty, but those references did not specially set up or
claim any right as secured by the treaty, nor were the briefs
made part of the record by any certificate or entry duly made,
and our attention has not been called to any statute or rule of
court in California making them such.
In the petition for rehearing it was said that the treaty made
the decision in Carterv. Insurance Company, 10 Hawaii, 117, controlling, and if that could be considered as a compliance with
§ 709, which we do not think it could, it caine too late, and the
petition was denied without an opinion. In doing so that court
adhered to the usual course of its judgments, and its action
cannot be revised by us. If the Supreme Court of California
had seen fit on that petition to entertain the contention of
plaintiff in error as asserting a Federal right, and had then decided it adversely, the case would have occupied a different position.
Where a state court refuses to give effect to the judgment of
a court of the United States, rendered upon a point in dispute,
and with jurisdiction of the case and the parties, it denies the
validity of an authority exercised under the United States;
and where a state court refuses to give effect to the judgment
of a court of another State, it refuses to give full faith and credit
to that judgment. The one case falls within the first class of
cases named in § 709 and the other within the third class.
Where a judgment of another State is pleaded in defence,
and issue is made upon it, it may well be ruled that that sets
up a right under the third subdivision, because the effect of the
judgment is the only question in the case, but here the plea of
the decree of divorce and the statute did not necessarily suggest
or amount to a claim under the treaty. They were properly
admitted in evidence under the state law for what they might
be worth as a defence, but that did not involve the assertion of
an absolute right under the treaty.
The Supreme Court of Hawaii in its second opinion in the
administrator's case said that the company, not having brought
Mrs. McGrew in by interplea, must rely on the courts of Cali-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

fornia taking the same view that the courts of Hawaii did, but
did not intimate that the courts of California were compelled
by treaty to take that view.
Nor can this failure to claim under the treaty be supplied by
judicial knowledge. We so held in .Jountain View _31iiing
and -Milling Company v. McFadden, 180 U. S. .533, where we

ruled that judicial knowledge could not be resorted to to raise
controversies not presented by the record; and Professor
Thayer's Treatise on Evidence was cited, in which, referring to
certain cases relating to the pleadings and matters of record, it
was said "that the right of a court to act upon what is in point
of fact known to it must be subordinate to those requirements
of form and orderly communication which regulate the mode of
bringing controversies into court, and of stating and conduct.ing them."

A~'kansas v. Kansas and Texas Coal (yoml)a(my,

183 U. S. 185, 190.
That rule must necessarily govern us in passing on the question of our appellate jurisdiction under § 709.
The Supreme Court of California held that the Hawaiian
statute had no force in California "except by comity;" accorded full effect to the decree of divorce as dissolving the bond
of matrimony, but decided that Mrs. AMcGrew was not affected
by the statute because she was not domiciled in Hawaii, and
was domiciled in California, when that decree was rendered,
and when the statute could have operated if she had been
domiciled in Hawaii; and that the statute "had no operation
upon her or her personal property here; for the law which
governs personal property is the law of the domicil." As to
whether a Federal question was involved at all, see Roth v.
Ehman, 107 U. S.319 ; Roth v. Roth, 104 Illinois, 35; Wtirttemberg Treaty, 1844, Comp. Treaties, (1899,) 656.
It is argued 'that by the judgment against the company in
favor of McGrew's administrator, the Hawaiian courts had
adjudicated that Mrs. McGrew's title passed to the administrator. But Mrs. McGrew was not a party to that action, and
was not bound by it, so that it could be pleaded against her.
The insurance company did not litigate the question of owner.
ship on her behalf and was in no way authorized to represent

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. McGREW.
Opinion of the Court.

her. In any point of view we return to the contention that it
was in virtue of the treaty that the California courts were
obliged to accept the Hawaiian decisions, and the record fails
to show that a right or title was set up thereunder.
2. The second question indicated by plaintiff in error is that
the decision was in conflict with § 1 of Article IV of the Constitution, providing that full faith and credit in each State shall
be given to the public acts, records and public proceedings of
every other State, as carried out by § 905 of the Revised Statutes, because it is insisted that prior to the decision this constitutional provision applied to Hawaii, and should be regarded
as an enlargement of and connected with the alleged claim of
right under the treaty. But an alleged right under a treaty between two foreign nations is inconsistent with an alleged right
arising under the Federal Constitution, and as a right under the
Constitution it was not at any time or in any way brought to the
attention of the state courts. The judgment of the trial court
was rendered October 11, 1897. The resolutions of annexation
were passed July 7, 1898. The act to provide a government
for Hawaii was passed April 30, 1900. By this act it was provided that the laws of Hawaii, not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States, or the provisions of the
act, should remain in force, subject to repeal or amendment,
but the act forfeiting the wife's property was repealed May 12,
1896. Laws Hawaii, 1896, p. 70.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California was rendered February 28, 1901, and we cannot retain jurisdiction on
the ground of the assertion of a Federal right which did not
exist when the judgment was rendered in the trial court, and
which was not brought to the attention of the highest court of
the State in any way whatever.
Writ of error dismissed.

MR. JuSTIcE PEOKIIAM took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this case.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

dissented.

