OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. IIILLMON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 94. Argued November 13, 14,1902.-Decided January 2, 1903.

Where two cases, brought by the same plaintiff, against different defendants, consolidated for trial, each of the defendants is entitled to three
peremptory challenges. But the weight of authority is that the right
of the plaintiff is not correspondingly multiplied, and that she is entitled
to but three. But if the defendants do not exhaust their right to peremptory challenges, they cannot complain that the plaintiff was allowed
more than the number to which she was was entitled.
If a witness upon cross-examination is interrogated with regard to an affidavit made by him in direct conflict with his testimony, and the affidavit
be subsequently put in evidence by the opposite party without limitation
as to its purpose in so doing, it becomes a part of its evidence in the case,
and its adversary is entitled to an instruction that such affidavit may be
considered as independent evidence to be weighed in connection with
the deposition of the witness, and not merely as impeaching his creditability.
Where the defendant in an insurance case relies upon a conspiracy to substitute the dead body of another for that of the insured, and prinafacie
evidence to that effect had been produced, it is error to exclude evidence
of declarations made by the alleged conspirators to third parties, tending
to show the plans of the conspirators.

THIS was an action begun July 13, 1880, by Sallie E. Hill-

mon, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Kansas, to recover the amount of a policy of insurance,
($5000,) issued by the company March 4, 1879, upon the life
of John W. Iillmon, her husband, in which the plaintiff was
named as beneficiary. Plaintiff made the usual allegations of
compliance with the terms of the policy, and averred that the
assured had died ?Jarch 17, 1879, thirteen days after the policy
was issued, and that due proofs had been forwarded to the company. Other actions were also brought against the New York
Life Insurance Company and the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, upon policies of insurance issued by them

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. HILLMON.
Statement of the Case.

upon the same life, which actions were subsequently compromised.
Defendant interposed a general denial, and for a special defence set lip in substance that on or before November 30, 1878,
John W. Hilhmon, John I. Brown, Levi Baldwin and diverse
other persons to defendant unknown, fraudulently conspiring to
cheat and defraud defendant, procured a large amount of insurance on the life of Hillmon, to wit : $10,000 in the New York Life,
by policy dated November 30, 1878; $10,000 in the Mutual Life,
by policy dated December 10, 1878; and $5000 in the Connecticut Mutual Life, by the policy in suit, dated March 4, 1879 ; that
thereafter, in pursuance of such conspiracy, Hillmon, Brown
and Baldwin falsely represented to defendant and others that
said Hillmon had died, and that a certain dead body which they
had procured was that of Hillmon, whereas in truth Hillmon
" was not and is not dead," but has kept himself concealed under assumed names for the purpose of consummating the conspiracy.
As a third defence the company set up a release by plaintiff
of all her claims against it under the policies.
Actions having been begun upon all three of these policies,
an order was entered July 14, 1882, consolidating them for trial.
Two trials of the three consolidated cases resulted in disagreements of the jury. On February 29, 1888, judgments in each
were rendered for the plaintiff, which, upon writs of error, were
reversed by this court and the cases remanded for a new trial.
145 U. S. 285. The material facts of the case are fully set forth
in that report, and will not be here repeated, except so far as
they are pertinent to the questions before this court for consideration. After two more trials of the consolidated cases, which
resulted in disagreements of the jury, a compromise was effected
between the plaintiff and the New York Life, which was followed by dismissal of the action against that company. Thereafter, and on January 9, 1895, an order previously entered consolidating the two remaining actions for trial was continued in
force against the objection of each defendant, and the consolidated cases again came on for trial, resulting in separate judgments November 18, 1899, against both companies. To reverse
VOL. cLXXXV-IM-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

this defendant sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and upon hearing in that court the judgment was
affirmed with one dissent. 107 Fed. Rep. 834. The LMutual
Life sued out a similar writ of error, but compromised the case
before it was heard in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
M'. William G. Beak for petitioner. -Mr. Buell .fe-_eever,
.3ft. Gilbert E. Porter and _Xr. Jfaries TF. Green were with him
on the brief.
-Mr.Lysander B. IF-eat for respondent. Xr1'. C. fHutchings and 2Mrb'. 7ohn -H. Atwood were with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTicE BiowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
We shall have occasion to notice but few of the 108 assignments of errors in this case.
1. Several of these relate to an order of consolidation, and
to the ruling of the court giving to the plaintiff six peremptory
challenges to the jury, while each defendant had but three.
On June 14, 1882, the three original cases were first consolidated for trial, and so remained through all the trials which
took place prior to the settlement with the New York Life.
The propriety of this consolidation was affirmed by this court
upon its first appearance here in 14-5 U. S. 285. A stipulation
appears to have been entered into October 16, 1899, between
the attorneys for the plaintiff and the attorneys for the three
defendants, to set aside the order of consolidation, and a motion
was made for an order to that effect, which was overruled, and
the order of consolidation was continued in force as to the two
remaining defendants. It would seem that the court refused
to be controlled by the stipulation. We see no reason to doubt
the propriety of this order, nor does it appear to have been seriously contested. But its effect upon the number of peremuptory challenges to which the defendant was entitled is made
the subject of dispute. Upon the former hearing of this case
it was held that the consolidation of the three cases there con-

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. HILLMON.
Opinion of the Court.

sidered did not impair the right of each of the three defendants
to three peremptory challenges under Rev. Stat. sec. 819. But
the question was left undecided whether the right of the plaintiff was multiplied, so that she became entitled on the last trial
to six peremptory challenges, or only to three.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that, as under our ruling,
the two defendants were under Rev. Stat. sec. 819, each entitled
to three peremptory challenges, or six in the aggregate, the
plaintiff was also entitled to six. This is the converse of the
proposition established by this court when the case was first
here. The argument of the defendent in this connection is that
under the ruling of the court each defendant was treated as
one party and the plaintiff as two parties; that it gave the
plaintiff more challenges than she would have had in one case,
treating the causes of action as distinct, and the plaintiff entitled
to her three challenges in each case, with the result that each
defendant, without its consent, and against its protest, was compelled to try its own cause before a jury to which it was given
only one half as many peremptory challenges as were given to
the plaintiff. The consequence was that each defendant was
prejudiced by the fact that every additional peremptory challenge allowed to the plaintiff beyond three makes arbitrarily
a vacancy which may be filled in spite of the defendant by a
juror, whom it might and would have challenged if it had an
opportunity to do so. The substance of the argument is that,
it having been held upon the former hearing here, that each
defendant lost no right by the consolidation, and was entitled
to as many challenges as if no such consolidation had taken
place, the plaintiff was not entitled to any more challenges than
she would have been entitled to, in case the consolidation had
not taken place. Quite a number of cases are cited in support
of this proposition: Savage v. State, 18 Florida, 909; Wiggins
v. State, 1 Lea, (10 Tennessee) 738; 3fahan v. State, 10 Ohio,
234; State v. Earle, 24 La. Ann. 38; Soeflter v. State, 3 Wisconsin, 823; Thompson on Trials, sec. 45; Proffatt on Jury
Trials, sec. 164. The case of Spies v. The People, 122 Illinois,
1, is to the contrary.
Conceding that the great weight of authority supports the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

proposition of the defendant, we are still of opinion that it is
not entitled to take advantage of it, inasmuch as it made but
two peremptory challenges, waiving its right to a third, and thereby acquiesced in the composition of the jury. The only effect
of allowing the plaintiff six peremptory challenges was to put
three additional men upon the jury, whom the defendant could
not challenge, and if it had exhausted its peremptory challenges
it might perhaps claim to have been prejudiced by the fact that
three men had been put upon the jury which it was not entitled
to challenge; but having failed to exhaust its peremptory challenges, it stands in no position to complain that it was deprived
of the right to challenge others. Stout v. flyatt, 13 Kansas,
232, 241; Atchison &c. R. 1. Co. v. Franklin, 23 Kansas, 74;
Florence &c. Railroad Company v. Wfard, 29 Kansas, 354;
Atlas Xining Co. v. Joknstov, 23 -Miehigan, 36; Grand Rapids
Booming Co. v. Jarvis, 30 Mlichigan, 308.
2. Error is charged in the refusal to instruct the jury that
"the statement signed and sworn to by John H. Brown on the
4th day of September, 1879, having been introduced in evidence
by the plaintiff, may be considered in connection with the deposition of John HI. Brown as evidence of the facts stated under
oath, against the plaintiff, with like effect as the deposition of
John H=. Brown, and may also be considered as affecting the
credibility of said Brown as a witness."
In lien thereof the court charged the jury that Brown's statement, signed and sworn to by him, was not affirmative evidence
of the truth of any matter therein contained or mentioned, and
that it should not be considered by the jury except as affecting
the credibility of the evidence of Brown in his deposition. To
determine the correctness of this construction it is necessary to
consider the circumstances under which the evidence was produced. The alleged death of Hillmon was said to have occurred in March, 1879. Upon the trial plaintiff offered and
read in evidence the deposition of John HI. Brown, taken on
December 30, 1881, who swore generally that be was employed
by EHillmon driving a team, and afterwards in taking care of
and feeding hogs; that he started with him from Lawrence
for Wichita for the purpose of locating a cattle ranch, and that

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. HILLMON.
Opinion of the Court.

Hilnon was accidentally killedby the discharge of a gun in the
hands of Brown. To contradict this testimony William J.
Buchan, a witness put upon the stand by the defendants, swore
that in the spring or summer of 1879, but a few months after
the alleged death, he met Brown by appointment at Lexington,
and was told by him that he was uneasy about the affair ; that
it was not Hilhnon who was killed but another man, but that
IHilhmon had got away and they were hunting for him ; that he
wanted to get out of it himself and to turn State's evidence,
and that he wanted witness to see the attorney for the insurance
company and let up on hunting for him if he would go on the
stand and tell the truth about the whole affair. Upon the
cross-examination of Buchan the plaintiff offered in evidence
an affidavit made by Brown on September 4, 1879, in which he
repeated the substance of the conversation testified to by Buchan,
and stated that instead of Hillmon being killed it was another
man whom Hillmon shot. This affidavit had already been produced, though not formally put in evidence by the defendant on
the cross-examination of Brown. It was under these circumstances that the court ruled that the affidavit was not affirmative evidence of any truth or matter contained in it, and should
not be considered, except as affecting the credibility of the
evidence of Brown given in his deposition.
It is insisted in behalf of the plaintiff that, as no exception
was taken to this part of the charge, its propriety cannot be
questioned at this time; but as an exception was properly taken
to the refusal of the court to charge that the statement having
been introduced in evidence by the plaintiff may be considered
in connection with Brown's deposition, as evidence of the facts
therein stated under oath with like effect as his deposition, we
think there was sufficient to raise the point that the affidavit
was not to be treated merely as affecting Brown's credibility,
but as substantial evidence in favor of the plaintiff. Having
excepted to the refusal to give a certain instruction, it was not
necessary to repeat such exception when the contrary of such
request was given in the general charge. As defendant had
raised the point in one form, it was not necessary to repeat it
inanother.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

As this statement of Brown's had already been produced by
the defendant upon the cross-examination of Brown, to impeach
his credibility as a witness, and he bad been cross-examined as
to its contents, it is difficult to see why it was introduced by
the plaintiff in connection with the cross-examination of Buchan.
It was evidently put in for some purpose, and it is difficult to
a piece of independent testi
assign any other than to make it.
mony, since, in view of Brown's deposition to the contrary,
the plaintiff might still have argued that the statement or
affidavit, if ever made, was false. As now claimed, it was inintroduced for the purpose of explaining why the plaintiff con.
sented to release her claim against the insurance company,
though it seems to have been quite unnecessary in this connection, since its statements were already in evidence as part of
Brown's cross-examination. Conceding that as a piece of independent testimony, a mere affidavit was not admissible, it was
competent for the defendant to waive this objection and to
treat it as other testimony in the case offered by the plaintiff. Under such circumstances it is something more than an
admission by the witness that he had made statements inconsistent with his testimony upon the subject. For whatever
purpose it was introduced, and in view of the fact that it
was offered generally and without limitation as to its purpose, it became a piece of plaintiff's evidence to be weighed
and considered like any other testimony in the case. We do
not undertake to say that the plaintiff was absolutely bound by
it and estopped to deny its truth, in view of Brown's deposition
to the contrary, but we think it was giving it too little effect to

charge the jury that it could only be considered as impeaching
the credibility of Brown; and we do not think defendant was
asking too much in instruction number 44, that it might be considered in connection with the deposition of Brown as evidence
of the facts therein stated under oath, against the plaintiff, with
like effect as the deposition. 1 Greenl. Ev. sec. 442. The words
" with like effect" were evidently intended to instruct the jury
that the deposition and the affidavit were each independent of
the other and each affirmative testimony-not, however, that
they were of equal weight.

CONN.

MUT. LIFE INS. CO. r. HILLMON.
Opinion of the Court.

Suppose, for example, the only evidence of the identity of the
body found had been the testimony of Brown. It doubtless
would have been correct to charge that the utmost effect of his
affidavit, if it had been formally introduced upon cross-examination, would be to destroy his testimony as given in the deposition. His credit as a witness being thus destroyed, the fact of
Hillmon's death would be regarded as not proven, and the plaintiff would be considered as having failed to establish her case.
But upon the other hand, as the affidavit had not been put in
upon the cross-examination of Brown, and the plaintiff read it
as part of her case, it must necessarily be considered as a piece
of independent evidence to be weighed in connection with the
deposition, and the jury was necessarily left to consider which
of the two, when taken in connection with the other testimony
in the case, was to be considered as the more credible. The
general rule undoubtedly is that, when a party offers a witness,
he thereby generally represents him as worthy of belief, and
while under the peculiar circumstances of the case this rule would
not apply any more to the affidavit than to the deposition, the
plaintiff, by putting both in evidence, without restriction as to
the purpose of so doing, places them on the same level, and cannot be heard to say that the affidavit may not be considered
as testimony of the facts therein sworn to as well as the deposition.
3. Several assignments are based upon the exclusion of the
testimony of the witnesses Phillips, Blythe, Crew and Carr, as
to acts performed and declarations made by the alleged coconspirators John W. Hillmon, John H. Brown and Levi Baldwin, after evidence had been introduced establishing such conspiracy. That considerable evidence of a conspiracy between
these three parties had been introduced and at a very considerable length is not denied, and the main objection to the introduction of the acts and declarations of the above witnesses was
based upon the ground that the plaintiff, the wife of Hillmon,
was not alleged to have been a party to such conspiracy.
The proposed testimony of Phillips, who was a physician,
and had been called professionally by Baldwin to his house in
the summer or fall of 1878, related to certain inquiries made

OCTOBER TERil,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

by Baldwin as to the effect of death upon bodies. In this connection defendant offered to prove that Baldwin asked the witness if he had any insurance upon his life, and said he had been
thinking about taking out some himself, and in the same conversation asked Phillips how long a dead body would decompose after it was buried. He further asked if it "would not be
good scheme to get a good insurance on your life and go down
South and get the body of some Greaser and pawn it off as your
body and get the money."
The witness Blythe, a lawyer and fire insurance agent, an
acquaintance of John W. Hillnon and Levi Baldwin, testified
that they had called at his office in the autumn of 1878, asked
him. concerning life insurance, how to get it, what were good
companies, how they should make application, whether a person
could travel in different countries without forfeiting the insurance, what proceedings were necessary to collect insurance upon
death, what length of time would be required, etc., and that a
week or ten days before this conversation he had met Baldwin
alone on the street. Defendant thereupon asked what was said
by Baldwin at that time, and offered to prove that Baldwin
asked the witness if he knew anything about life insurance and
about the companies; and that a friend, a relative or connection, wanted to get some insurance, and he wanted to know if
witness could recommend some good company to him. Whereupon witness told him how to do it.
By the witness Grew the defendant offered to prove the following testimony, all of which was excluded by the court,
namely, that witness resided in the spring of 1879 in Lawrence,
Kansas; was acquainted with both Mrs. llillmon and Baldwin,
and that as receiver of a local bank he had several notes of
Baldwin's for collection, all of which were overdue. Two of
the notes were secured by mortgage on real estate and one by
chattel mortgage; that he had talked of foreclosing the mortgages, as he had been unable to collect either principal or interest; that Baldwin told him a part of the money represented
by his indebtedness had been furnished to insure the life of John
W. HIfllmon; that in the latter part of March of that year (the
conversation having taken place a few days before the first of

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. HILLMON.
Opinion of the Court.

March) he had heard of Hillmon's death; that at this time he
had a conversation with Baldwin regarding the latter's indebtedness to the bank, in which Baldwin told him to let his matters
rest, as he was then on his way West after the body of Hillmon ; that he had arranged for a portion of the insurance on
the life of Hilinon, and that as soon as he got it he would be
able to straighten up all his affairs; that Baldwin stated that
he was to have $10,000 of this insurance; that witness had acquainted himself thoroughly with Baldwin's financial condition
and found him in very straitened circumstances, having some
property but all mortgaged, and mostly all mortgaged twice,
and that his indebtedness was pressing him severely.
The witness Alexander Carr testified that he knew both Baldwin and Hillmon, and that in March, 1879, he and Baldwin
were out together buying stock some time after the 10th of
March. The witness was then asked what conversation he had
with Baldwin in regard to any business transaction between him
and Hillmon, and offered to prove that witness was talking one
day to Baldwin about himself and Carr going into a sheep ranch
together ; "and one day he was speaking about that he was
under ' brogue' with John W. Hilhmon, and he said he and Hillmon had a scheme under 'brogue,' and he said that if that
worked out all right he was all right."
All this testimony was ruled out apparently upon the ground
that declarations made by Baldwin were not admissible against
the other conspirators to prove the existence of the conspiracy
if not made in their presence; that these declarations were mere
admissions or narrations of what had already taken place and
were not made in furtherance of a common design, while it was
under way or in process of execution so as to form a part of the
'es gestw ; and for the further reason that the testimony was
not admissible against the plaintiff, who was not alleged by the
insurance company to have ever become a party to the alleged
combination to defraud the insurance company, either by an
original participation in the scheme or by subsequently adopting it.
While we are not called upon to express an opinion upon the
question whether the mere proof of a conspiracy to defraud the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant by the procurement of an insurance upon Elilhnon's
life with the view of ultimately collecting the amount of the
policies by a false pretense of his death would be sufficient to
avoid the policies as having been obtained by fraud, without
proof that such conspiracy had been consummated by compassing the death of another party and passing off the body of the
deceased as that of Hillmon, the fact still remains that there
was evidence of a conspiracy to procure a large amount of insurance upon the life of Hillmon and to procure in some way
the body of another man to pass off as that of Hillmon, and
thereby to obtain the amount of these policies, nominally, at
least, for the benefit of Hillmon's wife. It is true the plaintiff
is not alleged to have been a party to such conspiracy, although
she was named as beneficiary in the policies, but her husband
is alleged to have been a party, and any fraud perpetrated by
hin at the time the policies were taken out was available as a
defence by the company in an action by her.
These questions and declarations of Baldwin to the four witnesses above stated were made either just before or just after
the policy was taken out. They were not so much narratives
of what had taken place as of the purpose Baldwin had in view,
and we know of no substantial reason why they do not fall
within the general rule stated by Greenleaf, 1 Greenleaf on Ev.
sec. 111, that every act and declaration of each member of the
conspiracy, in pursuance of the original concerted plan, and
with reference to the common object, is, in contemplation of
law, the act and declaration of them all, and is therefore original evidence against each of them. The conspiracy then existed and was still pending. Smith v. Y'ational Benejt Soc'y,
123 1. Y. 85.
These declarations taken together tend to show that Baldwin,
who seems to have taken the most active part in the transactions
connected with this policy, was heavily indebted, and being
pressed by his creditors; that he expected in some way to obtain a large part of Hill mon's insurance, and that he was also desirous of going into a sheep ranch with Hilimon, with whom he
declared he had a scheme under consideration by which they
could raise the necessary funds; that such scheme consisted in

CONN. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. HILLMON.
Opinion of the Court.

obtaining insurance upon Hillnion's life, and then going South and
getting the body of some other person and passing it off as the
body of the insured, and thus recovering the amount of the policy.
This testimony was certainly corroborative of other testimony in
the case, which both courts below agreed as establishingpirm
facie evidence of a conspiracy, and which was to the effect that
Baldwin and Hillmon had been intimate acquaintances for eight
or ten years prior to 1879 ; that Baldwin, who appears to have
been a man of considerable means, had employed Hilimon in
various capacities connected with his farm, and that during his
visits at Lawrence Hillnon generally stayed at his house. Hillmon there first met his wife, who was a cousin of Baldwin's and
worked at his house. tillmon was a man of no property, and
after his marriage he and his wife occupied a single room in the
house of one Mary Judson, and did their cooking upon her stove.
Baldwin and Hillnon became interested in life insurance, and
consulted various agents as to their companies and about methods of collection in case of loss. In a conversation with one
Wiseman in February, 1879, Hillmon stated that he was going
West on business and might get killed; asked about proofs of
death; what the widow must do to get her insurance money
and what evidence she would have to furnish if he were killed.
Under these circumstances he took out insurance for $25,000,
the annual premium for which amounted to $600. There were
various other items of testimony of the same character, which
the courts below regarded as sufficient prima face evidence of
a conspiracy.
Under the circumstances we think the evidence of the four
witnesses in question should have been submitted to the jury,
and that such testimony was admissible as against the plaintiff,
though she was not alleged to be a party to the conspiracy, upon
the theory that any fraudulent conduct on the part of the insured in procuring the policy, or in procuring the dead body of
another to impersonate himself, was binding upon her. It is
well settled that the fraud of the insurer's agent in the procurement of the policy is binding upon the principal. 3Millville &c.
IAs. Co. v. Collerd, 38 N. J. Law, 480; N/Vat. -Life Ins. Co. v.
Minchi, 53 N. Y. 144; Oliver v. .Xut. &e. As. Co., 2 Curt. 277;
Bi'russ v. Nat. Life Ass'n, 32 S. E. Rep. 49.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

A number of other alleged errors are embraced in the assignments, but we see none to which we find it desirable to call attention. For the error in the instruction regarding Brown's
affidavit and in ruling out the declarations of the four witnesses
named,
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
case remanded to le Circuit Courtfor the Districtof Kansas with instructionsto grant a new trial.
VMR. JusTICE BREWER and MR. JUsTICE WHiTE dissented.

EASTON v. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 92. Argued January 14, 15, 1903.-Decided February 2, 1903.
Congress having power to create a system of national banks, is the judge
as to the extent of the powers which should be conferred upon such
banks, and has the sole power to regulate and control the exercise of their
operations. Congress having dealt directly with the insolvency of national banks by giving control to the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Comptroller of the Currency, who are authorized to suspend the operations of the banks and appoint receivers thereof when they become insolvent, or when they fail to make good any impairment of capital, and
full and adequate provision having been made for the protection of creditors of national banks by requiring frequent reports to be made of their
condition, and by the power of visitation of Federal officers, it is not
competent for state legislatures to interfere, whether with hostile or
friendly intentions, with national banks or their officers in the exercise
of the powers bestowed upon them by the general government.
While a State has the legitimate power to define and punish crimes by general laws applicable to all persons within its jurisdiction, and it may declare, by special laws, certain acts to be criminal offences when coimitted by officers and agents of its own banks and institutions, it is
without lawful power to make such special laws applicable to banks organized and operated under the laws of the United States.

IN 1899, in the District Court of Wenneshiek County, State
of Iowa, James H. Easton, who had been previously indicted,

