OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

visions of section 23 of the bankruptcy act and not by this summary proceeding in bankruptcy.
The plaintiffs in the suits in the state court had the right to
proceed to judgment in that court and to collect their judgments
against the surety on the bail bond, and the court in bankruptcy
had no power to prevent such proceedings in suits over which
the state court had full cognizance. Fyster v. Gaf 91 U. S.
521, cited in Bardes V. Iawarden Bank, sitpra.
Our conclusion is that the District Court was without jurisdiction in the matter submitted to it in the petition of the trustee, and its decree dismissing such petition for want of jurisdiction is, therefore,

Ajfrmed..

AMERICAN ICE COMPANY v. EASTERN TRUST AND
BANKING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 95. Argued December 2, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

Although, as held in Farmers' Loan & Trust Company v. Penn Plate Glass
Company, 186 U. S. 434, a covenant in a mortgage to keep the property
insured does not run with the land so that an actual grantee taking subject to the mortgage comes under a primary obligation to insure, the case
is different, under the peculiar language of the covenant contained in the
mortgage herein, and where the mortgagor after failing to insure in accordance with the covenant transfers the property to a voluntary assignee.
the
In such case the insurance taken out by the assignee, who stands in
of
fulfillment
in
out
taken
be
to
assumed
be
must
assignor,
shoes of the
collected
the mortgagor's covenant, and in the event of loss the amount
cannot be
under the policies inures to the benefit of the mortgagee, and
general
of
that
or
interest,
his
retained by the assignee as representing
property.
the
of
equity
the
in
creditors,
unsecured

TIE appellee herein was the complainant in the court of
original jurisdiction and commenced its suit in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to foreclose a mortgage ex-

AMERICAN ICE CO. v.EASTERN TRUST CO.

627

Statement of the Case.

ecuted by the American Ice Company, one of the appellants,
to the appellee as trustee, etc. Judgment of foreclosure was
entered, from which an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals of the District, where it was modified by reducing the
amount of the indebtedness found due by the trial court and
secured by the mortgage, and as so modified the judgment was
affirmed. 17 D. C. App. 422; also reported on former hearing
in the Court of Appeals, 14 D. C. App. 304. Another phase
of the controversy appears in 6 D. C. App. 375 and 169 U. S.
295.
The facts are somewhat numerous, but for the purpose of
presenting the question discussed in the opinion herein the following only are necessary to be noticed:
The American Ice Company was a Maine corporation, and
in that State it made a mortgage to the appellee, which was
also a Maine corporation, to secure the payment of bonds executed by the ice company to the amount of $40,000, payable
in installments of $5000 each. The bonds were payable to the
mortgagee or bearer, and all were duly sold and delivered to
various persons for full value before maturity. The property
mortgaged embraced real estate in M1aine, and also certain real
estate which the mortgagor claimed to own in the city of
Washington, D. C., opposite square 2970, and being within the
limits of the bed of the Potomac River. On this property
were erected a wharf and ice houses for storing and distributing
the ice gathered in Maine and shipped to Washington. The
mortgage contained the following provisions as to insurance:
"Article 7. The American Ice Company hereby expressly
covenants and agrees to pay any and all taxes, assessments and
governmental charges assessed or laid upon the property herein
conveyed or intended so to be, and also to keep said premises
and property at all times insured in such insurance companies
as may be approved by the trustee, in such amounts as shall
reasonably protect all the insurable property, payable in case
of loss to the trustee as its interest may appear. In case of
loss the insurance money may be applied by the trustee toward
the renewal of or additions to the property destroyed or injured,
or a the option of the trustee the money may either be retained

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

and invested in such securities as it approves, as a sinking fund
for the redemption of the bonds when due, or be applied to
the payment of the principal of such of the aforesaid bonds as
may be at the time due and unpaid and of the interest which
may at that time have accrued upon the principal and be unpaid, without discrimination or preference; and ratably to the
aggregate amount of said unpaid principal and accrued and
unpaid interest, rendering the surplus, if any, to the American
Ice Company, or to whomsoever may be lawfully and equitably entitled to receive the same."
The mortgagor company thereafter fell into financial difficulties, defaulted in the payment of its bonds and other indebtedness, and on October 13, 1893, it made an assignment to
William G. Johnson, the other appellant, as assignee, for the
benefit of its creditors. The assignee took possession of the
real property mortgaged and situate in Washington, and in
November, 1896, took out fire insurance policies to the extent
of $3000 on the buildings and improvements on the Washington property, the premiums being paid from the assigned estate. On February 11, 1896, the buildings and improvements
were destroyed by fire and the insurance moneys were paid
to the assignee, who set up in his answer to the bill of foreclosure that he had taken out the insurance upon his separate
interest as owner of the equity of redemption for the benefit
of all the creditors of the ice company, secured and unsecured;
while the trustee claims the insurance moneys for the benefit
of the bondholders.
The trial court decreed the foreclosure of the mortgage and
sale of the mortgaged premises, and in the event that the proceeds arising therefrom should be insufficient to pay the bonded
indebtedness, it further decreed that the assignee should pay
to the trustee the insurance moneys, or so much as might be
necessary to pay the deficit, and that the trustee should apply
the same as directed.
31r. Willicgna G. Johnson for appellants.

.A&. Beneimin F. _Leig ton for appellee,

AMERICAN ICE CO. r. EASTERN TRUST CO.

629

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants have made several assignments of error which
have been argued before us, but the only one we think it necessary to notice is that which relates to the disposition of the
moneys received by the assignee on account of the insurance
effected by him upon the property destroyed by fire.
The assignee claims to be entitled to pay these moneys for
the benefit of all the creditors, unsecured as well as secured,
while the appellee, the trustee in the mortgage, demands that
the moneys should be paid to it for the purpose of reducing
the deficit which may arise from the sale of the mortgaged
premises, and the courts below have so decreed. The claim of
the appellee is founded upon the language used in the mortgage, by which the ice company was to keep the "premises
and property at all times insured . . . in such amounts
as shall reasonably protect all the insurable property.
In case of loss the insurance money may be applied by the trustee toward the renewal of or additions to the property destroyed or injured, or, at the option of the trustee, the money
may either be retained and invested in such securities as it approves, as a sinking fund for the redemption of the bonds when
due, or to be applied to the payment of the principal" of such
bonds, etc. This language, it is urged, takes the case out of
the ordinary rule that a simple covenant to insure contained
in a mortgage does not run with the land. The assignee appellant founds his claim upon the assertion that, as assignee, he
was the owner of the equity of redemption, having an insurable
interest in the premises as such, and that, in fact, he intended
such insurance for the benefit of all creditors, and not as a fund
for the security of the bondholders alone.
In IFarmer's' Loan & Trust Co. v. Pen Plate Glass Co., 186
U. S. 43-, we had occasion to examine the nature and effect of
a covenant to insure contained in a mortgage, and we concluded
that such a covenant does not run with the land, so that one
taking a conveyance subject to the mortgage comes under a
primary obligation to insure. In that case the mortgage was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

foreclosed and the property bid in at the judicial sale, and the
grantee of the Master took out insurance in his own name for
the purpose of insuring his own interest in the premises which
he had purchased, and he repudiated in terms any obligation
to insure for the benefit of the mortgagee, and accordingly the
policies were issued, and they stated they did not cover the
mortgagee's interest in the premises.
Here there is in substance no difference between the mortgagor and its assignee for the benefit of creditors, so far as this
question is concerned. The mortgagor had indeed failed to insure, as it had covenanted to do, but when it transferred the
legal title of the property to its voluntary assignee, he stood in
the shoes of his assignor, and when he took out insurance policies
upon the property he in effect fulfilled the obligation which
had rested upon the mortgagor to insure, and the insurance
thus becomes by virtue of the covenant a security for the payment of the bonds secured by the mortgage. This does not
make a case of a covenant to insure running with the land as
against a subsequent purchaser of the property for value, but,
as we have said, it is simply the case of a taking out of insurance by a voluntary assignee having no beneficial interest in
the property, and when such assignee insures the premises under
the circumstances herein stated, with such a covenant in a
mortgage, the insurance moneys enure to the benefit of the
bondholders secured by the mortgage.
It was conceded in the court below that, as a general proposition, a covenant to insure was a mere personal covenant, and
did not attach to and run with the land, but it was held that
the peculiar language of this mortgage took it out of that rule.
Mr. Chief Justice Alvey said in the Court of Appeals in this
case, 14 App. D. C. 331 :
"It is very clear, that, by the terms of the covenant, it had
relation to the land, and its principal object was to keep and
maintain the buildings on the property in condition for carrying on the ice business. This was the great object of the insurance required, as means of security to the bondholders.
Without this, the property, by fire, might be rendered of little
value, and the bondholders be left without security. By means

AMERICAN ICE CO. v. EASTERN TRUST CO.

631

Opinion of the Court.

should be
of the insurance it was intended that the property
maintained as security; and hence it was provided, primarily,
renewal of or
that the insurance money might be expended in
repeatedly
adding to the buildings. In such cases it has been
in an
least
at
held, that the covenant does run with the land,
equitable sense; and where an insurance has been obtained,
and the insurthough by an assignee, and a fire has occurred,
has held that
ance money has been received, a court of equity
benefit of those
the insurance money should be applied for the
made."
was
covenant
for whose protection the original
1, 7; Thomas
Ald.
&
Barn.
5
The cases of Vernon v. Smith,
31 MichiAldrich,
v.
v. Vonkapff, 6 Gill & John. 372; Afiller
Nfichols
311;
Missouri,
gan, 408, 411; Ellis v. Kreutzinger, 27
v. Baxter, 5 R. I. 491; Masury v. Southworth, 9 Ohio St. 340,
348, and I re Sands Ale Brewing Company, 3 Biss. Rep. 175,
were cited by the Chief Justice in support of his contention.
In the case of IWheeler v. Insurance Company, 101 U. S. 329,
covenant
it was held that where a mortgagor is bound by his
for
security
better
the
for
premises
to insure the mortgaged
interest
their
of
extent
the
to
the mortgagees, the latter have
in the property destroyed, an equitable lien upon the money
due from the policy taken out by him, and that this equity
exists, although the contract provides that, in case of the mortgagor's failure to procure and assign such insurance, the mortgagees may procure it at the mortgagor's expense.
So in this case, we practically have a fulfillment of the mortassignee,
gacror's covenant to insure, because its voluntary
standing in its shoes, did himself insure the premises, and such
the
insurance enures to the benefit of the mortgagee, because
assignee is a voluntary one, and is but carrying out an obligation imposed originally upon his assignor. The peculiar lanit
guage of the mortgage upon the subject of insurance takes
covenants.
such
out of the general rule governing
We think the case at bar is not covered by the case of Trust
Comanpany v. Penn Glass Company, 186 U. S. 434, supra, and
to the
that the court below made the proper decree in relation
insurance moneys.
We have examined the other assignments of error argued

OCTOBER TERMT,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

before us, but are of opinion that they are clearly untenable
and were properly disposed of by the court below.
Finding no error in the record, the judgment is

.Affirmed,.

BOSTON AND MONTANA CONSOLIDATED COPPER
AND SILVER MINING COMPANY v. MONTANA ORE
PURCHASING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 103. Argued December 3, 1902.-Decided February 23, 1903.

To give the Circuit Court jurisdiction under section 1 of the act of March 3,
1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, Federal questions must
appear necessarily in the statement of the plaintiff's cause of action and
not as mere allegations in the plaintiff's bill of the defence which the defendants intend to set up or which they rely upon. And if it further
appear from defendant's answer that no such defence is set up, no jurisdiction exists to try questions not of the kind coming within the statute,
and the Circuit Court should dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
In order for a parby in possession to maintain a bill of peace for the purpose of quieting his title to land against a single adverse claimant ineffectually seeking to establish a legal title by repeated actions of
ejectment, it is necessary for tie bill to aver that complainant's title has
been established by at least one successful trial at law; and where it
appears from the bill that an action at law involving the same questions
has been commenced, but has not been tried, it is a fatal defect.
To maintain a bill of peace in the Federal courts there must be an allegation that the complainant is in possession, or that both parties are out of
possession.

THE appellant in this case (being the complainant below) has
brought it to this court by an appeal from the judgment of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Montana
dismissing its complaint and ordering judgment for the defendants on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of the
action. A decree having been entered in accordance with the
direction of the court dismissing the bill, the Circuit Court has
certified to this court the question of jurisdiction, and whether
or not a Federal question is presented in complainant's amended
bill and the answer of the defendant corporation.

