WERCKMEISTER v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.

375

Syllabus.

207 U. S.

ground that the offense could not be split up. None of the
acts alleged in these complaints was the assault upon Celimin,

relied upon in the present case, and it does not appear that the
assault upon Celimin was relied on or proved as part of the
disorderly conduct for which the plaintiff in error was punished
in the municipal court. It is unnecessary to consider whether
the same conduct could be punished at the same time on the
same grounds by both a superior and subordinate authority
in the same jurisdiction. There is nothing in the Philippine
bill of rights that forbids assaults on two individuals being
treated as two offenses, even if they occur very near each other
in one continuing attempt to defy the law. *We cannot revise
the finding of the courts below that the two offenses were

distinct.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

WERCKMEISTER v. AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 29.

Argued October 30, 1907.-Decided December 16, 1907.

Section 4965, Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat.
965, is penal in nature and cannot be extended by construction; it contemplates a single action for the recovery of plates and copies infringing a
copyright, and for the money penalty for the copies found. Such an action
is wholly statutory and all the remedies given by the statutes must be exhausted therein, and after the owner of the copyright has recovered judgment for possession of the plates and copies he cannot maintain a separate
action to recover the money penalty.
There is no requirement in § 4965, Rev. Stat., that the United States shall be
a party to the action provided for the recovery of plates and copies found

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

and for penalties; the evident purpose of that section is that the proprietor of the copyright shall account to the United States for one-half the
money penalty recovered.
148 Fed. Rep. 1022, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of § 4965, Rev.
Stats., as amended by the act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 965,
and the nature of the action to recover penalties thereunder
for violation of copyright, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Antonio Knauth for plaintiff in error:
The words used in the statute admit of no other construction than that the two remedies, the recovery of the unlawful
sheets and the recovery of the money penalty, are cumulative
remedies to which the plaintiff is entitled, and it has been
uniformly so held.
Previous to the decision in this case by the Circuit Court
there was no decision by any court that the two remedies
must be sought in one action. Whenever the money penalty is sought to be recovered for sheets which have been
found in the defendant's possession, there must be a previous action for the recovery of the sheets and the finding
of the sheets therein by means of proper process. Thornton v.
Schreiber, 124 U. S. 612; Falk v. Curtis Pub. Co., 107 Fed. Rep.
126, 128.
There are intrinsic differences in the actions for the forfeiture
of the property and for the payment of the money penalty.
The action for the recovery of the forfeited articles is an action
in rem. The property in the articles remains in the owner until
it is seized, and then by the seizure the title relates back to
the time of the forfeiture. Clark v. Protection Ins. Co., 1 Story,
134; United States v. 1,960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, 311; United States v. Baker, 5 Ben.
28; Fontainev. Phcenix Ins. Co., 11 Johns. (N. Y.) 292; Amory
v. McGregor, 15 Johns. 23; Henderson's Distilled Spirits, 14
Wall. 44, 56; Thacher's Distilled Spirits, 103 U. S. 679; The
Mary Celeste, 2 Lowell, 356.

WERCKMEISTER v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
207 U. S.

377

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The action for the recovery of forfeited articles is always regarded as an action in rem. United States v. Spring Valley
Distillery, 11 Blatch. 267. As the action for the recovery
of the forfeited articles is an action in rem* the court has jurisdiction over the forfeited articles, whenever they, are within
the territorial jurisdiction of the court, and personal service
of process upon the defendant in the action is not an essential
prerequisite to the maintenance of the action. The court
would have power to call in the defendant by publication or
service of the summons outside of the State. Act of March 3,
1875, § 8 (18 Stat. at L. 470, 472), amending Rev. Stat., § 738;
also 25 Stat. 434; Jellenik v. Huron Copper Min. Co., 177 U. S.
1; Mellen v. Moline, 131 U. S. 352.
. The defendant American Tobacco Company being a New
Jersey corporation, this court had undoubtedly jurisdiction
to proceed in the replevin action without personal service, but
no jurisdiction to proceed to a decree in the personal action
unless the defendant appeared or could be found in this jurisdiction. Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, 46.
On the other hand, the action to be brought for the recovery
of the money penalty is a personal action, and can be maintained only when the defendant is personally found within the
jurisdiction of the court. The term "forfeit" as applied to a
money penalty, means only that the offender shall be made
to pay the amount. It means a fine, a mulct. In re Levy, 30
Ch. Div. 119; Merchants' Bank v. Bliss, 21 How. Pr. (N. Y.)
370; Ex parte Alexander, 39 Mo. App. 108; People v. Nedrow,
122 Illinois, 367; Commonwealth v. Avery, 14 Bush (Ky.), 638;
Taylor v. Steamer Marcella, 1 Woods, 304.
The fiction that the title to forfeited property dates back
to the time of the commission of the wrong is applied because
Union' Reconvenience and justice require its application.
frigeratorTransit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 208.
It is quite different with the money penalty,
which cannot
be dated back any further than to the day of finding the
sheets in defendant's possession, because that very finding

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S.

is a condition precedent to the accruing of the money penalty.
As to the sheets, the plaintiff has an inchoate title, which
exists as soon as they are wrongfully made, and this inchoate
title ripens into a complete title upon condemnation. As to
the recovery of the money penalty he can have no such inchoate right; it is a mere claim for payment which arises only
after the finding.
It follows from the different nature of the two remedies
which are required to enforce the two distinct forfeitures under
the statute, that there will be frequently cases where they
cannot be combined.
If the property is found in one State, in the hands of an agent
or employ6, while the offender resides in another State, he
could not be sued in the State of his residence, because the
property could not be found therein. Neither could he be
sued in the State where the property was found, because for
the purposes of a personal action the court will have no jurisdiction over him. If the rule should be established that one
suit only can be brought, the plaintiff would lose the money
penalty in such a case, if the two remedies must be combined.
Mr. William A. Jenner for defendant in error:
A second and separate action will not lie for penalties
after a judgment in a former distinct action for forfeiture of
sheets.
There cannot be two.actions, one for the forfeiture of sheets,
the other for the money penalty.
There is only one offense committed by doing one or other
or all the things mentioned in § 4965. Bolles v. Outing Co., 77
Fed. Rep. 966; S. C., 175 U. S. 266.
The solution of the matter seems to be to permit in one action
a forfeiture of sheets found in possession when it is commenced
and in the same action to adjudge the penalties for the sheets
so found.

WERCKMEISTER v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
207 U.S.

379

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE-DAY del'vered the opinion of the court.
This case was argued and submitted with American Tobacco
Company v. Werckmeister, decided December 2, 1907, ante, p.
284.
The present action was brought to recover, under § 4965,
Revised Statutes, relating to copyright (3 U. S. Compiled Stat.
3414-), the penalties of $10 each, for 1,196 sheets of the al6
leged infringing publications claimed to have been found in
the defendant's possession and seized by the United States
marshals, under the two writs of replevin described in that suit.
Plaintiff in error, Werckmeister, offered in evidence the judgment roll in the former suit, with the pleadings and judgment,
and also offered in evidence the writs and returns of the marshals for the Southern and Western Districts of New York,
respectively, showing seizures of 203 copies. and 993 copies;
the court excluded these writs as immaterial. No other evidence being offered, the court instructed the jury to render
a verdict for the defendant, and judgment was afterwards
rendered accordingly upon the verdict' 138 Fed. Rep. 162.
On writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals the judgrent
below was affirmed, 148 Fed. Rep. 1022, and this writ of error-is
prosecuted to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
This action requires the construction of § 4965, Rev. Stat., as
amended March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 965 (U. S. Compiled Stat., vol.
3, p. 3414), which is as follows:
"SEc. 4965. If any person, after the recording of the title-of
any map, chart, dramatic or musical composition, print, cut,
engraving, or photograph, or chromo, or of the description of
any painting, drawing, statue, statuary, or model or design
intended to be perfected and executed as a work of the fine
arts, as provided by this act, shall, within the term limited,
contrary to the provisions of this act, and without the consent
of the proprietor of the copyright first obtained in writing,
sined in nresence of two or more witnesses, engrave, etch,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

work, copy, print, publish, dramatize, translate, or import,
either in whole or in part, or by varying' the main design, with
intent to evade the law, or, knowing the same to be so printed,
published, dramatized, translated, or imported, shall sell or
expose to sale any copy of such map, or other article, as aforesaid, he shall forfeit to the proprietor all the plates on which
the same shall be copied, and every sheet thereof, either copied
or printed, and shall further forfeit one dollar for every sheet
of the same found in his possession, either printing, printed,
copied, published, imported, or exposed for sale; and in case of
a painting, statue or statuary, he shall forfeit ten dollars for
every copy of the same in his possession, or by him sold or exposed for sale: Provided, however, That in case of any such infringement of the copyright of a photograph made from any
object not a work of fine arts, the,-sum to be recovered in any
action brought under the provisibns of this section shall be not
less than one hundred dollars, nor more than five thousand
dollars, And: Provided further, That in case of any such infringement of the copyright of a 'painting, drawing, statue,
engraving, etching, print or model or design for a work of the
fine arts or of a.photograph of a work of the fine arts, the sum
to be recovered in any action brought through the provisions
of this section shall be not less than two hundred .-and fifty
dollars, and not more than ten thousand dollars. One-half
of all the foregoing penalties shall go to the proprietors of
the copyright and the other half to the use of the United
States."
As with the sections of the copyright act under consideration
in Tobacco Company v. Werckmeister, ante, this section has been
the subject of consideration in the Federal courts, with different
conclusions as to its purport and meaning. While the statute
provides for the forfeiture of the plates and sheets and for the
sum of $10 in case of a painting, for every copy found in the
offending person's possession or sold by him, it is silent as to
the kind of action to be brought, and we are left to discover the
meaning of the act in this respect from a consideration of the

WERCKMEISTER v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
207 U. S.

381

Opix~lon of the Court.

language used, read in the light of the objects and purposes to
be effected.
Obviously the statute does not provide a prceeding in rem,
as is sometimes done in the revenue laws, for the act is levelled
against any person who shall, contrary to its provisions, without consent, etc., engrave, work, copy, print, etc., forfeit to
the proprietor the plates and sheets and a sum of money for
each sheet, etc., found in his possession. This section of the
statute is penal, and there should be especial care to. work no
extension of its provisions by construction. Statutory provisions similar to those above cited have been the subject of consideration in a number of cases in this court. In Backus v.
Gould, 7 How. 798, it was held that there-could be no recovery
for publishing sheets, copyright matter, etc., unless the same
were found in the possession of the defendant. In Stevens
v. Cady, 2 Curtis, 200; S. C., Fed. Cases No. 13,395, Mr. Justice
Curtis, sitting at the circuit, held there could be no-accounting
for the penalties in an action in equity, and that the proprietor
of the copyright was left by the act to his remedy at. law by
trover or replevin. In Thornton v. Schreiber, 124 U. S. 612, it
was held that action would not lie against Thornton, who was
the business manager of Sharpless & Son, of Philadelphia, in
whose store the prints in question in that case were found, and'
in speaking for the court Mr. Justice Miller, who delivered the
opinion in that case, said (p. 620):
"Counsel for defendants in error, Schreiber & Sons, insist
that the words 'found in his possession' are to be construed as
referring to the finding of the jury; that the expression means
simply that where the sheets are ascertained by the finding of
the jury to have been at any time in the possession of the person who committed the wrongful act, such person shall forfeit
one dollar for each sheet so ascertained to have been ip his
possession. We, however, think that the word 'found' means
that there must be a time before the cause of action accrues at
which they are found in the possession of the defendant."
This language was held in Falk v. Curtis Pub, Co., ,102 Fed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Rep. 967, 971, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit in Falk v. Curtis Pub. Co., 107 Fed. Rep. 126,
to mean that before the action for the penalty wbuld lie there
must be a finding of the articles in the possession of the defendant by means of a proceeding instituted for the express purpose
of condemnation and forfeiture, and that an action of assumpsit
brought at the same time with the action of replevin was, pre*mature.
In the ease of Bolles v. The Outing Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 966,
Judge Wallace, who spoke for the Court of Appeals in that case,
said (p. 968):
"The statute is apparently framed to give the party whose
copyright has been invaded complete relief by an action in
which he can procure a condemnation of the infringing sheets,
and at the same time recover, by way of compensation, a
penalty for every sheet which he is entitled to condemn. The
words 'found in his possession' aptly refer to a finding for the
purposes of forfeiture and condemnation. The remedy by
condemnation and forfeiture is only appropriate in a case where
the property can be seized upon process; and where, as here,
the forfeiture declared is against property of 'the 'offender,' it
is only appropriate when it can be seized.in his hands. The
section contemplates two remedies, enforceable ina single suit,
each of which depends upon the same state of facts. The aggrieved party may, at his election, pursue either one or both
remedies. But it does not contemplate a recovery of penalties,
except in respect to the sheets which can be condemned."
And in Bolles v. The Outing Co., 175 U. S. 262, 266, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Brown, observed:
"No remedy is'provided by the act, although by section 4970
a bill in equity will lie for an injunction, blit the provision-for a
forfeiture of the plates and of the copies seems to contemplate
an action,in the nature of replevin for their seizure, and in addition to the confiscation of the copies, for a recovery of one dollar
for every copy so seized or found in the possession of the defendant."

WERCKMEISTER v. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. 383
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And in that case the view expressed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit was approved (175 U. S. 268),
and while the point was not necessarily involved, we think the
indication in Bolles v. The'Outing Company, that a single action
in the nature of replevin for the recovery of plates and copies
and a penalty for copies found, is correct.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit .that the language in Thornton v. Schreiber, above
quoted, was not intended to indicate that an action declaring
the forfeiture was required by the statute before the adjudication of the articles to the plaintiff, as is generally necessary in
actions of forfeiture (Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 518),
but that the true construction of the statute, and the one intended to be indicated by Mr. Justice Miller, is that before the
penalty can be recovered it is necessary that the sheets be actually found in the possession of the defendant. As we have
said, this section of the statute is highly penal (Bolles v. The
Outing Co., supra), and there is nothing in its terms to indicate
that the offender is to be subjected to more than one action; on
the contrary, the provisions of the section seem to point clearly
to the conclusion that when the offender is brought into court,
under this section, he sliall forfeit to the proprietor the plates
on which the articles -shall be copied and every sheet thereof,
whether copied or printed, " and shall further forfeit one dollar
for every sheet of the same found in his possession," etc., and
in case of a painting, etc., "he shall forfeit ten dollars for every
copy of the same in his possession, or by him sold or exposed
for sale."
. There is nothing in this section which seems to contemplate
the method of procedure pursued in this case, namely, a separate action for the money penalty, upon the theory that it arose
only in case of actual finding and judgment of condemnation,
but the statute contemplates the bringing-of the offender into
court in one suit, in which the plates and sheets shall be seized
and forfeited and the penalty recovered.
If it had been the intention of Congress to provide two ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

tions, one for the forfeiture of the plates, sheets, etc., and
another for the recovery of the money penalty, it would have
beeneasy to have said so. Likewise, had it been the intention
of Congress to permit a recovery for the money penalty only
after judgment of forfeiture had gone in fa-vor of the plaintiff,
it would have been equally as easy to have made such provision.
Until Congress shall provide otherwise, and this section might
well be made more specific as to the nature and character of
the remedy given, we think this section intended to provide, in
a single action, all the remedy which is within its scope, and that
to construe it as requiring two actions would be extending a
penal act beyond the provisions incorporated in its terms.
In reaching this conclusion we have not overlooked the fact
that one-half of the penalties go to the proprietors of the copyright and one-half to the United States. There 'is no requirement that the United States shall be a party-to the action, and
we think the purpose of the statute was to make the proprietor
of the copyright accountable to the United States for one-half
of the money penalty recovered.
Upon this construction of the statute the plaintiff in error
had exhausted his remedy in the judgment rendered in the first
suit, and as the action is wholly statutory and no second action
is given as we construe the act, the court was without power to
award the second judgment in the separate action for the money
penalty, and the Circuit Court properly directed the verdict
for the defendant below.
The judgment of' the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit is
Affirmed.

