CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 541
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

scope and interpretation of the act. We think the act is constitutional, and, therefore, that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

I must admit that I think there are strong reasons in favor
of the interpretation of the statute adopted by a majority of
the court. But, as it is possible to read the words in such a
way as to save the constitutionality of the act, I think they
should be taken in that narrower sense. The phrase "every
common carrier engaged in trade or commerce" may be construed to mean "while engaged in trade or commerce" without
violence to the habits of English speech, and to govern all that
follows. The statute then will regulate all common carriers
while so engaged in the District of Columbia or in any Territory,
thus covering the whole ground as to them; and it will regulate
carriers elsewhere while engaged in commerce between the
States, etc., thus limiting its scope where it is necessary to limit
it. So construed I think the act valid in its main features under the Constitution of the United States. In view of the circumstances I do notdiscuss details.

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING COMPANY v. THE STATE
OF VERMONT, BY CLARKE C. FITTS, ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 364.

Argued December 3. 4, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

Whether a notice to produce books and papers is broader than the state
statute provides for is not a Federal question.
So long as an opportunity to be heard is given to the party objecting to a
notice to produce books and papers, before the proceeding to enforce such
production is closed, due process of law is afforded, and if the state court
bas construed the statute providing for such production to the effect

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

that objections raised before a grand, jury must be reported to the court
for action, there is opportunity to be heard.
It is within the power of the State, and due process of law is not denied
thereby, to require a corporation doing business in the State to produce
before tribunals of the State books and papers kept by it in the State,
although at the time the books may be outside of the State.
Nothing in the Federal Constitution. prohibits *a State from conferring
judicial functions upon non-judicial bodies.
A corporation required to produce books and papers cannot refuse to produce any of them on. the ground that they might incriminate it. It is
for the court, after an inspection, to determine the sufficiency of the
objection and what portion, if any, of the books and papers produced
should be excluded.
Iii this case, the notice, given under a state statute, to produce books and
papers did not amount to an unreasonable search or seizure. Adams.
v. New York, 192 U. S.585. Quwre and not decided, whether the Fourteenth Amendment has made the provisions of the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments immunities and privileges of citizens of the United States
of which they cannot be deprived by state action.
An objection that a notice to produce books and papers is too broad cannot
be urged against the validity of the order adjudging the party refusing
to comply guilty of contempt. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.43. Nor is a
notice to produce too broad if, as in-this case, it is limited to books and
papers relating to dealings with certain specified parties between certain
specified dates.
If the person producing the books and papers is entitled, under the general
law of the State, to compensation as a witness, the failure of the statute
requiring the production of the books and papers of corporations to
provide compensation to the corporation itself for the time, trouble and
expense of such production does not amount to taking private property
without compensation.
A state statute providing for the production of books and papers by corporations does not deny to corporations the equal protection of the laws;
such a classification is a proper one. _
The statute of Vermont of October 9, 1906, providing for the produdtion
of their books and papers by corporations before courts, grand juries and
other tribunals, and punishing corporations failing to comply therewith
as for contempt, is not unconstitutional as depriving corporations of their
property without due process pf law, or as denying them the equal protection of the laws, or as conferring judicial functions on non-judicial
bodies, or as taking private property for public use without compensation, or as constituting unreasonable searches and seizures or requiring
corporations to incriminate themselves,
66 AtI. Rep. 790, affirmed.

THis writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 543
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Supreme Court of the State of Vermont, affirming a judgnient of the County Court of the County of Chittenden, adjudging the plaintiff in error, a corporation, hereinafter called
the company, in contempt and fining it $3,000, for the collection of which it was ordered that execution should issue.
The company in due form was served in Vermont with a
notice to produce certain described books and papers before
the grand jury sitting at Burlington, in that State. The notice
was given pursuant to the provisions of a statute passed by
the General Assembly of the State, October 9, 1906. No. 75
Laws, p. 79. That statute provided for the service upon a
corporation doing business in the State, whether organized
Under its laws or those of another State or country, of a notice
to produce books and documents before any court, grand jury,
etc., which contained any account or information concerning the subject of inquiry before the tribunal, acting under the
authority of the State, and which books, etc., have at any
time been made or kept within the State of Vermont, and
were within the custody or control of the corporation in that
State or elsewhere at the time of the service of the notice
upon it. Such corporation, when notice to the above effect
is served upon it, is, by the statute, directed to produce the
books and papers as required. The notice is to be issued
from the court or tribunal before whom the papers are required to be produced, and a general description of what is
required is to be given in the notice. If the corporation, without reasonable cause, neglects or refuses to comply, "it may
be punished as for contempt by the court having jurisdiction
of the premises to punish for the contempt. Execution may
issue for the collection of miieh fine as may be imposed for such
contempt."
This company was doing business at Burlington, Vermont,
under a certificate from the Secretary of State, certifying that
it had complied with all the requirements of the law authorizing it to do business in the State. On the seventeenth of
October, 1906, the grand jury was in session at Burlington,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

and had been investigating a complaint which had been made
against, certain individuals who were members of the Vermont
Cattle Commission, the complaint being that such persons, or
one of them, had unlaifully sold diseased meat for food purposes at Burlington. In order to continue the investigation
the grand jury had caused a- notice, under the above statute,
to be seved upon the company, directing it to produce certain
books and papers, described in such ntotice, before the grand
jury on the seventeenth of October, 1906. On the day named
a person, representing the company, appeared before the grand
jury and produced some books of account and other data, ,but
failed to produce others which were described in the notice,
and which it was therein directed to produce. The grand jury
reported the facts to the County Court, stating in the report
that the company had kept books which. would have shown
material facts for the. purpose. of the investigation, but had
not produced them, as required in and by the notice, and that
they 'were necessary for the further pursuit of the inquiry.
The Attorney General at the same time filed a petition to the
court containing, in substance, the same facts, and asked that
the company should be proceeded against fdr contempt. The
County Court thereupon, on the nineteenth of October, 1906,
made an order to show cause 'why the company should not be
punished as for a contempt in failing to produce such books
and papers. Upon the return of the order the company appeared by counsel and made a motion to dismiss the proceeding on the ground that -the memoranda and papers called for
in the notice wero not legal and material evidence before the
grand jury, and also because it was sought by the notice to
produce, and by the other proceedings to compel the company
to bring into the State of Vermont, before the grand jury,
papers which might tend to criminate the company and render
it liable to criminal prosecution, contrary to the provisions of
the Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constittution of the United States. Accompanying this motion
to dIismiss was the affidavit of counsel, in which he stated that

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 545
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the papers and memoranda which the company had failed to
produce before the grand jury would, if produced in evidence
before the jury, tend to criminate the company and render it
liable to criminal prosecution. The company also answered
and admitted that it had kept at Burlington, in Vermont, such
papers as were described in the notice to produce, but that on
August 20, 1906, all such books and papers were sent to the
main office of the company at Boston, Massachusetts, for the
purpose of examination and verification, and that after it
was made, and long before the serviee of the notice, such
papers or memoranda as were not produced before the grand
jury had been destroyed at Boston. The State took issue upon
the averments of the answer.
Upon the hearing before the court one of the company's
agents testified that the papers had been destroyed in Boston
because they were of no consequence, and there was nothing
in them to incriminate anybody.
The court, for reasons which it stated, found that the papers
wanted were material to the inquiry which the grand jury
was making, and that without their presence it was impossible
to proceed to any effect with the investigation. It further
found, upon all the evidence before it, that the books and
papers had been in possession of the company at the time
they were taken away from the State, and the court said that
it failed to find that the papers were destroyed, and that it
also failed to find that they were not then in the custody and
control of the company so that it could produce them, and
that "thus failing to find, we find them guilty of contempt."
This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Vermont.
66 Atl. Rep. 790.
Mr. Freedom Hutchinson and Mr. Albert S. Hutchinson for
plaintiff in error:
The notice to produce was in excess of the authority' granted
by the statute, and was invalid.
Inflicting a fine upon the plaintiff in error for failurd to obey
VOL. CCV ii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

an invalid and unauthorized order deprived it of property
without due process of law.
The statute is a highly penal one. A corporation failing to
comply with a proper and lawful notice is subject to punishment for contempt and may also be enjoined from longer doing
business in Vermont. The whole proceeding was a summary
one, and the jurisdiction of the court to act depended upon a
strict compliance with the statute.
Since the statute was not complied with, all the proceedings
here taken were null and void, and the plaintiff in error was
adjudged in contempt without due process of law. Thatcher v.
Powell, 6 Wheat. 119. See also Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713;
Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604; Ex parte*Ayers, 123 U. S. 443;
Ex parte Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200; Ex parte Burrus, 136 U. S. 586;
Re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242.
Neither statute nor notice to produce afforded the plaintiff
in error an opportunity to present in court reasons why the
writings demanded should not be produced.
The notice to produce which could be issued under the. statute by a non-judicial body in effect pronounced an ex parte
judgment on the plaintiff in error without hearing or notice
and denied due process of law. Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389, 390; Roller v. Holley, 176
U. S. 398.
Where the sbpoena duces tecum requires appearance and the
production of documents in a place other than open court,
the witness has a right to'have the question whether he shall
answer or produce passed upon by the court, with opportunity
for defense, and an order of the court to produce before he is
in contempt. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 80; Interstate Commerce Com. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 479. See also Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S.
591; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25;
Ballman v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186; Nelson v. United States,
201 U. S. 92.
This statute is an attempt by the State to limit a corporation

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 547
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in the complete dominion and control of its property Situated
in another State, although the corporation is not organized
under her laws and is not personally. within her jurisdiction.
The sovereign powers of a State 'cannot be exqrcised beyond
her borders. Union Refrigerator Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194; Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578, 592; N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
153 U. S.628; Mississippi &c. Co. v. Pennsylvania,2 Black; 485.
The statute attempts to confer judicial functions upon nonjudicial bodies, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The powers bestowed are judicial in their character which
cannot be exercised by the legislature itself, much less delegated to a non-judicial body, Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S.
168. See also In re Pacific Railway Comm., 32 Fed. Rep. 241,
253.
The statute and 'notice required the plaintiff in error to produce writings which tended to incriminate it, without extending
immunity against criminal prosecution. Counselman v. Hitohcock, 142 U. S. 547; Ballman v. Fagin,200 U. S.186.'
Even if the notice had contained an order for the plaintiff
in error to appear before the grand jury, no question of law
in reference to self-incrimination could properly have been
raised before that body. Ballman v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186;
Ex parte Wilson, 39 Tex. Crim. Rep. 630.
The statute, since it contains no immunity clause, is in plain
contravention of article X of the Vermont constitution, which
is substantially the same as the Fifth Amendment to the
United States Constitution. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142
U. S.547; Emery's Case, 107 Massachusetts, 172; State ex rel.
Attorney General v. Simmons & Co., 109 Missouri, 118; In re
Cullinan, 82 App. Div. (N. Y.) 445. See also Ex parte Clarke,
-524; Lam103 California, 352; Ex parte Cohen, 104 California,
son v. Boyden, 160 Illinois, 613; Ex parte Carter, 166 Missouri,
604; Smith V. Smith, 116 N. Car. 386; Peoplev. Forbes, 143 N. Y.
219; People v. O'Brien, 176 N. Y. 351; Logan v. Railroad Co.,
132 Pa. St. 403, 408; United-Statesv. Lead Co., 75 Fed. Rep. 94.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

For the same reason, the statute is in conflict with the Four-.
teenth Amendment which prohibits the infringement df fundamental rights by state action, whether legislative, executive
or judicial. The right to be protected against self-incrimination
is a fundamental right so protected. Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 605, 631.
The statute and notice to produce authorized an unreasonable search and seizure of the private books and documents
of the plaintiff in error. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616;
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43. See also In re Pacific Railway
Comm., 32 Fed. Rep. 241; Ex parte Clarke, 103 California, 352;
Lester v. People, 150 Illinois, 408; Ex parte Brown, 72 Missouri,
143; State v. Davis, 117 Missouri, 614; Corson v. Hawley, 82
Minnesota, 204, 214; Newberry v. Carpenter, 107 Michigan, 567.
The statute provides no compensation for the time, *trouble
and expense imposed upon a corporation in a foreign State or
country of collecting and sending the documents demanded
to the State of Vermont. Such a requirement is, in substance,
a taking of property without just compensation, and, furthermore, the taking is not in Vermont, but outside her limits,
where the expense is incurred aiid the labor performed. Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S.403; Chicago Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226.
The statute is confined in its operation to corporations.
An arbitrary classification is thus established, and the plaintiff
in error is deprived of the equal protection of the law secured
by the' Fourteenth Amendment. The classification created
by this statute is a purely arbitrary one and in conflict with the
principles laid down by this court in Gulf &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165
U. S.150.
Where evils sought to be remedied are incident to individuals
as well as corporations, laws applicable only to corporations
are clearly unconstitutional. Johnson v. Goodyear Mining Co.,
127 California, 4; Quarries Co. v. Bough, 80 N. E. Rep. 529
(Ind.1907); Ballardv. Mississippi Cotton Oil Co., 81 Mississippi,

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 549
207 U. S.

507, 569.
540.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

See also Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.

Mr. Clarke C. Fitts, Attorney General of the State of Vermont, for defendant in error:
Where a witness is within the jurisdiction of the court issuing
the subpoena, he may be compelled to produce books and
papers, if t4.ey are within his control, though the physical
location thereof may at the time be vwithout the jurisdiction.
Bank v. State Bank, 3 Cliff. 201; Wigmore on Evidence, 2200.
The plaintiff in error resided in Maine, but it was doing
business in Vermont, and was present in Vermont. Railroad
Co. v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 11, 12; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.
258, 261; Insurance Case v. Frdncis, 11 Wall. 210.
The question whether the notice in its scope goes beyond
the statute and as to whether the books and papers called for
would be legally admissible is one for the state court alone.
It is within the established power of the State to
prescribe
the evidence which is to be received in the courts of its own
government. Adams v. New Yqrk, 192 U. S. 599; Fong Ting v.
United States, 149 U. S.698, 729.
The requirement of the production of books and papers did
not compel the company to incriminate itself.. Adams v.
New York, 1.92 U. S. 597.
Law in its regular course of administration through courts
is due process, and when secured by a law of the State, the
constitutional requirement is satisfied, and due process is so
secured by laws operating-on all alike. Leeper v. Texas, 139
U. S. 462; Kent's Commentaries, vol. 2, p. 13; Marchant v.
Railroad Co., 153 U. S. 390.
A corporation may be punished for contempt as well as an
individual person. People v. RailroadCo., 20 How. Pr: (N. Y.)
358.
Where a foreign corporation is doing business in -another
State, it is proper to punish a contenipt by a fine as well against
the corporation itself as the subordinate agents found within

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

its jurisdiction.
237.

207 U. S.

United States v. Railroad Co., 6 Fed. Rep.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We take the findings of fact by the state court as conclusive
upon us. It therein appears that the company was duly
served with a notice (which was in substance a substitute for
a subpana duces tecum) to produce books and papers required,
and that they had not been destroyed, but were 'then under
its control and custody; that the papers were material evidence upon the subject of inquiry before the grand jury, and
that the company had (with some minor exceptions) omitted
and refused to produce them before that body. The company
had a hearing before the court, and an opportunity was given
it, under the statute, to set up any reasonable cause for its
failure to comply with the requirements of the notice. The
court, after this hearing, found the company guilty cf the
contempt charged and fined it accordingly.
The company insists that the proceedings were in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. The objections made
before us were: (1) That the notice to produce was in excess
of the authority granted by the statute, and was therefore
invalid; (2) that neither the-statute nor the notice afforded
the company an opportunity to present in court reasons why
the writings demanded should not be produced; (3) that the
effect of the statute is to limit a corporation in the complete
dominion and control of its property situated ii another
State, although the corporation is not organized under the
laws of the State of Vermont, and is not personally within
her jurisdiction; (4) that the statute attempts to confer judicial
functions upon non-judicial bodies, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
(5) that the statute and notice required the company to produce
writings which tend to incriminate it, without extending im-

CONSOLIDATED REiNDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 551
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

munity against criminal prosecution; (6) that the statute and
notice authorized an unreasonable search and seizure of the
private books and documents of the company; (7) that the
statute provided no compensation for the time, trouble and
expense imposed upon a corporation in a foreign State or
country of collecting and sending the documents demanded
to the State of Vermont; and lastly (8) that the statute is
confined in its operation to corporations, thus making an
arbitrary classification, by which the company is deprived of
the equal protection of the law secured by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The first objection made by counsel for the company is not
of a Federal nature. Whether the notice to produce was
broader than the statute provided for is a question of the
construction of the state statute, and of the notice, and the
decision of the state court is final on that question.
Counsel insisted before us in discussing the second objection
that the failure to give an opportunity to be heard why the
books should not be produced deprived it of due process of
law guaranteed under the Fourteenth Amendment.. Without
discussing the question whether this matter comes within the
meaning of due process of law, we may say that the objection
to the statute is not borne out by its text. The company had
under its proyisions, and by the fourth section, full opportunity
to show cause before the court why it did not produce the
papers, and the Supreme Court of Vermont. has held in this
case that any objection to the production of the papers made
before the grand jury would have raised the question before
that body, which it would have been its duty to report to the
court for its action. Upon such question the company would
have been entitled to'be heard, and it was in fact heard before
the court previous to any decision by the court regarding the
right of the company to withhold the papers. So long as a
hearing is given before any proceeding is concluded to enforce
the production of the papers, due process of law is afforded.
Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427; Wilson v. Standefer, 184 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

399, 415; New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S.
336, 349.
The third objection is without force. It is argued that the
statute in this particular (tenies due process of law to the
company, because it authorized the infliction of a fine by the
court for failure to perform an act outside the State, ordered
by a non-judicial body, and without notice and opportunity
for hearing. The last reason has already been answered by
showing that a hearing is provided for before any punishment of the company for disobedience to the requirements
of the notice to produce can be enforced. There can surely
be no illegality in providing that a corporation doing business
in the State and protected by its power may be compelled to
produce before a tribunal of the State material evidence in
the shape of books or papers kept by it in the State, and which
are in its custody and control, although for the moment outside the borders of the State. The statute is in no sense a
provision as to how the company shall perform its duties and
'obligations in other States. It directs the company doing
business in the State and present therein, by its officers or
some of them, to do something which it is entirely competent
to do, the purpose of which is to enable the tribunal making
the investigation under a state statute to perform its duty.
.Fourth. There is no provision in the Federal Constitution
which directly or impliedly prohibits a State, under its own
laws, from conferring upon non-judicial bodies certain functions that may be called judicial. It is said that the statute,
in providing for the production of books and papers, includes
not only the court and grand jury, but any tribunal or commission authorized by the State. There is nothing, as we have
said, in the Federal Constitution which prevents it.
The fifth objection is also without merit, even upon the
assumption that in such a case as this the company could take
the objection through the witness. The court simply held
that it could not determine whether the objection as to incrimination was valid until the books were produced for in-

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 553
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

spection by the court, though before they were to be used in
evidence. If, after that inspection, any portion were found
of that character, the court held that such portion would be
excluded. As, however, the company failed and refused absolutely to produce any of the books, with some unimportant
exceptions, it was adjudged to have failed to show any reasonable cause for such refusal to comply with the requirements
of the notice, and it was fined for the contempt. Obviously
the company could not by its refusal to produce the books
thereby entirely conclude the court from any examination
whatever into the sufficiency of the excuses for such nonproduction. Otherwise the company could disobey at its
pleasure and so prevent any inquiry into the merits of the
excuses. The statute might as well not exist if this were to
be permitted.
Sixth. The objection that the notice authorized by the
statute amounted to an unreasonable search and seizure of
the private books and documents of the company is also not
well founded. In Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, where
the question was raised, the court refused to discuss the contention that the Fourteenth Amendment made the provisions
of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, so far as they related to the right of the
people to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures,
and to be protected against being compelled to testify in a
criminal case against themselves, privileges and immunities
of citizens of the United States of which they could not be
deprived by the action of the State, because on an examination of the record the court concluded that there had been no
violation of this restriction, either in the unreasonable search
and seizure or in compelling plaintiff in error to testify against
himself. We are of opinion that there was no violation of
such rights in the case before us, and we think it equally unnecessary to decide the question which was left undecided in
the Adams case.
The' objection is also made that the documents were not

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the.Court.

207 U. S.

described with the particularity required in the description
of documents necessary to a search warrant or subpoena, and
that it was not a valid paper and created no obligation to obey
the notice, which could form no justification. for any proceed,
ing for contempt, and was not due process of law. An examination of the notice to produce shows that the requirements of
the. notice, while quite broad, yet were limited to such books
or'papers as related to, or concerned, any dealings or business
between January 1, 1904, and the date of the notice, October,
1906, with the parties named therein, who were cattle commissioners of the State of Vermont, and which papers were
to be used relative to the matter of complaint pending, and
then and there to be investigated by the grand jury, in which
the persons named in the notice were charged with hiving
unlawfully sold diseased meat for food purposes at Burlington.
The notice also gave in detail the dates and amounts of checks
and vouchers which the company was required to produce.
The company refused to produce the books (with the exceptions stated), and even if the notice had been too broad, the
objection cannot be urged as to the validity of the order adjudging the company guilty of contempt. Hale v. Henkel,
201 U. S. 43. But unless it can be said that the court or grand
jury never has any right to call for all the books and papers,
or correspondence, between certain dates and certain persons
named, in regard to a complaint which is pending before such
court or grand jury, we think the objection here made is not
well founded. We see no reason why all such books, papers
and correspondence which related to the subject of inquiry,
and were described with reasonable detail, should ndt be called
for and the company directed to produce them. Otherwise
the State would be compelled to designate each particular paper which it desired, which presupposes an accurate knowledge of such papers, which'the tribunal desiring the papers
would probably raiely, if ever, have. The notice is not nearly
so sweeping in its reach as in the case of Hale v. Henkel, supra.
Seventh. The next objection relates to the claim that the

CONSOLIDATED RENDERING CO. v. VERMONT. 555
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute provides no compensation for the time, trouble and
expense imposed upon a corporation in a foreign State or
country in collecting and sending the documents demanded
to the State of Vermont, and that it thereby takes, if enforced,
private property for public use without compensation. The
prohibition to that effect is found in the Fifth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution. Here again we meet the question whether that amendment, because of the subsequent adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, applies to a state proceeding, but for the reasons already stated we do not find
it expedient to discuss it here. We do not say that in any
event a witness is entitled to compensation in order to avoid
the above constitutional provision, but the Supreme Court in
this case has held that the general law of the State in reference to the compensation of witnesses applied to this statute.
The answer which the counsel for the company makes is that
neither the statute nor the notice required the attendance of
any one as a witness, but was merely an order for production for which no compensation was provided, either by the
statute or under the general law. But the papers cannot walk
into court of themselves, and when they are brought there
by virtue of the notice to produce served on the company, and
they are given to some person by the company for the purpose
of such production, he has a right to be sworn as to the papers
which he produces for the purpose of identification, if nothing
else, and the state court has held that he is entitled as a witness to compensation.
Lastly, the objection is urged that there is an arbitrary
classification in the statute, which is confined to corporations
alone, and the company is thereby deprived of the equal protection of the laws secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
There is no improper classification in this regard. It is stated
by the state court that prior to the passage of this act there
was no adequate provision for compelling the production of
books and papers by a corporation, and it was held that the
statute was designed for requiring the corporation itself, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

207 U. S.

the responsible owner and custodian, to produce the documentary evidence mentioned therein, without the necessity
of calling upon bookkeepers, managers or other servants who
may, or may not, in fact, have custody or control thereof at
the time notice to produce is given, and to place upon the
corporation the responsibility of seeing that such evidence
called for, if in its control, is produced. There is ample justification for the classification made by the statute.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of- the State of Vermont is

Afmed.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH

BREWING ASSOCIATION v. THE
UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 60.

Argued December 9. 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

To entitle a manufacturer to drawbacks under ยง 25 of the Tariff Act of
October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 567, 617, on imported raw material used in
the manufacture or production of articles in the United States, there
must be some transformation, so that a new and different article emerges
having a distinctive name, character and use. The mere subjection of
imported articles, such as corks, to a cleansing and coating process to
adapt them to a special use does not amount to manufacturing them
within the meaning of the statute, and the exporter is not entitled to
drawback thereon. Jos. Schlitz Brewing. Co. v. United States, 181 U. S.
584. Semble: an exportation of bottled beer is an exportation of the beer
and not of the corks in the bottles, and therefore such corks are not exported articles within the meaning of ยง 25 of the Tariff Act of October 1,
1890.
41 C. Cl. 389, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom Mr. W. W. Dudley was
on the brief, for appellant:
This court has sanctioned the use of dictionary definitions

