OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

SULLIVAN v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 91.

Argued December 20, 1907.-Decided January 6,1908.

Where the highest court of the State dismisses an application for writ of
error for want of jurisdiction, the judgment of the lower court becomes
the judgment of the highest court of the State to which the case can be
taken, and the writ of error will properly run to it from this court.
If the constitutional question is distinctly presented to the state court on
motion for rehearing, and is considered and decided adversely, it is
properly presented in time and this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
This court determines for itself whether an act of the legislature of a State
amounts to a contract within the impairment of obligation clause of the
Federal Constitution.
A state statute confirming a grant of the former sovereign and specifying
the area and providing for a survey to ascertain metes and bounds and
for filing the field notes does not amount to a contract 'within the impairment clause of the Constitution that the State will abide by the
survey even though it includes .more than the original grant.
The act of February 10, 1852, of Texas, confirming Mexican grants, did not
amount to a legislative contract to abide by the surveys to be made
of such grants; nor is the act of September 3, 1901, directing actions
to be brought to recover land wrongfully in possession of grantees in excess of the amount of the original Mexican grant, but. included in the
survey made under the act of 1852, unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of a contract.
95 S.W. Rep. 645, affirmed.

THIS case comes to us from a state court and our jurisdiction is invoked on the ground of a law of the State charged
to work an impairment of the obligation of a contract. The
facts are that in 1834 the Mexican State of Tamaulipas granted
to Pedro de la Garza a tract of land. The grant, signed by
the governor, recited that the grantee had paid the appraised
value, $204; that the grant contained "six and a half leagues
of pasture land for large cattle, comprehended in the boundaries, angles and demarkations which appear in the attached
map, countersigned with the seal of this government, signed
with a rubric by my secretary, which, for greater distinctness,

SULLIVAN v. TEXAS.
207 U. S.

417

Statement of the Cse.

are set out .in the present title'in the following mode: El Alcatraz and San Antonio of the waterfall, east to west on the,
north side; San Antonio and- the :Sacramento,. north. to south
on the west; Sacramento and San Francisco, west to east on
the south; San Francisc6, San Pedro and El Alcatraz, south
to north on the east., Thd pasture land is bounded on the
north by Los Olmos Creek and on the rest of the sides by
vacant lands."
.Accompanying the grant was a plat showing an irregular,
hexagon and a survey made by Antonio Canales, as follows:
"The inclination to the southeast of the Olmos Creek figured
in the survey .of the irregular hexagon,' which appears depicted,
which contains six leagues of pasture. land for large cattle and
20,782,500 square varas according to the units fixed by the
law of the State for agrarian measures. The angular boundaries and most n6table places which were defined were the
following: A, boundary of the Alcatraz; B, boundary of San
Antonio of the waterfall; C, boundary of Sacramento; D, boundary of San-Francisco; r, lateral boundary. of this pasture and
angular of the Santa Rosa de Abajo, called San Pedro; e, lake
of the sheep pen; m, n, ponds and heights of the waterfall;
o, the little pond. The rectangle h, i, g, 1, was ceded to this
pasture by citizen Pedro Villareal, of -which it was defined
in the terms which appear in the file of this survey, -A. M.. B.,
the Ohnos Creek.- The survey was made with the greatest
exactness, remeasuring the cord every half league and correcting the ten leagues of declination to the northeast, which the
compass needle has in these lands. This pasture is bounded
on the north by- the creek, on the east by the pasture of Paistle
and on the rest by vacant lands.
ANTONIO CANALES."
"Carmargo, Dec.45th, 1832.
Thereafter Tamaulipas became a.,part of Texas, and that
State, on February 10, 1852, passed an 'ct confirming this
among other grants. Laws, General, Fourth Legislature, ch_
71, p. 63. The act of confirmation, so far as is material, provided by ,.§1 "that the State of Texas hereby relinquishes
VOL. ccvNm-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

all her right and interest in the following-described lands to
the original grantees thereof, their heirs and legal aissigns,
to wit: County of Starr . . . (103) Pedro de la Garza,
" Secsix and one-half leagues, called 'Santa Rosa,'.

tion 2 of the act is as follows (p. 71):,
"SEc. 2. That it shall be the duty of those claiming any
of the lands named in this act, to have the same surveyed by
the district or county surveyor of the county in which the
same may be situated, and upon the return of the field notes
thereof to the General Land Office, the Commissioner is hereby
authorized and required to have the same plotted on the maps
of his office, and issue patents for the same in accordance with
existing laws; provided, that no patent shall issue for a less
amount than the original grant. That the owners of said lands
shall be required to pay the taxes due on the same, from the
date of the organization of the respective counties herein
mentioned; which taxes shall be paid, and legal vouchers for
the same exhibited to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office before the patent to the same shall issue."
In May, 1859, Felix A. Blucher, a deputy district surveyor
of the district, made a survey, the field notes and a plat of
which were in August, 1869, filed in the General Land Office.
The field notes commenced with the statement:
"Field notes of a survey of Eight leagues and twelve labores
of land made for Win. G. Hale and F. J. Parker the assignees
of Pedro de la Garza this being the quantity of land to which
they are entitled by virtue of a grant from the State of Tamaulipas dated on the 3rd day of July A. D. 1834. Surveyed
in accordance with an act of the legislature of the State of
Texas, approved Feb'y 10th, 1852, and entitled 'An act to
relinquish the right of the State to certain lands therein named
this being part of confirmation numbered 103 for the County
of Starr in said Act.'"
This survey was not approved, and the field notes were
indorsed by the Commissioner of the.General Land Office in
these words: "Closes partly all but the approximate area

SULLIVAN v. TEXAS.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

found with apportioning brrors is 267,552,959 sq. vrs.-71O
Leagues 171 Labores or 55,252,959 sq. vrs. too much. Aug. 21,
'69, Richardson, $2.00."
No patent was ever issued for the land or any part of it.
On September 3,.1901, the logislature of the State of Texas
passed an act, § 11 of which is as follows:
"SEC. 11. The attorney general of this State is hereby directed and required to institute and prosecute, in the name
of the State of Texas, such suits as may be necessary to recover from the person or persons in possession thereof or
claiming title thereto, all lands which are held or claimed
under titles emanating from the Spanish or Mexican governments where no valid evidence of such grants are to be found
in the records or among the files of the General Land Office;*
and also such suits as may be necessary to determine the exact
location and boundaries of such lands, where the evidence on
file in the General Land Office does not sufficiently identify
the land claimed; and 'such suits shall be brought, prosecuted
and tried in the District Court of Travis County, Texas."
In pursuance of this section this suit was brought, the original petition having been filed September 24, 1902.
The defendant holds title under the original grantee of the
State of Tamauiipas, and was and had been for many years
in possession of the entire tract of over ten leagues surveyed
by Blucher, claiming title to all in his possession. The State,
conceding his title to six and one-half leagues, contended that
all in excess was still its property. The case was tried before
the court without a jury and a judgment entered in behalf of
the State for three tracts, which the court found to be outside
the boundaries of the original Mexican grant. The Court of
Civil Appeals in and for the Third Supreme Judicial District
of the State affirmed this judgment. 95 5. W. Rep. 645. A
petition for rehearing was filed, in which the protection of the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States was
specially invoked. In denying the motion for a rehearing the
court considered this constitutional question and decided it

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

adversely to the plaintiff in error. Thereupon a petition was
presented to the Supreme Court of the State for a writ of
error to review the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals,
but that court dismissed the application for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Charles W. Ogden, with whom Mr. J. C. Sullivan was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
This court will ascertain and determine for itself, in a case
of this character, whether or not a contract existed, -and, if .s0,
its import, and whether it has been impaired by state legislation. Muhlker v. Harlem Railroad Co., 197U. S.571; Kies v.
Lowrey, 199 U. S. 239; H. & T. C. Ry. v. Texas, 177 U. S.76;
St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 147.
The act of February 10, 1852, confirming the grant in con-'
troversy and providing for a settlement of i'ts boundaries by
an official survey, was a proposition made by the State to
the landowner, which, upon acceptance, as evidenced by the
survey at the request of the owner and the return of the field
notes to the General Land Office, ripened into a valid contract, which was binding upon both parties thereto.
When the survey is made and the field notes thereof are
returned as required by law, it is conclusive evidence against
both the Government and the claimant that the land granted
by the confirmation of Congress was the same described and
bounded by the survey. This consideration depends on the
fact that the claimant ,and the United States were parties to
the selection, and mutually bound and respectively estopped
by it.
In such a case the patent is not necessary to perfect, nor
does it add anything to, the title, but only serves as an evidence thereof.
In such a case the binding force and effect of the resurvey
and the act of confirmation is not dependent upon, nor can
it in any manner be affected by, an inquiry into the question
as to whether or not the boundaries of the grant are correct.

SULLIVAN v. TEXAS.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 521; Clark v. Hills, 67 Texas,
141; Menard Heirs v. Massey, 8 How. 293; Guitard v. Stoddard, 16 How. 494; West v. Cochran, 17 How. 403; Ryan v.
Carter, 93 U. S.78; Morrow v. Whitney, 95 U. S. 551; United
States v. Roselius, 15 How. 34; Arguello v. United States, 18
How. 539; Forbes v. Withers, 71 Texas, 472; Commonwealth
v. Pejepseut, Prop., 10 Massachusetts, 156; Rutherford v.
Grienes Heirs, 2 Wheat. 196; Howard v. Perry, 71 Texas, 266;
Hamilton v. Avery, 20 Texas, 635; Wright v. Hawkins, 28
Texas Supp. 408.
In such a case. the official survey can only be avoided by
the sovereign by timely allegations and proof of fraud, to
which the claimant is a party. White et al. v. Burnley, 20
How. 247; Maxey v. O'Connor, 23 Texas, 234; Smith v. Hughes,
23 Texas, 249; Elliott v. Mitchell, 28 Texas, 111; Railway v.
State, 81 Texas, 602; Howard v. Colquhouri, 28 Texas, 134;
Land Company v. State, 1 Texas Civ. App. 621.
Section 11, of the act- of September 23, 1901, when construed and enforced, as it was in this case, by the Court of
Civil Appeals, as authorizing the institution by the Attorney
General of this suit and the recovery herein of land to which
the title of plaintiff in error and his predecessors had been
perfected under the contract, as evidenced by the act of
confirmation of 1852 and the resurvey thereunder and the
return of the field notes to the General Land Office, impairs
the obligation of said contract and is, therefore, in violation
of, and contrary to, the provision of paragraph 1, of section 10,
Article I, of the Constitution of the United States. Houston
& Texas CentralR. R. v. Texas, 177 U. S.76; St. Paul Gas
Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S.147.
It is not too late to raise a Federal question on motion for
rehearing, if the question is considered and passed upon by
the state court. Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S.85; Mallett v. North
Carolina, 181 U. S.589.
Mr. William E. Hawkins, with whom Mr. Robert Vance

'OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Davidson, Attorney General of the State of Texas, was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The confirmation shown by the act of February 10, 1852,
Applied to the land embraced in the original grant to Pedro
,de la Garza, and not to the land awarded to the State of Texas
by the judgment in this cause.
None of the -three tracts awarded by the judgment in this
case to the State of Texas was within the lines of the original
grant as surveyed by Canales. Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S.82;
Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 529; Clark v. Hills, 67 Texas,
145; Corrigan v. State of Texas, 94 S. W. Rep. 95; Love v.
Barber, 17 Texas, 320; Welder v.. Carroll,29 Texas, 333.
Whether considered by itself alone or in connection with the
Blucher resurvey of the Santa Rosa de Arriba grant, the act
of coftfirmation of February 10, 1852, by the legislature of the
State of Texas, did not constitute a contract between the
-owners of said grant and said State concerning the lands
which were awarded by the state courts to the defendant in
error, the State of Texas.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
By the action of the Supreme Court of the State the judgment
of the Court of Civil Appeals became the judgment of the
highest court in the State to which the case could be taken,
and hence the writ of error properly ran to that court. The
constitutional question, although not raised theretofore, was
distinctly presented in the petition to the Court -of Civil Appeals for a rehearing, was considered by that court and decided adversely to the plaintiff in error. This court, therefore,
has -jurisdiction. Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589,
592; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79; French v. Taylor, 199 U. S.
274.
Coming to the merits, it is obvious that the act of 1852 was
simply a confirmation of grants made by the Mexican States.

SULLIVAN v. TEXAS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in it which suggests the thought of new grants
or of addition to old ones. The first section declares that the
State "relinquishes all her right and interest in the followingdescribed lands to the original grantees thereof," and names
the amount- of land included in this grant so relinquished,
six and one-half leagues. The second section makes it the duty
of claimants to have surveys made of their existing grants.
The third section makes provision in case of the loss of the
"original title papers of lands claimed by this act," while § 5
speaks of "the confirmation herein extended to the lands
mentioned in this act."
But it is contended that there was an existing Mexican land
grant binding upon the State of Texas as the successor of the
former government; that the act of 1852 not only confirmed
the grant, but also by the second section provided for a settlement of its boundaries through an official survey; that this was
a proposition made by the State to the claimant of the grant
which upon acceptance, as evidenced by the sirvey at tl~e request of the owner and the return of the field noies to theland
office, ripened into a valid contract; that when the surve3y was
made and the field notes returned, as required by law, it became conclusive evidence against both the State and the claimant that the land surveyed was that granted by the Mexican
State and confirmed by the legislature of Texas. This argument makes the survey the pivotal fact upon which the question of contract turns. Of course, whether there was or was
not a contract is a question which, in a case like the present,
this court must determine for itself. Jefferson Branch Bank v.
Skelly, 1 Black, 436, 443; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S.
102, 109; H. & T. C. Railway v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66, 77; St.
Paul Gas Light Company v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 147;
Muhlker v. Harlem Railroad Company, 197 U. S. 544, 570.
It will be perceived that §2 does not name the individual
to act for the State, but only desigatesertain officials, any
one of whom may make the surivbey, and imposes a duty upon
the claimant of causing the survey to be madb. It does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

prescribe the time within which the survey must be made.
In fact, it was not made until seven years after the passage of
the act, and the field notes were not filed until ten years after
that. The purpose of the act was to enable the claimant to
acquire a patent as better evidence of title, with a more accurate description of boundaries. The surveyor is not named
as an agent of the State. On the contrary, an official act, that
of survey, was authorized to be made at the instance of the
claimant, but a mere surveyor is not by virtue of his office
empowered to change boundaries. Those were given in the
original Mexican grant, and his function was.simply to resurvey, making the description more definite and certain. It
could not have been within the contemplation of the legislature that this surveyor, picked out by the claimant, should
have power to bind the State, by the mere matter of survey, to
a grant nearly double the size of that which it confirmed by
this statute of relinquishment. It must be borne in mind that
the original grant was not a float-that is, a grant of so many
acres to be located inside of a larger tract, in which the surveyor might have a discretion in selecting the particular tractbut it was a grant by metes and bounds, and the sole function
of the surveyor was ministerial, to locate the tract and more
fully describe those metes and bounds.
In all these proceedings the substantial elements of a contract are lacking. The State of Texas, succeeding to the sovereignty of the former government, recognized all that might,
under any circumstances, be considered its international obligation and confirmed the title which had been made. It
made no grant of additional land. It simply relinquished all
claims to that which had been granted by the former sovereign
and confirmed the title made by that grant. It received no
consideration. As the description in the original survey was
defective, it provided means for perfecting that description
and authorized a patent, which is the highest evidence of title.
On the other hand, the grantee, holding a grant from theState
of Tamaulipas, received from the State of Texas no grant or

WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATES.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

promise of additional land, but simply a declaration of its
willingness to recognize and confirm the Mexican grant. He
paid nothing to the State, but was only accorded by it the means
of making his title definite and certain and the boundaries
of his grant beyond question. In short, it was simply a proceeding established by the law of the State for making clear
and certain the boundaries of grants which the State was
willing to recognize, and in that proceeding a certain official
of the State was charged with the ministerial duty of making
a survey. He was given no authority to enlarge or diminish
the grant, but only to ascertain what the. real boundaries were.
Further, the State has never given a patent, although this
suit was not commenced for fifty years after the act of relinquishment, forty-three years after the survey and thirty-three
years after the filing of the field notes in the state land office.
The decision of the Court of Civil Appeals was right, and its
judgment is
Affirmed.
WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 96.

Argued December 5, 6, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

Where the writ of error is prosecuted directly from this court on constitutional grounds, but there are errors assigned as to other subjects, this
court has jurisdiction to review the whole case if any constitutional question is adequate to the exercise of jurisdiction. Burton v. United States,
196 U. S. 283.
An objection taken by a member of Congress that he cannot be sentenced
during his term of office on the ground that it would interfere with his
constitutional privilege from arrest is not frivolous even though taken
during recess of Congress, and such a claim involves a constitutional
question sufficient to give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment
by writ of error. Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283.
The jurisdiction of this court to review on direct writ of error depends on
the existence of a constitutional question at the time when the writ of
error is sued out, and even if that question subsequently, and before the

