CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
.207 U. S.

Syllabus.

to be deported, to make it impossible as matter of law for the
British master subsequently to accept him as a sailor on the
high seas, even if bound for an American port. If the Government had wished to try the good faith of this particular transaction, and not simply to get a construction of the act, there was
no need to rely on the allegation mentioned alone. Of course
it is possible for a master unlawfully to permit an alien to land,
even if the alien is a sailor, and it was alleged that the master
did so. But we take the Government at its word.
The defendant argues that the United States cannot be allowed a writ of error in a criminal case like this. We do not
perceive the difficulty., No doubt of the power of Congress is
intimated in United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310. If the Fifth
Amendment has any bearing, the act of 1907 is directed to
judgments rendered before the moment of jeopardy is reached.
Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 128. We think it unnecessary to discuss the question at length.
Judgment in No. 238 reversed.
Judgment in No. 404 affirmed.

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WRIGHT, COMPTROLLER-GENERAL OF GEORGIA.
GEORdIA RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY v.
SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
Nos. 85, 89.

Argued October 21, 22, 23, 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907

Due process of law requires that opportunity to be heard as to the.validity
of the tax and the amount of the assessment be given to a taxpayer, who,
without fraudulent intent and in the honest belief that it is not taxable,
withholds property from tax returns; and this requirement is not satisfied
where the taxpayer is allowed to attack the assessment only for fraud and
corruption.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

207 U. S.

The assessment of a tax is action judicial in its nature requiring for the
legal exertion of the power such opportunity to appear as the circumstances of the case require, and this court, as the ultimate arbiter of rights
secured by the Federal Constitution, is charged with the duty of determining whether the taxpayer has been afforded due process of law.
The system provided by the Political Code of Georgia, §§ 804, 879, as construed by the highest court of that State, not allowing the taxpayer any
opportunity to be heard as to the valuation of property not returned by
him and honestly withheld, except as to fraud and corruption, does not
afford 'due process of law, which adjudges upon notice and opportunity to
be heard, within the meaning of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
124 Georgia, 596, 630; 125 Georgia, 589, 61.7, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr., Mr. Joseph R. Lamar and
Mr. Joseph B. Cumming, with whom Mr. Henry C. Cunningham, Mr. A. R. Lawton and Mr. Alex. C. King were on the
briefs, for plaintiffs in error:
The statutes of the State of Georgia as construed by the
Supreme Court of Georgia in the matter of back tax assessments do not provide for either notice or hearing and therefore
do riot provide due process of law and are contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The question of due process of law was dealt with by the
Supreme Court of Georgia only in the first decision. That
opinion greatly simplifies the issue, because there is now no
question as to the character of the notice required or the notice
given, since the court holds not only that the statutes do not
provide for notice, but that the closing of the "door of opportunity" was intentional and the deprivation of the right to be
heard was a penalty.
When the Fourteenth Afnendment provided that no person
shall be deprived of his property without a hearing, it also declared that he shoul..d not be deprived of a hearing as a penalty. Whatever the crime, however great the contempt, howsoever contumacious a party, he cannot be deprived of the
right to be heard when his property is to be taken. Judgment

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of any sort must be after notice. It is contrary to the first
principles of the social compact to deprive one of the right to
be heard. Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 414.
A party, by his misconduct, cannot forfeit a right so that
it may be taken from him without judicial proceedings, in
which the forfeiture shall be declared in due form. Cooley, Con.
Lim. 518; Chicago &c. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 235; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350. Where the proceedings are arbitrary, oppressive, or unjust, they are declared not to be "due
process of law." Glidden v. Harrington,189 U. S. 258.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, the legislature is bound
to provide a method for the assessment and collection of taxes
that shall be in conformity with natural justice, Turpin v.
Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, and notice is specially necessary where,
as in Georgia, the assessment is equivalent to a judgment in
personam and binds not merely the particular property assessed for taxation, but all the estate of the taxpayer. Pol.
Code, 880-883.
The statute must provide an opportunity to be heard on
the charge, whether that charge be an assessment for the current year or a reassessment for previous years. As long as the
State can change the assessment, the citizen has a right to be
heard on the question as to whether the change shall be made,
and as to the amount of the new assessment. Davidson v.
New Orleans, 96 U. S. 105.
The rule is the same whether the reassessment is by a change
in the valuation, or by the addition of the property omitted.
Kuntz v. Sumption, 117 Indiana, 1; Walsh v. State, 142 Indiana,
557; Cleghorn v. Postlewait, 43 Illinois, 431; Tolman v. Solomon,
191 Illinois, 204.
The assessment of back taxes on omitted property involves
the determination of value; is judicial in its nature, and notice
and a statutory right to be heard in back tax assessments are
essential to the due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Gray on
Limitations of Taxing Power, § 1295, p. 639; 27 Am. & Eng.
VOL. CCVi1-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S.

Enc. of Law, 705; The Redwood Case, 42 N. W. Rep. 713; Overing v. Foote, 65 N. Y. 269-277; Douglas v. Westchester Co., 172
N. Y. 309.
. Mr. John C. Hart, Attorney General of the State of Georgia,
and Mr. Boykin Wright for defendant in error:
Due process in matters of taxation means notice of suitable
character, and an opportunity to be heard at some stage of
the proceedings. Taylor v. Secor (State R. R. Tax Cases, 111),
92 U. S. 575; Kentucky Tax Case, 115 U. S. 321. The notice
need not be personal or individual. In fact, the usual and
proper notice is statutory and collective. Pittsburg v. Backus,
154 U. S. 421; Judson on Taxation, §§ 321, 329.
The process of taxation does not require the same kind of
notice as is required in a suit at law, or even proceedings for
taking private property under the power of eminent domain.
It involves no violation of the process of law when it is executed
according to the customary forms and established usages, etc.
Bell'.s Gap &c. Co. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232.
Opportunity to be heard at some stage of the proceedings
is all that is requisite. It. may be either before or after the
assessment or at any time before final judgment is entered.
Gallup v. Schmidt, 183 U. S. 300; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Spencer V. Merchant,
125 U. S. 345; Pittsburg &c. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421.
It is no denial of due process to withdraw the opportunity
to be heard as a penalty for the taxpayer's failure or refusal
to make a proper return of his property to a designated officer,
in the manner and at the time required by law. Glidden v.
Harrington, 189 U. S. 255, 259, 260.
The right exists to discriminate in some manner against those
who fail to hand in tax lists. When the discrimination consists in merely submitting the party to the doom of the assessor
and depriving him of any appeal, it would seem that there
could be no valid objection to it. Cooley on Taxation (3d Ed.),
619 to 624 and. notes; Board of Commissioners v. Anderson,

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

68 Fed. Rep.. 341; Lott v. Hubbard, 44 Alabama, 493; State v.
Louisiana, 19 La. Ann. 474; Railway Co. v. Johnson, 108
Illinois, 11; Morris v. Jones, 150 Illinois, 542; S. C., 37 N. E.
R. 929; McMillan v. Carter, 6 Montana, 215; S. C., 9 Pac.
Rep. 906; Valencia County v. Railroad Co., 3 N. M. 380; S. C.,
10 Pac. Rep. 294; Orena v. Sherman, 61 California, 101; Tucker
v. Aiken, 7 N. H. 113; Hartford v. Champion, 58 Connecticut,
268; S. C., 20 Atl. Rep. 471; State v. County Commissioner, 5
Nevada, 317; McTwiggan v. Hunter (R. I.), 29 L. R. A. 526;
Tripp v. Torrey, 17 R. I. 359; Grigsby &c. v. Freeman (Va.),
58 L. R. A. 349; Georgia &c. v. Wright, 124 Georgia, 617 and
citations.
MR.

JUSTICE

DAY delivered' the opinion of the court.

These cases are writs of error to the Siipreme Court of the
State of Georgia, in suits brought to enjoin the collection of
certain taxes. In the view we take of them they may be considered together.
Actions were begun by the plaintiffs in error; in the Superior
Court of Fulton County, to enjoin the enforcement of executions in the hands of the sheriff, issued for taxes assessed by
the comptroller-general on shares of the corporate stock of
the Western Railway of Alabama, an Alabama corporation,
which stock was alleged to be held and owned by the plaintiffs
in error.
The Superior Court refused to award an injunction.
Upon, writs of error the Supreme Court affirmed the judgments of the.court below. 124 Georgia, 596, 630. The cases
were remitted to the Superior Court of Fulton County, and
that court rendered final decrees in favor of the defendants
below, holding the tax executions to be lawful. The cases were
again taken to the Supreme Court of Georgia and there affirmed.
125 Georgia, 589, 617.
The question of the taxability of these shares was a matter
of litigation in the Federal courts of the Georgia District, and
it washeld such shares were not taxable. 116 Fed. Rep. 669

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

affirmed in the Court of Appeals, 117 Fed. Rep. 1007. The
latter case was reversed and the stock held taxable in the case
of Wright v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, decided
by this court at. the October term, 1904. 195 U. S. 219.
Thereupon says the Supreme Court of Georgia (124 Georgia,
612):
"On January 27, 1905, the comptroller-general wrote to the
president of the Georgia Railroad and Banking Company the
following letter: 'The Supreme Court of the United States having recently held, as you doubtless are aware, that the shares
of stock of the Western Railway of Alabama owned by the
Georgia Railroad and Banking Company are taxable in Georgia,
it becomes my duty to assess these shares of stock for taxation
for each of the years in which they are in default for their taxes.
This assessment is required to be made by the comptrollergeneral from "the, best information obtainable." I desire to
proceed to the discharge of this duty intelligently, 'and therefore respectfully request yoi to furnish me any data in your
possession which will enable me to make perfectly fair, just,
and 'legal assessments of this property. From your long connection with the property as president of the Georgia Railroad
and Banking Company, and your familiarity with its value,
you doubtless are in possession of information which will very
greatly aid me in making an equitable assessment of the property. I trust, therefore, you will submit at your earliest possible convenience any facts or suggestions bearing upon. this
line which you may deem proper. I would be glad to have any
data which you may submit with reference to its value for each
year, beginning with the year 1883, the year I am informed
your corporatipn became the owner of these shares of stock.
I qxpect to proceed with this matter some time the early part
of next week if possible.' Other correspondence took place
between the comptroller-general and various officers of the
Georgia Railroad, including the general counsel, who eventually
submitted to the comptroller-general a statement regarding
what he considered the value of the railroad property in ques-

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, together with a tabulated statement of the dividends
which the Georgia Railroad had received from the stock, at
the same time protesting that the stock was not liable for
taxation, and refusing to make any return of it for that purpose.
The comptroller-general thereupon, according.to his affidavit,
'assessed the same from the best information obtainable.' It is
insisted with great earnestness and ability that the levy of
executions under these circumstances, without giving notice
to the railroad company or allowing it any opportunity to be
heard as to the basis of valuation upon which the assessment
was made, amounted to a seizure of its property without due
process of law. It is not claimed that the comptroller-general
has violated the provisions of any existing statute, but that the
laws of Georgia do not provide for the collection of taxes on
omitted property after a return has been made by the taxpayer
and accepted by the comptroller-general."
The first and perhaps principal question argued in the case
arises upon the contention of the plaintiffs in error that the
method of assessment provided for the taxation of property
in such cases as the present, as laid down in the statutes of
the State of Georgia, as construed by the Supreme Court of
the State, do not afford the taxpayer due process of law. The
pertinent sections of the Political Code of Georgia are copied
1
in the margin.
1 SEc. 804. Returns to comptroller, how made.-The returns of all companies, or persons, required to be made to the comptroller-general must
be in writing and sworn to, by the presiding officer, etc.
SEc. 805. Returns and taxes, etc.-The returns of all railroad and insurance and express companies, and agents of foreign companies, authorized
in this State, shall be made to the comptroller-general by the. first day of
May in each year, and the taxes thereof paid to the state treasurer by the
first day of October, and not later than December twentieth of each year.
SEc. 812. Returns to comptroller must be itemized.-Whenever corporations, companies, persons, agencies, or institutions, are required by.law
to make returns of property, or gross receipts, .or business, or income, gross,
annual, net, or any other kind, or any other return, to the comptroller-general, for taxation, such return shall contain an itemized statement of property, each class or species to be separately named and valued, or an itemized
account of gross receipts, or business, or income, as above defined or other

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Of the system of taxation thus provided the Supreme Court
of Georgia in a summary of its provisions says (124 Georgia,
613):
"The Political Code, section 812, prescribes the method by
which' corporations, companies, persons, agencies, or institutions,' shall make returns of their property to the comptrollergeneral for taxation, and provides that 'such returns shall be
carefully scrutirlized by the comptroller-general, and if in his
judgment the property embraced therein is returned below its
value, he shall assess the value; within sixty days thereafter,
from any information he can obtain, and if he shall find a return
of

.

.

.

matters required to be returned as aforesaid, be-

low the true amount, or false in any particular, or in anywise
contrary to law, he shall correct the same and assess the true
amount, from the best information at his command, within
sixty days. In all cases of assessment, or of correction of returns, as herein provided, the officer or person making such
matters required to be returned, and in case of net income only, an itemized
account of gross receipts and expenditures, to show how the income returned
is ascertained, and such returns shall be carefully scrutinized by the comptroller-general, and if in his judgment the property embraced therein is
returned below its value, he shall assess the value, within sixty.days thereafter, from any information he can obtain, and if he shall find a return of
gross receipts, or business, or income, as above defined, or other matters
required to be returned as aforesaid, below the true amount, or false in any
particular, or in anywise contrary to law, he shall correct the same and assess
the true amount, from the best information at his command, within sixty
days. In all cases of assessment, or correction of returns, as herein provided, the officers or person making such returns shall receive notice and shall
have the privilege, within twenty days after such notice, to refer the question of true value or amount, as the case may be, to arbitrators-one chosen
by himself,' and one chosen by the comptroller-general-with power to
choose an umpire in case of disagreement, and their award shall-be hinal.
$Ec. 813. When no return comptroller to assess.-In case of failure tp
make return, the comptroller-general shall make an assessment from the
best information he can procure, which assessment shall be conclusive upon
said corporations, companies, persons, agencies, or institutions.
Sxc. 814. Collection of tax, how enforced.-In all cases of default of pay-

ment of taxes upon returns or assessment the comptroller-general shall
enforce collections in the manner now provided by law.
SEc. 847. Defaulters to be doubly taxed.-If a person fails to make a re-

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

returns shall receive notice and shall have the privilege, within
twenty days after such notice, to refer the question of true
value or amount, as the case may be, to arbitrators,
and their award shall be final.' Section 813 is as follows: 'In
cases of failure to make return, the comptroller-general shall
make an assessment from the best information he can procure,
which assessment shall .be conclusive upon said corporations,
companies, persons, ageneies, or institutions.' By section 814
it is provided that 'in all cases of default of payment of taxes
upon returns or assessments, the comptroller-general shall en-,
force collections in the manner now provided by law.' ' If any
corporation, company, person, agency, or institution, who are
required to make their returns to the comptroller-general,
shali fail to return the taxable property or specifies, or pay
annually the taxes for which they are liable to the state treasury,
the comptroller-general shall issue against them an execution
for the amount of taxes due, according to law, together with
the cost and penalties.' Section 874. 'When there is no return
turn, in whole or in part, or fails to affix a value to his property, it is the
duty of the receiver to make the valuation and assess the taxation thereon,
and in all other respects to make the return for the defaulting person from
the best information he can obtain, and having done so, he shall double
the tax in the last column of the digest against such defaulters; after having
placed the proper market value or specific retur in the proper column; and
for every year's default the defaulter shall be taxed double until a return
is made.
Sac. 855. Taxes for forier years, how returhed and"collected.-Receivers
and collectors are required to receive the returns and to collect the taxes
thereon for former years, when any person is in default, which taxes shall
be assessed according to the law in force at the time the default occurred,
and shall be so specified in the digest.
SEc. 874. Defaulting corpoations.-If any corporation, company, person,
agency, or institution, who are required to make their returns to the comptroller-general, shall fail to return the taxable property, or specifics, or pay
annually the taxes for which they are liable to the state treasury, the comptroller-general shall issue against them an execution for the amount of taxes
due, according to law, together with the costs and penalties.
Sac. 879. When there is no return.-When there is no return by wh4 to
assess the tax, the comptroller-general shall, from the best information he
can procure, assess in his discre ion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

by which to assess the tax, the comptroller-general shall, from
the best information he can procure, assess in his discretion.'
Section 879. These sections of the Political Code are thus set
out in order that we may have before us at the outset the
various statutes bearing on the power of the comptroller-general
to collect taxes on property which has not been returned. And
at this point we will take occasion to say that in our opinion
all considerations of the good faith of the railroad company
should be eliminated from this discussion. It may be conceded that the officials of the company honestly believed that
this stock was not taxable, and that there has never been on
their part the slightest effort to conceal the Georgia Railroad's
ownership of it, or to deceive the comptroller-general in any
way. In no jurisdiction has the maxim 'Ignorantia legis nemi-.
nero elcusat' been more, rigidly applied than in Georgia. The
railroad company was bound to know that this stock was
taxable, and its mistaken, though honest, belief to the contrary
furnishes no excuse for non-payment."
In view of this statute as thus construed the question made

is, whether due process of law is afforded where a taxpayer,
without fraudulent intent and upon reasonable grounds, withholds property from tax returns with an honest belief, that it is,
not taxable, and the assessing officer proceeds to assess the
omitted property without opportunity to the taxpayer to be
heard upon the validity of the tax or the amount of the assessment, either in the tax proceedings or afterward upon a suit
to collect taxes, or by independent suit to enjoin their collection.
Considerable discussion was had in the oral argument of the
case concerning the effect of the rulings of the Supreme Court
of Georgia in construing the sections of the Political Code
governing this subject.
A perusal of the opinions delivered in these cases leaves no
doubt in our minds that the Supreme Court of Georgia has held
the taxing scheme of the State of Georgia, as laid down in its
statutes, to be that, while it provides for a method of valuation
in case of the return of property for taxation, it does not in-

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tend to give to the taxpayer who fails to return property legally liable to be assessed any opportunity to be heard as to
the value of the property or the amount of the assessment.
But the failure to return places it within the power and duty
of the collector to make an assessment final and conclusive
upon the taxpayer without hearing, for in its latest utterance
upon the subject (124 Georgia, 617), that learned court said:
"The Georgia law affords to every citizen, individual or
corporate, ample facilities for the preservation of his rights
as against the tax gatherer, always provided that he makes a
return to the proper officer of the property that he owns. It
presupposes that the taxpayer will disclose to the officer all
of his taxable property, and it requires him to know whether
his property is taxable or not. The requirement of candor in
disclosing the ownership of property is really at the foundation
of bur tax system. So long as the citizen complies with that requirement, he is afforded every opportunity to dispute with the
State the question of the value of his property and the amount
of tax to be levied thereon. When he fails to return, in whole
or in part, fraudulently or through an honest mistake, he then
and there becomes a defaulter, and the door of opportunity is
closed to him, so far as the right to have the mutual rights
between himself and the taxing power adjusted by arbitration
is concerned. In other words, ample 'machinery' is available
to the citizen who makes full returns; deprivation of the right
to be further heard is one of the penalties visited upon the defaulter. The collecting officer must ascertain as best he can
the amount of property to be taxed, as well as its value, and
take summary means for its collection. This, it seems to us,
is the scheme of taxation contemplated by the laws of this
State. Whether or not it is consistent with a wise public policy
we do not undertake to determine. That it is not unconstitutional we are fully satisfied."
It would be impossible to reconcile the different holdings in
the state courts upon this subject. One class holds that upon
the assessment of omitted property the taxpayer. has no right

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

to be heard, having by his failure to return submitted himself
to "the doom of the assessor." Another class holds that in
such cases there must be an opportunity to. be heard before
the taxpayer can be thus assessed, and that to deny him such
right as a penalty for failure to return is a denial of due process
of law secured to the taxpayer by many sfate constitutions as
well as the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
Of course,.this court, as the ultimate arbiter of rights secured
by the Federal Constitution, is charged with the duty of determining this question for itself.
. Former adjudications in this court have settled the law to
be that the assessment of a tax is action judicial in its nature,
requiring for the legal exertion of the power such opportunity
to appear and be heard as the circumstances of the case require.
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Weyerhauser v. Minnesota, 176 U. S. 550; Hager v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701.
In the late case of Security Trust & Safety Vault Company v.
The City of Lexington, 203 U. S. 323i decided at the last term
of this court, the subject underwent consideration, and it was
there held that before an assessment of taxes could be made
upon omitted property notice to the taxpayer with an opportunity to be heard was essential, and that somewhere during
the process of the assessment the taxpayer must have an opportunity to be heard, and that this notice must be provided
as an essential part of the statutory provision dnd not awarded
as a mere matter of favor or grace. In that case it was further
held that where the procedure in the state court gave the taxpayer an opportunity to be heard upon the value of his property' and extent of the tax in a proceeding to enjoin its collection the requirement of due process of law was satisfied.
Applying the principles thus settled to the statutory law of
Georgia, as construed by its highest court, does the system
provide due process of law for the taxpayer in contesting the
validity of taxes assessed under its requirements? '
Under the scheme provided for, if the property is withheld

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from return, the comptroller, without notice or opportunity
for hearing, must proceed to value the property, and his valuation is final and conclusive, unless the taxpayer can show-a
very unlikely contingency-that the taxing -officer has acted
in bad faith in making the assessment. Against the assessment
thus made there. is no relief in the courts of the State upon
proceedings brought to collect the taxes or by bill to enjoin
their collection. The penalty of failure to return, no. matter
how honest or well grounded the taxpayer may have been in
his belief that the property was not subject to taxation, compels him to submit to the final and conclusive assessment made
by the taxing officer.
It may be conceded that under the provisions of §855 the
duty to return property. omitted in former years is a continuing
one, and that under § 812 of the Political Code upon such return the systein of arbitration of value may be. open to the
taxpayer, but if for good reason the taxpayer contests the
taxability. of his property and does not return it the door of
opportunity is closed upon him.
As in the present case, courts may differ as to the taxable
character of the property, but the taxpayer must concede its
taxability, or be forever concluded by a determination of its
value judicial in its nature (Hager v. Reclamation District, 111
U. S. 701, 710) in a proceeding where he has no. legal right to a
hearing.
But it is contended that plaintiffs in error had an opportunity
to be heard, and were in fact heard, upon the question of the
value of their property upon an issue made by an amendment
to the answer in the Superior Court, after the case went back
fi'om the Supreme Court, tendering an issue and asking the
court to pass upon the value of the property.
Upon this subject we think the decision of the Supreme Court
does not leave in doubt the effect of such hearing upon this
issue. For it is said (125 Georgia, 605):
"As to those years in which the plaintiff had an opportunity
to return its property for taxation anl failed to do so, and for

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

which the property has been assessed by the comptrollergeneral, whether the property has been excessively assessed
cannot now be inquired into. Under the former ruling in this
case it is concluded by the failure to return the property at
the time required by law, and must bear the burden of the
assessment made in conformity to law. There was neither
averment nor proof that the assessment was the result of fraud
or corruption on the part of the comptroller-general. If there
had been, a different question would have been presented."
And further in the same opinion (125 Georgia, 616):
"The plaintiffs contend that the valuation placed by the
comptroller-general upon the stock was excessive. The defendant contended that, as the plaintiff was a defaulter, the
valuation of the comptroller-general was conclusive under the
law. In an amendment to the answer the defendant alleged
that the valuation placed upon the stock by the plaintiff was not
its true market value, 'but on the contrary the true market
value is as assessed by the comptroller-general,' and concluded
the amendment with a prayer 'that the court may so.find and
decree.' The plaintiff objected to the allowance of this amendment on the ground that the court was without jurisdiction to
assess or re-value the same for the purpose of taxation, and that
the prayer was vague and indefinite. The court ruled that it
could not in this case decide or fix the value of the stock for
the purpose of determining the amount for which the execution
should proceed, but that it would hear evidence with a view
of determining whether the assessment was excessive, and refused to strike the prayer. Evidence was heard in reference to
the method adopted by the comptroller-general in reaching
the valuation placed by him upon the stock, and there was a
finding, in the final decree, that the valuation was not excessive.
As has been said, there was evidence justifying this finding of
fact. Under the circumstances, even if there was any error
in refusing to strike the prayer of the amendMent to the answer,
the error was not of such a character as to require a reversal
of the judgment."

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

That is to say, the Supreme Court had already decided that
the taxpayer being in default of return was not entitled to be
heard upon the valuation of his property, except for the purpose
of attacking the assessment for "fraud or corruption" in the
assessing officer, and the testimony did not show such excessive
valuation as within the rule laid down in both decisions would
avoid the action of the comptroller-general.
The record discloses that for many years this class of property was not regarded as taxable in Georgia, and was not returned for taxation in the State. But it is contended that the
taxpayer here stands in the attitude of one acting contumaciously, and denying the validity of the tax after this court
had practically decided its validity against the plaintiffs in
error in Wright v. Railroad Co., 195 U. S. 219. But, as we have
seen, -the Supreme Court of Georgia has expressly eliminated
the element of bad faith in the taxpayer from the findings
upon which its decision rests. The Wright case was held not
to have concluded the contention that plaintiffs were denied
the equal protection of the laws, in that no other person or
corporation in Georgia was assessed upon stock in a foreign
corporation, nor the validity of the claim that the stock was
not held in Georgia, nor other grounds alleged in the petitions,
except so far as the Georgia Railroad was concerned. for the
year 1900. 124 Georgia, 607. We must decide the case in
view of its relations to a taxpayer not fraudulently concealing
his property and honestly contending, with reasonable grounds
for the contention, that it is not taxable under the laws of the
State.
As we have seen, the system provided in Georgia. by the
statutes of the State as construed by its highest court requires
of the taxpayer that he return all his property, whether its
liability is fairly contestable or not, upon pain of an ex parte
valuation, against which there is no relief in the tax proceedings or in the courts, except in those cases where fraud or corruption can be shown in the action of the assessing officer.
Reluctant as we are to interfere with the enforcement of

OCTOBER TERM, J907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

the tax laws of a State, we are constrained to the conclusion
that this system does not afford that due process of law which
adjudges upon notice and opportunity to be heard, which it
was the intention of the Fourteenth Amendment to protect
against impairment by state action.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of Georgia are reversed
and the cases remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 22.

Argued October 17, 18, 1907.-Decided November 18. 1907.

This court has jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error under
§ 709, Rev. Stat., if the opinion of the highest court of the State clearly
shows that the Federal question was assumed to be in issue, was decided
adversely, and the decision was essential to the judgment rendered.
The right to sue and defend in the courts of the States is one of the privileges
and immunities comprehended by § 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution of
the United States, and equality of treatment in regard thereto does not
depend upon comity between the States, but is granted and protected
by that provision in the Constitution; subject, however, to the restrictions
of that instrument that the limitations imposed by a State must operate
in the same way on its own citizens and on those of other States. The
State's own policy may determine the jurisdiction of its courts and the
character of the controversies which shall be heard therein.
The statute of Ohio of 1902 providing that no action can be maintained in
the courts of that State for wrongful death occurring in another State except where the deceased was a citizen of Ohio, the restriction operating
equally upon representatives of the deceased whether they are citizens of
Ohio or of other States, does not violate the privilege and immunity provision of the Federal Constitution.
73 Ohio St. 1, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

