270

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

207 U. S.
Syllabus.
September 15 or December 31, but July 1, the day the bank
was required to make its report, and that a lien for taxes could
not attach until that day, and before that day the Bank of,
Kentucky had ceased to exist. But we have seen that the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, construing the laws of the State,
made, the fifteenth of September the day of assessment under
the Hewitt law; in other words, disthiguished between the day
of assessment and the day that bank was required to make
its report. We are not prepared to say that the conclusion is
not justified.' But passing that, we concur with the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky that it was competent for the legislature
to change the day the bank should report its property for assessment, and that the lien of assessment would follow the
property in the possession of its vendee, the National Bank of
Kentucky.
Judgment affirmed.

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. GERMAN NATIONAL BANK.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 56, Argued November 14, 15, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

Unless the decision upon a Federal question was necessary to the judgment
of the state court, or in fact made the ground of it, the writ of error must
be dismissed.
Even when an erroneous decision upon a Federal question is made a ground of
the judgment of a state court, if the judgment is also supported upon
another ground adequate in itself and containing no Federal question the
writ of error must be dismissed.
This court, ordinarily, will not inquire whether the decision upon matter
not subject to its revision was right or wrong.
Although the state court may refer to and uphold the statute, the constitutionality of which is attacked, if it does so after stating the rule at common

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN R. R. v. GERMAN BANK. 271
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff 'in Error.

law and that the statute is merely declaratory thereof the judgment is
based on the common law rule and no Federal question exists that this
court can review.
Writ of error to review 92 S. W. Rep. 522, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward B. Peircefor plaintiff in error:
In determining whether a Federal question was decided adversely to the plaintiff in errbr, this court will look only to the
record itself; nothing out of the record certified to this court
can be taken into consideration. This must be shown; first,
either by express averment or by necessary intendment in
the pleadings of the case. Or, secondly, by direction given, by
the court and stated in the exception. Or, thirdly, it must be
entered on the record of the proceeding in the appellate court
in cases where the record shows that such a point may have
arisen and been decided, that it was in fact raised and decided;
and this entry must appear to have been made by the order of
the court and certified by the clerk as a part of the record in
the state court. Armstrong v. Treasurer of Athens County, 16
Pet. 285.
In determining whether a Federal question was decided adversely to plaintiff in error, this court will act only upon the
record of the court below; and of that record *the petition for
writ of error or the assignment of errors made in the state
court forms no part.
Clark v. Pennsylvania (1888), 128
U. S. 397; California Powder Works v. Davis (1893); 151 U. S.
389; Sayward v. Denny (1894), 158 U. S. 183; Butler v.
Gage (1890), 138 U. S. 52; Manning v. French (1889), 133 U. S.
186.
The assignment of errors made in the state court cannot be
looked to to determine whether a Federal question was decided.
Fowler v. Lamson (1896), 164 U. S. 262.
While this court will not examine the evidence, yet for the
purpose, not of deciding the facts, but of throwing light on
the findings, it will examine the entire record, including the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S

opinion of the court below. Egan v. Hart (1896), 165 U. S.
188; Eustis v. Bolles (1893), 150 U. S. 361.
A careful examination of the record in the case at bar will
show conclusively that the decision of the state court was based
upon the Federal question and that no other question was decided.
If it sufficiently appears from the record itself that the repugnancy of a statute of a State to the Constitution of the
United States was drawn in question, or that the question was
applicable to the case, this court has jurisdiction of the cause,
although the record s.ould not in terms state that the repugnancy of the statute of the State to any part of the Constitution was drawn in question. Sattere v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380,
410; McCullough v. Virginia (1898), 172 U. S. 119; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143.
Mr. John Fletcher, with whom Mr. W. C. Ratcliffe was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
It is settled that this court will not review a state judgment,
although a Federal question was decided adversely to the plaintiff in error, if another question, not Federal, was also raised
and decided against him, the decision of which is sufficient to
sustain the judgment. It must appear that the judgment
could not have been rendered without deciding the Federal
question. Harris v. Morton, 171 U. S. 38; Cook County v.
Calumet, 138 U. S. 635; DeLaussure v. Garland,127 U. S. 216;
Murdock v. Memjphis, 20 Wall. 590; Klinger v. Missouri, 13
Wall. 257; K. & P. R. Co. v. P. & K. R. R. Co., 14 Wall. 23;
Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 307; Wood V. Skinner, 139 U. S.
293; Henderson Bridge Co. v. City of. Henderson, 141 U. S. 679;
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361.
That the judgment of the court was based upon the finding
that the cotton was delivered to the compress company for
the account of Alphin & Lake Cotton-Company and that this
was the basic'question underlying the judgment of the court
is not only conclusively shown by the assignment of errors but

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN R. R. v. GERMAN BANK. 273
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is clearly set forth in the petition for rehearing in the Supreme
Court.
The determination of this question against the railroad
company renders it unnecessary that the court should go
into the question as to the validity of the statute of the
State.
Indeed it may be said that the determination of any of the
other non-Federal questions raised in the case and set out in
the assignment of errors is sufficient to settle the case without
considering the effect of the statute.
This court will not re-examine the evidence, and when the
facts are found by the court below as in this case this court is
concluded by such finding. Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Cornell University v. Fiske, 136 U. S. 152.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the defendant in error, hereafter
called the plaintiff, for the failure of the railroad company,
hereafter called the defendant, to deliver cotton in accordance
with the terms of bills of lading issued by the railroad and held
by the plaintiff as indorsee. The cotton in question was purchased by the Alphin & Lake Cotton Company, and shipped
over the defendant's road to El Dorado, Arkansas, mainly from
Bernice, Louisiana. The Bank of Bernice having made advances
took the bills of lading as shipper and sent them with drafts
on the purchaser to the Bank of Little Rock. The Bank of
Little Rock wishing to reduce the account of the Alphin &
Lake Cotton Company, these bills subsequently were transferred to the plaintiff as security for an advance. The bills
of lading bore the words "Consigned to S10. % Compress
El Dorado, Ark. Notify Alphin & Lake Cotton Co." They
also contained a notice that the liability of the railroad as a
common carrier ended on the arrival of the cotton at the station of delivery, and. that unless removed by the consignees
within twenty-four hours the cotton might be removed and
VOL. CCVII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

stored by the railroad at owner's risk and expense in a warehouse of its choice.
The only place at which the cotton could be stored at El
Dorado, and the place at which all the cotton coming over the
railroad was delivered, was a compress company of which Lake,
a member of the purchasing. company, was president. The
railroad on the arrival of this cotton followed its custom and
handed the cotton over to the compress company. It is stated
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, whose decision we are asked
to review, that the delivery was made at once, for account of
Alphin & Lake Cotton Company, with no further directions
and without mention of the restriction to shipper's order, on
the supposition that it belonged to the Alphin & Lake Cotton
Company. The bills of lading were outstanding and were not
asked for as a condition of the bailment. In the defendant's
answer it is admitted that the cotton was not delivered to the
plaintiff, on demand some weeks later, and while it is alleged
that the delivery to the compress company was made to it as
agent for the holders of the bills of lading, it is alleged also that
the Alphin &Lake Cotton Company was the owner of the cotton
and thereafter took possession of it, sold it and received the
proceeds.
The judge before whom' the case was tried directed a verdict
for the plaintiff, and on exceptions the Supreme Court-of the
State affirmed the judgment of the trial court. 92 S. W. Rep.
522.
The statutes of Arkansas enact that such bills of lading may
be transferred by endorsement and delivery of the same, with
the effect of conveying d valid title,to or lien upon the produce
for which they are given, and forbids the delivery of such
produce, except on surrender and cancellation of the bills of
lading, with a proviso exempting documents having the words
"not negotiable" on their face. A violationof the enactment is
made criminal and severely punished, and it is provided that
any person aggrieved may recover all damages sustained by
reason of such violation. Kirby's Digest, §§ 530, 531. It is

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN R. R..v. GERMAN BANK. 275
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

argued that the case could not have been withdrawn from the
jury, or the judgment upheld, except on the assumption that
these sections of the statutes were valid, that they invalidated
the stipulation in the bills of lading for a right to store and
overrode the directions contained in them, and that the plaintiff made out a case on the undisputed fact that the cotton was
delivered to the compress company without a surrender of the
bills of lading. It is argued further that the sections, so far
as they bear on these transactions, are repugnant to the Constitution, Art. I, § 8, as an unauthorized attempt to regulate
commerce among the States, and this is the error relied upon
here, although, by no means the only one assigned.
But according to the well-settled doctrine of this court with
regard to cases coming from state courts, unless a decision
upon a Federal question was necessary to the judgment or
in fact was made the ground of it, the writ of error must be
dismissed. And even when an erroneous decision upon a
Federal question is made a ground, if the judgment also is
supported upon another which is adequate by itself, and which
contains no Federal question, the same result must follow as
a general rule. Moreover, ordinarily this court will not inquire whether the decision upon the matter not subject to its
revision was right or wrong. Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall.
590; Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; Leathe v. Thomas, ante, p.
93. Therefore if we should be of opinion, as we are, that the
Supreme Court rested its judgment upon principles of common
law as it understood them, we should go no farther, although
that court also upheld and relied upon the statute, whether
in our opinion its views were right or wrong.
It will have been noticed that under the answer there was
only a very narrow issue of fact possible, although there was
one. There was an issue as to whether the delivery to the compress company was not a delivery to it as agent for the holders
of the bills of lading. If that was as the defendant alleged,
it ,might be that the contract was fulfilled and the defendant
discharged, unless the statute made a change. But on the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

dence there was hardly room for argument or doubt. There
was no real question that the cotton was handed over at once
and not in the exercise of the stipulated right after twenty
four 'hours, that no directions about delivery were given to
the compress company,. and -that the persons handling the
cotton at El Dorado thought that it belonged to the Alphin &
Lake Cotton Company or acted as if it did. Both sides asked
the judge to direct a verdict and evidently regarded the questions as mainly questions of law. While it may be that the
judge would not have felt technically justified in directing the
jury to find for the plaintiff, but for his views on the effect of
the statute, the Supreme Court seems to have thought the
facts indisputable, and stated them categorically with no hint
of hesitation or doubt.
Whether the Supreme Court was warranted in assuming
the facts to be as it set them forth is no concern of ours. The
important thing is that it was at pains to state tnem, and that
it can have had no purpose in doing so other than to establish
a liability under the contract at common law. If the statute
imposed liability for 'delivery without a surrender of the bills
of lading, whether the contract was performed or not, there was
no need to go into these details. It is true that the court refers to and upholds the statute, but it does so after stating
the duties and liabilities of the carrier at common law, and
says more than once that the relevant enactment is for the enforcement of duties already existing; that is, it would seem,
that it is only declaratory so far as this case is concerned- The
court treats the contract itself as requiring a delivery to shipper's order, and only upon a production of the bills of lading
properly indorsed. Its concluding words are, "under the contract as shown by the bills of lading it was relieved of liability
on account of the storage, but not of the failure to deliver according to law." Whether the analysis of the contract was
correct or not, and whether or not there were other grounds of
common law upon which the defendant ought to have escaped,
are matters upon which we cannot speculate. When we see

PATCH v. WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY.

277

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

that the opinion of the court upon the constitutional question
first appearing in that opinion was not necessary to its judgment upon the case we have nothing more to do.Writ of error dismissed.

PATCH v. WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 57.

ArIgued November 15, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

The certificate of a judge of the Circuit Court that the judgment is based
solely on jurisdictional grounds is an act of record and qusre whether it
stands on any different ground from judgments and the like when the term
has passed, and whether it can then be amended so as to show that it was
signed inadvertently and by mistake and to certify that the question of
jurisdiction was not passed on and that the decision was based on another
ground, Such a mistake is not clerical.
The provision in a state statute that no non-resident shall be appointed or
act as administrator or executor does not open the appointment of a nonresident to collateral attack in an action brought by him so as to deprive
him of his right to file a plea that the case cannot be removed to the Federal court.
A corporation incorporated simultaneously and freely in several States
exists in each State by virtue of the laws of that State and when it lncurs a liability under the laws of one of the States in which it is incorporated and is sued therein it cannot escape the jurisdiction thereof and
remove to the Federal court on the ground that as it is also incorporated
in the other States it is not a citizen of that State. Southern Railway
v. A!/ison, 190 U. S. 326 and other cases, holding that where the corporation originally incorporated in one State was compelled to become a corporation of another State so as to exercise its powers therein, distinjuished.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George C. Otto for plaintiff in error:
The jurisdiction of the court was in issue. Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, at 718-720; Capronv. Van Noorden,
2 Cr. 126; Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112; M. C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v.

