OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND LIFE ASSOCIATION
OF NEW YORK.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND
No. 45.

CIRCUIT.

Argued November 11, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

Where there is a reserved power in the legislature to alter, amend or repeal
charters, a law permitting mutual life associations to 'reincorporate as
regular life insurance companies is not unconstitutional as impairing the
obligation of the contracts existing between such associations and their
policyholders, or as depriving such policyholders of their property without
due process of law. Wright v. Minnesota Mutual.Life Insurance Co., 19.3
U. S. 657.
The legislative power to alter, amend and repeal cliartbrs is equally effectual
whether it be reserved in the original act of incorporation, the articles of
association under a general law, or in the constitution of the State in force
when the incorporation under a general law is made.
Under the power to alter, amend and repeal charters reserved in the Constitution of 1846 of New York, Chapter 722 of the Laws of 1901 does not
impair the obligation of contracts existing between mutual life associations and their policyholders, nor in -this case did the reincorporation of
-such an association as a regular life insurance company deprive its policyholders of their property without due process of law.

IN this case the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit certified certain questions of law upon which it desired
instruction. Such part of the statement accompanying the
questions as we find material and the questions themselves
follow:
"The above-named appellants filed their bill in equity in
the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, praying for the appointnment, of a receiver of both
defendants, the winding up of both defendants, an accounting
to ascertain the interests of complainants and all other policyholders of Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association in the assets
of Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company and the marshaling

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and distribution of said assets. A final decree was entered by
the Circuit Court sustaining a demurrer of the defendant to
the amended bill of complaint and dismissing the bill. From
that decree the complainants have appealed to this court.
"The amended bill of complaint alleges the existence of
the following facts:
"The- complainants became members and policyholders of
the said association respectively on various dates from 1886 to
1900. The policy of each complainant is made a part of the
bill and also the application for insurance of two of the complainants. The material provisions of the policies and applications are hereto annexed as Exhibits 1 and 2. Said association
became a corporation organized and existing under the laws
of the State of New York. It was originally organized in 1881
under the corporate name of Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association of New York, under Chapter 267, Laws of 1875, entitled 'An Act for the incorporation of societies and clubs for
certain lawful purposes" The original' certificate of incorporation stated the objects and business of the company to be
'The mutual benefit of ourselves and all others who may become members of the society by providing benefits for families
and others dependent upon such members by means of voluntary contributions to meet exigencies occurring from time to
time, and to provide a fund for the common and exclusive
benefit of all members.' In 1883 the association reincorporated under Chapter 175, Laws of 1883, entitled 'An Act to
provide for the incorporation and regulation of co6perative
or assessment life and casualty insurance associations and
societies.' Its amended charter or certificate of incorporation,
filed in 1883, after reciting the desire of the corporation to
reincorporate under said act of 1883, provided:
"'First. We do hereby express our intention to form an organization for the transaction of life insurance upon the cooperative or assessment plan.
"'Fourth. The mode and manner in which the corporate

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

powers granted are to be exercised are by issuing certificate of
membership, policy or other evidence of interest to, and promise
an agreement with it members, whereby upon the decease
of a member, money or other benefit, charity, relief, or aid is
to be paid, provided or rendered by said corporation or association to the legal representative of such member, or to the
beneficiary designated by such member, which money, benefit,
charity, relief or aid are derived from voluntary donations,
or from admission fees, dues and assessments, or some of them,
collected or to be collected from the members thereof, or members of a class therein and interest and accretions thereon, or
rebates from amounts payable to beneficiaries, or heirs, and
wherein the paying, providing or rendering of such money or
other benefit, charity, relief or aid is conditioned upon the
same being realized in the manner aforesaid; and wherein the
money or other benefit, charity, relief or aid so realized is applied to the uses and purposes of said corporation or association, and the expenses of the management and prosecution of
its said business.'
"The existence and corporate powers of the association
under the name of Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association of
New York continued from that time unchanged until April 17th,
1902. On that date a declaration and amended charter of
the said association was filed under and pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 722, Laws of 1901, which act was an amendment of Section 52 of Chapter 690, Laws of 1892, known as
the Insurance Law of the State of New York. This amended
charter of 1902 was adopted and filed pursuant to a resolution
of the board of directors of the said association, adopted by
more than a majority of said board. The declaration 'and
amended charter were duly certified by the Attorney-General
of the State to be in accordance with the requirements of law,
and the State Superintendent of Insurance issued his certificate
of the filing of such declaration and amended charter and
consented to the transaction of the business of insurance by
the said Mutual Reserve Fund Life Insurance Company as

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in said amended charter provided. The material provisions
of said declaration and amended charter are as follows:
" 'This is to certify that the Mutual Reserve Fund Life
Association, a corporation originally organized under and by
virtue of Chapter 267 of the Laws of 1875, and reincorporated
and transacting business under Chapter 175 of the Laws of 1883
of the State of New York, and the laws amendatory thereof
and supplementary thereto, has duly accepted the provisions
of the act -of the legislature of the State of New York, being
Chapter 690 of the Laws of 1892, known as "The Insurance
Law," and the amendments thereto, and in conformity with
the same has duly adopted the following amended charter:
" 'Article I.
"'The name of the corporation shall be "Mutual Reserve
Life Insurance Company."
"'Article III.
"'The business of the company shall be insurance upon the
lives or the health of persons, and all and every insurance appertaining thereto, the making of endowments, and the granting, purchasing and, dispensing of annuities, such kind of insurance being authorized under subdivision one of section 70
of "The Insurance Law."
"'Article IV.
"'SEc. 4. The present by-laws of the corporation, which
form part of its contracts with its members, shall continue
to be the by-laws of the company unless or until the same shall
be revised or amended in the manner therein provided.
"'Article VI.
"'SEc. 1. The company shall have no capital stock, but
shall be a mutual company.
",'Article VIII.
"'The company shall.be entitled to have and enjoy all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

rights, privileges, and provisions of existing laws which might
be included in the charter and enjoyed by it, if it were originally
incorporated under "The Insurance Law" of this State.'
"The consent of the policyholders to this amendment of
the defendant's charter was not obtained, and no meeting of
policyholders was called for that purpose. The complainants
had no notice of said amendment until June 2nd, 1902, on
which date complainants received the following notice:
" 'Note Change of Name.
"'Make checks and money orders payable to
"'Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company.
"'On April 17, 1902, Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association
reincorporated as a mutual level premium company, under
the title of Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company. Attention
is called to this change of name and to the accompanying report
of the recent examination of the corporation by the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York, which shows
a surplus over liabilities of $466,885.48.
" 'This reincorporation, while insuring the stability of the
company, makes no change in your policy.
" ' CHARLES W. CAMP, Secretary.'

"The bill suggests no irregularity or defect in the procedure
by which the amendment of the charter in 1902 was effected,
other than that the consent of the, policyholders was not obtained.
"It is further alleged that said company was organized about
the 17th of April, 1902, by the then officers and directors of
the respondent Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association, without authority, from and without the knowledge or consent of
complainants or the other members and policyholders of said
association and without corporate action by said members
and policyholders, and that complainants and the other members of the association were not advised 'of the organization
of the company until on or about June 2, 1902, when they
received a printed slip notifying them that the said association

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

had reincorporated under the name 'Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company.'
"The amended bill then alleges that at the time of the organization of said company the association was, and for a considerable time had been insolvent, its liabilities being in excess
of the value of its assets by a large amount, and that the in'solvency of the association was known to the officers and directors thereof, and that the officers and directors, headed by
Frederick A. Burnham, president of the association, well
knowing the insolvency of the association, devised the scheme
for the incorporation of the respondent Mutual Reserve Life
Insurance Company and procured legislation intended to authorize the same, with the object and for the purpose of secretly and fraudulently 'depriving complainants and the other
members and lpolicyholders of respondent association of their
membership rights and privileges and of abridging the same,
and that by their said course in the premises said officers and
directors sought and intended to defraud the complainants
and the members and policyholders of said association generally and sought and intended to deprive them of their rights
as members and policyholders or to cause a forfeiture of the
same.
"Complainants in their amended bill allege 'that said law,
Chapter 722 of the Laws of New York of 1901, if its effect and
meaning be such as to authorize the pretended reorganization
and reincorporation of the respondent association by the officers
and directors thereof without due notice to and without the
knowledge and consent of complainants or any of the members and policyholders of respondent association

.

.

. is

in contravention and violation of section 10, Article I, of the
Constitution of the United States, which prohibits any State
from enacting a law 'impairing the obligation of contracts,'
and complainants invoke and rely upon said provision of the
Constitution of the United States and say that under said
provision of the Constitution of the United States said law is
unconstitutional, invalid and void.' And 'complainAnts fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

ther allege that said law of the State of New York, if given the
construction, meaning and effect aforesaid, is in contravention
and violation of those provisions of the Constitution of the
United States and of the State of New York, which provide
that "no person shall be deprived of his property without due
process of law," in this, that they deprive the complainants
and the other members and policyholders of respondent associa ion of their vested rights and privileges and of their property rights under their contracts and agreements with respondent association without due process of law, and complainants,
as citizens and residents of the State of Tennessee and nonresidents of the State of New York, invoke the provisions of
Article XIV of the Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, and, upon advice of counsel, allege and charge
that said law of the State of New York, if given the force,
meaning and effect aforesaid, is in violation of those clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which provide that "no State shall make or enforce any
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of the
citizens of the United States, nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process of law,
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."

"

The Circuit Court of Appeals desires instruction upon the
following:
Questions.
"1. Does the amended bill of complaint disclose that any
contract obligations between complainants and the defendant
Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association were impaired by the
incorporation of the Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company
in 1902, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 722, Laws 1901,
of the State of New York, and the transfer to said company
of the assets, properties and membership of the Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association?
"2. Does the amended bill of complaint disclose and show
that Chapter 722, Laws of 1901, of the State of New York, was

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Argument for Polk et al.

in violation of Article I, section 10, of the Constitution of the
United States, as impairing the obligations of a contract between the defendant Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association
and complainants, in so far as it authorized the reincorporation of said association as the Mutual Reserve Life Insurance
Company?
"3. Does the amended bill of complaint disclose that Chapter 722, Laws of 1901, of the State of New York, is in violation
of the provisions of Article XIV of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, in this, that the reincorporation
of the Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association as the Mutual
Reserve Life Insurance Company, and the changes in the charter powers and franchises of the corporation have the effect of
depriving complainants of their property without due process
of law, and of their vested contract rights and privileges and
of their property rights under their contracts and agreements
with respondent association?
"4. Does the amended bill of complaint disclose that Chapter 722, Laws of 1901, of the State of New York, was in violation of those provisions of Article XIV of the Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States, which provide that no
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of the citizens of the United States,
nor ,shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws?"
Mr. William Hepburn Russell, with whom Mr. D..L. Snod.
grass, Mr. R. F. Jackson, Mr. William Beverly Winslow, Mr.
Caruthers Ewing and Mr. Daniel M. Miers were on the brief,
for Polk et al.:
The organization of the insurance company by action of the
directors, and officers of the Mutual Reserve Fund Association,
acting without the knowledge or consent of the members and
-policyholders of the latter, when it was insolvent, and under a
law the passage of which they procured in fraud of such mem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Polk et al.

207 U. S.

hers and policyholders, had the effect of depriving the complainants and other members and policyholders of their property without due process of law, of impairing the obligation of
their contracts of nembership and of denying to them the
equal protection of the laws. Huber v. Martin, 127 Wisconsin,
412; S. C., 115 Am. St. Rep. 1023; Zabriskiev. Hackensack &c.
R. Co., 18 N. J. Eq. 174; Railway Co. v. Allerton, 18 Wall. 233;
Baker's Appeal, 109 Pa. St. 461; Hartford & New Haven R. Co.
v. Croswell, 5 Hill (N. Y.), 383, 386; Schwarzwaelder v. German
Mut. Fire Ins. Co., 59 N. J. Eq. 589; People v. Ballard, 134
N. Y. 269, 294; 1 Morawetz on Corp. (2d ed.), §§ 295, 395, 404,
512.
Wright v. Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Co., 193 U. S.
657, is a controlling authority against the right of the directors
of the Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association to (a), procure
legislation authorizing a mutual life insurance society, organized upon the assessment plan, to change to a level premium,
old line.company upon the application of the directors alone;
and (b), to make the change under such law, without the knowledge or consent of the members, at a time when the association
was already insolvent.
Directors of a mutual membership corporation have no power
without the authority and consent of the members, to alter,
amend and change the corporate charter either by their own
acts, or pursuant to legislation, procured upon their initiative,
for such purpose. MarlboroughMg. Co. v. Smith, 2 Connecticut, 579, 583, 584; 1 Morawetz on Corp. (2d ed.), §§ 295, 297,
395, 397,. 512-514; Railway Co. v. Allerton, 18 Wall. 233;
Baker's Appeal, 109 Pa. St. 461; So. Pennsylvania Iron & R.
Co. v. Stevens, 87 Pa. St. 190, 196; Edwards v. Mercantile Trust
Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 382, 392. Nor does the reserved power of.
the legislature to "amend, alter or repeal" authorize those
directors to procure general legislation under which they can
apply for and obtain such a reincorporation of the company
without the knowledge and consent of its members. Taylor on
C(orporations (5th ed.), §§ 499, 500; Ra'.lway. Co. v. Allerton,

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Argument for Polk et al.

18 Wall. 233, 235, 236; Baker's Appeal, 109 Pa. St. 461, 471,
472; Zabriskie v. Hackensack &c. R. Co., 18 N. J. Eq. 178;
Botts v. Simpsonville &c. Co., 88 Kentucky, 54; Huber v. Martin, 115 Am. St. Rep. 1023; Black v. Delaware &c. CanalCo., 24
N. J. Eq. 455, 466; Mills v. Central R. Co., 41 N. J. Eq. 1.
Chapter 722, Laws of New York of 1901, is unconstitutional
and void and the pretended reincorporation of the Mutual
Reserve Fund Life Association under its provisions is invalid,
because it impairs the obligation of contracts between a mutual
cobperative assessment life insurance society and its members
by conferring power 4ipon the directors of the corporation,
without the action, knowledge or consent of the members, to
change the corporation into an insurance company of a different
class, with different burdens resting upon it and through it
upon its. members. 3 Thompson on Corp., §§ 3979, 3980;
Railway Co. v. Allerton, 18 Wall. 233; Baker's Appeal, 109 Pa.
St 461; MarlboroughMfg. Co. v. Smith, 2 Connecticut, 579, 583,
584; Venner v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. Co., 28 Fed.
Rep. 581, per Brewer, C. J.; Mayor &c. v. Knoxville & 0. R.
Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 758, per Baxter, C. J.
The change made in the nature and business of the Mutual
'Reserve Fund Life Association by its pretended reincorporation as the Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company, whereby
it was transformed from an assessment company to an old line,
level premium company, its policies "valued" and a "legal
reserve" created, was fundamental, and no power of amendment by, the directors being reserved in its charter, the pretended reincorporation under Chap. 722 by the action of the
directors alone, is unconstitutional and invalid and has the
effect of impairing the obligation of contracts with its members
and depriving them of their property without due process of
law. Bedford v. Eastern B. & L. Ass'n,. 181 U. S. 227, 240-241;
Chap 175, Laws of N. Y. of 1883, § 16; Chap. 690, Laws of
N. Y. of 1892,, § 209; Chap. 690, Laws of N. Y. of 1893, §§ 1
aid 2; Lnrd v. Equitable Assurance Soc., 109 App. Div. N. Y.
252.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Mr. Frank H. Platt, with whom Mr. Sewell T. Tyng was on
the brief, for the insurance company:
The record negatives the fact, apparently assumed in the
first question certified, that the Mutual Reserve Life Insurance
Company is. a separate and distinct corporation to which the
assets of the Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association have
been transferred.
The amendment of the charter in April, 1902, was duly and
regularly effected pursuant to Chap. 722, Laws of 1901. The
consent of policyholders or members to' the amendment was
not required by that statute..
The record does not disclose that any contract obligations
or property rights of the appellants have been impaired or
affected by the amendment of the corporation's charter. No
change was made or attempted in the outstanding contracts
or policies.
Chapter 722 of the Laws of 1901 of the State of New York,
under which the defendant amended its charter, does not violate the contract or due process provisions of the Federal Constitution. Appellants as policyholders of an assessment insurance company have no vested or contract right to insist
that the business of the company shall always be conducted
exclusively upon the, assessment plan. Wright v. Minnesota
Mutual Life Insurance Company, 193 U. S. 657, affirming Iverson v. Minn. Mutual Li/p Ins. Co., 137 Fed. Rep. 268. See
also Miller v. State of New York, 15 Wall. 478; C. H. Jenner Co.
v. U. S. Steel Corporation,116 Fed. Rep. 1012; McKee v. Chautauqua Assembly, 130 Fed. Rep. 536; Grobe v. Ins. Co., 169
N. Y. 613.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY,.

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Mutual Reserve Fund Association of New York (hereinafter called the Association) was originally incorporated under
Chap. 267 of the Laws of New York of 1875. The certificate

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of incorporation stated the purposes of the Association to be
to provide "benefits for families and others dependent
by means of voluntary contributions

.

.

. and to provide

a fund for the common and exclusive benefit of all members."
In 1883 the Association reincorporated under Chap. 175, Laws
of 1883, and while this charter was in existence the complainants became members and policyholders. That law provided
for the incorporation and regulation of cobperative and assessment life and casualty insurance associations, and the charter of the Association stated the business to be conducted as
"the transaction of life insurance upon the co6perative or
assessment plan." The law, as will presently be shown, was
subject to alteration or repeal. In 1892 an act known as the
Insurance Law (Chap. 38 of the General Laws, Laws 1892
p. 1930) was passed, repealing previous laws upon the subject
of inslrance, and expressed to be "applicable to all corporations
authorized by law to make insurances." Section 52 of this
acf, as amended by Chap. 722 of the Laws of 1901, is as follows:
"SEc. 52. Reorganizations of existing corporations and
amendment of certificates.-Any domestic corporation existing or doing business at the time this chapter takes effect, may,
by a vote of a majority of its directors or trustees, accept provisions of this chapter and amend its charter to conform with
the same, upon obtaining the consent of the Superintendent
of Insurance thereto in writing; and thereafter it shall be deemed
to have been incorporated under this chapter, and every such
corporation in reincorporating under this provision may for
that purpose so adopt in whole or in part a new charter, in
conformity herewith, and include therein any or all provisions
of its existing charter, and any or all changes from its existing
charter, to cover and enjoy any or all the privileges and provisions of existing laws which might be so included and enjoyed
if it were originally incorporated thereunder, and it shall, upon
such adoption of and after obtaining the consent, as in this
section before provided, to such charter, and filing the same
and the record of adoption and consent in the office of the SuperVOL. ocv--21

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

intendent of Insurance, perpetually enjoy the same as and be
such corporation, and which is declared to be a continuation
of such corporation which existed prior to such reincorporation;
and the offices therein, which shall be continued shall-be filled
by the respective incumbents for the periods for which they
were elected, and all others shall be filled in the same manner as
by such amended charter provided. ,Every domestic insurance
corporation may amend its charter or certificate of incorporation bv inserting therein any statement or matter which might
have been originally inserted therein; and the same proceedings
shall be taken upon the presentation of such amended charter
or certificate to the Superintendent of Insurance, as are required
by this chapter to be takeil with respect to an original charter
or certificate, and if approved by the Superintendent of Insurance, and his certificate of authority to do business thereunder is granted, the corporation shall thereafter be deemed
to possess the same powers and be subject to the same liabilities
as if such amended charter or certificate had been its original
charter or certificate of incorporation, but without prejudice
to any pending action or proceeding or any rights previously
accrued. This section shall apply to insurance corporations
organized under or subject to article six of the insurance law
as well as to insurance corporations organized under special
charters or articles two and ten of the insurance law; all contracts, policies and certificates issued by such corporations
prior to accepting the provisions of this chapter shall be valued
as one year term insurance at the ages attained, excepting
when such contracts, policies or certificates shall provide for a
limited number of specified premiums or for specified surrender
values, in which case they shall be valued as provided in article two, section eighty-four, of the insurance law."
Following strictly the provisions of this section, the Association accepted the provisions of the insurance law, amended its
charter, and became entitled to all the privileges of the law as
if it had been originally incorporated thereunder. In the
'amendments to -the charter the name of the Association wa

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

changed to "Mutual Reserve Life Insurance. Company"
(hereinafter called the Company), and the business of the Company was stated to be "insurance upon the lives or the health
of persons, and all and every insurance appertaining thereto,
the making of endowments, and the granting, purchasing and
dispensing of annuities." The effect of this was to broaden
the business from that of merely cooperative and assessment
life insurance to life insurance of every kind. It is conceded
that what- was done was within the authority conferred by
the statute, and the subject for our consideration is whether
any of the rights, secured to the complainants by the Constitution of the United States, have been impaired.
The first question certified is, whether the incorporation of
the Company and the transfer to it of the assets, property and
membership of the Association impaired any contract obligations between the Association and the complainants. This
question possibly implies that by the reincorporation an
entirely new corporation was created, to which the property
of the old corporation was transferred. But the question must
be interpreted with the aid of the statement of facts which accompanies it. An examination of the facts and of the statute
shows that there was simply a reorganization of an existing
corporation and not the creation of a new one. The title of the
section is, "Re6rganizations of existing corporations and
amendment of certificates." It authorizes an existing corporation by vote of its directors to accept the provisions of the chapter and amend its charter. It provides expressly that the corporation, with its added powers and revised charter, shall be a
"continuation of such corporation which existed prior to such
reincorporation." This, perhaps, makes superfluous the saving
of "pending actions or proceeding or any rights previously
accrued" which the section cautiously insures. The declaration
filed by the'directors, and certified by the Attorney General to
be in conformity with law, recites that the Association "has
duly accepted the provisions"' of the insurance law, and "duly
adopted the following amended charter." The. corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

was not changed to a stock, but continued as a mutual company. The change of name cannot control the significance of
these facts. We answer this and the other questions upon
the assumption, therefore, that the. old corporation was still
in existence, under a new name, and, with added powers, but
with unchanged membership, and bound to perform all its
existing obligations. Upon this view it is impossible. to say
that any of the contract obligations of -the Association to the
complainants have been impaired by the reorganization. This
was the view apparently accepted by the Company, who, in its
notioe to its members, said: "This reincorporation, while insuring the stability of the Company, makes no change in your
policy." It is contended, however, that the last clause of the
section, which is applicable to associations for insurance under
the co6perative or assessment plan, affects the contracts of
the old members, by converting them into one-year term insurances at the ages attained. But as we understand this
clause it has no effect upon the contracts of insurance, but is
designed for a totally different purpose. It. simply prescribes
a standard by which the liabilities on the assessment contracts
must be appraised. The Superintendent of Insurance is charged
with the duty of deciding whether the assets of insurance
companies bear such a relation to their liabilities that it is
safe to allow them to continue in business. A very large part
of the liabilities of any insurance company is upon outstanding
contracts of insurance, not due and therefore not capable 6f
exact measurement. Such liabilities can only be estimated or
"valued." Section 84 of the insurance law provides for the
method of estimating or valuing the-liability on ordinary life
policies, but that method seems inapplicable to assessment
policies. In any event, the legislature determined that, when
an assessment eomlany wis allowed to' engage in other kinds
of life insurance, its outstanding policiei should be appraised
as liabilities as if they were "one-year term insurance at the
ages attained." This does not make -them such in fact, or authorize the Company, in its dealings with the policyholder, to

POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U.S.

Opinionof the Court.

treat them as such. The statutory appraisement of the policies
for bookkeeping purposes no more affects the rights of the
members under their contracts than the account of stock of a
merchant would affect the rights of his creditors. The first
question must be answered in the negative.
The second question certified is, whether the law of 1901, so
far as it authorized the reincorporation of the Association, was
in violation of the clause of the Constitution forbidding a State
from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts. A
similar question was before the court in Wright v. Minnesota
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 193 U. S. 657, where it was held that a
law of Minnesota, authorizing an assessment insurance company to change its business to that 6T insurance upon a regular
premium basis, was not in violation of this provision of the
Constitution. The reasoning of the court in that case need not
be repeated. It is conclusive upon this question, unless the
case at bar can be distinguished from it. The complainants seek
to distinguish the case in several respects, which must be noticed. First, it is said that in the. Wright case the power of
amendment of the articles of association was reserved in the
articles of association, 'while no such reservation exists here.
But the constitution of New York, in force since 1846, contains
this provision: "Corporations may be formed under general
laws; but shall not be created by special act, except for municipal purposes, and'in cases where, in the judgment of the legislature, the objects of the corporation cannot be attained under
general laws. All general laws and special acts passed pursuant
to this section may be altered from time to time or repealed." A
constitutional provision of the State of Michigan in substantially the same words was held to authorize important changes
in the articles of association of an insurance company incorporated under a general law. Looker v. Maynard, 179 U. S. 46.
There it was said, page 52: "The effect of such a provision,
whether contained in an original act of incorporation, or in a
constitution or general law subject to which a charter is accepted is, at the least, to reserve to the legislature the power

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

to make any alteration or amendment of a charter subject to
it, which will not defeat or substantially impair the object.of
the grant, or any right vested under the grant; and which the
legislature may deem necessary to carry into effect the purpose
of the grant, or to protect the rights of the public or of the corporation, its stockholders or creditors, or to promote the due
administration of its affairs." This case shows that it is imimaterial whether the power to alter the charter is reserved in
the original act of incorporation, or in the articles of association
under a general law, or in a constitution in force when the incorporation under a general law is made, as in the case at bar.
Second, it is said that in the Wright case the change was made
by the majority of the members of the association, while in the
case at bar it was made by a majority of the directors without
the consent of the members. But in each case the change was
made in conformity with the provisions of the law authorizing
it, and if the legislature has the constitutional power to authorize the change by the vote of a majority of the rembers it
has the power to authorize the change by a vote of a majority
of the directors. The rights of a protesting member are no
more impaired in one case than in the other. Next, it is said
that distinctions may be based upon the allegations in this case
that the Association was insolvent, and that knowing this, its
officers devised the scheme of reincorporation and procured
legislation authorizing it, with the intent to defraud the members. That the corporation was solvent was emphasized by
the court in the Wright case, but nothing in the decision of
the constitutional question turned upon that. It would introduce a new uncertainty into the law if the constitutionality
of statutes were to be judged by the motives and purposes of
those who persuaded the legislature to enact them. We are
unable to conceive of any possible bearing that these allegations, if accepted as true, could have on the constitutional
questions certified to us, or to regard them as creating any
real and substantial distinction between the case before
us and the Wright case. On the authority of that case,

. POLK v. MUTUAL RESERVE FUND.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

therefore, the second question must be answered in the negative.
The other two questions certified inquire whether the law
under which the reincorporation was made, or the reincorporation and changes in power made under its provisions, are in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. These questions do not require separate
or detailed consideration. As applied to the facts of this case,
they are practically dealt with in the discussion which has
preceded. It is not suggested that any rights secured to the
complainants by the Fourteenth Amendment Were violated in
any other manner than by the reincorporation of the Association without the consent of its members, the change in and
addition to its powers, and the consequent effect upon the
contract rights of the complainants and upon their relation to
the corporation. But it has been shown that the contract
rights of the complainant have not been affected by the reincorporation, and the same reasoning that leads to the conclusion that the changes in the charter powers, made under the
reserved powers of the State, do not violate the contract clause
of the Constitution are apt to show that they do not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment. In fact, the only suggestion of a
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment made to us is that the
reincorporation, under the circumstances of this case, deprived
the complainants of their vested rights and privileges and property rights under their contracts, without due process of law.
Since the incorporation has deprived the complainants of no
vested rights, privileges or property, the contention fails.
The whole argument of the complainants upon these constitutional questions, though enveloped in many words and presented in divers forms, rests upon a single proposition. That
proposition is that they, having become members of an association insuring lives upon the co6perative and assessment plan,
and being therefore, in a sense, both insurers and insured,
have a vested right that the Association shall not, without their
consent, engage in other kinds of insurance, which may and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

probably will indirectly affect, for better or worse, their relations to it. The trouble with this proposition is that it was
made and denied in the Wright case.
We have confined our consideration strictly to the constitutional questions certified. It may be that the complainants'
rights under their contracts have not been observed by the
Company or that they have otherwise been unlawfully injured.
These questions are not before us.
The questions are severally'arNwered'in -the negative.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WHARTON et al., RAILROAD. COMMISSIONERS OF
THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 8.

Argued November 5. 1907.-Decided December 9, 1907.

Any exercise of state authority, whether made directly or through the instrumentality of a commission, which directly regulates interstate commerce is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution;
and so held as to the stopping of interstate trains at stations' within the
State already adequately supplied with transportation facilities.
Whether an order stopping, interstate trains at specified stations is a direct
regulation of ii terstate commerce depends on the local facilitieslat those
stations, and while the sufficiency of such facilities is not in itself a. Federal
question, it may be considered by this court for the purpose of determining
whether the order does or does not regulate interstate commerbe, andlif,
as in this case, the local facilities are adequate,the order is void.
Inability of fast interstate .trains to make schedule, loss of patronage and
compensation for carrying the mails, and the inability of such trains to
pay expenses if additional stops are required are all matters to be con-,
sidered in'determining whether adequate facilities have been furnished to
the stations at which the company is ordered by state' authorities to stop
such trains.
74 S. Car. 80, reversed.

THE railroad company, plaintiff in error, brings the case here
to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of

