OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

streets, and they, alone, could test the validity of the ordinance.
The court said further: "The city did not, in terms, attempt to
give the plaintiff company a right to the exclusive use of the
streets And lanes for the purpose of laying down its pipes. If
it had attempted to do so it could not, for want of power."
The conclusion from these cases is reinforced by a change
in the statutes conferring power upon the cities of the State.
Section 65) supra, was § 30 of the statutes of 1868 (subds. 10
and 18, p. 162), and as such gave to a city the power to make
the contracts therein expressed, and give "the exclusive privilege of furnishing gas to light the streets, lanes and alleys of
said city for any length of time not exceeding twenty-one
years." This provision was repeated in § 59 of the statutes of
1872, Kansas Laws, 1892, p. 211. But in 1885 that section
was amended, so as to omit the words "the exclusive privilege." Section 7, chapter 99, Statutes of 1885, p. 147. And
as thus amended it was reenacted in 1901. Section 1000, General Statutes of 1901.
Decrees affirmed.

THE HAMILTON. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 71.

Argued October 24, 1907.-Decided December 23, 1907.

Until Congress acts on the subjecf, a State -may legislate in regard to the
dutie' and liabilities of its citizens and corporations while on the high

seas and not within the territory of any other sovereign.
Where a fund is being distributed in a proceeding to limit the liability of
the owners of a vessel, all claims to which the admiralty does not deny
existence must be recognized, whether admiralty liens or not.
The statute of Delaware giving damages for death caused by tort is a valid
exercise of. the legislative power of the State, and extends to the case of
a citizen of that State wrongfully killed while on the high seas in a vessel
I Docket title, Old Dominion Steamship Company, owner of the Steamship Hamilton, v. Gilnore.

THE HAMILTON.
207 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

belonging to a Delaware corporation by the negligence of another vessel
also belonging to a Delaware corporation. A claim against the owner
of one of the vessels in fault can be enforced in a proceeding in admiralty
brought by such owner to limit its liability.
When both vessels in collision are in fault the :representatives of a seaman
on one of the vessels, killed without contributory negligence on his part,
may, in a proceeding to limit liability, where an action is given by the
state statute against the owner of the other vessel, rcover full damages,
and are not. limited to damages recoverable under the maritime law
against the seaman's own vessel for death or injury caused by negligence
of the master thereof or his fellow serv.ants thereon. 'Neither the seaman's
contract with the owners of the vessel he is on, nor the negligence of his
own vessel, -nor any provision of the Harter Act affects the claim- against
the other vessel
146 Fed. Rep. 724, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. HarringtonPutnam, with whom Mr. Henry E. Mattison
was on the brief, for petitioner:
The Delaware statute does not apply to a claim for death on
the high seas arising from tort, in proceedings in admiralty.
In the relation which springs out of tort, there is no basis
for saying that the parties have impliedly consented to be bound
by the law of any particular State. As a consequence their
rights and liabilities are to be determined by the general principles of maritime law as administered in our admiralty courts.
If the Hamilton had belonged in one State, the Saginaw in
another and the deceased in still another State, the law of any
particular State could not more than another have precedence
and a controlling influence. On the contrary, there is no presumption that the relations of the parties are to be fixed by
the laws of any one State when an injury accrues on the high
seas through a pure marine tort. Rundell v. .Compagnie G~nrale, 94 Fed. Rep. 366; aff'd 100 Fed. Rep. 655.
The origin of the fiction that a merchant ship may be regarded as a floating portion of a country, or, as the doctrine
is sometimes expressed, that it is a continuation or prolongation of the National territory, is as recent as 1752. Modern
writers treat this fiction as having only a limited application.
Hall on International Law, Oxford, 1904, pp. 249, 250.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

207 U. S.

The doctrine of "territoriality" is rather a limit on rights
of search and protection against aggression than one that confers new rights of action for tort. Walker, Science of International Law, pp. 130, 131.
Independent of precedent, it is plain that the liability for
wrongs, and especially for causing death, is to be determined
in admiralty by the court administering the law of the forum.
No State can extend its laws over the ocean. The Federal laws
alone, and the maritime jurisprudence administered by the
Federal courts must decide the liability for wrongs committed
outside of territorial waters.
The doctrine that merchant ships are part of the territory,
if applicable to collisions, would also govern salvage on the
high seas. Such attempts to impose foreign laws have often
been made, but have never been successful in the United States
courts. The Edam, 13 Fed. Rep. 135, 139.
The territorial fiction depends on contracts, because publicists recognize that it is only when the crew are on board that
the doctrine of territoriality applies. Once the contracting
members of the ship's company leave the vessel the fiction
vanishes. Woolsey, International Law (6th ed.), p. 72.
Statutes providing for the survivorship of rights of action,
and recovery in case of loss of life, have been enacted in varying forms, not only by the States of the Union, but also by
foreign countries, with which the United States has intimate
relations-especially by England and the Canadian provinces.
The system of law on the continent of Europe in some form
also gives a recovery for loss of life. Yet in no case have the
cour$ of Great Britain or the United States regarded the law
of the flag upon the high seas as authorizing such a recovery
in the admiralty courts. Even in Canada the admiralty has
no jurisdiction for loss of life. Monaghan v. Horn, 7 Du Val
(Supreme Court, Canada), 409.
The same rule was reached in England (notwithstanding
Lord Campbell's Act) that admiralty has no jurisdiction for
loss of life. The Vera Cruz, 10 App. Cas. 59 (1884).

THE HAMILTON.
207 U S.

Argument for Respondents.

Cases of tort arising upon the high seas, in the admiralty
courts of the United States, will be governed by the law of the
forum, which is the general maritime law as administered in
these courts. The Scotland, 105 U. S.24; The Belgenland, 114
U. S.355; The Brantford City, 29 Fed. Rep. 373.
Next to the natural justice of its principles, the highest value
of maritime law consists in its uniformity and general acceptance. We are not dealing with municipal law nor with general commercial law not maritime, both of which are prescribed
and administered concurrently by the state and Federal legislatures and courts, but we have to deal with that which relates
exclusively to themaritime law and the admiralty jurisdiction.
That law is not subject to the change or modification of state
legislatures.
Indeed, one of the controlling -reasons for conferring on the
general government the exclusive jurisdiction of all admiralty
and maritime causes was to secure the great benefits which
must inevitably result from uniformity in the maritime law.
A State cannot, therefore, destroy the symmetry of that law
by creating maritime rights or conferring jurisdiction in any
particular upon an admiralty court. The Manhasset, 18 Fed.
Rep. 918, 923; Welsh.v. The North Cambria, 40 Fed. Rep. 655,
656; The Lyndhurst, 48 Fed. Rep. 839, 841; Workman v. The
Mayor &c., 179 U. S.552, 558.
The surviving members of the crew of the Saginaw cannot
maintain their claim for its full face, but the Hamilton remains
answerable for only half of all such losses. The Osceola, 189
U. S. 158, 175; The City of New York, 25 Fed. Rep. 151; The
Queen, 40 Fed. Rep. 694; Stahl v. The Niagara, 77 Fed. Rep.
329, 336.
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin and Mr. George Whitefield Betts, with
whom Mr. John M. Woolsey and Mr. Howard M. Long were
on the brief, for respondents:
Since Congress has not legislated with reference to the subject, the statute of the State of Delaware, as a sovereign State,
VOL. covii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

allowing damages for death is binding and effective on its
vessels when on the high seas. The Lottowanna, 21 Wall. 558,
580; The Glide, 167 U. S. 606; Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236;
Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299; Steamboat Co. v.
Chase, 16 Wall. 522; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99.
The Hamilton and Saginaw, for the purposes of this pro'ceeding, were parts of the territory of the State of Delaware,
and subject to its laws. Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572;
Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610; The Lamington, 87 Fed Rep. 752.
There has been no negligence shown on the part of the members of the crew of the Saginaw. It was proper, therefore, to
allow the full amount of their claims. The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302;
The Albert Dumois, 177 U. S. 240 243, 260. See also The
Juniata, 93 U. S. 337; The North Star, 106 U. S. 17, 22; The
Chattahoochee, 173 U. S. 540, 549; The New York, 175 U. S.
187; Ex parte Union Steamboat Co., 178 U. S. 317; The Conemaugh, 189 U. S. 363.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding for the limitation of liability of the steamship Hamilton in. respect of a collision on the ligh seas with
the steamship Saginaw, in which, the Saginaw was sunk and
her chief mate and sonic of' her crew and passengers were
drowned. It is found, and not disputed, that both vessels were
to blame. Both vessels belonged to corporations of the State
of -Delaware. A statute of that State, after enacting that
actions for injuries to the person shall not abate by reason of
the plaintiff's death, provides that "whenever death shall be
occasioned by unlawful violence or negligence, and no suit be
brought by the party injured to recover damages during his
or her life, the widow or widower of any such deceased person,
or if there be no widow or widower, the personal representatives may maintain an action for and recover damages for the
death and loss thus occasioned." Act of January 26, 1866,
chap. 31, p. 28, vol. 13, Part 1, Delaware Laws, as amended

THE HAMILTON.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the COurt.

by act of March 9, 1901, chap. 210, p. 500, vol. 22, Delaware
Laws. On the strength of this statute the representatives of
a passenger and of three of the crew filed claims; and the claims
were allowed by the District Court (see 134 Fed. Rep. 95; 139
Fed. Rep. 906), and afterwards by the Circuit Court of Appeals;
146 Fed. Rep. 724; 77 C. C. A. 150. A certiorari was granted
by this court to settle the question, as stated by the petitioner,
whether the Delaware statute applies to a claim for death on
the high seas, arising purely from tort, in proceedin'gs in admiralty. Incidentally the right of representatives of the crew
of the Saginaw to recover their claims in full against the Hamilton also has been discussed.
I Apart from the subordination of the State of Delaware to
the Constitution of the United States there is no doubt that it
would have- had power to make its statute applicable to this
case. When so applied, he statute governs the reciprocal liabilities of two corporations, existing only by virtue of the laws
of Delaware, and permanently within its jurisdiction, for the
consequences of conduct set in motion by them there, operating
outside the territory of the State, it is true, but within no other
territorial jurisdiction. If confined to corporations, the State
would have power to enforce its law to the extent of their
property in every case. But the same authority would exist
as to citizens domiciled within the State, even when personally
on the high seas, and not only could be enforced by the State
in case of their return, which their domicil by its very meaning
promised, but in proper cases would be recognized in other
jurisdictions by the courts of other States. In short, the bare
fact of the parties being outside the territory in a place belonging to no other sovereign would not limit the authority of the
State, as accepted by civilized theory. No one doubts the
power of England or France to govern their own ships upon the
high seas.
The first question, then, is narrowed to whether there is
anything in the structure of the National Government and
under the Constitution of the United States that takes away

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

or qualifies-the authority that otherwise, Delaware would possess-a question that seems to have been considered doubtful in Butler v. Boston & Savqnnah Steamship Co., 130 U.S.
527, 558. It has two branches: First, whether the state law
is valid 'for any purpose, and, next, whether, if valid, -it will
be applied in the admiralty. We will take them up in order.
The power of Congress to legislate upon the subject has been
derived both from the power to regulate commerce and from
the clause in the Constitution extending the judicial power to
"all cases of admiralty and .maritime jurisdiction." Art. 3,
§ 2; 130 U., S. 557. The doubt in this case arises as to the
power of the States where Congress has remained silent.
That doubt, however, cannot be serious. The grant of admiralty jurisdiction, followed and construed by the Judiciary
Act of 1789, "saving to suitors in all cases the right of a common law remedy where the common law is competent to give
it," Rev. Stats. § 563, cl. 8, leaves open the common law jurisdiction of the state courts over torts committed at sea. This,
we believe, always has been admitted. Martin v. Hunter, 1
Wheat. 304, 337; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555, 571; Leon v.
Galceran, 11 Wall. 185; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S.
240, 262. And as the state courts in their decisions would follow their own notions about the law and might change them
from time to time, it would be strange if the Stat'e might not
make changes by its other mouthpiece, the legislature. The
same argument that deduces the legislative. power of Congress
from the jurisdiction of the National courts, tends to establish
the legislative power of the State where Congress has not acted.
Accordingly, it has been held thai a statute giving damages
for .death caused by a tort might be enforced in a state court,
although the tort was committed at sea- American Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522. So far as the objection to the
state law is founded on the admiralty clause in the Constitution, it would seem not to matter whether the, accident happened near sbor or in mid-ocean, notwithstanding some
expressions of doubt. The same conclusion was reached in Mc-

THE HAMILTON.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Donald v. Mallory, 77'N. Y. 546, where the death occurred on
the high §eas. , Sherlock v. Aling, 93 U. S. 99, reinforces Chase's
case, and answets any argument based on the power of Congress
over commerce, as to which we hardly need refer also to Cooley
v. Board of Wardens, 12*How4. 299, Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall.
236; Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572, and Homer Ramsdell
Transportation Co. v. La Compagnie Gfntrale Transatlantique
182 U. S. 406, concerning state pilotage laws.
The jurisdiction commonly expressed in the formula that a
vessel at sea is regarded as part of the territory of the State,
was held, upon much consideration, to belong to Massachusetts,
so far as to give preference to a judicial assignment in insolvency of such a vessel over an attachment levied immediately
upon her arrival at New York, in Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610.
That decision was regarded as necessitating the conclusion
.reached'in McDonald v. Mallory, supra. Other instances of
state regulation are mentioned in The City of Norwalk, 55 Fed.
Rep. 98, 106; but without further recapitulation of the authorities, we are of opinion that the statute is valid. See
Workman v. New York, 179 U., S.552, 563. We should add,
what has been assumed thus far, as it had to be assumed in
order to raise the question discussed, that we construe the
statute as intended to govern all cases which it is competent
to govern, or at least not to be confined to deaths occasioned
on land. McDonald v. Mallory, 77 N. Y. 546. If it touches
any case at sea, it controls this. See The Belgenland, 114 U. S.
355, 370. Whether it is to be taken to offer a similar liability
of Delaware owners to foreign subjects, Mulhall v. Fallon, 176
Massachusetts, 266, need not be determined now.
We pass to the other branch of the first question: whether
the state law, being valid, will be applied in the admiralty.
Being valid, it created an obligatio, a personal liability of the
owner of the Hamilton to the claimants. Slater v. Mexican
National R. R. Co., 194 U. S. 120, 126. This, of course, the
admiralty would not disregard, but would respect the right
-when brought before it in any legitimate way. Ex parte Mc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Niel, 13 Wall. 236, 243. It might not give a proceeding in rem,
since the statute does not purport to create a lien. It might
give a'proceeding in personam. The Corsair,145 U. S. 335, 347.
If it gave the latter, the result would not be, as suggested, to
create different laws for different districts. The liability would
be recognized in all. Nor would there be produced any lamentable lack of uniformity. Courts constantly enforce rights
arising from and depending upon other laws than those governing the local transactions of the jurisdiction in which they
sit. But we are not concerned with these considerations. In
this case the statutes of the United States have enabled the
owner to transfer its liability to a fund and to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the admiralty, and it has done so. That fund
is being distributed. In such circumstances all claims to which
the admiralty does not deny existence must be recognized,
whether admiralty liens or not. This is not only a general
principle, Andrews v. Wall, 3 How. 568, 573; The J. E. Rumbell,
148 U. S. 1, 15; Admiralty Rule, 43; Cargo Ex Galam, 2 Moore
P. C. (N. S.) 216, 236, but is the result of the statute, which
provides for, as well as limits the liability, and allows it to be
proved against the fund. The Albert Dumois, 177 U. S. 240,
260. See Workman v. New York, 179 U. S. 552, 563.
The second question concerns the right of the representatives
of the crew to recover their claims in full. There is a faint suggestion that the mate of the Saginaw was negligent, but on
this point we shall not go behind the findings below. The main
objection is that the statute allows a recovery beyond the
maintenance and support which were declared in The Osceola,
189 U. S. 158, 175, to be the limit of a seaman's rights against
his own vessel when injured by the negligence of the master
or a fellow-servant on his ship. But the question here regards
the liability of the Hamilton, another vessel. The contract between the seaman and the owners of the Saginaw does not affect
the case. Erie R. R. Co. v. Erie TransportationCo., 204 U. S.
220, 226. Neither does the Harter Act, even if its ternis could
be extenled to personal injuries and loss of life. The C(hattla-

THE HAMILTON.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

hoocheeP,173 U. S. 540. Neither does the negligence of the Saginaw. The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302.
We are of opinion that all the claimants are entitled to the
full benefits of a statute "granting the right to relief where.
otherwise it could not be administered by a maritime court."
Workman v. New York, 179 U. S.552, 563.
Decree affirmed.

HOLT v. MURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

OKLAHOMA.
No. 61. Argued December 6, 1907.-DeWed January 6, 1908.
Under the general rule of law that an entry segregates the tract entered
from the public domain subject to be entered until that entry is disposed of, this court sustains the rule of the Land Department that no
subsequent entry can be received after the Land Commissioner has
held the entry' for cancellation until the time allowed for appeal has
expired or the rights of the original entryman have been finally determined.
Where the successful party in a land contest does not enforce his preference
rights or take any action looking to an entry within the prescribed period,
but files a waiver of his right of entry, in the absence of any findings
.sustaining charges of fraud as to the delivery of the waiver, this court
ivill not, in an action 'commenced four years thereafter, set aside a patent
issued to one who had entered the land and in whose favor the waiver
was filed.
15 Oklahoma, 12, affirmed.

THIS was a suit commenced in the District Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, by appellant, praying that the appellees, the holders of the legal title to a tract of land in Oklahoma County, be decreed to hold that title in trust for her
benefit. The District Court entered a decree in favor of the
defendants, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the

