OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

probably will indirectly affect, for better or worse, their relations to it. The trouble with this proposition is that it was
made and denied in the Wright case.
We have confined our consideration strictly to the constitutional questions certified. It may be that the complainants'
rights under their contracts have not been observed by the
Company or that they have otherwise been unlawfully injured.
These questions are not before us.
The questions are severally'arNwered'in -the negative.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WHARTON et al., RAILROAD. COMMISSIONERS OF
THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 8.

Argued November 5. 1907.-Decided December 9, 1907.

Any exercise of state authority, whether made directly or through the instrumentality of a commission, which directly regulates interstate commerce is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution;
and so held as to the stopping of interstate trains at stations' within the
State already adequately supplied with transportation facilities.
Whether an order stopping, interstate trains at specified stations is a direct
regulation of ii terstate commerce depends on the local facilitieslat those
stations, and while the sufficiency of such facilities is not in itself a. Federal
question, it may be considered by this court for the purpose of determining
whether the order does or does not regulate interstate commerbe, andlif,
as in this case, the local facilities are adequate,the order is void.
Inability of fast interstate .trains to make schedule, loss of patronage and
compensation for carrying the mails, and the inability of such trains to
pay expenses if additional stops are required are all matters to be con-,
sidered in'determining whether adequate facilities have been furnished to
the stations at which the company is ordered by state' authorities to stop
such trains.
74 S. Car. 80, reversed.

THE railroad company, plaintiff in error, brings the case here
to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. WHARTON.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

South Carolina, which granted a mandamus to compel the company to stop certain of its through trains running between
Jersey City, New Jersey, and Tampa, Florida, at a station on
its road called Latta, in the State of South Carolina, near the
boundary line between that State and the State of North Carolina.
Upon a request filed with him by the Railroad Commission
of South Carolina, the Attorney General of that State commenced these proceedings by filing a petition to obtain a mandamus directed to the company compelling it to stop ttains
32 and 35 at the station mentioned, pursuant to the order
made by the Railroad Commission, after a hearing had been
had before it.
The company demurred to the petition, the demurrer was
overruled and the company given leave to answer, which it
did, setting up several defenses, among others averring that
sufficient accommodations were already furnished to the citizeros of Latta, and those residing along the Latta Branch Railroad; that the trains mentioned, 32 and 35, were interstate
commerce trains, running between New York and Tampa,
Florida, and intermediate cities, and the southbound trains were
compelled to run at a high rate of speed in order to make connections with the steamers to Havana from Tampa, and so as
to make the through trip as fast as pbssible; that the northbound trains were companion or return trains, making an
equally fast schedule time; that to stop them at stations like
Latta would result in rendering it impossible for them to make
schedule time and they would have to be abandoned as through
fast trains; that they carried the United States mail and their
trains were made up very largely of through passengers; that
there were two competitors for this through travel, and that
it would be impossible to keep up the trains in competition
with these other railroads if stops were to be made other than.
those absolutely necessary. The answer also averred that in
addition to a number of passenger trains of local character
daily, there was also furnished the citizens of Latta the coll-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

venience of a daily passenger train each way for through travel
north and south other than trains 32 and 35, and it was averred
that the order of the Railroad Commission of South Carolina
was unreasonable and unnecessary, a direct burden upon
interstate commerce, and therefore a violation of and in conflict with ยง 8 of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States,
giving Congress the power to regulate commerce.
On the coming in of this answer an order was made referring
all issues involved to a referee to take testimony thereon and
report back as soon as convenient. Pursuant to such order
evidence was taken before a referee and report made thereon
to the Supreme Court, which decided that sufficient accommodations were not furnished to the citizens of Latta and along
the Latta Branch Railroad by the plaintiff in error at its station in Latta; and the court thereupon made an order that the
passenger trains 32 and 35 should stop when flagged at the
Latta station, for the purpose of receiving and delivering passengers at that station, "with the alternative right on your part
to provide facilities substantially the same as those which
would be afforded the citizens of Latta by stopping trains
Nos. 32 and 35 on flag."
The testimony upon which this order was made is in the
record and is substantially uncontradicted. It appears from
that testimony that Latta is a small station in the State of
South Carolina, near the northern boundary of the State, and
on the road of the plaintiff in error, having a population, according to the last United States Census, of 453. Clio is another small settlement in the same State, about twenty miles
northwest of Latta, on what is termed the Latta Branch Railroad, having a population of 508, by the same census. Dunbar
is a station between Latta and Clio, with a population according to the same census, of 115. The country back of these
stations is said to be a somewhat thickly settled agricultural
country. It is also said by witnesses for Latta that these places
have increased somewhat in population since the last census.
In addition to several local trains passing through Latta

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. WHARTON.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

for stations along this road, or to and from Cio, there was one
daily through train each way (Nos. 39 and 40), stopping at this
station, and which carried passengers through to New York
or Florida and intermediate stations, and they were equipped
with first and second class cars, through Pullman sleepers,
mail, express and baggage cars. The only objection to them
was their want of speed; that they stopped so frequently they
did not arrive at their destination as swiftly as trains 32 and 35.
In addition, trains 32 and 35 could be boarded at Florence, a
station on the same road, distant about 15 or 20 miles south
from Latta, or at Dillon, a station about 7 miles from Latta.
The objection made by the people of Latta to this mode of
getting these trains was that if they were going north they rode
south from Latta to Florence, and then boarded the train and
went directly back over the same road from Florence to Latta,
which they would not have to do if the train stopped at Latta.
It also involved an additional cost of $1.42 above the price of
a ticket from Latta to New York. If they preferred to take
the train northbound at Dillon instead of Florence, then they
had to drive from Latta to Dillon over what was described by
a witness to be in winter "one of the worst roads that ever was
made a road." It was also averred that by stopping the southbound train (No. 35) at Latta it could be there taken at 3
o'clock in the morning instead of going to Florence the night
before and taking the train there at 4 o'clock A. M. the next
day, and a close connection could also be made at Florence with
Columbia (on a branch road), by taking train 35 at Latta at
3 A. m., so that a citizen could go to Columbia and return to
Latta the same day, thus saving a hotel bill, which now had
to be paid, as connections were so made that the journey could
not be accomplished in one day. The people at Clio, and the
other stations on the Latta Branch Railroad, were accommodated so that they could ride to Latta in time to have substantially the same conveniences in getting away from-that station
that the people living there had. The distance from Jersey
City to Tampa is about twelve hundred miles, and the trains

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

32 and 35 are among the fastest and longest continuous trains
in the whole country, exceeding the distance from New York to
Chicago. These trains rank with the very best trains run anywhere. They are placed on the road for the convenience of
through travel, and could not be profitably run if they were
slower trains.
Mr. P. A. Willcox and Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom
Mr. Alexander Hamilton, Mr. George B. Elliott, Mr. F. L. Willcox and Mr. Henry E. Davis were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The State has no power or authority to interfere in other
than police matters with fast mail and passenger trains engaged wholly in interstate commerce. Henderson v. Mayor o1
New York, 92 U. S. 259; Hannibal &c. R. R. Co. v. Husen, 95
U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Walling v. Michigan,
116 U. S. 446; Robbins v. Shelby County, 120 U. S. 489.
Even if adequate local railroad facilities are not furnished,
a-State has no power and authority to compel the furnishing
of such facilities, by requiring fast mail and passenger trains
engaged wholly in interstate commerce to make the stops, but
it can only compel additional loqal trains to be furnished.
Tiernan v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; Wabash Railroad Co. v. Illinois,
118 U. S. 557; State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232; Welton
v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622;
Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Mississippi Railroad
Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 203 U. S. 335;
Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485. See also Crandal v. Nevada, 6
Wall. 35; Hannibal &c. R. Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Mobile
County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Webber v. Virginia, 103
U. S. 344; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Pickard v.
Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 23; Wabash Railroad
Co. v. Illinois', 118 U. S. 557; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Bowman V. Chicago & Northwestern Railroad Co., 125 U. S. 465; Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. WHARTON.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204; United States v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S. 1.
The facilities provided were adequate and it would be unreasonable to require the company to convert these two fast
interstate trains into loc:al trains and to compel plaintiff in error
to stop these two trains at Latta.
Mr. M. C. Woods, with whom Mr. J. Fraser Lyon, Attorney
Generaf of the State of South Carolina, was on the brief, for
defendants in error:
*The regulation of the accommodations afforded the traveling
public is a police regulation. Gladson v. Minnesota, 193 U. S.
53;.MississippiR. R. Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co.,
203 U. S. 335.
The Suipreme Court of South Carolina was warranted in
deducing from the holdings of this court that the primary duty
of even an interstate railroad is to its local territory, and the
secondary duty is to interstate traffic. Mississippi R. R.Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Lake Shore
Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S-285; C. C. C. & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Illinois,
177 U. S. 514. Illinois Central R. R. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142,
discussed and distinguished.
The fact at issue having been determined by a tribunal of
competent jurisdiction from which no appeal was taken, the
Supreme Court of'South Carolina would have been warranted
in granting a peremptory writ of mandamus) as prayed for
in the complaint, this being one of the instances in which
this court has held that state authority may sthp interstate
trains.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina having granted to
the railroad company the alternative of providing facilities
substantially the same as those which would result from the
stopping of trains 32 and 35 at Latta, the fault is with the plaintiff in error for failure to avail itself of this privilege, and therefore there has been no burden, direct or indirect, placed, by
the court's action, upon interstate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions of the validity of state statutes and orders of
state railroad commissions, directing the stoppage of through
interstate trains, have frequently, within late years, been before
this court. The last case is that of Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad Company, 203 U. S. 335,
where the prior cases are referred to. See also Atlantic Coast &c.
v. North CarolinaCommission, 206 U. S. 1.
That any exercise of state authority, in whatever form manifested, which. directly regulates interstate commerce, is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution is obvious.
It hence arises that any command of a State, whether made
directly or through the instrumentality of a railroad commission
which orders, or the necessary effect of which is to order, the
stopping of an interstate train at a named station or stations,
if it directly regulates interstate commerce, is void.
It has been decided, however, that some orders which may
cause the stoppage of interstate trains made by state authority
may be valid if they do not directly regulate such commerce.
Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285. When,
therefore, an order made under state authority to stop an interstate train is assailed because of its repugnancy to the interstate commerce clause, the question whether such order is
void as a direct regulation of such commerce may be. tested by
considering the nature of the order, the character of the interstate-commerce train to which it applies, and its necessary and
direct effect upon the operation of such train. But the effect
of the order as a direct regulation of interstate commerce may
also be tested by considering the adequacy of the local facilities
existing at the station or stations at which the interstate commerce train has been commanded to stop. True, inherently
considered, whether there be adequate local facilities is not a
Federal question, but in so far as the existence of such adequate
local facilities is involved in the determination of the Federal

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. WHARTON.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question of whether the order concerning an interstate train
does or does not directly regulate interstate commerce, that
question for such purpose is open and may be considered by us.
203 U. S., supra.
Without stopping to consider whether, in view of the 'character of the trains to which the order before us related, it would
not result that the order complained of was a direct regulation
of interstate commerce, and testing the subject by the local
facilities at the station at which the trains were ordered to
stop, we think the railroad company in this case has furnished
such reasonable accommodations to the people at Latta as it
can be fairly and properly called upon to give, and the order
a valid one.
to stop these trains is, therefore, not
The term "adequate or reasonable facilities" is not in its
nature capable of exact definition. It is a relative expression,
and has to be considered as calling for such facilities as might
be fairly demanded, regard being had, among other things, to,
the size of the place, the extent of the demand for transportation, the cost of furnishing the additional accommodations
asked forand to all other facts which would have a bearing
upon the question of cqnvenience and cost. In this case the
company furnishes eleven different trains a day by which the
people of Latta can leave that place, and among them are the
daily through trains 39 and 40 for the South and North, respectively. That the inhabitants of a place demand greater
facilities than they have is not at all conclusive as to the reasonableness of their demand for something more. Fault is found-here with the character of some of the local trains, in that the
appointments thereof are not up to a sufficiently high standard.
It is true that included in these eleven trains were some which
were a combination of freight and passenger, antt others which
only ran between Latta and Clio, and those are described as
dirty' and without proper closets and drinking tanks. These
deficiencies are remediable by other means than the stoppage of
the two trains in question. It is to be remembered that these
two places, Latta And Clio, had together a population, by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

last census, of about a thousand. Two ordinary modern trains
of the usual passenger coaches would comfortably transport
the total p6dulation of these places. The -number of people
who are inconvenienced by the non-stoppage of these trains is,
of course, comparatively quite small. One witness, who was in
the hotel and general merchandise business at Latta, said that
he sent a man or two every week to meet the fast train at Dillon; because they could not take it at Latta. Other witnesses
.said that the demand for those particular trains, 32 and 35,
was quite frequent, as many as four people a week, while others
said that the inconvenience of the. through trains, 39 and 40,
was on account of their not being fast trains, and hence were
not so pleasant as the others, 32 and 35, and did not get them
in to their destination as early as the latter trains did. The
demand at Latta by people desiring to go to the termination of
the' road, either at New York or .Tampa, would naturally be
;,mall. Some of the plaintiff's witnesses said that the demand
for transportation at Latta was large, or quite large, and the
inconvenience great, but a further examination of these witnesses showed that in specific details there was much lacking,
and instances of inconvenience were really somewhat limited.
But assuming that the number actually inconvenienced by
the want of fast trains was "quite Ihrge," as said by some witnesses, it is perfectly evident the number would be small compared with the inconvenience of the much larger number of
through passengers resulting from the stoppage of these trains
at Latta and other similar stations in the State.
To stop these trains at Latta, and other stations like it,
which could bring equally strong reasons for the -stoppage of
the trains at their stations, would wholly change the .character
of the trains, rendering them no better in regard to speed than
the other trains, 39 and 40, and would result in the inability
of what had been fast trains to make their schedule time, and
a consequent loss of patronage, also the loss of compensation
for carrying the mails, which would be withdrawn from them,
and the end would be the withdrawal of the trains, because of

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. WHARTON.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

their inability to pay expenses. All these are matters entitled
to consideration when the question of convenience and adequate
facilities arises. There is no contradiction in the testimony
that the company desires, so far as is fairly possible, to pay as
much attention to the local demands as to the "through"
claims.
Of course, it is not reasonable to suppose that the same facilities can .be given to places of very small population that are
supplied to their neighbors who live in much larger communities, and the defendants in error, it may be conceded, make no
such demand. No one would assert that one daily train each
way between New York and Philadelplhia would furnish adequate facilities for the transportation of passengers. Twenty
times that number -of trains would be necessary, and yet one
through train a day, each way, through so small a place as
Latta to New York or Tampa would in all probability easily
transport all the passengers desiring transportation between
these places. Nevertheless, the fair needs of the locality for
transportation to other local points must be considered and
provided for.' This, as we think, has been done.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, as shown
by uncontradicted evidence, we are of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court, directing a mandamus, was erroneous, and it is therefore reversed, and the case remanded to
the Supreme Court of South Carolina for further proceedings
therein not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
VOL. ccvi-22

