OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

in je6pardy for the same offense by his trial under a former indictment, if it appears from the .record of that trial that the

accused had not then or previously committed and could not
possibly have committed any such crime as the one charged,
And therefore that the court was without jurisdiction to have
rendered any valid judgment against him-and such is the
case now before us-then the accused was not, by such trial,
put in jeopardy for the offense specified in the last or new in.
dictment.
As it was thus correctly decided that the accused was not,
by the present indictment,, put in jeopardy for the second time
for the same offense, we need not go further or consider any
question of a Federal nature, and the writ of error must be disiissed.
It i8 so ordered.

CORTELYOU v. CHARLES ENEU JOHNSON & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Argued October 31, Novomber 1,1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

In this case this court follows the unanimous opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that defendant did not have sufficient notice of the license restriction to be charged with contributory infringment, even if that doctrine exists, for'selling ink to the vendee of a patented printing machine,
sold under a license restriction that it should be used only with ink made
by the patentee.
Where none of the executive officers of a manufacturing corporation knew
of the license restriction under which a patented machine was sold, notice to a salesman, who was not an Officer or general agent of the corporation,was held insufficient to chbrge the corporation with notice as to future
sales of the article manufactured by it to the licensee and used by the
latter in violation of the license restriction.
142 Fed. Rep. 933, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

CORTELYOU v. JOHNSON.
207 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

Mr. Edmund Wetmore and Mr. Samuel Owen Edmonds for
petitioners:
Defendant had notice of the license restriction imposed upon
the use of other inks than that manufactured by complainants.
In order to secure the proof of the acts complained of, there
was nothing for complainants to do save what they had done
in every one of the preceding cases, and that was to afford the
defendant an opportunity to corrupt a licensee, and if it took
advantage of such opportunity, to make the transaction the
basis of suit. And this is what the complainants did. In doing
so, they followed a course which has not only been followed
by others for many years but which has also been expressly
approved by the courts, who had in mind the difficulties confronting a complainant as above suggested and the necessity
for obtaining strict proof of an infringing transaction as the
basis of suit or motion for preliminary injunction. Chicago
Pneumatic Tool Co. v. Philadelphia Pneumatic Tool Co., 118
Fed. Rep. 852; Badische Anilin V. Klipstein, 125 Fed. Rep.
556; Lever Bros. v. Pasfield, 88 Fed. Rep. 485; Samuel Bros. &
Co. v. Hostetter, 118 Fed. Rep. 258; Knowles v. Peck, 42 Connecticut, 386, 395; Dick v. Henry, 149 Fed. Rep. 429; Tompkins
v. Mattress Co., 154 Fed. Rep. 670.
The question of notice to the defendant sifts down, in the
last analysis, to the inquiry as to whether or not, under the
proofs before the court, the defendant sold its ink with guilty
intent, i. e. with intent that it be unlawfully used upon the
licensed machines in question. Under such circumstances defendant need not even be shown to have actually made such a
sale. The intent to do so is what governs. GermanFi'terCo. v.
Loew Co., 103 Fed. Rep. 306, aff'd., 107 Fed. Rep. 950: Stearns
v. Phillips,43 Fed. Rep. 795; Thomson Co. v. Ohio Co., 80 Fed.
Rep. 723; Rupp v. Elliott, 131 Fed. Rep. 732; Canadav. Michigan Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 489; Button FastenerCase, 77 Fed. Rep.
297; Goodyear Co. v. Jackson, 112 Fed. Rep. 148; Tubular Co. v.
O'Brien, 93 Fed. Rep. 201; Celluloid Co. v, Zylonite Co., 30 Fed.
Rep.. 440; Thomson Co. v. Kelsey Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 1017; Wil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

lis v. McCullen, 29 Fed. Rep. 641; Schneider v. Pountney, 21
Fed. Rep. 399; Cutter Co. v. Union Co., 147 Fed. Rep. 275;
New York Co. v. Jackson, 91 Fed. Rep. 426; Coolidge v. McCoue, 1 B. & A. 83.
This guilty intent may be proved in various ways. Where
the article complained of is incapable of other (and lawful) use,
such intent flows as a necessary inference from its sale or offer
for sale. Solicitation of purchasers by advertisements, circulars, etc., is another form of adequate proof of such intent.
Willis v. McCullen, 29 Fed. Rep. 641; Municipal Co. v. Na.tionalCo., 107 Fed.Rep. 289. In such cases the unlawful intent
is presumed, the presumption being based Upon the defendant's
wrongful assertion of the right to make the sales complained
of, combined with the belief that, unless restrained, such sales
will in fact be made.
Defendant, in its answer, insists upon its right to sell its ink
to complainants' licensees, asserting the licenses to be illegal,
unenforceable and contrary to public policy. It is obviously
to establish this right, and to be permitted to continue its sales
to licensees, that it has defended and is defending this suit.
Mr. FrancisT. Chambers, for respondent.
MR. JUsTIcE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to restrain an alleged infringement of .a patent
granted June 22, 1897, for the stencil duplicating machine
known as the rotary Neostyle. The plaintiffs below, petitioners
here, represent the entire interest in the patent. There is no
claim of any infringement by using or selling the patented
machines, but of"an indirect infringement in the following manner: For the last few years the rotary Neostyle has been sold
subject to this license, which was plainly disclosed on the baseboard of the, nachine: "License agreement. This machine is
sold by the Neostyle Company with the license restriction that
it can be used only with stencil paper, ink and other supplies
made by the Neostyle Company, New York city."

CORTELYOU v. JOHNSON.
207 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant company (which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of ink) is, it is contended, engaged in selling
ink to the purchasers of these machines for use thereon; that
it is thus inducing a breach of thd license contracts and is responsible as indirectly infringing the patent rights of plaintiffs.
The Circuit Court sustained the contention and entered an interlocutory decree for an injunction and an accounting., 138
Fed. Rep. 110. On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit reversed this decree and remanded the case
to the Circuit Court, with instructions to dismiss the bill (145
Fed. Rep. 933; 76 C. C. A. 455), whefeupon the case was
brought here on certiorari.
The three judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals concurred
in reversing the decree of the Circuit Court on the ground that
the evidence was not sufficient to show that the defendant had
notice that the machines for which the ink was ordered had been
sold under any restrictions, but they differed upon the question whether there was any liability in case sufficient notice of
the license agreement had been brought home to the defendant.
The majority were of the opinion that the doctrine of contributory infringement, which they conceded to exist, should not
be extended beyond those articles which are either parts of a
patented combination or device, or which are produced for
the sole purpose of being so used, and should not be applied
to the staple articles of commerce. In that view of the case the
article supplied being ink, a thing of common use, its sale to a
purchaser of the Neostyle machifie would be no infringement.
While in Bement v. National Harrow Company, 186 U. S. 70,
this court held, in respect to patent rights, that with few exceptions "any conditions which are not in their very nature
illegal with regard to this kind of property, imposed by the
patentee and agreed to by the licensee for the right to ianufacture or use or sell the article, will be upheld by the courts,"
it is unnecessary to consider how far a stipulation in a contract
between the owner of a patent right and the purchaser from
him of a machine manufactured under that right, that it should

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

be used only in a certain way, will sustain an action in favor
of the vendor against the purchaser in case of a breach of that
stipulation. So, although "if one maliciously interferes in a
contract between two parties, and induces one of them to break
that contract to the injury of the other, the party injured can
maintain an action against the wrongdoer," Angle v. Chicago,
St. Paul &c. Railway, 151 U. S. 1, 13, it is also unnecessary to
determine whether this states the full measure of liability resting upon a party interfering and inducing the breaking of a
contract, for we concur in the views expressed by all the judges
of the Court of Appeals that there is no sufficient evidence of
notice. True, the defendant filled a few orders for ink to be
used on a rotary Neostyle, but it does not appear that it ever
solicited an order for ink to be so used, that it was ever notified
by the plaintiffs of the rights which they claimed, or that anything which it did was considered by them an infringement
upon those rights. Further, none of the chief executive officers
of th6 company had knowledge of the special character of the
rotary Neostyle machine or the restrictions on the purchase of
supplies. The case of the plaintiffs in this respect rests mainly
on the testimony of the witness, Gerber, who testified that at
the instance of the manager of the Neostyle Company he wrote
to the defendant for a one-pound can of black ink for use on
the rotary Neostyle, saying, "I will -be at my office Friday'
afternoon, between 1:30 and 3:30, and if convenient have your
representative call at that time." A salesman of the defendant, named Randall, did call. The witness directed Randall's
attention to the restrictions on the single machine he had in.
his office, and asked if he would have any trouble with the
Neostyle Company if he used the defendant's ink. Randall replied in the negative, and added that "the ink in question was
not patented, that anybody could make or use it; that no
trouble would come to me from the use of the ink which he
sold." The restriction on the machine shown to Randall was
one formerly used by plaintiffs, but which had been discarded
prior to-,this transaction and for it the present license agreement

VAIL v. ARIZONA.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

had been substituted. The restriction shown to Randall stated
that the machine was sold "with the express understanding
that it is licensed to be used only with stencil paper and ink
(both of which are patented) made by the Neostyle Company
.of New York city." Evidently from his reply Randall's attention was drawn to the question of a patent on the ink.
Further he was not an officer or general agent of the defendant
company, but simply a salesman and it cannot be that this talk
with him is notice to and binding on his principal in respect to
all future transactions.
After reviewing all the minor considerations to which our
attention has been called by the plaintiffs, we see no sufficient
reason for disagreeing with the unanimous opinion of the Circult Court of Appeals in respect to the matter of notice, and
its decree is
Affirmed.

VAIL v. TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 67. Argued November 15, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

Stare decisi8 is a wholesome doctrine, and, while not of universal application, is especially applicable to decisions affirming the validity of securities authorized by statute. Such decisions should 'be regarded as
conclusive even as to those not strictly parties so as to prevent wrong
to innocent 'holders who purchased in reliance thereon.
Where bonds of a county have been declared valid in a suit Qf which fhe
county had knowledge, and was heard although not a party thereto,
while the question may not' be res j digata as against the county in a
subsequent. suit in which it is a party, under the doctrine of stare decisis
the question should no longer be considered an open one.
The decisions of this court in Utter v., Franklin, 172 U. S. 416, and .iwohy
v. UUer, 186 U. S. 95, adhered to under the doctrine of itare decisis.
85 Pac. Rep. 652, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

