OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

RAYMOND, TREASURER OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS,
v. CHICAGO UNION TRACTION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN
No. 115.

DISTRICT

OF ILLINOIS.

Argued April 8, 9, 1907.-Decided October 21, 1907.

The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment are not confined to the
action of the State through its legislative, executive or judicial authority, but relate to all instrumentalities through which the State acts; and
so held that the action of a state board of equalization, the decisions
.whereof are conclusive, except as proceedings for relief may be taken in
the courts, is reviewable in the Federal courts. at the instance of one
claiming to be thiereby deprived of his property without due process of
law and denied the equal protection of the law.
Action of, a board of equalization resulting in illegal discrimination held
in this case not to be action forbidden by the state legislature and therefore beyond review by the Federal courts under the Fourteenth Amendment. Barney v. City o1 New York, 193 N. Y. 430, distinguished.
Where a corporation has paid the full amount of its tax as based upon the
same rate as that levied upon other property of the same class, equity
will restrain the collection of the excess illegally assessed, there being
no adequate remedy at law, when it appears that it would require a multiplicity of suits against the various taxing authorities to recover the tax
and that a portion of it would go to the State against which no action
would* lie, and where the amount is so great that its payment would
cause insolvency, and a levy upon the property--in this case a street
car system-would embarrass and injure the public.
114 Fed. Rep. 557, affirmed.

appellants, who were defendants below, have appealed
from the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois. The case is one of several
argued together, the facts in regard to which are substantially
the same. It was brought to enjoin the appellants from taking
any further proceedings towards the collection of certain taxes
assessed against the appellee upon an assessment alleged to
be in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and which, if enforced, would result
in the taking of appellee's property without due process of law
and in denying to it thec equal protection of thb. laws.
THE

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The case was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States at Chicago and an opinion was delivered by that court
at the time of the judgment for appellee. 114 Fed. Rep. 557.
An earlier opinion upon a previous motion in certain traction
company cases, relating to one phase of the matter in controversy, which was pending at the time in the Southern District
of Illinois, is to be found in 112 Fed. Rep. 607. The questions
arise by reason of the provisions of the constitution of the State
of Illinois and certain sections of its tax statutes or revenue
laws. The material part of article 9, section 1, of the constitution of Illinois, 1870, is as follows:
"The general assembly'shall provide such revenue as may
be needful by levying a tax by valuation, so that every person
and corporation hall pay a tax in proportion to the value of
his, her or its property-such value to be ascertained by some
person or persons to be elected or appointed in such m..nner as
the general assembly shall direct and not otherwise; but the
general assembly shall have power to tax

.

.

. insurance,

telegraph and express interests or business, vendors of patents
and persons or corporations owning or using franchises and privileges in such manner a it shall from time to time direct by
general law, uniform as to the class upon which it operates."
The following are the statutes in question:
"Real property shall be valued as follows: First, each tract
or lot of real property shall be valued at its fair cash value estimated at the price it would bring at a fair voluntary sale."
Hurd's Rev. Stat. 1899, c. 120, par. 4.
"Personal property shall be valued as follows: First, all
personal property, except as herein otherwise directed, shall
be valued at its fair cash value.

.

.

.

Fourth, the capital

stock of all companies and associations now or hereafter created
under the laws of this State, except those required to be assessed
by the local, assessors and hereinafter provided, shall be so
valued by the state board of equalization as to ascertain and
determine respectively the fair cash value of such capital stock,
including the franchise, over and above the assessed value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

the tangible property of such company or association; such
board shall adopt such rules and principles for ascertaining
the fair cash value of such capital stock as to it may seem
equitable and just. and such rules and principles when so
adopted, if not inconsistent with this act, shall be as binding
and of the same effect as if contained in this act, subject,
however, to such change, alteration or amendment as may be
found from time to time to be necessary by said board."
Hurd's Rev. Stat. 1899, c. 120, ยง3.
The state board of equalization is the body that makes the
original assessments upon the capital stock, etc., of corporations like the ones in question here, and there is no appeal from
its valuation or decision.
The folloWing are some of the averments of the bill of complaint filed by the appellee in this suit: The defendants were,
respectively, the town collector of the town of North Chicago
and the county treasurer of Cook County, the city of Chicago
being within the limits of that county. In November or December of the year 1900 a valid assessment was made by the
state board of equalization, assessing the full value of the capital stock of the appellee, including franchises, at the sum of
three millions of dollars ovAr and above the value of the tangible
property of the appellee, and in accordance with the provisions
of the revenue law then in -force it decided, ascertained and set
down the sum of six hundred thousand dollars, one-fifth of the
above-mentioned three million dollars, as the assessed value
of the appellee's property, designated as "capital stock, including the franchise," for all purposes of taxation. This assessment was never vacated, annulled or set aside, but was duly
certified to the proper officer, and the state, county, city and
all other kinds of taxes levied for the year 1900, for and against
property situated in the said town of North Chicago, were duly
extended against such assessed value of six hundred thousand.
dollars, and the taxes were also exLended against said assessment made upon the tangible property of the appellee for the
year 1900, and a warrant was duly issued to the town collector

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the town of North Chicago, directing him to collect the taxes
so extended. On or about the twenty-eighth day of January,
1901, appellee paid to the collector of the town of North Chicago
the sum of fifty-two thousand nine hundred and two dollars,
in full satisfaction of all the taxes assessed against the appellee,
and no part of the money so paid by appellee in satisfaction
of the taxes has ever been returned or tendered back to the
company, but, on the contrary, the money has been paid over
by the collector, less his commission, either directly or through
the county treasurer of the county, to the various taxing and
public bodies entitled to receive the same, and has been used
or is still retained by said bodies, respectively.
On the tenth day of November, 1900, proceedings by taxpayers were instituted against the state board of equalization
to compel that board to make an assessment for that same year
against the appellee upon its capital stock and franchises.
This application was made while the state board of equalization
was in session, but before any final action had been taken by
the board to determine and fix the proper assessment to be
made.on the capital stock of the appellee. It was alleged in
the petition that the state board of equalization intended to
adjourn its session without making any assessment upon the
capital stock, including the franchises of the appellee, and on
twenty-two other corporations doing business in the city of
Chicago, and that it intended illegally to neglect and refuse to
discharge the statutory duty obligatory upon it in that regard.
Neither the appellee nor the other corporations mentioned in
the petition were made parties to the proceedings, nor did they
ever become parties thereto. The defendants therein, members
of the state board of equalization, denied that they had refused
or intended to refuse to discharge their duties as members of
the board. Thereafter the board assessed the capital stock of
the respondent, including the franchise, as already stated, and
on the third of December, 1900, adjourned sine die.
Before this adjournment, and on the sixteenth of November,
1900, the mandamus proceedings had been continued, and no

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

action was thereafter taken therein until about the twelfth
day of March, 1901. About the first of May, 1901, the proceedings came on for trial and terminated in a judgment directing
that a writ should issue against the members of the state board
of equalization, requiring the board to convene, and forthwith
value and assess .the capital stock of the appellee, "so as to
ascertain and determine respectively, as to each of said corporations,, the fair cash value of its capital stock, including'its franchises over and above the assessed Value -of the tangible property of such company for the year 1900."
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court from that judgment, but no evidence was introduced on the trial of the case
in support of the merits of the assessment theretofore made
upon the capital stock, including franchises, of the appellee,
and no argument was made either in the trial court or in the
Supreme Court upon appeal in support of the merits of the
assessment, the defense being rested almost wholly on objections to jurisdiction, and other legal grounds, touching the
power of the court to grant the relief prayed for. (A method
of assessing the capital stock had been adopted by the board,
which omitted the indebtedness of the corporations as a factor
in the valuation of such stock, and'it was this error which led
to the original assessments upon those corporations, and that
caused the mandamus proceedings.)
. The amount of the assessment against the appellee for the
year 1900 appeared upon the trial of the mandamus proceedings, and it was found by the trial court that the assessment
was so low as to show that it was in fact a fraudulent assessment,
and therefore in law no assessment at all, and upon appeal
the Supreme Court held that the finding of the court below
was justified, and that under such circumstances, where there
was in law no assessment, the court might compel the board
to fulfill its duty by assessing the property of the taxpayer
t. s fraudulently undervalued. See State Board of Equalization
v. People, 191 Illinois, 528. The state court held that under
the provisions' of the statute of Illinois the state board of

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

equalization, acting as the original assessor of the capital stock
and franchises of corporations, might make an assessment of
omitted capital stock and franchises of corporations under the
section of the statute referred to. See sees. 276, 277 .of the
Revenue Act, Hurd's Stat. 1899, page -441.
The judgment of the Circuit Court granting the writ of mandamus was thereupon affirmed by the Supreme Court, and the
writ was issued on the twenty-second of November, 1901,
against the board. The writ, as issued under the direction of.
the Supreme Court, after reciting that the previous assessment
was in fact no assessment in law and was unreasonable, arbi-.
trary and fraudulent, and was not the expression or the result
of the honest judgment and discretion of the state board of
equalization and the members thereof, and amounted to a
wrongful, willful and arbitrary failure, omission and refusal
to assess the capital stock of the appellee at its fair cash value
over and above tangible property of the appellee, and was a
fraud in law and upon the relators and the people, directed
the members of the board tQ assemble and to forthwith proceed
to value and assess .the capital stock, including the franchises,
of the appellee as of' the first day of April, 1900, in the manner
provided by-law, "and that you, the said state board of equalization and the members thereof, do value the capital stock of
said corporations and each of them so as to ascertain and determine, respectively, as to each of them,, the fair cash value Of
its capital stock, including the franchise, over and above the
equalized assessed value of the tangible property-of such corporation on the first day of April, A. D. 1900, and that in arriving
at saidvaluations and assessments of capital stock, including
the franchises of .the corporations herein named, the said state
boaed and the members thereof, from .the best information
obtainable by it and them, shall ascertain and take into consideration, among other things, as to each said corporation,

as the same was on April 1, 1900, the market value, or, if no
market value, then the fair cash value of its shares of stock
and the total amount of all indebtedness, except the indebted-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

ness for current expenses, excluding from such expenses the
amount for purchase or improvement of property and the assessed or equalized value of tangible property owned by said
corporations, respectively, on April 1, 1900."
Pursuant to what the defendants believed to be the command
of the writ, and without any independent judgment of their
own, the members of the board proceeded to make an assessment upon the aggregate of the value of the capital stock,
including franchises, of the appellee and including its indebtedness, deducting therefrom the assessed equalized valuation of
the real estate and tangible personal property belonging to
the appellee, and then assessing for taxation one-fifth thereof.
At this time and for years previous thereto all property, real
and personal, corporate or individual, throughout the State,
as well as in Cook County, had been assessed at not to exceed
sixty-five or seventy per cent of its fair cash value, and onefifth of that per cent was the amount upon which the tax was
laid. This assessment, however, was not so made, but one-fifth
of the full value was assessed, and the roll thus made up was
delivered to the proper officer and an extension of the taxes
made and a warrant delivered to the town collector for collection. The total tax of the appellee on the second assessment
amounted to about the sum of one million dollars more than
the tax paid under the first assessment. It is the duty of the
collector and the county treasurer to enforce the collection of
these taxes, together with a penalty by reason of the delay in
payment, and to that end levy the amount by distress and sale
of the goods and chattels of the appellee, and which cannot
be prevented or defended by the appellee otherwise than by
payment or by a bill in chancery. The appellee's personal
property consists chiefly of its cars and other personal property
actually used in its business of transporting passengers, and
levy of said tax would greatly embarrass it in its business and
also injure the public using its cars. After collecting the taxes
it is the duty of the collector, and he is required by law, to pay
over and distribute them in the proportions designated in the

. RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION'CO.
207 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

tax book to the city treasurer of the city of Chicago, the county
treasurer of Cook County, the treasurer of the sanitary district
and the other officers and authorities entitled to receive the
same. In order to recover back the amount thus paid to, the
collector appellee would be obliged to bring separate suits
against each one of the bodies receiving its proportionate share
of said tax, necessitating a multiplicity of suits. Repayment of
the amount which should be paid for the uses and purposes of
the State of Illinois could not beenforced by any legal proceeding whatever, nor could repayment be obtained from anyone
which would cover the costs, including the commissions deducted for the recovery of the taxes; and if proceedings to collect
the taxes were not enjoined great and irreparable injury would
result'to the appellee, for which there was no complete or adequate remedy at law. It was then alleged that to pay the enormous sum of over a million of dollars, claimed as the tax for
1900, would render it impossible for the company to pay its
rentals or preserve its leasehold interests, and would necessarily result in its insolvency. It was also averred that there
-were hundreds of corporations subject to be assessed by such
board in the same manner that the appellee was assessed under
the writ of mandamus issued in respect to the taxes assessed
against it, and that not one of such corporations was, as a
matter of fact, so assessed, but a discriminating, crushing tax
burden was placed upon appellee and the other corporations
mentioned in the writ, contrary to the. provisions of the Constitution of the United States and in violation of the constitution.of the State of Illinois.
Within a month of the time when the assessment of 1900
was made under the "command of the writ the same board of'
equalization made an assessment upon the property of the
appellee for the year 1901,, using the best judgment of its
members, and at that time it equalized the assessment with
other property assessed throughout the State, and the difference between the two assessments is -most material.. The facts
are stated in the opinion of the circuit judge, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

"A comparison between -these records of the state board is
significant. In the case of the Chicago Union Traction Com-pany the assessment for the year 1901, capital stock and tangible property aggregated, falls from a little over fourteen
millions of dollars (the reassessment for 1900) to about eight
millions two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, a loss of about
forty per cent.
"In the case of the Chicago Consolidated Traction Company,
the depreciation is from a little over three millions seven
hundred and fifty thousand dollars to about two millions of
dollars, or about forty-seven per cent.
"In the case of the People's Gas Company, the depreciation
is from over twelve millions and a half to about eight milliohs
and a half, or about thirty-two per cent.
"In the case of the Chicago City Railway, the depreciation
is from a little over six millions to a little over four millions and
a quarter, or about thirty per cent.
"In the case of the Chicago Telephone Company,' the depreciation is from a little less than two millions six hundred thousand dollars to a little over one million seven hundred thousand
dollars, or about thirty-four and one-half per cent.
"In the case of the Chicago Edison Company, the. depreciation is from. a little over two millions four hundred thousand
dollars to a little over one million three hundred thousand
dollars, or about forty-six per cent.
"In the case of the South Chicago City Railway, the depreciation is from nearly five hundred and seventy thousand
dollars to a little less than three hundred thousand dollars, or
about forty-seven per cent.
"These assessments,'so widely divergent, were upon the same
properties, by the same board, entered almost on the same day.
The dates as of which they spoke were, it is true, a year apart;
the one being the first of April, 1900, and the other of the first
of April, 1901. But the tide of stock quotations, and the tide
of current values, were higher on the latter day than the former.
If between these two assessments a considerable disparity

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207. U. S

Argument for Appellants.

should exist, the increase ought to be found in the assessment
for 1901, and not in that of 1900."
Other averments were made in the bill, designed to raise
other questions thanthe ones discussed in the following opinion,
and for that reason are not set forth.
The defendants put in their answer and joined issue in regard to many of the material averments contained in the bill.
The case wa referred to a master and testimony was taken
and a report made by the master to the court, in which he found
all the material averments of the bill had been proved. The
court approved the findings of the master, but before granting
the injunction it ordered that the appellee should pay to the
city an amount which the court found was fairly and equitably
due from the appellee as its proportion of the taxes for 1900..
The sum was arrived at by the court by a computation which,
in its judgment, produced a fair and proper result. The amount
directed to be paid by the court before the injunction should
issue was the sum of $134,350.03, which sum the appellee paid,
and the injunction issued as directed. The appellants duly
excepted to the findings of the master that the amount of taxes
equitably due from the appellee was as just stated, and the
appellants insisted that the finding of the master of the amount
of tax to be paid should have been the sum of $961,154.15 for
general taxes, and $58,057.63 for interest thereon, making a
totai of $1,019,211.78 as due from the appellee for the taxes
of 1900, as evidenced-by the collector's warrant in the hands
of the defendants in this suit.
It was also averred that the assessment was grossly excessive
and the property greatly overvalued.
-Mr. David K. Tone and Mr. James Hamilton Lewis, with
whom Mr. Edward J. Brundage, Mr. Harry. A. Lewis, Mr.
William F. Struckmann, Mr. William H. Stead and Mr.
George B. Gillespie were on the brief, for appellants:
Equality and uniformity of taxation is not a right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. State Railroad Tax Cases,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

207 U. S.

92 U. S. 575, 618; Davidson v. Board of Admrs. of New Orleans,
96 U. S. 97; Kelly v. City of Pittsburgh, 104 U. S. 78; Merchants
& Mfrs. Nat. Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461, 464; Henderson Bridge Co. v. City of Henderson, 173 U. S. 592; Magoun
v. Ill. Trust & Say. Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293, 295; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 562; State of Missouri
ex rel. Hill v. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165, 170; Travelers Ins. Co. v.
Connecticut, 185 U. S. 364, 371.
Where the constitution and the laws of a State are just and
fair, and the sole grievance of which a party complains, is that
the officers of the State, charged with executing those laws,
have deprived that party of his property, contrary to the
constitution and the laws of the State, and in violation of
the terms thereof, no Federal question is presented, for, under
the above circumstances, it will be presumed that the state
courts will give full relief against the illegal and unauthorized
acts of the officers of the State. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
Hodges, 113 Illinois, 323; New Haven Clock Co. v. Kochersperger,, 175 Illinois, 383; Coxe Bros. Co. v. Raymond, 188 Illinois, 571; Siegfried v. Raymond, 190 Illinois, 424.
The mere unauthorized acts of state officers, when performed contrary to state law fail to give Federal jurisdiction
as has been frequently pointed out by this court when determining under what circumstances criminal prosecutions may
be removed from a state court into a court of the United States
by reason of the denial by the State of the rights and immunities guaranteed to accused persons under the Fourteenth
Amendment.
In finding, what constitutes state action within the meaning of ยง641, Rev. Stats., this court has necessarily determined what constitutes state. action within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Strauder v. West Virginia, 100
U. S. 303.
Under Barney v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 430, appellee's
bill of complaint should be-dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
See also Manhattan Ry. Co. v. New York, 18 Fed. Rep. 195;

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U. S.

31

Argument for Appellants.

Kierman v. Multnomah County, 95 Fed. Rep. 849; Re Storti,
109 Fed. Rep. 807.
Equally untenable is the claim in appellee's bill of complaint, that under the circumstances there described the appellee was deprived of its property without due process-of law
because it had no opportunity to be heard at the time the
assessment complained of was levied against it.
Even the ex parte orders and directions of the executive
and ministerial departments of the Federal Government affecting property and property rights, constitute due process of
law if the party aggrieved may go into a court of equity and
obtain redress against the unauthorized or wrongful acts of
such officers. Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497.
Courts of equity in Illinois furnish complete redress in case
the state board of equalization has exceeded its authority,
or if its action is palpably wrong. Illinois Central Railroad
Company v. Hodges, 113 Illinois, 323.
There is no competent evidence in this record tending to
sustain the material allegations of appellee's bill of complaint
with reference to the assessment complained of.
The testimony of the individual members of the state board
of equalization in reference to the operation of their minds at
the time they made the assessment complained of was incompetent, and should have been excluded by the Circuit Court.
The recorded judgments of judicial and quasi-judicial bodies,
cannot 'be impeached by the subsequent testiihony of the
members of said bodies, as to how their conclusions were
arrived at. Wright v. Chicago, 48 Illinois, 285; Quick v.
Village of River Forest, 130 Illinois, 323; Ryder Estate v. Alton,
175 Illinois, 94; Washington Park Club v. Chicago, 219 Illinois,
323; Insurance Co. v. Pollak, 75 Illinois, 292; Stock Exchange
v. Gleason, 121 Illinois, 502; Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580;
Fayerweatherv. Ritch, 195 U. S. 276.
The extracts from the reports of the Railroad and Warehouse Commissioners and from the reports of the Board of
Agriculture for the State of Illinois were incompetent. Hegler

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

207 U. S.

v. Faulkner, 153 U. S.109; Chaffee v. United States, 18 Wall.
516; Swift v. State of New York, 89 N. Y. 52; Culver v. Caldwell, 137 Alabama, 125; Gordon v. Bucknell, 38 Iowa, 438;
State. v. Krause, 58 Kansas, 651; Wellington v. Railroad Co.,
158 Massachusetts, 185; Jontes v. Guano Co., 94 Georgia, 14;
State v. Wells, 11 Ohio, 261.
The figures taken from the books of the Union Stock Yard
and Transit Company and from Brown's Directory of American
Gas Companies were not competent evidence and should have
been excluded.
Private publications, whether written or printed, are incompetent as evidence, unless accompanied by the testimony
of the person who compiled the information, to the effect that
the compilations therein made are true, of his own personal
knowledge. Seymour v. McCormick, 19 How. 96; Langley
v.'Smith, 3 N. Y. St. Rep. 276; State v. Daniels, 44 N. N. 383;
Richardson v. Stringfellow, 100 Alabama, 416; Cooke v. Slate
Co., 36 Ohio St. Rep. 135; Spalding v. Hedges, 2 Pa. St.
240.
If the contention of appellee be sound, that the reassessment
of 1900 was void and illegal because the board had exhausted
its power in making the first assessment, then appellee had
an adequate remedy at law, for it could have paid the void
assessment and then have recovered the money back.
The Supreme Court of Illinois held that the first assessment
was fraudulent and void, and affirmed the judgment of the
state circuit court directing the making of the second. A construction placed by the highest court of the State upon the
taxing laws of that State is binding upon a Federal court.
State'Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.575, 618.
Where a tax is illegal and void and can be paid'under protest
and then recovered back from -the collector, the aggrieved
party has an adequate remedy at law, and a court of equity
will not assume jurisdiction. Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S.591.
Overvaluation of property by an assessing body, unaccompanied with fraud or bad faith, furnishes no ground for

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.

33

Argument for Appellees.

207 U. S.

equitable intervention. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
575; Railroad Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Maish v. Arizona,
164 U. S. 599.
Mr. William G. Beale for The Chicago Edison Company and
The Chicago Telephone Company, with whom Mr. Gilbert E.
Porter, Mr. Buell McKeever, Mr. Waldo F. Tobey, Mr. Charles
S. Holt and Mr. William P. Sidley were on the briefs; Mr.
James F.Meagher for The People's Gas Light and Coke Company; Mr. John P. Wilson for The Chicago City Railway
Mr. John S. Miller and Mr. Merritt Starr filed a
Company.
South Chicago City Railway Company; Mr.
the
for
brief
William W. Gurley, Mr. Arthur Dyren/orth, Mr. Isaac M.
Jordan and Mr. Howard M. Carter filed a brief for The Chicago Consolidated Traction Company; and Mr. William W.
Gurley, Mr. Arthur Dyrenforth and Mr. Howard M. Carter filed
1
a brief for The Chicago Union Traction CompanyAlthough to make out a case under the Fourteenth Amendment it must be shown that the act complained of is the act
of the State; the prohibitions of the amendment refer to all
instrumentalities of the State-to its legislative, executive and
judicial authorities and, therefore, whoever by virtue of public
position under a state government deprives another of any
right protected by the amendment against deprivation by the
State violates the constitutional inhibition and, as he acts in
the name of the State affd for the State, and is clothed with
the State's power, his act is that of the State. Were that
not so, the constitutional prohibition would have no meaning
and the State would be placed in the position of having clothed
one of its agents witlk power to annul or evade the Constitution
of the United States. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339-347;
C., B. & Q. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Scott v. McNeal,
154 U. S. 34; Regan v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.
362; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Coulter v. L. & N. Ry.
1For other cases argued simultaneously herewith, see post, p. 42.

VOL. CCVII-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument* for Appellees.

207 U. S.

CO., 196 U. S. 599; Williams v. Mississippi, 170.U. S. 213;
Chi Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275; Soon King v. Crowley, 113
U. S. 703" Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194; Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Railroadand Telephone Cos. v. Board
of Equalizers, 85 Fed. Rep. 302; Nashville, C. & St.' L. Ry. v.
Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168; Taylor v. L. & N. R.' Co., 88
Fed. Rep. 350; Louisville Trust Co. v. Stone, 107 Fed. Rep.
305.
The collection of the taxe' extended upon the reassessment
ol the capital stock of appellee made by the state board of
equalization, will deprive appellee of its property without
,due process of law. Every step, regulation and provision in
any proceeding under the law of a State making for the protection of a person's rights'.or property must be observed.
C., B. & Q. R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
The action of the state board did not constitute due process
of law. The members of the state board did not exercise their
judgment. The exercise 'of such judgment is an indispensable
element of due process. In considering whether due process
has been had, this court has frequently said it is the substance
that the law-regards, not the form. An exercise of the judicial
officer's judgment, in whatever legal form it may have been
made, is the substance of a trial, or of an assessment. C., B.
& Q. R. R. Co. v. Paddock, 75 Illinois, 616.
The state board of equalization did not equalize the assessment so made with the assessments of other property in the
State of Illinois. Equalization is the primary duty of the
board, both with reference to assessments within the original
jurisdiction of the local assessors and assessments within the
original jurisdiction of the state boa.rd of equalization. Railroad Co. v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 184; Law v. People, 87
Illinois, 405; Railroad-andTelephone Cos. v. Board of Equalizers,
85.Fed. Rep. 302 (305, 306).
The reassessments made by the state board are so grossly
excessive as to amount to fraudulent assessments. People
ex rel. Goggin v. Board of Equalization, 191. Illinois, 529.

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Other corporations of the same class were not assessed on
the same basis.
Discrimination and unauthorized classification are contrary
to the principle of equality in taxation prescribed, by the
constitution and statutes of Illinois and a discriminating assessment does not constitute a due observance of the regulations
of the law of the land made for the protection of appellee's
rights, under the definition of due process above referred to.
Cummings v. Bank, 101 U. S. 153.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The claim that the action of the state board of equalization
in making the assessment under consideration was the action
of the State, and if carried out would violate the provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, by taking property of the appellee without due process
of law, and by failing to give it the equal protection of the laws,
constitutes a Federal question beyond all controversy. How
that question should be decided is another matter which we
will proceed at once to discuss.
The state board of equalization is one of the instrumentalities
provided by the State' for the purpose of raising the public
revenue by way of taxation. In regard to corporations of the
class of which the appellee and the other corporations involved
here are members, it is- the duty of that board to make an
original assessment upon them. From the decision of the board
in making such assessment no appeal is provided for, and such
decision is therefore conclusive, except as proceedings for relief may thereafter be taken in the courts. As to the assessments of local assessing bodies, the board is one of review, but
its decisions are equally conclusive, as in the case of original
assessments. Acting under the constitution and laws of the'
State, the board therefore represents the State, and its action
is the action of the State. The provisions of the Fourteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Amendment are not confined to the action of the State through
its legislature, or through the executive or judicial authority.
Those provisions relate to and cover all the instrumentalities
by which the State acts, and sd it has been held that, whoever
by virtue of public position under a state government, deprives.
another of any right protected by that amendment against
deprivation by the State, violates the constitutional inhibition;
and as he acts in the name of the State and for the State, and
is clothed with the State's powers, his act is that of the State.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
Following the above case the Federal courts throughout the
country have frequently reviewed the action of taxing bodies
when under the facts such action was in effect the action of
the State, and therefore reviewable by the Federal courts by
virtue of the provisions of the amendment in question. See
Nashville &c. Ry. v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168; Louisville Trust
Co. v. Stone, 107 Fed. Rep. 305. In the last case, which related
to enjoining the collection of alleged illegal taxes by reason of
discrimination, the court said: "It may be conceded that, if
the allegations of the bill are made out, there exists, in respect
to the property of complainant and others similarly situated,
a systematic, intentional, and illegal undervaluation of other
property by taxing officers of the State, which necessarily
effects an unjust discrimination against the property of which
the plaintiff is the owner, and a bill in equity will lie to restrain
such illegal disorimination, and -that in such cases Federal jurisdiction will arise because of the equal protection of the laws
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment."
The same principle has been recognized in Reagan v. Trust
Co., 154 U. S. 362, 390; Backus v. Depot Co., 169 U. S.557, 565;
Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490, 502.
The case before us is one which the facts make exceptional.
It is made entirely clear that the board of equalization did not
equalize the assessments in the cases of these corporations,
the effect of which was that they were levied upon a different"
principle or followed a different method from that adopted in

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the case of other like corporations whose property the board
had assessed for the same year. It was not the mere action of
individuals, but, under the facts herein detailed, it was the action of the State through the board. There is here no contention of illegality simply because of assessing the franchises of
these corporations at a different rate from tangible property
in the State, which the State might do, Coulter v. Railroad, 196
U. S. 599, but it is asserted that the board assessed the franchises and other property of these companies at a different
rate and by a different method from that which had been
employed by the board for other corporations of the same class
for that year. The result is an enormous disparity and discrimination between the various assessments upon the corporations.
The most important function of the board, that of equalizing
assessments, in order to carry out the provisions of the constitution of the State in levying a tax by valuation, "so that every
person shall pay a tax in proportion to the value of his, her or
its property," was, in this instance, omitted and ignored,
while the board was making an assessment which it had jurisdiction to make under the laws of the State. This action
resulted in an illegal discrimination, which, under these facts,
was the action of the State through the board. Barney v.
City of New York, 193 U. S. 430, holds that where the act complained of was forbidden by the state legislature, it could not
be said to be the act of the State. Such is not the case here.
We are also of opinion that the case is one over which equity
has jurisdiction. In Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S.
153, this court held that the case was one properly brought
in equity. It was to restrain the collection of a tax. While
the court held that the position of the bank as trustee entitled
it to maintain an action in equity and also under the statute of
Ohio, it was further held (page 157): "Independently of this
"statute, however, we are of opinion that when a rule or system
of valuation is adopted by those whose duty it is to make
the assessment, which is designed to operate unequally and to
violate a fundamental principle of the Constitution, and when

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

this rule is applied not solely to one individual, but to a large
class of individuals or corporations, that equity may properly
interfere to restrain the operation of this unconstitutional exercise of power." We have in the case at bar similar facts.
A system of valuation was adopted and applied to a large class
of corporations, differing wholly from that. applied to other
corporations of the same class, and resulting in a discrimination
against the appellee of the mQst serious and material nature.
It is not a question of mere difference of opinion as to the valuation of property, but it is a question of difference of method
in the manner of assessing property of the same kind. Although
the. law itself may be valid and provide for a proper valuation,
yet if, through mistake on the part of the State, through its
board of equaliiation and while acting as a quasi-judicial body,
theboard erred in the method to be pursued in relation to the
corporations now before us, the mistake is one which may be
corrected in equity.
In all these cases, however, where there is jurisdiction to tax
at all, equity will not grant an injunction to restrain the collection, even of an illegal tax, without the payment on the part
of the taxpayer of the amount of a tax fairly and equitably
due. Bank v. Marye, 191 U. S. 272, and cases cited. Acting
upon this principle, the Circuit Court refused to issue the injunction until the appellee paid the amount which the court
found to be a fair and just amount due from the appellee for
the tax of the year 1900, based upon a tax at the same rate
as that levied upon other property and on corporations of the
same class within the State. The sum to be paid by the appellee herein, as decided by the circuit judge, was $134,350.03.
That sum was paid instead of $1,019,211.78, called for by the
warrant in the hands of the collector.
Finally: it is objected that the appellee had a complete and
adequate remedy at law by paying the amount of the warrant,
and then suing the collector to recover the same back as money
paid under duress, although upon a void warrant. Undoubtedly if there be a complete and adequate remedy at.law in such

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

a case as this, the remedy in equity will not be recognized. Assuming the tax to be void, equity will not restrain by injunction its collection, unless there be some other ground for equitable interposition. Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591; Allen v. Palace
Car Co., 139 U. S. 658; Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339.
In the cases in 139 U. S., supra,it was recognized that no ground
appeared for the interposition of a court of equity, because of
the existence of a statute in the State of Tennessee providing
for paying the amount of the alleged illegal tax to the officer
holding the warrant, and granting to the taxpayer a right to
commence an action to recover back the tax thus paid, the
statute providing that the officer should pay the amount received into the state treasury, where it was to remain until the
question ws decided, and, if it was decided in favor of the
taxpayer, provision was made for the repayment of the amount
by the State. The other averments, beside that of the illegality
of the tax, made in these two cases, were held not to constitute
a ground for the interposition of a court of equity by restraining
the -collection of the tax. In the case in 142 U. S., supra, the.
court held that there was no ground to warrant the interposition of a court of equity. The case was decided upon the ground
that the averment of illegality of the tax was not sustained.
There is no statute of a similar kind in Illinois which has been
called to our attention, but some of the cases in that State hold
that such a suit may be maintained against the collector when
the money was paid under protest.
In the case at bar it is averred that it is the duty of the
collector, having received the money on his warrant, to pay
the sum so received in the proportions designated in his tax
books to the city treasurer of the city of Chicago, the county
treasurer of the county of Cook, the treasurer of the sanitary
district, and other officers and authorities entitled to receive
the same, and if the plaintiff instituted suit to recover back
the taxes so paid to the town or county collector he would be
obliged to bring separate suits against each one of the several
taxing bodies receiving its proportionate share of the tax,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

207 U. S.

thereby necessitating a multiplicity of suits, and the proportion
of the tax which would go to the State of Illinois could not be
collected back by any legal proceeding whatsoever; and if repayment could be compelled from the city of Chicago and
other taxing bodies, such repayment would not cover the cost,
including commissions deducted for the collection of the tax,
and in that way it was averred that the appellee would be
subjected to great and irreparable injury, for which there was
not a complete or adequate remedy at law. There was also
the allegation, already referred to in the foregoing statement,
that if compelled to pay this enormous tax it would be rendered insolvent. We think all these allegations combined
take the case out of the class where relief is prayed for, founded
simply upon the unconstitutionality of the law under which
the tax is levied, or upon the illegality for any other reason,
of the tax itself, and bring the case within the jurisdiction of a
court of equity. And, in addition, there is the allegation that
a levy upon the property of the appellee would interfere witl
the operation of the street 'car system in the city of Chicago,
operated by the appellee, and would greatly embarrass and
injure the public who have to use the cars.
Upon the whole, we think it is apparent that, no adequate
remedy at law exists in this case, and that the judgment enjoining the collection of the balance of the tax levied against
the appellee, above that which has been paid under the direction of the Circuit Court, must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting: Notwithstanding my unfeigned deference to the judgment of my brethren I cannot.
but thinksthat the Circuit Court was wrong in taking jurisdiction of ,this case. We all agree, I suppose, that it is only in
most exceptional cases that a State can be said to deprive a
person of his property without due process of law merely because of the decision of a court without more. The discussion
in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R., R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226, concerned a judgment assumed to be authorized by a

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO TRACTION CO.
207 U.S.

41

HOLMS, J., dissenting.

statute of the State, and in, that case the judgment of the
state court was affirmed, so that no very extensive conclusions
can be drawn from it. So far. as I know this is the first instance in which a Circuit Court has been held authorized to
take jurisdictio- on the ground that the decision of a state,
tribunal' was contrary to the Fourteenth Amendient.
It seems to me that the appellee should not be heard until
it has exhausted its local remedies, that the .action of the
state board of eqjualization should utko'U held to be the action
of the State until, at least, it has been sanctioned directly, in
a proceeding which the appellee is,
enfitled to brihg, by the'
final tribunal of the State, the Supr~hi Court. I am unable
to grasp the principle on which the State is said to deprive the
appellee of its property without due process of law because a
.sbordinate board,. subject to the control of the Supreme Court
of the State, is said to have violated the -express requirement
of the State in its constitution; because, in other Nuords, the
board has disobeyed the authentic command of the State-:by
failing to make its valuations in such a way tlmt every person
shall pay a tax in proportion to the value of his property.
I should-have thought that the action of the State was to be
found in its constitution, and that no fault could be found with
that until the authorized interpreter of that constitution, the
Supreme Court, had said that it sanctioned the alleged- wrong.
'Barney v. New York, 193 U. S. 430.
As I think that the Circuit Court ought to be ordered to
dismiss this case, I shall not discuss the merits. But I cannot
forbear adding that, so far as the appellee is complaining that
it has been compelled to pay the full amount of the tax due
from it, and is founding its complaint on the fact that other
,parties are escaping their liabilities whether through mistake
or still uncorrected fraud; it-seems to me to show no sufficient
ground for relief, unless exceptional reasons exist not adverted
to in the judgment of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY concurs

in this dissent.

