OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

EARLE v. MYERS.
SAME b.SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 12, 388.

Argued October 15, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

In an accounting for attorneys' fees for collection of claims against the
Government this court followed the general rule of affirming a finding of
fact made and confirmed by both the courts below unless the same is
clearly erroneous and held that certain services were of the character
generally designated as lobbying services and could not be allowed.
Where an administrator of an attorney performs services and incurs expenses
in completing the business in which his intestate and another attorney
were interested he should be allowed therefor and those services and expenses as well as those rendered and incurred by the intestate can be
settled in one suit where the account has been treated by both parties as
one account.
Where one interested in attorney fees for collection of government claims
can expect nothing until the amount adjudged has been appropriated,
laches will not be charged against him if he bring the suit for an accounting within a reasonable period after the passage of the appropriation act.
In this case two years was not unreasonable.
A decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversing the
Supreme Court of the District as to some of the findings of fact and conclusions of law and directing a new decree to be entered in accordance with
the opinion is not a final decree and an appeal will not lie therefrom to
this court.

THE appeals in the above numbers involve the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia (25 App. D. C.
582, sub nom. Waggaman v. Earle), which modified the decree
of the Supreme Court confirming the report of an auditor. The
action was brought by the appellees against the administrator
of Earle's estate for an accounting, and after issue joined it
was referred to an auditor to state the account upon the pleadings and proof placed before him. The auditor reported in
favor of allowing the complainant as due the Causten estate
the sum of $7,462.20. After the report had been confirmed by

EARLE v. MYERS.
'207 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

the Supreme Court, each side took an appeal and the Court of
.Appeals reversed some of the findings and conclusions of law
of the court below, and directed a new decree to be entered,
in accordance with the opinion of the court. The defendants
appealed from that order to this court, and that appeal is the
above number 12.
Fearing that there might be some doubt as to the finality
of this decree for the purpose of an appeal to this court, the
parties, pursuant to the decree of the Court of Appeals, took
the case down to the trial court, which referred it to the auditor,
who restated the account in accordance with the direction of
the Court of Appeals, to which exceptions were filed by the
defendant, which were overruled, the auditor's report confirmed
and another decree entered, from which an appeal was taken
to the Court of Appeals and there affirmed, and from the decree
of affirmance an appeal has been taken to this court and allowed, which is number 388.
The material facts which appear in the record are the following: For many years a series of attempts had been made to
secure legislation from Congress looking to the payment of
claims made by American citizens for damages arising from
illegal seizure of their vessels by the government of France,
which the United States had, by treaty, undertaken to pay.
Such attempts had been unsuccessful, until at length an act
was possed by Congress, chapter 25 of the Laws of 1885 (23 Stat.
283), which provided for the ascertaining of claims of American
citizens for spoliation prior to the thirty-first of July, 1801.
During quite a number of years preceding the act of 1885
one James H. Causten, a resident of the District of Columbia,
had accumulated papers, which were regarded as of considerable
value in facilitating proofs of these claims. Mr Causten died
before the passage of the act of Congress, leaving these papers
in the hands of Mr. William E. Earle, who was also interested
in the prosecution of said claims; and therefore desired the benefit of the use of these papers, and after the act of Congress
Mr. Earle and Mr. Waggaman, the administrator of the estate

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

of Mr. Causten, entered into a contract as of the date of June 12,
1885, by which Mr. Earle was to -be allowed to continue in the
possession and exclusive use of. these papers in the prosecution
of the spoliation claims, for which possession and exclusive
use he was to pay to the administrator (Waggaman) twentyfive per centum of all fees which he should receive on account
of these claims, "after deducting from all such fees received,
or which shall hereafter be received by him, the proper. expenses
incurred by him, since the passage of the act of Congress referring said cases to the Court of Claims in the prosecution of
said French spoliation claims, such as clerk hire, printing, advertising) office rent, and the compensation of other attorneys
necessarily associatea with him, and in whose compensation
said Earle does not share. And settlements between said Earle
and said Waggaman, administrator as aforesaid, or his successor in office, shall be made every six months, and the proportionate part of said fees due said administrator shall be paid
over to said administrator or his successor in .office, at such
settlement."
Earle agreed to keep true books of account of all fees and
retainers received by him, and also of all expenses attending
the prosecution of the claims in which he should be engaged
as counsel or otherwise, the books of account to be open at
all times for the inspection of the administrator, or his successor in office.
.Thereafter proceedings were taken by Earle in the Court of
Claims towards proving the claims of his clients, and the action
of that court recognizing such claims among others, to a certain extent, was certified to Congress, as provided in the act of
1885.
On March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 897), Congress made an appropriation in payment of a portion of all claims so certified, and
out of this appropriation Mr. Earle received as fees up to
July, 1893, the sum of about $38,000, while his books showed
tn expenditure of over $57,000, leaving Mr. Earle some $18,000
behind. Future legislation was expected, which would turn

EARLE v. MYERS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this deficit into a profit. It was hoped that a further appropriation would be made in 1893, but that hope was not realized.
Mr. Earle died in August, 1893, and an administrator was
thereafter appointed. No further appropriation was made
until August 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1161, 1191). Under this appropriation the estate of Earle received some $&0,000 in fees.
Negotiations for the settlement of the accounts between the
administrator of Earle's estate and the administrator of Causten's estate were proceeded with, but proved unsuccessful,
when this suit was instituted by the Causten administrator
for an accounting. Pleadings were had in due form, and the
oase was referred to an auditor of the court for a statement
of the account, who, after considerable testimony had been
adduced, filed his report and found the sum of $7,462.20 tk be
due from the defendant to the complainant. Exceptions were
filed by both parties, vhich were overruled by the Supreme
Court, and the auditor's report was confirmed.
The Court of Appeals modified the decree entered by the
Supreme' Court, as already stated.
Mr. Henry E. Davis and Mr. John C. Gittings for appellant.
M?. T. Percy Myers and Mr. Michael J. Colbert, with whom
Mr. S. T. Thomas was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
In making up the account the representative of the Earle
estate claimed a credit for the sum of $19,558.05 as part of
the proper expenses incurred by or in behalf of defendant in
obtaining the appropriations above mentioned. The auditor
struck out $13,058.05 of such claimed credit, leaving $6,500
as a proper credit in favor of the administrator of Earle. The
thirteen thousand and some odd dollars were stricken out by
the auditor because of the fact, as he found, that these moneys

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

were paid for lobbying services, in efforts to secure the appropriation by Congress, which services he held were contrary to
public policy and discountenanced by the courts, and therefore not to be allowed as a proper credit. The balance,. $6,500,
the auditor held that the proof showed had been paid by the
defendant for legal services by the individuals named, and
that such services were valuable, and the amount paid was not
excessive or unreasonable. This amount consisted of three
separate items, two items for $2,000 and one item for $2,500.
Upon the argument in the Court of Appeals the defendants'
counsel insisted that the .whole nineteen thousand dollars
should have been allowed as a proper credit, while the plaintiff's counsel asserted that the disallowance of the thirteen
thousand dollar credit was right, but that the court erred in
admitting the $6,500 as a proper credit. The Court of Appeals,
as we have said, affirmed that portion of the decree in which
the auditor disallowed the thirteen. thousand dollars clainied
for credit, but reversed that portion of the decree by which
the auditor allowed the credit of $6,500) and directed the decree to be amended by striking out the above credit for that
sum. This was upon the ground that the $6,500 claimed was
also illegal. The court said that it was impossible to read the
record without coming to the conclusion that these alleged
services were of the kind known as lobbying services; that,
although proof on the subject was meager, yet so far as it went
it tended unmistakably to show the illicit character of the
services, being personal influence and personal solicitation with
members of Congress,' and that courts had branded services
of a like nature as improper, and for which no recovery would
be allowed.
The auditor before whom the case was tried and who heard
the witnesses, while holding that certain of the credit claims
wire illegal as claims for lobbying services, yet held that these
particular claims for services performed by members of the
bar, and representing the $6,500 allowed, were for proper professional services, and as such should be allowed. The Supreme

EARLE v. MYERS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the District confirmed the report of the auditor, and
thereby held that the credit claimed for the payment of these
services was proper.
After a careful examination of the testimony in the case we
are unable to concur with the Court of Appeals on this question.
We cannot find any evidence to justify a reversal of the report
of the auditor, confirmed as it is by the Supreme Court. The
payments were proved to have been made, and there is no evidence of any illegality connected with the services performed
sufficient to justify an appellate tribunal in reversing the finding of the auditor and the Supreme Court upon this question
of fact. It is unnecessary to embody in this opinion a reference
to the testimony in the case or to make extracts therefrom, but
it is enough to say that we are satisfied, from a careful perusal
thereof, that we are right in the conclusions which we have
come to.
As to the thirteen thousand dollar credit which the auditor
and the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals have all disallowed, we are of the opinion that there was sufficient evidence
to justify its disallowance. The evidence would seem to justify
the finding of the auditor that these particular services thus
paid for were of the character generally designated as lobbying
services, and in such case it is proper to follow the general rule
of affirming a finding of fact made and.confirmed by the courts
below, unless the same be clearly erroneous.
Again, the auditor disallowed in part a claim of some fifteen
thousand dolars, which the defendants assert was paid to
two other attorneys for their services, under a special agreement which was made between the administrator of the Earle
estate and such attorneys. The auditor made a finding of
the facts in regard to such employment, and carefully considered
th conditions as they appeared in the proof, and stated that
he was of the opinion that -the services in question did not require the time and attention of these three gentlemen, and that
it would not be just to impose the burden of the payment to
them upon this case in such a manner as to diminish the small

OCTOB3ER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U.8.

amou t which would be found due and payable to the complainant. He therefore in the account allowed a credit for but
one-half of the amount; which he said was in his "judgment
a liberal allowance for the present account." Counsel for the
defendants have failed to show from the evidence in the record
that this item was improperly disposed of by the auditor.
As to the alleged laches on the part of the complainant in
bringing this suit, we think the courts below have committed
no error in their judgments. The evidence showed that during
the time of the life of Mr. Earle, although the books of account
were quite meager, yet such as there were had been examined
by the administrator of Causten, in the office of Mr. Earle, and
that objection had been made to the payment of the moneys
to these persons in regard to whom the charge of lobbying services was made. There was no account stated, and the failure
to bring suit for an accounting until January, 1901, two years
after the appropriation act of 1899, from which payment
might be made, cannot be regarded as laches to prevent a recovery in this suit.
The objection that there was in reality no liability on the
original contract arising out of"services performed by the administrator after the death of William E. Earle cannot be sustained. The accounting has been treated by both parties as
one proper to be made for the whole period, including that
which elapsed subsequently to the death of Mr. Earle. The
defendant recognized this right by making the accounting not
only for fees received prior to the death of Mr. Earle, but for
such fees as were received under the appropriation act of 1899.
The account presented by the Earle estate to the Causten estate admits an indebtedness due from the administrator of the
former of something over $2,000, and the account purports to
be one between the estate of Earle and the estate of Causten,
and it embraces not only fees received by William E. Earle in
his lifetime under the appropriation act of 1891, but fees received by the estate of Earle under. the appropriation act of
1899. Thus both parties seem to have treated the account as

OZAN LUMBER CO. v. UNION COUNTY BANK. 251
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

one account, with reference to the act of 1891 and also to that
of 1899, and we think that under the circumstances the defendants should beheld liable to account therefor as indicated.
The account should be restated by allowing credit to the
defendant of $6,500, the amount paid the attorneys as already
stated. As to all other matters, the decree is right. The proper
disposition of the case is to dismiss the appeal in No. 12, because the decree appealed from is not a final one, and to reverse
the decree in No. 388, for the purpose of making the proper
credit to defendants in the account.
Reversed.

OZAN LUMBER COMPANY v. UNION COUNTY
NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERTY.
ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 87. Submitted November 5, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.
Woods & Sons v. Carl, 203 U. S. 358, and A//en v. Riey, 203 U. S. 347, followed as to the power of a State, until Congress legislates, to make such
reasonable regulations in regard to the transfer of patent rights as will
fraud.
protect its citizens from
There cannot be an exact exclusion or inclusion of persons and things in a
classification for governmental purposes, and a, general classification,
otherwise proper, will not be rendered invalid because certain imaginary
and unforeseen cases .have been overlooked. In such a case there is no
substantial denial of the equal protection of the laws within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
State legislation which regulates business may well make distinctions depend upon the degrees of evil without being arbitrary and unreasonable.
See Heath & MiUgan Mfg. Co. v. Worst, post.
The purpose of the statute of Arkansas providing that all notes given for
payment of patented articles 'must show that they were so given, and
permitting defenses to be made to such notes in the hands of third parties,
is to create and enforce a police regulation, aimed principally at itinerant
vendors of patented articles, and the distinction in ยง 4 that it shall not apply to merchants and dealers who sell patented articles in the usual course
of business is founded upon fair reasoning and is not such a discrimination
as violates the equal protection provisions "f the Fourteenth Amendment.

