WEBSTER COAL CO. v. CASSATT.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

The city made no new allegations and raised no newquestions,
but was content to rest upon the record as it was made up.
Moreover, no question of the effect of the act upon private
property rights of the City of Allegheny was considered in the
opinions in the state courts or suggested by assignment of
errors in this court. The question is entirely outside of the
record and has no connection with any question which is
raised in the record. For these reasons we are without jurisdiction to consider it, Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193;
Hard*,g v. Illinois, 196 U. S. 78, and neither express nor intimate any opinion upon it.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

WEBSTER COAL AND COKE COMPANY v. CASSATT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 283.

Argued October 28, 29, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

An order of the Circuit Court under § 724, Rev. Stat., adjudging and decreeing that certain officers of the defendant corporation produce books
and papers, held to be an interlocutory order in the suit and not a final
order as against the individuals, and, therefore, not reviewable at their
instance, on writ of error, by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
150 Fed. Rep. 48, reversed.

Webster Coal and Coke Company commenced an action at law in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, defendant, to recover damages for its
alleged violation of the Interstate Commerce Act of February 4, 1887, by discriminating against plaintiff in the allowance
of freight rates on coal and coke. The defendant pleaded not
guilty.
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

In the opinion below it is stated.:
"After issue Was thus joinbd, and before the time for the
trial of the action, the plaintiff filed in the Circuit Court a
petition in which, after setting forth the nature of the action
at law and declaring that the defendant, and Alexander J.
Cassatt, president, John B. Thayer, fourth vice-president, and
ten other specifically-named officers and employds of the
defendant, had in their possession or power certain books and
papers containing evidence pertinent to the issue, there was a
prayer for an order requiring the defendant, and its "saidofficers
and employ6s, to produce said books and papers at the trial,
and also for inspection by the plaintiff's representatives before
trial. The application for the order was based on § 724 of
the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"'In the trial of actions at law, the courts of the United
States may, on motion and due notice thereof, require the
parties' t produce books or writings in their possession or
power, which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases
and under circumstances where they might be compelled to
produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in
chancery.2 If a plaintiff fails to comply with such order, the
court may, on motion, give the like judgment for the defendant as in cases of non-suit; and if a defendant fails to comply
with such order, the court may, on motion, give judgment
against him by default.'
"On presentation of the petition to the Circuit Court, a rule
was allowed requiring the defendant and its officers and employ6s named in the petition, to show cause before the court
on a certain day why they 'should not produce on the trial
of this cause' the books and writings above referred to; and
also why they should not produce them at a certain time and
place before trial 'and permit the plaintiff, its counsel and
accountants, to inspect the same and take such copies as they
may deem proper.' The defendant answered the petition
setting forth (1) that the action was for the recovery of damages in the nature of penalties, and therefore that the defendant

WEBSTER COAL CO. v. CASSATT.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

was not obliged to produce its books and papers; either before
or at the trial; (2) that even if the action were one in which
the defendant could be required to produce its books and papers
at the trial, it cbuld not be required to do so before the trial;
(3) that the petition did not describe with sufficient particularity the books and papers the production of which was desired, or state the facts which the books and papers would tend
to prove; a-d (4) that the defendant could not produce any
books which would show the rebates and drawbacks alleged to
have been allowed to other companies, because they had. not
been so kept as to show any such allowances. With the petition
and answer before it, the Circuit Court, on the return of the
rule to show cause, 'adjudged, ordered and decreed' that
Alexander J. Cassatt, president, John B. Thayer, fourth vieepresident, and the ten other officers and employs of the defendant, 'produce on the trial of this cause' the books and
papers described in the petition, and also that they produce
them before trial at a specified time and place for the inspection
of the plaintiff with leave to the plaintiff to make copies
thereof."
To' review this order, Cassatt and the other officers and
agents of the Pennsylvania Company sued out, as individuals,
a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, assigning as error (1) that the Circuit Court erred in:
entering the order requiring plaintiffs in error to submit to the
inspection of the plaintiff below and its counsel, prior to the
trial of the cause, the books, records and papers referred to
therein; and (2) requiring the production at the trial of said
books, records and papers. The case was heard, together with
two similar cases, one of which was entitled Pennsylvania Coal
& Coke Company v. Cassatt, and is numbered 284 on the
present docket.
The Circuit Court of Appeals gave an opinion in one case
applicable to the three, and reversed the judgments of the
Circuit Court with costs. 150 Fed. Rep. 32, 48. That court
held that the order in question was a "final decision" within

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

207 U. S.

§ 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891; that the proceeding
which resulted in the order was independent of and collateral
to the main action, and the order therefore reviewable on a
writ of error; that the corporation's officers and agents were
not "parties" within Revised Statutes, § 724; that that section did not authorize an order requiring a party to produce
books and papers before trial, but if such relief was desired it
must be obtained by a bill of discovery. The present cause
was then brought to this court on certiorari, and is numbered
283 on its docket. It was advanced for hearing and heard
October 28, 29, together with No. 284, also brought up on
certiorari.
Mr. John W. Griggs, with whom Mr. Benjamin S. Harmon,
Mr. George S. Graham and Mr. David L. Krebs were on the
brief, for petitioner:
The Circuit Court of Appeals had no power to review the
order of the lower court.
The order was not a collateral matter distinct from the general subject of litigation affecting only the parties to the particular controversy, and finally settling the controversy, such
as was referred to in Brush Electric Company v. Electric Improvement Company, 51 Fed. Rep. 557, but had distinct alid
important bearing on the general subject of the litigation. In
fact, the order did not affect the respondents as individuals at
all, being directed against them in their representative capacities. If the penalty prescribed in § 724 Rev. Stat.' for disobedience of the order is not exclusive and the court has power
to punish disobedience ,or enforce compliance, then, under the
authority of Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117, the order,
prior to such'action on the part of the court, is interlocutory
in the principal suit.
On the other hand, if the penalty be considered exclusive,
then the order, so far as cone'rns the respondents in certiorari,
was mere Julmen brutum and they were' in no way aggrieved.
Still further, the order was rendered in a proceeding for the pro-

WEBSTER COAL CO. v. CASSATT.
207 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

tection of the rights of the party to the suit for whose benefit
it was made and for that reason not reviewable. Doyle v.
London GuaranteeCo., 204 U. S. 599.
Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Francis I. Gowen was
on the brief, for respondents:
The order of the Circuit Court was a final one and one, consequently, which the Court of Appeals was justified in reviewing. The procedure authorized by § 724, Rev. Stat. is a substitute for proceedings in equity in the nature of discovery.
If the petitioner had been at liberty to proceed in equity by
a bill of discovery and had obtained an order or decree similar
to that which it has obtained under § 724, an appeal from such
order or decree would have been allowable.
But if the order now before the court would have been a final
one in an equity proceeding of the character alluded to, it is a
final one under the procedure authorized by § 724. The question of its finality, it would seem, ought not to be determined
with reference to the character of . the proceeding in which
it was made, but should be determined solely with reference
to the question whether the court has finally by its order or
decree disposed of the controversy with respect to which the
order was -made.
The order was a final one, in the sense that it exhausted the
power of the court in the proceeding in which it had been made.
Even failure, on the part of the defendants, to comply with its
directions, would not open the door to further proceedings or
orders, for such failure would not subject them to any pains
or penalties whatsoever. The penalty of such disobedience
would be visited upon the defendant in the main action, for
by the provisions of § 724, failure to produce books and papers
by a defendant when ordered authorizes entry of judgment
against the defendant by default, and this is the only penalty
that follows such failure.
The order involved in the present proceeding was final. It
finally and completely disposed of the question of the right

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

of the petitioner to have the defendant's papers submitted to
its inspection in advance 6f trial and left open no question or
matter for further consideration or action by the court and it
was final, therefore, both as to the defendant and those to
whom it was directed. Butler v. Fayerweather, 91 Fed. Rep.
458, citing: Mackeye v. Mallory, 24 C. C. A. 420, S. C., 79 Fed.
Rep. 1; Rouse v. Hornsby, 14 C. C. A. 377, S. C., 67 Fed. Rep.
219; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 113 U. S. 545, S. C., 5 Sup. Ct. 616;
Central Trust Co. v. Grant Locomotive Works, 135 U. S.
207; Alexander v. United States, 201 U. S. 117, discussed and
distinguished.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,' after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion. of the court.

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company did not except to the
order nor attempt, to prosecute a writ of error therefrom if
that were possible; the plaintiffs in error, who were officers of
the company, excepted and carried the case up on this writ
of error. They were not parties to the case between the Coal
Company and the Railroad Company, had no property in the
books and papers referred 'to, were mere custodians as officers,
and any rights of theirs were not made to appear to be involved
in the disclosures sought. The order as to them was purely
interlocutory!, not imposing penalty or liability, and not 9nally
disposing of an independent proceeding.
What Mr. Justice Bradley said in Williams v. Morgan, 111
U. S. 684, 699, in holding a decree on intervention appealable,
and citing many ,cases, was that the order appealed from there
,,was final in its nature, and was made in a matter distinct
from the general subject of litigation,-a matter by itself,
which affected only the parties to the particular controversy,
and those Whom they represented."
This order affected the plaintiff and defendant in the case
itself, and not respondents as individuals at all, and if the
court had power to punish disobedience or enforce compliance

PENNSYLV ANIA COAL CO. v. CASSATT.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

then the order prior to such action on the part of the court
was clearly interlocutory in the suit. Alexander v. United
States, 201 U. S. 117. If the provision of § 724 in respect of
disobedience' of such an order was exclusive, then, of course,
respondents were in no way aggrieved. Doyle v. London Guarantee Co., 204 U. S. 599.
Whether the order to produce was valid, and whether it
warranted judgment by default against the defendant company were matters in whic4 plaintiffs in error had no concern.
There was here no attachment for contempt, no judgment on
default, and no independent and collateral proceeding, the
order disposing of which could be considered as a final decree.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
'dismiss the worit of-error.

PENNSYLVANIA COAL AND COKE COMPANY v.
.CASSATT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 284. Argued October 28,29, 1907.-Deocided December 2, 1907.

Decided on authority of preceding cse.
150 Fed. Rep. 48, reversed.

THIS case was argued simultaneously with, and by the
same counsel as, No. 283.1
For the reasons given in the
preceding case the judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded with a direction to dismiss the writ of error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER:

i Webster Coal & Coke Co. v. Cassatt, ante, p. 181.

