LEE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

quoted from our former opinion was improvidently used. It
is enough to say that the opinion did not purport to fix the
words of the new decree. It merely gave a general direction
which was to be carried out in a form to be settled by the
District Court.. It declared, perhaps unnecessarily, that the
decree was to be without prejudice to whatever right the respondents might have to litigate in a proper court, not that
they were entitled to litigate, or that the authority given by
the Bankruptcy Law [§§ 2 (7) 11 c, 47 (2)] to the District
Court to control such litigation was superseded. We are of
opinion that the decree first entered by the District Court
complied with the language of the opinion, and that the subsequent decree having been entered only in obedience to an
unwarranted judgment should be set aside. Re Potts, 166
U. S. 263; Ex parte Dubuque & Pacific R. R., 1 Wall. 69.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Mandamus to go to the District Court to set aside its decree
entered in pursuance of said judgment.

LEE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 16. Argued October 16, 1907.-Decided October 28, 1907.
A State has power to regulate the oyster industry although carried on
under tidal waters in the State.
Although a state statute may be unconstitutional as against a class to
which the party complaining does not belong, that fact does not authorize
the reversal of a judgment not enforcing the statute so as to deprive that
party of any right protected by the Federal Constitution.
Where it appears that a conviction under the New Jersey statute for the
protection of. the oyster industry depended both in the charge and in
the testimony upon the actual illegal use of oyste'r dredges, and the

possible construction of the statute which made it a crime to merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

207 U. S.

navigate interstate waters was not essential to the case, no valid constitutional objection can be raised for want of power to pass or enforce
the statute.
70 N. J. L. 368, affirmed.

THE facts aro stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. A. Armstrong, with whom Mr. William T. Read
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
This act is unconstitutional, in that it discriminates between citizens of the United States and by its terms prohibits
citizens from sailing, with oyster-boats equipped for taking
oysters in the tidal Waters of Delaware Bay, over oyster grounds
leased by the oyster commission to another person. In doing
so it conflicts with the commerce .and . navigation clause,
section 8, Article I, of the Constitution of the United States.
It is also in confli'Ct with the Fouxteenth Amendment of the'
Constitution.
There could be no valid state enactment prohibiting the
sailing of a properly equipped oyster-boat anywhere in the
tidal waters of the State. The right and power of the. State
to the oysters and to the tide waters is held subject to the
paramount right of navigation, the regulation of, which is
entirely. within the power of the Congress of the United States.
McCready v. Virginia,94 U. S. 391.
While this statute clearly conflicts with the commerce clause
of the Constitution, in that it attempts to regulate what a
person may or may not have upon his boat or vessel, it is also
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, because it restricts
a citizen in prosecuting his lawful vocation in a lawful way
and making it impossible for one situated like the plaintiffs.
in error, who owned staked oyster lands, to sail to them in the
tidal waters of the United States, because in doing that he
would have to sail over the staked lands of other persons.
If he could not take his vessel equipped for catching oysters,
it would be useless for him to go. Of course he has and must
have a lawful right to take upon his own lands any and all

LEE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dredges and instruments for catching oysters. In doing this
he has a right to use the surface and body of navigable waters
for navigating his craft, and any law of the State which tends
to restrict, limit, or prevent that right is in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Nelson B. Gaskill for defendant in error, with whom
Mr. Robert H. McCarter, Attorney General of the Stat.of Now
Jersey, was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were convicted in the Court of Quarter
Sessions of Cumberland County, New Jersey, at the May term,
1903, of the offense of unlawfully dredging upon certain oyster
beds for the purpose of catching oysters, contrary to the statute enacted in that State. This judgment was affirmed in the
Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey and this writ of
error seeks the reversal of that judgment.
Section 20 of the act of 1899, amended, Laws of 1901, p. 307,
provides:
"Any person or- persons who shall hereafter dredge upon
or throw, tak6 or cast his oyster dredge, or any other instrument used for the purpose of catching oysters, upon any oyster
bed, or ground duly marked, buoyed or staked up within the
waters of the Delaware River, Delaware Bay and Maurice
River Cove, in this State, belonging to any other person, without the permission of the lessee or lessees thereof, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and of the violation of the provisions of this
.act."
It is the contention of the plaintiffs in error that this statute
violates the right of free navigation, and undertakes to regulate
interstate commerce in violation of section 8, Article I, of the
Federal Constitution, and deprives the plaintiff in error of
rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The pQwer of the State to regulate the oyster industry,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

although the same is carried on under tidal waters in the State,
is not contested, and could not successfully be. Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71; McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240.
The objection to the legality of the conviction from the
standpoint of rights protected by the Federal Constitution,
as urgeoi upon our attention, rests upon the argument that
§ 20, amended as above quoted, permits the conviction of a
person who shall take an oyster dredge or other instrument
used for the purpose of catching oysters, on any oyster bed
or grounds within such navigable waters, thereby abridging
and interfering with the right of free commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States. And it is argued that
persons sailing over such waters; having an. oyster-dredge
aboard a boat, might be convicted of thus taking a dredge over
such ground, in violation of the statute. Of this contention it
is enough to 'say that in this case no such construction of the
statute was made or enforced. against the plaintiffs in error.
Nor, were they convicted because of any such state of facts;
and it is well settled in this court that, because a state statute,
when enforced in a state court against a class to which the
party complaining does not belong, may work a deprivation
of constitutional rights, that fact does not authorize the reversal of a judgment of a state court not enforcing the statute
so as to deprive the party complaining of rights which are protected by the Federal. Constitution. Hatch v. Reardon, 204
U. S.152, 160, ahd cases there cited.
An inspection of this record shows that .the count of the
indictment under which the plaintiffs in error were convicted
charged them with unlawfully dredging, throwing. and castirg.
dredges for the purpose of catching oysters upon certain leased
lands in violation of the statute.
The testimony offered on the part of the State tends to show
that certain dredges were thus thrown and cast for the purpose of catdhing oysters upon leased lands belonging to one
Allen.

LEE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On the part of the defense the witnesses testify that the
dredges were not thus cast and used upon the lands in question. There was no pretense in the charge, in -the indictment,
or in the testimony offered by the people, that a convicti6n
could be had for the mere taking of a dredge over the leased
lands. The conviction depended, both in the charge and in
the testimony, upon establishing the fact that the plaintiffs
in error thus illegally used the dredges.
It is contended that the plaintiffs iri error might have been
convicted for the mere sailing over the lands with a dredge
aboard the boat, because of the following language in the court's
charge:
-_ "It then remains to be considered whether or not -the defendants on that day dredged or threw, took or cast a dredge
or other instrument used for the purpose of catching oysters
upon that ground. If you find that they did, then-they should
be convicted of illegal dredging, as charged in the first count
of the indictment."
But this excerpt must be read in connection with the rest
of the charge, and it is perfectly apparent that it was not intended that the jury might convict for taking a dredge across
the lands in sailing over them,, under an indictment which
made no mention of such taking, but distinctly counted upon
the unlawful throwing and casting of the dredge upon the
leased ground for the purpose of catching oysters. For immediately following the language quoted the learned judge goes
on to say:
"Now, the State produces, bearing upon that question, the
owner of the ground, and he testifies that on the day named
in the indictment he, aboard of the Golden Light with Captain
Hilton, visited his ground; that As they approached it-you
will recall just how near they placed themselves, from their
testimony-as .they.-approached it they saw these defendants
aboard of a vessel called the Lee maneuvering up and down
this ground, No. 137, section B, of Captain Allen, and heaving
their dredges thereon. Now, gentlemen, if you believe that

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

testimony, if you believe that occurred as these witnesses for
the State say it occurred, then, regardless .of whether or not
they got any oysters, if they were throwing their dredges there
upon that ground they should be convicted under the first
count of this indictment.
"Now, considering all of this t~stimony and any other testimony in the case, you ought to determine whether or not the
defendants were there heaving their dredges and dredging upon
this ground. And in endeavoring to ascertain the truth from
this conflicting testimony it is but the dictate of common sense
that you should consider whether any of the witnesses have a
motive to testify falsely."
It is, therefore, apparent that the possible construction of the
-statute in such manner as to convict plaintiffs in error of a
crime in merely exercising their right to navigate interstate
waters was not. made essential to the determination of the
case.
A conviction was had because of the use of a dredge upon
leased lands, in viblation of the New Jersey statute for the
protection of the oyster industry. Against the statute, as
thus enforced, no valid objection can be urged for want of
power to pass or enforce it because of rights protected by the
Federal Constitution.
Judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey
Affirmed.

