THE HAMILTON.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

hoocheeP,173 U. S. 540. Neither does the negligence of the Saginaw. The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302.
We are of opinion that all the claimants are entitled to the
full benefits of a statute "granting the right to relief where.
otherwise it could not be administered by a maritime court."
Workman v. New York, 179 U. S.552, 563.
Decree affirmed.

HOLT v. MURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

OKLAHOMA.
No. 61. Argued December 6, 1907.-DeWed January 6, 1908.
Under the general rule of law that an entry segregates the tract entered
from the public domain subject to be entered until that entry is disposed of, this court sustains the rule of the Land Department that no
subsequent entry can be received after the Land Commissioner has
held the entry' for cancellation until the time allowed for appeal has
expired or the rights of the original entryman have been finally determined.
Where the successful party in a land contest does not enforce his preference
rights or take any action looking to an entry within the prescribed period,
but files a waiver of his right of entry, in the absence of any findings
.sustaining charges of fraud as to the delivery of the waiver, this court
ivill not, in an action 'commenced four years thereafter, set aside a patent
issued to one who had entered the land and in whose favor the waiver
was filed.
15 Oklahoma, 12, affirmed.

THIS was a suit commenced in the District Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, by appellant, praying that the appellees, the holders of the legal title to a tract of land in Oklahoma County, be decreed to hold that title in trust for her
benefit. The District Court entered a decree in favor of the
defendants, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

Territory, 15 Oklahoma, 12, from whose decision this appeal
was taken.
These facts are undisputed: On April 23, 1889, Ewers White
made a homestead entry of the land. Subsequently two other
parties, C. J. Blanchard and Vestal S. Cook, attempted to enter
the same land. On July 16, 1889, in a contest before the local
land officers, they held that all the claimants were disqualified
because of entering the Territory in violation of the President's
proclamation. On appeal the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, on March 7, 1890, affirmed their ruling, dismissed
the contests of both Blanchard and Cook, and held the entry
of White for cancellation. From this decision White prosecuted
an appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, who, on July 21,
1891, affirmed the decision of the Commissioner. 13 L. D. 66.
During the time allowed for appeal to the Secretary from the
Commissioner, and on March 11, 1890, Levi Holt, by his attorney in fact, filed a soldier's declaratory statement for the
land, which was suspended by the register and receiver pending
final action on the appeal. Thereafter and on November 29,
1890, before the decision by the Secretary of his appeal, White
filed a relinquishment of his entry and all rights thereunder,
and the defendant Samuel Murphy immediately thereafter
made a homestead entry thereon.
In addition it was charged by plaintiff that after a decision
by the Secretary of the Interior, in a contest between Murphy
and Holt in favor of Holt, or rather in*favor of his widow (as
he had died in the meantime), a contract was entered into
between plaintiff's attorney and the defendant Samuel Murphy,
by which her attorney should deceive her as to her right in
the land, and, for a pecuniary consideration received from
Murphy, should file a waiver of her right of entry, and thus permit him to acquire a patent, all of which was done; that Anton H. Classen (the present holder of the legal title) and the
other defendants were fully aware of what was thus wrongfully
(lone; that the entry of Murphy appearing on the record as
being unchallenged, a patent was, on January 19, 1898, issued

HOLT v. MURPHY.
207 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

to him. Subsequently the title to most of the land passed to
defendant Classen, who at the time of the filing of the waiver
by plaintiff's attorney was receiver of the land office of the
district in which the tract in controversy is situated, and who
claimed in his answer among other things that he was a bona
fide purchaser and without notice of any equities of the plaintiff.
Sections 2304 and 2309, Rev. Stat., provide for homestead
entries by soldiers and officers who served in the army of the
United States. By 2309 the declaratory statement of such
soldier or officer may be made by an agent as well as personally,
and he is allowed six months thereafter to begin settlement
and improvement, whereas in ordinary cases the entryman
must make affidavit of his right to enter before the register
or receiver, and must commence his residence and cultivation
of the land immediately after the filing of the affidavit.
Mr. John S. Jenkins and Mr. William Frye White, with
whom Mr. John B. Cotton was on the brief, for appellant:
The filing of Levi Holt's soldier's declaration, statement
and application to enter after the entry of record in the records
of the local land office of a judgment of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office holding the prior entry of White invalid, did create a preference right of entry in Holt, although
his filing had been received by the local land office and suspended, pending the right of appeal of White and his contestant
in accordance with the settled practice and rule of the General
Land Office in force at the time and for a long time thereafter.
McMichael v. Murphy et al.., 20 L. D. 147, 535.
By the promulgation of the rule laid down in McMichael v.
Murphy, -supra, and its recognition and application through
adjudged cases, a rule of property had become established,
and inchoate property rights resulted, which are subject to
protection by the courts, where the conditions called for by
the rule were present' This being so, the courts ought to
recognize the principle of stare decisis in.respect to such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appelees.

207 U. S.

rule and ought not to disregard rights attaching while it was
the law of the tribunal which had jurisdiction to determine
them.
Upon White's relinquishment of his entry, pending his appeal
from the judgment of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office holding his entry void and for cancellation, the suspended
application of Levi Holt became a subsisting entry.
Mr. J. H. Everest for appellees"
The plaintiff has not shown herself entitled to a patent to
the land and her bill, therefore, lacks equity. Baldwin v. Keith,
75 Pac. Rep. 1124; Bohall v. Dilla, 114 U. S. 51; Sparks v.
Pierce, 115 U. S. 408; Lee v. Johnson, 115 U. S. 48; Emblen v.
Lincoln Land Co., 184 U. S. 661, 663.
The plaintiff never in fact acquired any right or equity in
the land involved because the decision of the Secretary of the
Interior awarding the heirs of Levi Holt the right to enter
said land was erroneous and contrary to law. See Patrick v.
Kelley, 11 L. D. 326; Goodale v. Olney (on review), 13 L. D.
498; Re MaggieLaird, 13 L. D. 502; Holmes v. Hockett, 14 L. D.
127; Swanson v. Simmons, 16 L. D. 44; Mills v. Daly, 17 L. D.
395; Cook v. Villa (on review), 19 L. D. 442; Walker v. Snider
(on review), 19 L. D. 467; Gallagher v. Jackson, 20 L. D. 389;
McMichael v. Murphy et al. (on review), 20. L. D. 535; McCrearyv. Wert et al., 21 L. D. 145.
As to the defendant, Anton H. Classen, and the one hundred, and twenty acres of land claimed by hih, the record
shows that he was an innocent purchaser after patent without notice of any of the pretended equities of' the plaintiff.
Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307;
United States v. Marshall Silver Mining Company, 129 U. S.
579.
The plaintiff was guilty of laches in the prosecution 'of her
suit and should, therefore, be barred of relief in a court of equity.
Wagner v. Baird, 7 How. 234; Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S.
368; Johnson v. StandardMining Co., 148 U. S. 360.

HOLT v. MURPHY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff alleges in her petition that the land is worth
$100,000. It appears that she has never been in Oklahoma;
that neither she nor her husband ever entered upon or cultivated the land, and yet she asks the court to give her this
valuable property, taking it away from those who, at least by

their presence and occupation of the tract, have assisted in
building up a State having more than a million inhabitants.
Another matter is worthy of notice. According to a report
of the register of the local land office to the General Land Office
at Washington, on May 12, 1897, the attorney for the plaintiff
was notified of the decision in her favor by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, and on June 16 of that year that
attorney filed the waiver of the preference rights thus awarded
to her. The patent to Murphy was issued on January 19, 1898,
and recorded in the office of the register of deeds in Oklahoma
County on January 25, 1898. This suit was commenced on
September 16, 1901. It, therefore, appears that the plaintiff
took no action until more than four years after the waiver
by her attorney of her preference rights and three and a half
years after the issue of the patent and its record in the county
in which the land is situate. It is true that she claims to have
been ignorant of the decision in her favor, and that she relied
upon her attorney, whom she charges was engaged in a conspiracy to defraud her. Although this reliance, so far as it was
reasonable and in fact controlled her, may, to some extent, at
least, have excused her inaction, yet it, must also be remembered
that not improbably her inaction may have influenced some of
the defendants to deal with the land in reliance upon the title
passing by the patent to Murphy.
The decree in the District Court finds that the plaintiff "has
failed to sustain the material allegations of her petition," and
holds that neither she nor any of the heirs of Levi Holt "have
any right, equity. or interest in and to said tract of land above

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

2.07 tT. S.

described or any part thereof," arid quiets the title of defendants against all their claims, whilp the Supreme Court, in its
opinion, says that the District Court was warranted in finding that the "allegatiohs of fraud in -the petition were not
sustained by the evidence."
The Supreme Court, however, rested its decisidn largely
upon this rule of law: That whenever an entry has. been made
of a tract of land that tract is segregated from -the mass of
public land subject to .entry until the existing entry is disposed of.
Counsel for appellant do not question the general rule as
to the effect of an entry regular upon its face, and concede
that it is no longer open to doubt, in view of the many, rulings
of the Land Department and the decisions of this court,
Hodges v. Colcord, 193 U. S. 192; McMichael v. Murphy, 19T
U. S. 304, the latter, involving the land in controversy, but they
seek to distinguish this case in that the local land officirs had
held all the claimants disqualified, and that on appeal the
Commissioner of the General- Land Office, on March 7, 1890,
had affirmed their ruling, dismissed the contests of Blanchard
and Cook, and held the entry of White for cancellation; that
-the application of Holt to enter was made on March 11, 1890,
before any appeal had been, in fact, taken from the decision
of the Commissioner to the Secretary of the Interior. In
other words, at the time that Holt applied to make his entry
there was no pending entry. It could not have been foretold
whether White would appeal from the decision of. the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and if he did not, there
would be no entry to. conflict with Holt's application. They
contend that the application of Holt should have been recog'
nized as an application to enter the land, to take -effect if
White should not appeal from the decision of the Commissioner, or if, on appeal, that decision should be sustained.
In that way Holt would have been given priority over all
subsequent entries. Counsel further say that such was then
the ruling of the Department, citing especially McMichael
-

HOLT v. MURPHY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Murphy, 20 L. D. 147, and that although that decision has
been overruled, yet that it was the law of the Land Department, as then established by its practice, and should be recognized as controlling the rights of the parties. The case in
which, as they concede, the doctrine of McMichael v. Murphy
was overruled is Cowles v. Huff, 24 L. D. 81, decided in January, 1897, a year before the issue of the patent in this case.
The difference in the ruling is disclosed by the two cases
of Henry Gauger, 10 L. D. 221, and Allen v. Price, 15 L. D.
424. In the former it was held:
"An. application to enter may be received during the time
allowed for appeal from a judgment of cancellation, subject
to such appeal, but should not be made of record until the
rights of the former entryman are finally determined."
In the latter the Secretary said (p. 426):
"The act of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 140, granting to a successful contestant the preference right of entry,, and the act
'of July 26, 1892, 27 Stat. 270, granting to his heirs the same
rights, it must be admitted, conferred a right upon such party,
and when we consider that this right must be exercised within
the limited period of thirty days, and that it can only be exercised upon a specified and limited tract of land, is it not reasonable to assume, that it was, the intention of such legislation
to reserve- from other appropriation, for the period specified,
the designated tract of land, and thus enable the party intended to be benefited, to reap the reward of his diligence in
procuring the cancellation of the prior entry?
"Upon mature reflection, I am convinced, that, to hold
otherwise, is, by implication at least, to assume that Congress
holds out inducements to a party to take certain :action, but'
fails to protect him in the rights such action secures. To
reserve the land for the time specified will certainly be in the
line of protecting the contestant's. rights, and no other party
can be seriously prejudiced thereby."
In McMichael y. Murphy, 20 L. D. 147, he held that (p. i52):
"One of the rules of this Department, established by a num-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

ber of decisions, is, that a judgment of your office, holding
an entry for cancellation, is final so far as that tribunal is
concerned, and at once throws the land involved open to
entry. That an application to enter made after the date of
said judgment and within the time allowed for appeal, 'should
be received, but not placed on record until the time for appeal
has expired, or the rights of the entryman on appeal have been
determined by this Department. In other words, that such
an application shall be received subject to the rights of the
entryman on appeal;" while in Cowles v. Huff, supra, it. was
decided that "An application to enter should not be received
during the time allowed for appeal from a judgment canceling
a prior entry of the land applied for; nor the land so involved
.held subject to entry, or application to enter, until the rights
of the entryman have been finally determined."
In the course of his opinion the Secretary, after noticing
the difference between the cases of Henry Gauger and Allen
v. Price, said, 24 L. D. 86:
"This summary shows beyond any question that there is,
in some particulars, at least, an irreconcilable conflict between these cases. To the extent of such conflict one or the
other of them must be overruled. From a careful examination of the subject I am convinced that the doctrine announced
in Allen v. Price furnishes the better practice, and it will be
followed. The case of Henry Gauger, 10 L. D. 221, is therefore
overruled. All other cases following it, in so far as they may
be in conflict with the views herein expressed, are also hereby
overruled."
See, also, Stewart v. Peterson, 28 L. D. 515, in which the
Secretary held that (p. 519): "In order that this important
matter of regulation may be perfectly clear, it is directed that
no application will be received, or any rights recognized as
initiated by the tender of an application for a tract embraced
in an entry of record, until said entry has been canceled upon
the records of the local office." To fully appreciate the scope
of this ruling it must be remembered that the local land officers

HOLT v. MURPHY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

do not, except in the case of a relinquishment by the entryman,
on their own judgment cancel an entry of record in their office,
and that it remains until the Commissioner of the General
Land Office sends directions to the local land officers to cancel
it; and, further, that the Commissioner, even after his decision
against the validity of the entry, sends down no order for its
cancellation until after the time has expired for appeal from
his decision, or until an appeal, if had, is finally disposed of
by the Secretary (p. 517). Hence, by this rule, which was in
force at the time the patent was issued, the appellant took
no rights, preferential or otherwise, by the declaratory statement filed in March, 1890. Such a rule, when established in
the Land Department, will not be overthrown or ignored by
the courts, unless they are clearly convinced that it is wrong.
So far from this being true of this rule, we are of opinion that
to enforce it will tend to prevent confusion and conflict of
claims.
But, further, it appears that a waiver in proper form of appellant's right of entry was filed in the Land Department after
the decision in the contest case in her favor, and before the
patent was issued to Murphy. Indeed, after that decision
and after notice to her attorney she failed to take any action
looking to an entry within the prescribed time.
As by the findings of both the trial and Supreme Court of
the Territory all charges of fraud and misconduct may be put
one side, there was nothing to prevent the waiver receiving
operative force, and that, together with the delay on her part
in attempting to enforce her preference rights, left.'the land
free for Murphy's entry and the patent thereon.
The decision of the Oklahoma courts was right, and it is
Affirmed.

