BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 205
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

hold the bonds void. Stare decisis is a wholesome doctrine.
It is not of universal application, and there have been cases
where a ruling once made was wisely changed; but when the
decision is one affirming the validity of bonds. notes or bills
of a limited amount, the issue of which had been in terms authorized by statute, such decision should generally be held
conclusive, even as to those not strictly parties to the litigation, for otherwise, as we have said, much wrong might be done
to innocent holders who bought in reliance upon the decision.
We are of the opinion that the Supreme Court of Arizona was
right, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 34. Argued November 4, 1907.-Decided December 2,1907.
Railroad companies have the right to sell non-transferable reduced rate
excursion tickets, Mosher v. Railroad Co., 127 U. S. 390; and the nontransferability and forfeiture embodied in such tickets is not only binding upon the original purchaser and any one subsequently -acquiring
them but, under the provisions of § 22 of the act to regulate commerce,
24 Stat. 387, 25 Stat. 862, it is the duty of the railroad company to prevent the wrongful use of such tickets and the obtaining of a preference
thereby by anyone other than the original purchaser.
An actionable wrong is committed by one who maliciously interferes in
a contract between two parties and induces one of them to break that
contract to the injury of the other, Angle v. Chicago & St. Paul Railway
Co., 151 U. S. 1; and this principle applies to carrying on the business
of purchasing and selling non-transferable reduced rate railroad tickets
for profit to the injury of the railroad company issuing them, and this
even though the ingredient of actual malice, in the sense of personal ill
will, does not exist.
When, as in this case, the dealings of a class of speculators in non-transferable

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

tickets have assumed great magnitude, involving large cost and risk to
the railroad company in preventing the wrongful use of such tickets, and
the parties so dealing in them have expressly declared their intention of
continuing so to do, a court of equity has power to grant relief by injunction.
Every injunction contemplates the enforcement, as against the party enjoined, of a rule of conduct for the future as to the wrongs to which the
injunction relates, and a court of equity may extend an injunction so
as to restrain the defendants from dealing not only in non-transferable
tickets already issued'by complainant, but also in all tickets of a similar
nature which shall be issued in the future; and the issuing of -such an
.injunction does not amount to an exercise of legislative, as distinct from
judicial, power and a denial of due process of law.
Whether the jurisdictional amount is involved is to be determined not by
the mere pecuniary damage resulting from the acts complained of, but
also by the value of the business to be protected and the rights of property which complainants seek to have recognized and enforced. Hunt
v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322.
Where defendants do not formally plead to the jurisdiction it is not incumbent upon complainant to offer proof in support of the averment
that the amount involved exceeds the jurisdictional amount as to each
defendant.
No adequate remedy at law exists to redress -the wrong done to a railroad
company by wrongfully dealing in vast numbers of its non-transferable
reduced rate excursion tickets which will deprive the company of its
right to resort to equity to restrain such wrong dealings.
An action against a number of defendants is not open to the objections of
multifariousness and of misjoinder of parties if the defendants' acts are
of a like character, the operation and effect whereof upon the rights of
complainants are identical and in which the same relief is sought against
all defendants, and the defenses to be interposed are necessarily common
to all defendants and involve the same legal questions. Ha/e v. AUinson,.
188 U. S.56, 77.
144 Fed. Rep. 34, affirmed.

UPON a bill filed on behalf of the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company, the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastein District of Louisiana entered a decree perpetually
enjoining the petitioners herein and four other ticket brokers,
engaged in business in the city of New Orleans, from dealing
in non-transferable round trip tickets issued at reduced rates
for passage over the lines of railway of the complainant on
account of the United Confederate Veterans' Reunion and the
Mardi Gras celebration held in the city of New Orleans in the

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 207
207 U.

S.

3tatement of the Case.

years 1903 and 1904 respectiyely. On an appeal prosecuted by
the railroad company complaining of the limited relief awarded,
the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the defendant should
also be jnjoined generally from dealing in non-transferable
roufnd trip reduced rate tickets whenever issued by -the complainant, and ordered the cause to be remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to enter a decree in accordance with the
views expressed in the opinion. 144 Fed. Rep. 34. A writ of
certiorari was thereupon allowed.
We summarize the averments of the complaint-and answer.
It was averred in the bill that complainant was'a Kentucky
corporation, operating about three thousand miles of railway
for the carriage of passengers, baggage, mail, express and
freight, its lines of road extending from New Orleans through
various States, and making connections by which it reached
all railroad stations in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
The seteff persons named as defendants were averred to be,
citizens and residents of Louisiana, each engaged in the city
of New Orleans as a ticket broker or scalper in the business of
buying and selling the unused return portions of railroad
passenger tickets, especially excursion or special rate tickets
issued on occasions of fairs, expositions, conventions 'and the
like. It was further averred -that the defendants were joined
in the bill, "because -their business and "transactions complained of are in act, purpose and effect identical, and in order
to prevent a multiplicity'of suits, the same relief being sought
as to each and all of them."
Six articles or paragraphs. of the bill related- to an approaching reunion of United Confederate Veterans to be held in the
city of New Orleans, Which it was expected would necessitate
the transportation by the railroads enteing New Orleans of
one hundred thousand visitors, one-fourth of which number
would pass over'the lines of railway of the complainant. A
-ecessity was alleged to exist for special ieduced rates of fare
o secure a large attendance at such reunion, and it,,was averred
hat a rate of one cent a mil, one-third the regular rate, had

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

207 U. S.

been agreed upon for non-transferable round trip reduced rate
tickets which were to be issued for the occasion, and it was
stated "that among the conditions on the face of said ticket,
which ticket contract is signed by the original purchaser and
the company, is one, that said ticket is non-transferable, and if
presented by any other than the original purchaser, who is
required to sign the same at date of purchase, it will not be
honored but will be forfeited, and any agent or conductor of
any of the lines over which it reads shall have the right to take
up and cancel the entire ticket." And for various alleged reasons, based mainly upon the large number of expected purchasers, it was averred that the return portion of each ticket
was not required to be signed by the original purchaser or
presented to an agent of the complainant'in the city of New
Orleans for the purpose of the identification of the holder as
the purchaser of the ticket.
It was averred that each defendant was accustomed to buy
and sell the return coupons of non-transferable tickets, for
the express purpose, and no other, of putting them in the
hands of purchasers to be fraudulently used for passage on
the trains of complainant and it was further averred that
the defendants intended in like manner to fraudulently deal
in the return portion of the tickets about to be issued for the
reunion in question, and that complainant would sustain
irreparable injury, for which it would have no adequate remedy at law, unless it was protected from such wrongful acts.
It was further averred that unless relief was given the complainant would be compelled to 'abandon the making of reduced rates for conventions or other assemblies to be held
in the city of New Orleans. Averments were also made as to
the additional burden which would be cast upon complainant's
conductors and train collectors by reason of the practice complained of, the danger which would arise of a multiplicity of
suits; for damages by reason of errors of such employ6s in
endeavoring to prevent the fraudulent use of such tickets,
and it was averred that it would be impossible, in many in-

BITERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 209
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

stances, to discover the persons who were wrongfully traveling
upon the tickets and who were bound to pay the lawful and
reasonable one way rate for their transportation. The impossibility of securing evidence establishing the facts as to
said fraud, the necessity, if such evidence could be obtained,
of bringing a multiplicity of suits if a remedy at law was
availed of, and the impracticability of estimating in dollars
and cents the injury to its business, was set forth as making
the remedy at law inadequate, and in addition it was charged
that the defendants were financially irresponsible. The existence was also averred of various ticket brokers' associations,
the members of which acted in concert. It was- averred that
a large part of the stock in trade of all ticket brokers and
scalpers was the disposal of non-transferable railroad tickets,
and it was further averred that ticket brokers and scalpers
usually sought to avoid injunctions prohibiting the dealing
in such tickets by assigning their business to some other ticket
broker not named in the order, and it was averred that in
order to afford complete and effective relief "the restraining
injunctive orders should .be broad enough to include all who
knowingly do what the order of court prohibits defendants
from doing or who aid or abet defendants in violating the injunction or in defeating the objects and purposes thereof."
Finally, it was alleged that the amount involved in the controversy exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum of
five thousand dollars, and that the value of the business, which
was sought to be protected, and the rights which the complainant asked to have recognized and enforced, exceeded
in the case of each defendant the sum of five thousand dollars,
exclusive of interest and costs.
In addition to asking a temporary restraining order the bill
prayed that defendants, their agents, etc., "and all other persons whomsoever, though not named herein, from and after
the time when they severally have knowledge of the entry of
the restraining order and the existence of the injunction herein,"
should be perpetually enjoined "from buying, selling, dealing
VOL. ccvxi-1 4

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

in or soliciting the purchase or sale of any ticket or tickets or
the return coupons or unused portions thereof issued by orator
or by any other railroad company for use over orator.s lines
of railway or any part of them which by the terms thereof are
non-transferable, or from soliciting, advertising, encouraging
or procilring any person other than the original purchaser of
such tickets, to use or attempt to use said tickets for passage
on any train or trains of orator, especially including the nontransferable round-trip tickets issued for use on the occasion
of the United Confederate Veterans' Reunion at NPw Orleans
in May, 1903."
Of the seven persons made defendants, three only appeared
and answered, viz., Marcus K. Bitterman, Julius Mehlig.and
Charles T. Kelsko, the petitioners in this court, on whose behalf a joint and several answer was filed.
The averments of the bill in respect to the citizenship of
the complainant and the character and extent of its railway
business was admitted. It was also admitted, that the answering defendants were citizens and residents of Louisiana,
but it was averred that they were each separately engaged in
the ticket brokerage business, duly licensed to conduct such
business by the State of Louisiana and the city of New Orleans,
and it was expressly denied that the business operations and
transactions of all the defendants named in the bill were ini
act, purpose and effect identical. So also the answer admitted
the averments of the bill in respect to the proposed reunion,
the large attendance expected, the issue of reduced rate non-.
transferable tickets and the necessity therefor, and the impracticability of requiring the signing of the return, portion
of each ticket by the purchaser.
It was admitted in the answer that the tickets usually'issued
by complainant and its connections when making reduced
rates as to excursion tickets purported to be non-transferable
and upon condition that if presented by other than the original
purchaser, who was supposed to sign the 'same at the date of
purchase, it would not, be honored, but would be forfeited, and

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 211
Statement of ihe Case.

207 U. S.

that any agent or conductor should have the right to take up
and cancel such ticket if presented for passage. In various
paragraphs these restrictions or conditions were assailed as
impracticable, unenforcible and unlawful, and without con-

sideration, and it was averred that the conditions were never
enforced, and that the tickets were issued and bought with
that understanding, and that no damage was caused to complainant by a person other than the original purchaser of a
non-transferable reduced rate ticket, traveling upon the return
portion of such ticket, and that no loss or damage could be
caused complainant by reason of the expected dealing by
defendants in the reunion tickets referred to in the bill.

It was not only admitted in the answer that the answering
defendants had in the past dealt in non-transferable railroad
tickets issued by the complainant, but it was expressly declared to be their intention to continue the practice, particu-

larly in respect to the tickets issued on account of the approaching reunion, and coupled with such averment it was
asserted that no fraud would be committed or was intended
in respect to the dealing in such tickets.

We insert in the

margin' portions of the answer relating to such admissions.
ilx.
*i

*

*

*

*"

'

*

*

Respondents further admit that, In accordance with the general custom
of the trade, they separately buy and sell the return coupons of railway
tickets, whether the same are stamped "non-transferable" or not, for the
reason that the term "non-transferable" does not import any practical or
legal meaning in the business, according to the common understanding of
the railways themselves, the ticket brokers, and the traveling public to
whom said tickets are issued, who freely sell them to brokers who in turn
sell them to other- persons desiring to use said tickets for transportation,
when genuine and bona fide.
Respondents do not deny that the complainant, on occasions of Mardi
Gras festivals in the city of New Orleans, have joined in the issuing of reduced rates and the putting out of said so-called "non-transferable" tickets,
but, as above set out, the general traveling public, the railways, and the
ticket brokers, by common consent, by usage, and by understanding, have

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

It was denied that the answering defendants were insolvent,
but, on the contrary, it was averred that each was able to pay
any judgment for damages which might be recovered against
him. Denial was made of the allegation of the bill that the
all treated said tickets as- articles of property, and as negotiable and transferable to any person desiring to purchase and travel on the same when
genuine and bona fide; and respondents deny that these respondents have
ever fraudulently dealt in the return coupons of such tickets, or that complainant has ever been damaged in respect thereto, by any act of respondents.
X.
Respondents admit that it is their hope and expectation to buy and sell
the return portions of said U. C. V. Reunion tickets, but they deny that
they will solicit, induce, or persuade the holders thereof to sell suic return
portions to respondents upon any false or fraudulent pretense or representation upon the part of respondents.
Respondents admit that they, in common with the general public, have
some knowledge of the character and terms of the proposed tickets; that
they are informed and believe that such tickets will be issued at low rates,
to induce and enable the traveling public to attend said reunion in large
numbers; that respondents expect to offei the same for sale, if they shall
acquire any of said tickets, and will sell such tickets to persons other than
the original purchasers, for such price as they are willing to pay, and that
it is no concern of complainant or its connections, or other railways, whether
respondents make a profit or a loss in the proposed dealing in said U. C. V.
Reunion tickets.
XIV.
Respondents admit that it is.the custom and usage of complainant and
its connections to issue railroad tickets at reduced rates to the traveling
public on various occasions, such as expositions, conventions, Mardi Gras,
reunions, or other public gatherings, and that the tickets which are usually
issued by complainant purport by their terms to be non-transferable and
to constitute a so-called "special contract" in express terms between complainant, the lines issuing the same, all other lines over which the same
entitle the holders tor travel, and the original purchasers of said tickets,
whereby the said original purchasers are forced to agree that said tickets
shall not be transferred by them to any other persons; but respondents show
that said tickets, when issued by complainant and its connecting lines and
other railways, on such occasions as expositions, reunions, conventions,
Mardi Gras, and the like, are in practice and general consent and common
understanding of the traveling public, the railways, and the ticket brokers,
when bona flde and genuine tickets, good for the return passage over the
lines of said complainant and its connections and other railways, in the

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 213
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

willingness or ability of the complainant to continue issuing
special rate tickets would be affected by the failure to obtain
the relief sought by the bill, and, in the main, the averments
of the article of the bill relating to various ticket brokers'
associations were also denied.
As a distinct ground for denying the relief prayed, it was
alleged in various forms that the issue of the proposed nontransferable tickets was the result of an unlawful confederation or combination between the various railroads whose roads
entered into the city of New Orleans.
Upon the bill and answer a preliminary injunction was
issued, restraining the dealing in non-transferable tickets issued
for the approaching United Confederate Veterans' Reunion.
Replication was duly filed to the answer. Subsequently, upon
depositions taken in the cause, and upon affidavit showing the
character of non-transferable tickets proposed to be issued
hands of the holders thereof, whether such holders be the original purchasers
or not; that such practice and such understanding are common and general
all over the United States; that such tickets are sold and dealt in as legitimate business in every large city, to the knowledge of the complainant, and
such tickets are and have been for many years sold by complainant with
full knowledge of the fact that they are in practice and general understanding of the traveling public good in the hands of any holder.
xv.
Respondents jointly and severally admit that each of them are and have
been for some time separately engaged in the lawful business of buying,
selling and dealing in such tickets, and in soliciting and inducing the original
purchasers thereof to sell and transfer the same to respondents, with the
intent and purpose that such tickets shall be used by the second purchaser
thereof, but respondents deny that such use is a violation in law or in fact
of the terms thereof. And respondents deny any knowledge that such use
of said tickets by persons other than the original holders, is any fraud upon
complainant or the railways issuing such tickets when the same are genuine
and bona Jle-and respondents again aver that it is a matter of no concerr,
or interest to the complainant or the railways issuing such tickets, whethe.
the original purchasers are the holders and presenters of the same, or whether
the holder has purchased said ticket from the original purchaser, or whether
such holder has purchased the same from a ticket broker, or whether, as
frequently happens, one of such tickets is accidentally or otherwise exchanged for another of the same class and form.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

207 U. S.'

for an approaching Mardi Gras festival, a further injunction
pendente lite was granted as to dealings in the non-transferable
reduced rate round trip tickets issued for use on the occasion
of the aforesaid Mardi Gras festival.
Thereafter a demurrer was filed to the bill for want of equity
and because the case made by the bill was a moot and not a
real controversy, and it was overruled. Then an application
was made for leave to file a plea 'to the jurisdiction, which was
.refused.
At the hearing the complainant introduced the depositions
of two witnesses and no evidence was given on behalf of the
defendants. As before stated, the Circuit Court entered a final
decree perpetually enjoining the dealing in non-transferable
reduced rate round trip tickets issued for thie United Confederate Veterans' Reunion and the Mardi Gras festivals, and
denying relief as to future issues of tickets of a like character.
On appeal and cross appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals
held that the complainant was entitled to the full relief prayed'
in the bill, and consequently to an injunction restraining the
dealing by the defendants not only in the tickets issued for
the United Confederate Veterans' Reunion and the past Mardi
Gras festival, but from carrying on the business of like dealing
in non-transferable reduced rate tickets which might be issued
in the future by the complainant, and the Circuit Court was
directed to decree accordingly.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. Henry L. Lazarus and
Mr. Moritz Rosenthal were on the brief, for petitioners:
The bill of complaint does not state a cause of action,.either
at law or in equity, against any of the defendants, even though
the tickets in which they dealt, were in form non-transferable,
and the original purchasers disposed of them .in breach of their
contracts with the complainant.
A railroad ticket is property in the constitutional sense of
the term, and the business of a ticket broker is legitimate, and
legislation seeking to prohibit it is a violation of the liberty of

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 215
207 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

the citizen and violative of both the state and Federal Constitutions. People ex rel. Fleischmann v. Caldwell, 64 App.
Div. 46, aff'd, 168 N. Y. 671; People ex rel. Tyroler v. The Warden, 157 N. Y. 116.
A ticket broker in purchasing the unused portion of a railway ticket is not a party or a privy to the contract between
the railway company and the original purchaser. He has no
relation whatsoever with either, except that he has purchased
from the original holder a ticket which the latter agreed that
he would not sell. There is nothing to indicate that the ticket
broker in purchasing the ticket from the original holder and
selling it to a third person acted out of malice toward the railway company; in fact his motive is believed to be unimportant.
Adler v. Fenton, 24 How. 407; Dickerman v. Northern Trust Co.,
176 U. S. 190; McMullen v. Ritchie, 64 Fed. Rep. 253; Toler V.
East Tenn.. Ry. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 168; Morris v. Tuthill, 72
N. Y. 575; Davis v. Flagg, 35 N. J. Eq. 491; Phelps v. Nowlen,
72 N. Y. 39. :
The theory of the complainant precludes the conception of a
privity of contract, since the very foundation of its contention
is, that the contract between it and the original purchaser of
the ticket was non-assignable. Spencer's case, 5 Coke, 16a;
1 Smith's Leading Cases, 68; Garst v. Hall & Lyon Co., 179
Massachusetts, 588; Harrisonv. Maynard Merrill Co., 61 Fed.
Rep. 689; Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659;
Apollinaris Co. v. Scherer., 27 Fed. Rep'. 18.
An action against these ticket brokers: could not be rested
upon any theory of tort. It is difficult to see in what respect
t~e act of the broker constitutes a tort or a breach of duty
owing by him to the railroad company. He certainly occupies
to it no relation of trust or confidence, nor is there any statutory
duty or one of a kindred nature that he owes to the 1-ailroad
company In order to support its theory the complainant failed t6 establish the validity of the condition of non-transferability which it
has sought to impress upon its tickets. The railroad company

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

207 U. S.

doubtless had the right to impose reasonable conditions upon
its passengers, the right to require the production of a ticket
whenever demanded, to limit the ticket as to time, and train
on which it was to be used, to require it to be stamped before
being used. The ticket, however, is property and a common
carrier, bound to transport all seeking its conveniences, without
discrimination, has no right to prohibit the sale and disposition
of such ticket, because that would have been the equivalent of
depriving the owner of it of an essential attribute of the property which he had acquired, and the creation of an unjust discrimination, between those seeking transportation over its
lines. Mosher v. Railway Company, 127 U. S. 390, and Boylan
v. RailroadCompany, 132 U. S. 146, discussed and distinguished.
But assuming that the contract of non-transferability was
valid, and that the original purchaser of the ticket committed
a breach of contract when he disposed of it, that fact would not
support an action at law against the ticket broker under the
circumstances of this case. The broker did not, by fraud,
force or coercion, or by malicious act, bring about such breach
of contract, and the case does not 'therefore fall within the rule
laid down in Angle v. Chicago, St. Paul &c. Ry. Co., 151 U. S. 1.
Even though the acts charged are wrongful, tortious or even
fraudulent, complainant has a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law to redress such wrongs, and is not entitled to
equitable relief. Hipp v. Babin, 19 How. 278; Parker v. Winnipiseogee Lake Co., 2 Black, 551; Ins. Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall.
621; Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wall. 375; Root v. Ry. Co.,
105 U. S. 212; Killian v. Ebbinghaus, 110 U. S. 573; Fussell
v. Gregg, 113 U. S. 555; Buzard v. Houston, 119 U. S. 351;
Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S. 451; Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S.146.
There was an improper joinder of defendants and of independent causes of action. The bill is multifarious and the case
does not fall within the rule concerning the avoidance of a
multiplicity of suits. Pfohl v. Simpson, 74 N. Y. 142; Boughton
v. City of Brooklyn, 15 Barb. 375; 2 Story Eq. Jur., §§ 853, 854;
Tribette v. Railroad Co., 70 Mississippi, 182.

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 217
207 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

The Circuit Court was without julrisdiction, notwithstanding
the colorable averments contained in the bill that the injury
sustained in consequence of the defendants' acts exceeded two
thousand dollars, there being no foundation in fact in support
of such averment.
The complainant does not indicate from the record a specific
piece of property actually in existence, for which the protection
of a court of equity is sought. It is asking for the protection of
a business not in esse, but to arise in the future, and which the
court will not presume will be attacked injuriously before it
comes into existence. Bank of Arapahoe v. David Bradley Co.,
72 Fed. Rep. 867.
The decree of injunction awarded by the Circuit .Court of
Appeals, so far as it relates to non-transferable tickets, that
may be hereafter issued, is in effect the exercise of legislative
as distinguished from judicial power, since it undertakes to
promulgate a rule applicable to conditions and circumstances,
which have. not yet arisen, and to prohibit the petitioners from
dealing in tickets not in esse and not even in contemplation,
and is, therefore, violative of the most fundamental principle
of our government.
Mr. Joseph Paxton Blair and Mr. Brode B. Davis, with whom
Mr. George Denegre was on the brief, for respondent:
Defendants filed no formal plea to the jurisdiction, but simply
denied, in their answer, the averments of the bill in respect to
the amount of damages. Under such circumstances, proof of
damages was not necessary to sustain the jurisdiction. Butchers & Drovers Stock Yards Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co. (C. C. A.), 67
Fed. Rep. 35, 40; Moflet v. Quine, 95 Fed. Rep. 201.
The legislatures 'of many States have appreciated the unlawful and fraudulent character of the ticket scalpers' business,
and statutes have been enacted making their dealing in these
tickets a violation of the criminal law in the following States,
viz: Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota,
Georgia, Maine, Texas, North Carolina, Tennessee, North

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Resnondent

207 U. S.'

Dakota, Oregon, Montana, Florida and New York. Such laws
have been held constitutional by the courts of last resort, on
the broad question of the right of the scalpers to buy and sell
these tickets without the authority of the. railroad compapy
issuing them, in all those States in which the question has beeri
raised, with the exception of New York. Fry Ov. State, 63
Indiana, 55.2; Burdick v. People, 149 Illinois, 600; State v. Corbett, 57 Minnesota, 345; Jannen v. State, 42 Texas Cr. Rep.
631; Commonwealth v. Keary, 198 Pa. St. 500; State v. Bernheim, 19 Montana, 512; Ex parte O'Neil, 83 Pac. Rep. 104;
Samuelson v. State, 95 S.W. Rep. 1012; State v. Thompson, 84
Pac. Rep. 476.
The contract evidenced by the non-transferable tickets described in complainant's bill is a legal contract between the
railroad company and the original purchaser of such tickets,
and it binds. the parties thereto and limits the benefits of the
contract to the use of the original purchaser only. No one
other than such purchaser can become the -beneficiary of the
contract, and under its terms the railroad company is under no
obligation to carry as a passenger any person presenting such
ticket unless such person is in fact the original purchaser.
Mosher v. Railroad Co., 127 U. S.390; Boylan v. Hot Springs
Co., 123 U. S.146; Drummond v. Sou. Pac. Co., 7 Utah, 118;
S. C., 25 Pac. Rep. 733. The right of a railroad company to
issue such tickets is not confined to occasional events, but
may be issued at any time, or continually during a season.
The right is recognized in unlimited terms in § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 3 U. S. Comp. Stat. 3170.
. It follows, therefore, that the sale of 'such a ticket by the
original purchaser is a.violation of a legal contract, arid the use
of one of these tickets by a person other than the original purchaser is a fraud upon the carrier.
Such a ticket is not property in the hands of the purchaser
in the sense that it can be transferred or sold by him; and trafficking in such tickets is not, and cannot be made, a legitimate
business. See also State v. Corbett, 57 Minnesota, 345; Jannin

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 219
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. State, 53 L. R. A. 349; Burdick v. People, 149 Illinois, 600;
Drummond v. Sou. Pac.Co., 25 Pac. Rep. 733; Cody v. Sou: Pac.
R. Co., 4 Sawyer, 114; Samuelson v. State, 95 S. W. Rep. 1012.
Equity has jurisdiction to enjoin the defendant ticket scalpers from present or future inteference in contracts between
complainant and the purchasers of its tickets. Exchange Telegraph Co. v. Central News Co., 2 Ch. 48; Ex. Tel. Co. v. Howard
Agency, L. T. Vol. 120, March 31, 1906; Am. Law Book Co. v.
Ed. Thompson Co., 84 N. Y. Supp. 225; Fleckenstein Bros.. Co. v.
Fleckenstein (N. J. Ch.), 57 Atl. Rep. 1025; Sperry & Hutchinson Co. v. Mechanics' Clothing Co., 128 Fed. Rep. 800-1015;
Sperry & Hutchinson Co. v. Brady, 134 Fed. Rep. 691; Sperry
& Hutchinson Co. v. Temple, 137 Fed. Rep. 992; Natl. Tel. Co.
v. Western Union Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 294; Garst v. Charles, 187
Massachusetts, 144; Board of Trade v. Christie Co., 198 U. S.
236; Board of Trade v. Cella Co., 145 Fed. Rep. 28; Board of
Trade v..McDearmott, 143 Fed. Rep. 188; Knudson v. Benn,.
123 Fed. Rep. 636; Martin.'v. McFall, 65 N. J. Equity, .91;
Wells & RichardsonCo. v. Abraham, 146 Fed. Rep. 190.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,'
delivered the opinion of the court.
The points urged at bar on behalf of the petitioners as establishing that the decrees below should be reversed and the
bill of complaint dismissed, and in any event the injunction
be modified and restricted, are the following:
"1. The bill of complaint does not state a cause of action,
either at law or in equity, against any of the defendants, even
though the tickets in which they dealt are in form non-trans!
ferable, when the original purchasers cisposed of them in
breach of their contract with the complainant."
"2. The complainant has shown no sufficient ground for
equitable intervention, since, assuming, but not admitting,
that. the acts charged against the defendants are wrongful,
tortious or even fraudulent, it has a plain, adequate and omplete remedy at law to redress such wrpngs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

"3. There was an improper. joinder of defendants and of
independent causes of action. The bill is multifarious and
the case does not fall within the rule concerning the avoidance of a multiplicity of suits."
"4. The Circuit Court was without jurisdiction, notwithstanding the colorable averments contained in the bill that
the injury sustained in consequence of the defendants' act
exceeded two thousand dollars, there being no foundation in
fact in support of such averment."
"5. The decree of injunction awarded by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, so far as it relates to non-transferable tickets, that
may be hereafter issued, is in effect the exercise of legislative
as distinct from judicial power, since it undertakes to promulgate a rule applicable to'conditions and' circumstances
which have not. yet arisen, and to prohibit the petitioners
from dealing in tickets not in esse, and not even in contemplation, and -is, therefore, violative of the most fundamental
principle of our Government."
Stated in logical sequence and reduced to their essence,
these propositions assert:
First, want of jurisdiction from the insufficiency' of the
amount involved, want of power in a court .of equity to grant
relief because on the face of the' bill relief at law was adequate,
and because equitable relief was improper on accoUnt of misjoinder of parties and causes of action.
Second, because the case as made did:not entitle to relief,
since it did not show the commission of any legal wrong by
the defendants.
Third, because conceding the right to relief the remedy by
injunction which the court accorded was so broad as in effect
to amount to the exertion of legislative as distinct from judicial
power, and hence was equivalent to the denial of -due process
of law.
As, for reasons hereafter to be stated, we think the contentions embodied in the first proposition as to want of jurisdiction, etc., are without merit, we come at once to the funda-

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 221
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mental question involved in the second proposition, that is,
the absence of averment or proof as to the commission of a
legal wrong by the defendant.
That the complainant had the lawful right to sell nontransferable tickets of the character alleged in the bill at reduced rates we think is not open to controversy, and that the
condition of non-transferability and forfeiture embodied in
such tickets was not .only binding upon the original purchaser
but upon any one who acquired such a ticket and attempted
to use the same in violation of its terms is also settled. Mosher
v. Railroad Co., 127 U. S. 390. See, also, Boylan v. Hot Springs,
Co., 132 U. S. 146.
True these cases were decided before the passage of the act
to regulate commerce, but the power of carriers engaged in
interstate commerce to issue non-transferable reduced rate
excursion tickets was expressly recognized by that act, and
the operation and binding effect of the non-transferable clause
in such tickets upon all third persons acquiring the same and
attempting to use them, and the duty of the' carrier in such
case to use due diligence to enforce a forfeiture results from
the context of the act. Thus by § 22 (24 Stat. 387; 25
Stat. 862) it was provided "that nothing in this act shall prevent . . . the issuance. of mifeage, excursion, or commutation tickets." And it is to be observed that despite the frequent
changes in the act including the comprehensive amendmentsembodied in the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, the provision in question remains in force, although the Interstate
Commerce Commission, charged with the administrative enforcement of the act, has directed the attention of Congress
to .the importance of defining the scope of such tickets in view
of the abuses which might arise from the exercise of the right
to issue them. 2 Int. Com. Comm. Rep. 529, 539. And when
the restrictions embodied in the act concerning equality of
rates and the prohibitions against preferences are borne in
mind the conclusion cannot be escaped that the right to issue
tickets of the class referred to carried with it the duty on the

.OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

carrier of exercising due diligence to prevent the use of such
tickets by other than the original purchasers, and therefore
caused the non-transferable clause to be operative and effective against anyone who wrongfully might attempt to use
such tickets. Any other view would cause the act to destroy
itself, since it would necessarily imply that the recognition of
the power to issue reduced rate excursion tickets conveyed
with it the right to disregard the prohibitions against preferences which it was one of the great purposes of the act to
render efficacious. This must follow, since, if the return portion of the round trip ticket be used by one not entitled to
the ticket, and who otherwise would have had to pay the full
one way fare, the person so successfully traveling on the ticket
would not only defraud the carrier but effectually enjoy a
preference over similar one way travelers who had paid their
full fare and who were unwilling to be participants in a fraud
upon the railroad company.
Any third person acquiring a non-transferable reduced rate
railroad ticket from the original purchaser, being therefore
bound by the clause forbidding transfer, and the ticket in the
lhands of all such persons being subject to forfeiture on an
attempt being made to use the same for passage, it may well
be questioned whether the purchaser of such ticket acquired
anything more than a limited and qualified ownership thereof,
and whether the carrier did not, for the purpose of enforcing
the forfeiture, retain a subordinate interest in the ticket
amounting to a right of property therein which a court of
equity would protect. Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &
Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, and authorities there cited. See also,
Sperry & Hutchinson Co. v. Mechanics' Clothing Co., 128 Fed.
Rep. 800. We pass this question, however, because the want
of merit in the contention that the case as made did not disclose the commission of a legal wrong conclusively results
from a previous decision of this. court. The. case is Angle v.
Chicago, St. Paul &c. Ry. Co., 151 U. S. 1, where it was held
that an actionable wrong is committed by one who "maliciously

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 223
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court;

interferes in a contract between two parties and induces one
of them to break that contract to the injury of the other."
That this principle embraces a case like the present, that is,
the carrying on of the business of purchasing and selling nontransferable reduced rate railroad tickets for profit to the injury
of theailroad company issuing such tickets is, we think, clear.
It is not necessary that the ingredient of actual -malice in the
sense of personal ill will should exist to bring this controversy
within the doctrine of the Angle case. The wanton disregard of
the rights of a carrier causing injury to it, which the business
of purchasing and selling non-transferable reduced rate tickets
of necessity involved, constitute legal malice within the doctrine
of the Angle case. We deem it unnecessary to restate the
grounds upon which the ruling in the Angle case was rested
or to trace the evolution of the principle in that case announced, because of the, consideration given to the subject
in the Angle case and the full reference to the authorities which
was made in the opinion in that case.
Certain i it that the doctrine of the Angle case has been
frequently applied in cases which involved the identical question here at issue-that is, whether a legal wrong was committed by the dealing in non-transferable reduced rate railroad excursion tickets. Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Beekman, 30 Wash. (D. C.) Law Rep. 715; Ill. Central R. R. Co.
v. Caffrey, 128 Fed. Rep. 770; Delaware, Lack. & West. R. R.
Co. v. Frank, 110 Fed. Rep. 689; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v. McConnell, 82 Fed. Rep.-65.
Indeed, it is shown by decisions of various state courts of
last resort that the wrong occasioned by the dealing in nontransferable reduced rate railroad tickets has been deemed to
be so serious as to call for express legislative prohibition correcting the evil. Kinner v. Lake Shore & Mich. Southern Ry.
Co., 69.Ohio 5t. 339; Schubach v. McDonald, 179 Missouri, 163,
and cases cited; Samuelson v. State, 95 S. W. Rep. 1012. In
the case last referred to, where the subjebt is elaborately reviewed, the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in holding that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

prohibitive statute was not unconstitutional as forbidding a
lawful business and in affirming a criminal conviction for violating the statute observed (p. 1016):
"That the sale as well as the purchase of non-transferable
passage tickets is a fraud upon the carrier and the public, the
tendency of which is the demoralization of rates, has been
settled by the general consensus of opinion amongst the courts."
Concluding, as we do, that the commission of a legal wrong
by the defendants was disclosed by the case as made, we are
brought to consider the several contentions concerning the
jurisdiction of the court and its right .to afford relief. The bill
contained an express averment that the amount involved in
the controversy exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs, the
sum of five thousand dollars as to each defendant. The defendants not having formally pleaded to the jurisdiption, it
was not incumbent upon the complainant to offer proof in
support of the averment. Nevertheless the complainant introduced testimony tending to show that on the New Orleans
division of its road a loss of from fifteen to eighteen thousand'
dollars a year was sustained through the practice by dealers of
wrongfully purchasing and selling non-transferable tickets.
That hundreds of the tickets annually issued for the Mardi
Gras festivals in New Orleans were wrongfully bought and
sold; that other non-transferable reduced rate tickets were in
a like manner illegally trafficked in to the great damage of the
corporation, and that the defendants were the persons principally engaged in conducting such wrongful dealings. But even
if this proof be put out of view we think the contention that a
consideration of the whole bill establishes that the jurisdictional
amount alleged was merely colorable and fictitious, is without
merit. We say this because the averments of the bill as to the
number of such tickets issued, the recurring occasions for their
issue, the magnitude of the -wrongful dealings in the nontransferable tickets by the defendants, the cost and the risk
incurred by the steps necessary to prevent their wrongful use,
the injurious effect upon the revenue of the complainant, the

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 225
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

operafion of the illegal dealing in such tickets upon the right
of the complainant to issue them in the future, coupled with
the admissions of the answer, sustain the express averment as
to the requisite jurisdictional amount. Besides the substantial
character of the jurisdictional averment in the bill is to be
tested, not by the mere immediate pecuniary damage resulting
from the acts complained of, but by 'the value of the business
to be protected and the rights of property which the complainant sought to have recognized and enforced. Hunt v.
N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 336.
The contention that, though- it be admitted, for the sake
of the argument, that the acts charged against the defendant
"were wrongful, tortious, or even fraudulent," there was no
right to resort to equity because there was a complete and
adequate remedy at law to redress the threatened wrongs
when committed is, we think, also devoid of merit. From the
nature and character of the non-transferable tickets, the number of people to whom they were issued, the dealings of the
defendants therein and their avowed purpose to continue such
dealings in the future, the risk to result from mistakes in enforcing the forfeiture provision. and the multiplicity of suits
necessarily to be engendered if redress was sought at law, all
establish the inadequacy of a legal remedy and the necessity
for the intervention' of equity. Indeed the want of foundation
for the contention to the contrary is shown by the opinions in
the cases which we have previously cited in considering whether
a legal wrong resulted from acts of the character complained of,
since in those cases it was expressly held that the consequences
of the legal wroig flowing from the dealing in non-transferable
tickets were of such a character as to entitle an injured complainant to redress in a court of equity.
There is an opinion of the Supreme Court of New York (not
the court of last resort) which would seem to express contrary
views, New York Central & H. R. R. R. Co. v. Reeves, 85 N. Y.
Supp. 28, but the reasoning there relied on, in our opinion, is
inconclusive.
VOL. CCVII-15

OCTOBER- TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

The proposition that the bill was multifarious because of the
misjoinder of parties and causes of action was not assigned
as error in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and, therefore, might
well be held not to be open. But passing that view, we hold
the objection to be untenable. The acts complained of as. to
each defendant were of a like character, their operation and
effect upon the rights of the complainant were identical, the
relief sought against, each defendant was the same, and the
defenses which might be interposed were common to each
defendant and involved like legal questions. Under these
conditions the case is brought within the principle laid down
in Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, 77.
As we have stated, the Circuit Court granted a.preliminary
injunction restraining the defendants from illegally dealing
in tickets issued on account of the United Confederate Veterans'
Reunion, and before final hearing granted a second injunction
restraining such dealing in like tickets issued for the approaching Mardi Gras festival. By the final decree these injunctions
were perpetuated, the court declining to grant the relief sought.
-by the complainant in relation to non-transferable tickets to
be issued for the future, without prejudice, however, to the
right of the complainant -to seek relief by independent proceedings on each occasion when it might issue such non-transferable
tickets. The Circuit Court of Appeals decided that error had
been committed in refusing to' grant an injunction against
dealing in non-transferable tickets to'be issued in the future;
and directed that the decree below be enlarged in that particular. It is insisted that the Circuit Court of Appeals,,erred in
awarding an injunction as to dealings "in non-transfer'able
ticket s that may b6 hereafter issued . .
since it thereby
undertook to promulgate" a rule applicable to conditions and
circumstances which have not yet arisen, and to prohibit
"the petitioners from dealing in tickets not in esse .
and is, therefore, violative ofthe most fundamental principles
of our government." But when the broad nature of this
proposition is considered it but denies that there is power in

BITTERMAN v. LOUISIILLE & NASHVILLE R.' R. 227
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.a court of equity in any case to afford effective relief by injunction. Certain is it that every injunction in the nature of
things contemplates the enforcement as against the party
enjoined of a rule of conduct for the future as to the wrong to
which the injunction relates. Take the case of trespasses upon
land where the elements entitling to equitable relief exist.
See Slater v. Gunn, 170 Massachusetts, 509, and cases cited'.
It may not be doubted that the authority of a court would
extend, not only to restraining a particular imminent trespass,
but also to prohibiting like acts for all future time, The power
exerted by the court below' which is complained of was in
no wise different. The bill averred the custom of the complainant at frequently occurring periods to issue reduced rate
non-transferable tickets for fairs, conventions, etc., charged a
course of illegal dealing in such non-transferable tickets by the
defendants, and sought to protect its right to issue such tickets
by preventing unlawful dealings in them. The defendants in
effect not only admitted the unlawful course of dealing as to
particular tickets then outstanding, but expressly avowed
that they possessed the right,' and that it was their intention
to carry on the business as to all future issues of a similar
character of tickets. The action of the Ciycuit Court of Appeals, therefore, in causing the injunction to apply not only
to the illegal dealings as to the then outstanding tickets, but
to like dealings as to similar tickets which might be issued in
the future, was but the exertiorn by the court of its power to
restrain the continued commission against the rights of the
complainant in the future of a definite' character of acts adjudged to be wrongful. Indeed, in view of the state of the
record, the inadequacy of the relief afforded by the decree as
entered in the Circuit Court is, we think, manifest on its face.
The necessary predicate of the deoree was the illegal nature
of the dealings by the defendants in the outstanding tickets,
and the fact -that such dealings if allowed would seriously impair the right of the complainant in the future to issue the
tickets. Doubtless, for this reason the decree was made with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

out prejudice to the right of the complainant to apply for relief
as to future issues of tickets by independent proceedings whenever on other occasions it was determined to issue non-transferable tickets. But this was to deny adequate relief, since it
subjected the complainant to the necessity, as a preliminary
to the exercise of the right to issue tickets, to'begin a new suit
with the object of restraining the defendants from the commission in the future of acts identical with those which the
court had already adjudged to be :wrongful and violative of
the rights of the complainant.
In Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, on holding a particular
seizure of liquor under the South Carolina dispensary law to
be invalid, an injunction was sustained, not only addressed
to the seizure in controversy, but which also operated to restrain like seizures of liquors in the future, and the exertion
of the same character of power .by a court of equity was upheld
in the cases of Donovan V. Pennsylvania Company, 199 U. S.
279, and Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
Nor. is there nerit in the contention that the decision in
New Haven Railroad v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200
U.. S. 361, 404, supports the view here relied upon as to the
limited authority of a court of equity to enjoin the continued
commission of the same character of acts as those adjudged
to be wrongful. On the contrary, the ruling in that case
directly refutes the claim based on it. There certain acts
of the carrier were held to have violated the act to regulate
commerce. The contention, of the Government was that
because wrongful acts of a particular character had been committed, therefore an injunction should be awarded against
any and all. violations in the future of the act to regulate commerce. Whilst this broad request was denied, it was carefully
pointed out that the power existed to enjoin the future
commission of like acts to those found to be illegal, and the
injunction was so awarded. The whole argument.here made
results from a failure to distinguish between an injunction
generally restraining the commission of illegal acts in the

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

future and one which simply restrains for the future the commission of acts identical in character with those which have
been the subject of controversy and which have been adjudged to be illegal.
Affirmed.

UNITED5 STATES v. R. P, ANDREWS & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THEi COURT OF CLAIMS.
14o. 44. Argued November 8, 11, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.
Whether the Philippine Islands are a distinct governmental entity for whose
contracts the United States is bound, not decided; but held in this case that
the purchase having been made by the Secretary of War through the Division of Insular Affairs, the contract was on.behalf of the United States,
notwithstanding the statement that the price was to be paid from Philippine funds.
Delivery of goods by a consignor to a common carrier for account of a consignee amouits to a delivery and where a purchaser directs delivery of the
goods for his account to a designated carrier the latter becomes his agent.
Delivery by the consignor, and acceptance by the consignee or his agent,
of bills of lading issued by a common carrier for goods, constitutes a delivery.
While the presumption of delivery of goads to the consignee by delivery to
a common carrier designated by him may be overcome by express contract that the goods are to remain at consignor's risk until arrival at ultimate destination, the mere statement in a government proposal that
goods are to be "F. 0. B. port of destination," without designating the
carrier, is not sufficient to rebut that presumption where it appears that
subsequently the government directed'-the goods to be delivered " F. 0. B.
port of shipment " to a designated common carrier.
The invalidity of a contract with the United States because not reduced to
.writing and signed by the parties with their names at the end thereof as
required by § 3744, Rev. Stat., is immaterial after the contract has been
performed. .St. Louis Hay Co. v. United States, 191 U; S.- 159.

41 C. Cl. 48, affirmed.
THE

facts are staied in the opinion.

