UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

future and one which simply restrains for the future the commission of acts identical in character with those which have
been the subject of controversy and which have been adjudged to be illegal.
Affirmed.

UNITED5 STATES v. R. P, ANDREWS & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THEi COURT OF CLAIMS.
14o. 44. Argued November 8, 11, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.
Whether the Philippine Islands are a distinct governmental entity for whose
contracts the United States is bound, not decided; but held in this case that
the purchase having been made by the Secretary of War through the Division of Insular Affairs, the contract was on.behalf of the United States,
notwithstanding the statement that the price was to be paid from Philippine funds.
Delivery of goods by a consignor to a common carrier for account of a consignee amouits to a delivery and where a purchaser directs delivery of the
goods for his account to a designated carrier the latter becomes his agent.
Delivery by the consignor, and acceptance by the consignee or his agent,
of bills of lading issued by a common carrier for goods, constitutes a delivery.
While the presumption of delivery of goads to the consignee by delivery to
a common carrier designated by him may be overcome by express contract that the goods are to remain at consignor's risk until arrival at ultimate destination, the mere statement in a government proposal that
goods are to be "F. 0. B. port of destination," without designating the
carrier, is not sufficient to rebut that presumption where it appears that
subsequently the government directed'-the goods to be delivered " F. 0. B.
port of shipment " to a designated common carrier.
The invalidity of a contract with the United States because not reduced to
.writing and signed by the parties with their names at the end thereof as
required by § 3744, Rev. Stat., is immaterial after the contract has been
performed. .St. Louis Hay Co. v. United States, 191 U; S.- 159.

41 C. Cl. 48, affirmed.
THE

facts are staied in the opinion.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

207 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel, with whom Mr.
Charles F. Kincheloe was on the brief, for appellant:
The Philippine Islands were, at the time of the making of
this contract, a distinct political territorial entity, having practically as complete a civil territorial government as had any of
the organized continental Territories of the United States.
The United States was therefore no more liable on this contract
of the Philippine Government than it would be upon a similar
contract made by the government of the Territory of New Mexico or of Arizona.
The National Government is not liable on a contract or other
obligation of one of its territorial governments, o? of a political
subdivision of such territorial government, even though the
obligation be authorized by Congress. National Bank v. Yankton County, 101 U. S. 129; Barnes V. District of Columbia, 91
U. S. 540; Mills v. Commissioners of Hendricks Co., 50 Ind.
436.
While according to commercial usage, delivery by a vendor
to the cairier is,. in the absence of special agreement to the contrary, delivery to the vendee, yet no one will question the right
and power of the parto'to vary this rule by contract provisions
requiring delivery to be made by the vendor at the point of
final.-destination. Dunlop v. Lambert, 6 C. & F. 620-622;
Pacific Iron Works v L. 1. R. R. Co., 62 N. Y. 272. No matter
how the contract in the case at bar may be construed, it called
for delivery f. o. b. Manila.
As the contract called for delivery at Manila, the contractor
has no right of recovery, as, it is well settled that in contracts
for the sale and delivery of property the risk of damage or:loss
of .the property follows the title. Grant v. United States, 7
Wall. 331; Oil Company v. Van Etten, 107 U. S. 325,-333;
McConihe v. R. R. Co., 20 N. Y. 497. The title does not pass
until delivery is made according to contract. Grant v. United
States, 7 Wall. 331; Pacific Iron Works v. L. I. .R. Co.,62
N. Y. 272; Magruder v. Gage, 33 Maryland, 348.; Blackwood v.
Cutting, 76 California, 212. The risk'is therefore in him 'who

UNITED STATES- 0. ANDREWS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

undertakes to deliver. Am. & Eng. Ency. (2d ed.), Vol. 24, p.
1050; Benjamin on Sales, §§330, 693; Grant v. United States, 7
Wall. 331; Buckingham v. Dake, 112 Fed. Rep. 258; Pacific Iron
Works v. L. I. R. R. Co., 62 N. Y. 272; Taylor v. Cole, 111
Massachusetts, 363; McConihe v. N. Y. & E. R. R. Co., 20
N. Y. 496; Dunlop v. Lambert, 6 C. & F. 620-622; Castle v.
Play!ord, 5 Ex. L. R. 165.
If the United States Government be held a principal party
to the transaction, the contract was in violation of. law, and
void, on account of its not having been reduced to writing and.
signed by the parties in accordance with § 3744 Revised Statutes, and there can therefore be no recovery on the contract.
Clark v. United States, 95 U. 8. 539; South Boston Iron Co. v.
United States-118 U.S. 37.
And while there would have been a right of recovery upon a
quantum valebant if the paper had been delivered to and accepted. and used by the government, yet there was never any
legal delivery, or any acceptance or use whatever of the paper
by the government, at Manila or elsewhere, and there is therefore no grourid for recovery even upon a quantum valebant.
Clark v. United States and South Boston Iron Co. v. United
States, supra; Monroe v. United States, 184 U. S.524; St. Louis
Hay and Grain Co. v. United States, 191 U. S. 159.
Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Junior,for appellee, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE'delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States appeals from a judgment against it (41
C. Cl. 48), for the contract price of paper purchased for use in
the public printing office in the Philippine Islands. We summarize from the findings the status of the Philippine Islands
at the time of the contract, stating besides the facts concerning.
the organization in the War Department of what is now known
as the Bureau of Insular Affairs.
. After the occupation of Manila, up to September 1, 1900, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

military government prevailed. From September 1, 1900, to
July, 1901, authority of a legislative nature was vested in the
Philippine Commission, under and subject to rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of War. From July 4,
1901, the executive authority as to civil affairs was transferred
to the president of the Philippine Commission under the title
of Civil Governor, his authority being exercised under instructions from the President, subject to the direction and control
of the Secretary of War. The Secretary of War organized the
Division of Insular Affairs, which was 'given general charge
of departmental business concerning the-,Philippine Islands.
The organization of the division was confirmed and ratified
by Congress on.July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 712), and after that act
the division became known as the Bureau of Insular Affairs of
the War Department. The facts concerning the contract in
controversy are these:
In May, 1901, the president of the Philippine Commission
telegraphed the Secretary of War, stating the necessity for a
government printing office at Manila, asking concerning the
qualifications of a particular individual suggested for superintendent, and recommending the immediate purchase and shipment of an outfit for the proposed printilig office. The findings
expressly state or by clear implication establish the following:
In response to said cablegram, the Secretary of War directed
-the Insular Bureau of the War. Department to purchase and
forward to Marrla the necessary machinery, equipment, and
supplies for the establishment, and operation of such printing
office, and also to secure the services of a competent force of
operators therefor; which duty was performed by said division.
On and prior to August .17, 1901, claimant, was furnishing and
supplying defendants divers papers and stationery, under contract, for use in varioUs of its departments; and, thereupon,
the chief of the Division of InsularAffairs solicited claimant to
furnish and supply, .for use in. said Philippine Public Printing
Office, being established at Manila, Philippine Islands, certain
papers of described kinds, as follows:

UNITED STATES v: ANDREWS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"(Circular D.)
"War Department, Office of the Secretary,
"Division of Insular Affairs,
"Washington, D. C., August'17, 1901."R. P. Andrews & Co.,
"627 Louisiana avenue, Washington, D. C.
"Gentlemen: Under instructions from the Chief of Division
of Insular Affairs I write you as follows:
"Will you furnish for the use of the Philippine Public Printing Office, Manila, P. I., articles called for in the inclosures
1 and 2 F. 0. B., Manila, at the price at which the same is
now furnished to the Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C., plus freight from New York; payment to be made from
Philippine funds on invoice verification at Manila, P. I.
"Inspection at Insular Division, where samples are to be
sent.
"When can supplies be shipped from port of departure?
"Bills for supplies to be submitted, in duplicate, to the Chief
of Division of Insular Affairs, for verification of prices at Government Printing Office rates.
"Copies of bills of lading from New York to be submitted,
in duplicate, to Chief of Division of Insular Affairs for verification.
"Very respectfully,"
III.
In reply claimant, on August 28, 1901, submitted a proposal
as follows:
"Washington, D. C., August 28, 1901,
"Chief of Division of Insular Affairs,
"War Department, City.
"Dear Sir: Replying to your favor of the 17th instant,
Circular D, we beg to advise you that we will furnish the different lots of paper called for in inclosures 1 and 2, which accompanied said. circular, at the prices for which the same is now
being furnished to the Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., plus freight rate from New York to Manila, P. I.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

All other lots mentioned we will, as stated
except lots.
above, furnish at the same prices that the same class of goods
are being furnished to the Government Printing Office, plus, as
stated above, the freight from New York to Manila, P. I. Payment to be made from Philippine funds on invoice verification
at Manila, P. I. Inspection at Insular Division, where samples
are to be sent. Bills for supplies to be submitted in duplicate
to the Chief of Division of Insular Affairs for verification of
prices at Government Printing Office rates. Copies of bills of
lading from .New York to be submitted in duplicate to Chief
of Division of Insular Affairs for verification.
'fWe can have the goods ready for shipment October ist to
November 15th."

IV.
On the same date (August 28, 1901), said Chief of the Division of Insular Affairs wrote claimant as follows:
"(Circular E.)
"War Department, Office of the Secretary,
"Division of Insular Affairs,
"Washington, D. C., August 28, 1901.
"R. P. Andrews & Co.,
'1627 Louisiana avenue, Washington, D. C.
"Gentlemen: Please deliver F. 0. B. Manila,'P. I. (via Suez
Canal), the following:
"Articles called for in inclosures 1 and 2.
"To be shipped between October 20 and November 1, 1901.
"Quality of goods furnished will be considered in'making
future orders.
"Please acknowledge the receipt of this circular by return
mail..
"To be properly packed for export shipment.
"Ship care Barber & Co., steamship agents, Pier B, Pennsylvania docks, Jersey City, N. J. (See note inclosed.)
"Marked as follows:
, Governor W. H. Taft, Manila, P. I.
"No.
lbs.
; weight,
"Contents,

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
207 U. S.

Opnion of the Court.

"For Philippine public printing plant.
"As per your agreement in your letter dated August 28,
1901, now on file in this office.
"Very respectfully."
The inclosures marked 1 and 2, referred to in this letter, were
statements tabulating the quantity and quality of paper to be
furnished. The note referred to and inclosed in the letter was
the following:
"Note.-(Care Barber & Company, steamship agents, Pier
B, Pennsylvania docks, Jersey City, N. J.)
"A special arrangement has been made so that after F. 0. B.
delivery, as-above, at Jersey City, the freight rate for the transportation of these supplies and the equipment of the Manila
Printing Office will not be higher than $11.05 per ton (dead
weight) and possibly less. Rate for measurement freight to be
made on a correspondingly low basis, in accordance with the
space occupied. Therefore the Philippine government will,
upon invoice verification at Manila, reimburse you for the cost
of this ocean shipment."
Before the paper was shipped the Division of Insular Affairs
gave further instructions as follows:
"Note.-(Care Barber & Company, East Central Pier, Brooklyn, N. Y.)
"A special arrangement has been made so that after F. 0. B.
delivery, as above, at Brooklyn, the freight rate for the transportation of these supplies and equipment of the Manila Printing Office will not be higher than $11.05 per ton (dead weight)
and possibly less. Rate for measurement freight to be made
on a correspondingly low basis, in accordance with the space
occupied. Therefore the Philippine government will, upon
invoice verification at Manila, reimburse you for the cost of
this ocean shipment."
The findings relating to the value of the paper, its forwarding
to and arrival of a part at Manila, and the subsequent controversy between Andrews & Co. and the Government concerning
the same, show the following to be the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

In compliance with the directions Andrews & Co. packed the
paper for export shipment, directing it to Governor W. H. Taft,
Manila, Philippine Islands, in care of Barber & Co., East Central Pier, Brooklyn, N. Y., and prepaid the freight. The quoted
value of the paper was $3,087.75. The freight charges from
New York to Manila were $196.35, which, together with one
dollar for clearance papers, prepaid by Andrews & Co., brought
the total purchase or invoice price to $3,285.10. When the
paper was delivered to Barber & Co., Andrews &Co. took triplicate bills of lading, consigning the paper to Governor W. H.
Taft or his assigns, Manila, Philippine Islands, and delivered
the duplicate bills of lading to the Chief of Division of Insular
Affairs, in accordance with the instructions given. Barber &
,Co. forwarded the paper by the steamship Indrasamaha.
When the vessel arrived at Singapore it was found that a portion of her cargo, including the consignment of paper, was badly
damaged by water. Some of the paper was condemned by a
board of survey convened by the agents of the ship, and was
sold in Singapore. The remainder was repacked and forwarded
to Manila. When it arrived it was so damaged as to render it
unfit for 'use. The consignee (Governor Taft) refused to accept
it, and a committee, which was appointed by him as Civil
Governor, recommended that the paper be stored in a warehouse of the Philippine government until instructions were
received from Andrews & Co., who had no agent in the islands.
Thereupon the Public Printer of the Philippine Islands wrote
Andrews & Co., informing them of the facts just stated, and
asking instructions a to what they wished done, and on May 31,
1902, the Division of Insular Affairs also wrote Andrews &
Co. on the same subject as follows:
"War Departmei;t, Office of the Secretary,
"Division of Insular Affairs,
"Washington, D. C., May 31, 1902.
"Gentlemen: I have the honor to inform you that a letter
dated April 14th, 1902, has been received from Mr. John S.
Leech, public printer, Manila, P. I., advising this division of the

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

accident which occurred to the S.S. "Indrasamaha," which resulted in damaging 500 reams linen paper, valued at $3,285.10,
as per your bill of October 24th, 1901.
"Mr. Leech requested that you be informed that the paper
is damaged so badly that it will be impossible to use any of it;
that an insurance inspector and a Government inspection committee were then surveying and inspecting the damaged goods,
and that this action was taken for the protection of the contractors, who had taken the precaution to insure their goods
against losses.
"Very. respectfully."
Andrews & Co. thus replied to this letter:
"Washington, D. C., June 7, 1902.
"Lieut. Col. Edwards,
"Chief Division of Insular Affairs,
"War Department, Washington, D. C.,
"Dear Sir:'We are in receipt of your favor May 31st, No.
5423-1, quoting letter received from Mr. John S. Leech, public
printer, Manila, P. I., with regard to map paper, therein stated
to have been damaged in transportation on steamship 'Indrasamaha.'
"This paper was shipped as per your order, bills of lading
being obtained as directed, and your instructions carried out
implicitly. Your goods were turned over -upondirection of your
office to Messrs. Barber & Company, your agents in that behalf
at Jersey City, N. J., in good order and condition, whereupon
our responsibility ceased.
"We have the honor, therefore, to request that our bill as
rendered be approved for payment.
"Kindly advise us also whether you desire us to make a
duplicate of said shipment.
"Requesting the favor of an early reply, we are, very respectfully yours."
The shipment of paper was not insured either by the Government or by Andrews & Co. The proceeds of the sale at Singapore never reached either the Government or Andrews &-Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

and the paper. stored at Manila remained there until' May,
1903, when it was sord, producing a sum insufficient to pay 'the
storage charges, and the'proceeds were turned into the treasury
of the government of the Philippine Islands in partial payment
of the charges.
All the propositions which the Government has elaborately
pressed at bar are reducible to two.
First. That. the paper was purchased by the Government of
the Philippine Islands, and therefore in any event there was
error in holding the United States liable.
. Second. That even if the United States was the purchaser,
it was erroneously held liable, because the paper was never
delivered, and therefore was at the risk of the owner, Andrews
& Co., and the loss and damage fell upon them.
We proceed to consider these propositions:
1. We. need not consider the contention that the Philippine Islands were a distinct governmental entity.for whose
contracts the United States was not bound, because tht subject is irrelevant, since it begs the real question-that is,
whether the purchase was made by the United States. Testing
whether the paper was bought by the United States by the contract and course of dealing as disclosed by the findings, we think
there is no escape from the conclusion that the United States
was the party contracting for the purchase. It cannot be
doubted that the findings make clear the fact that the Secretary
of War, through his agent, the Division of Insular Affairs, was
the actor on one side and Andrews & Co. on the other. Nothing in the dealings as disclosed by the findings -would warrant
the conclusion that. the Division of Insular Affairs acted or
purported to act as the agent of the government of the Philippine Islands. The telegram to the Secretary of War, which
opened the subject, did not even suggest a contract to be made
in the name of the government of the Philippine Islands, but
simply submitted recommendations to the Secretary of War
for his action, accompanied with the request that if the recommendation was favorably considered he, the Secretary of War,

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

should make the purchase desired. In the second place, the
Division of Insular Affairs undertook the nbgotiation under an
order of the Secretary of War, directing that the paper requiredbe purchased, without an intimation that it was contemplated
that the Division of Insular Affairs in executing the authority
conferred should act as the agent of the government of" the
Philippine Islands, instead of as the representative of the Secretary of War, as a result of. the authority vested in him. The
first letter written on the part of the Division of Insular Affairs
to Andrews & Co., soliciting a proposal to furnish the paper,
we think manifests that the purpose of the division was to make
the purchase for the United States in accord with the direction
under which the division, was acting-that is, the authority of
the Secretary of War acting for the United States. True. it is
the letter made it clear that the paper which the United States
proposed to purchase was intended for use in the Philippine
Islan Is, and contained a statement that the price would be
"paid from Philippine funds." But the mere statement of the
purpose for which the paper was intended would not justify
the conclusion that the Division of Insular Affairs was acting
as the mere agent of. the government in the Philippine Islands,
instead of as the agent of-the Secretary-of War representing
the United States. -The statement of the fund from which the
payment was to bemade, instead of justifying the inference that
the contract was intended to be made in the name of the government of the Philippine Islands, through its agent, gives countenance to a .contrary inference. This follows because if the
government of the Philippine Islands was the contracting party
its funds would, as a -matter of course, be the source from which
the payment was to be .made. The reference, therefore, to the
fund from which the payment was to -be made but served to
indicate that the United States, in making the contract, contemplated that the purchase price would be discharged by it
fr6r1f the Philippine funds under its coritro. That Andrews &
Co., when they replied to the inquiry made to them as to price,
etc., understood that the contract'proposed was on behalf of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

the United States we think is deducible from their reply. Besides, the subsequent correspondence and dealings which we
shall hereafter consider in determining whether the paper was
delivered under the contract prior to the happening of the
damage, we think will serve to make clear the fact that both
parties deemed the contract was one made in the name of and
for account of the United States. Especially is this so when it
is borne in mind that the findings either directly or by necessary
implication establish that in October, 1901, soon after the goods
were shipped, a bill for the amount of the total purchase price,
including the freight to Manila, was rendered by Andrews &
Co. to the Division of Insular Affairs, and there is nothing in
the findings warranting even an implication that that division
made any objection upon the ground that the bill should have
been made out against the Philippine government as the purchaser and have been transmitted to that government for payment. Yet further, it is apparent from the letter written by
the division to Andrews & Co., after it was learned that the
paper had been damaged or lost, that the Division of Insular
Affairs was solicitous, not because a bill had been mistakenly
rendered, but as to whether the loss should fall upon the United
States or upon Andrews & Co.
2. That as a general rule the delivery of goods by a consignor to a common carrier for account of a consignee has effect
as delivery to such consignee is elementary. That where a
purchaser of goods directs their delivery for his account to a
designated carrier, the latter becomes the agent of the purchaser, and delivery to such carrier is a legal delivery to the
purchaser is also beyond question. Certain also is it that when
on the delivery of goods to a carrier bills of lading are issued
for the delivery of the goods to the conlsignee or his order, the
acceptance by the consignee of such bills of lading constitutes
a delivery. Of course the presunption of delivery arising from
the application of any or all of these elementary rules would
not control in a case where by contract it clearly appeared
that, despite the shipment, the goods should remain at the fisk

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the consignor until arrival at the point of ultimate destination. And such in.effect is the contention here made on behalf
of the Government. We come briefly then to consider the findings concerning the contract for the purpose of showing that
this contention is without merit.
In considering the matter it is to be conceded that the contract is not to be deduced alone from the letter of the Division
of Insular Affairs of May.31, 1901, and the reply of Andrews &
Co. of June 7, but is to be ascertained by a consideration of
those letters and the subsequent correspondence under which
the purchase was concluded and the shipment made.
The statement in the proposal of the Division of Insular
Affairs of August 17, 1901, by which the negotiation was commenced, "F. 0. B. Manila," might give rise, if standing alone,
to the implication that it was intended that the goods should be
delivered at the cost of the seller at Manila. But the further
statement in the letter, that the freight from New York to
Manila was to be a part of the purchase .price and to be paid
as suQh by the purchaser, rebuts the implication that the
words "F. 0. B. Manila" were understood as implying that the
amount of the freight charges for the shipment of the goods to
Manila should be at the cost of the seller. These words not
therefore having been used in their ordinary commercial sense,
their meaning must be sought in the context of the proposal in
which they are found. Considering that context, it would
seem most reasonable to conclude that the words implied that,
as the Government desired the freight to Manila to be included
in the purchase price, the freight therefore to Manila was to be
primarily defrayed by the seller. That this was the understanding of Andrews & Co. we think results from their reply, in which
no reference whatever was made to the F. 0. B. Manila clause,
but a willingness was expressed to furnish the paper at a price
to be fixed by the price paid by the Government in Washington for like paper, with the addition of the freight rate to the
Philippine Islands, thereby saving the seller from bearing the
burden of the freight to Manila, and at the same time securing
VOL. covii-l6"

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

Z07 U. S.

to the Government the delivery of the paper at Manila without
the payment there to' the carrier- of the cost of the freight as
such, since that item would become a part of and .be included
in the price. It is certain, when the subsequent correspondence
is considered, that this construction, which- the reply of Andrews & Co. put upon the words "F. 0. B. Manila," as used in
the proposal, was deemed by the Division of Insular Affairs to
be the correct one, since that reply was in the subsequent
correspondence treated by the division as being directly responsive to and an acceptance of the proposal submitted.
Moreover, we think the subsequent correspondence, when considered in other aspects, makes certain the conclusion that the
words "F. 0. B. Manila," as used in the pr6posal, meant precisely what we have stated the context of the proposal indicated
that those words were intended to imply. This we think results
from the provisions of the letter of August 28, selecting a particular firm t6 whom the goods were to be delivered for transport to Manila, and of all the other directions contained in the
letter, since they are inconsistent with the theory that the words
"F. 0. B. Manila" were used as meaning that the goods should
not be delivered as directed, but should remain the property
of Andrews & Co., and be under their control and subject to
their risk until delivered at Manila. Especially is it impossible
to attribute to the words "F. 0. B. Manila," used in the original
proposal and reiterated in the letter of August 28, any other
meaning than that which we have affixed to them, when the
note which was expressly referred to in the letter of August 28,
and which was inclosed therein, is considered. By the terms
of that note not -only were the previous specific directions as to
the mode of shipment confirmed, but it was expressly provided
that the delivery to the agent selected by the Division of Insular
Affairs should be "F. 0. B. Jersey City," thus making clear
the distinction between the sense in which the words "F. 0. B.
Manila" were used in the proposal and their meaning applied
to the final delivery at Jersey City in consummation of the contract by which the sum of the freight to Manila had been in-

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
207 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

eluded in the purchase price. So also the same implications
arise from the final instruction, shifting the place of delivery
from Jersey City and directing that the merchandise should be
delivered to the agent selected, "F. 0. B. Brooklyn." We
think the contention made in argument, that the letter of
August 28 and the acceptance by Andrews & Co. of the terms
of that letter, should be alone held to constitute the contract,
disregarding the note inclosed in the letter as a part thereof, -is
refuted by its mere statement. In any event, taking the most.
favorable view possible for the Government of the contract, we
think it cannot be said that the presumption which arises from
the delivery of the goods to the carrier designated by the Government and the acceptance by the Government of the bills
of lading made to the consignee or his order, isL rebutted by
the contract.
Lastly, it is urged that in any event the court below erred,
since the contract in question was not "reduced to writing
and signed by the contracting parties with their names at the
end thereof," as required by Rev. Stats., §.3744. But it is
settled that the invalidity of a contract because of a noncompliance with the section referred to is immaterial after
the contract has been performed. St. Louis Hay-&c. Co. v.
United States, 191 U. S. 159, 163. The contention that the contract in question had not been executed because there had
been no delivery, is disposed of by what we have already said.
As the views which we have expressed concerning the delivery dispose also of many subsidiary contentions based upon
isolated provisions of the contract, such as the right to verify
the contents of the package at Manila, etc., it follows that the
judgment below was right, and it is therefore
SAffired.

