OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

corporation originally created in one State afterwards becomes
compulsorily a corporation of another State for some purposes
in order to extend its powers. Southern Ry. Co. v. Alison,
190 U. S. 326; St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. Co. v. James, 161
U. S. 545. In the case at bar the incorporations must be taken
to have been substantially simultaneous and free. See Memphis & Charleston R. R. Co. v. Alabama, 107 U. S. 581. If any
distinction were to be made it hardly could be adverse to the
jurisdiction of Illinois, in view of the requirements of its constitution and statutes that a majority of the directors should
be residents of Illinois, and that the corporation should keep a
general office in that State. We are of opinion that the defendant must be regarded in this suit as a citizen of Illinois, and
therefore as having had no right to remove. It follows that
the cause should be remanded to the state court.
Judgmeant reversed., Suit to be remanded to the state court.

AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY v. 'WERCKMEISTER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 28.

Argued October 30, 1907.-Deocided December 2, 1007.

In construing a statute, while the court must gain the legislative intent primarily from the language used, it must remember the objects and purposes
of the statxte and the conditions of its enactment so as to effectuate rather
than destroy the spirit of that intent.
The purpose of the copyright statute 4s not 0o much to protect'the physical thing created as to protect the right of publication and reproauction,
and the' statute should be construed in view of the character of the property intended to be protected.
In the case of a painting, map, dra ving, etc., the copyright notice required
by 1 4962 Rev. Stat. need not be inscriled upon the original article itself;
the statute is complied with if the notice is inscribed upon the published
copies thereof which it is desired to protect.
In the United States, property in copyright is the creation of Federal statute
passed in the exercise of the power vested in Congress by Article I, §8, of
the Federal Constitution, to promote the progress of science and the useful

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U. S.

285

Statement of the Case.

arts by securing for limited times to authors and ihventors the exclusive
right to their respective writings and discoveries, and the statute should
be given fair and reasonable construction to effect such purpose.
The Federal copyright statute recognizes the separate ownership of the right
of copying from that which inheres in the physical control of the thing
itself and gives to the assigns of the original owner of the right to copyright the right to take out copyright independently of the ownership of
the article itself.
The property of an author or painter in his intellectual creation is absolute
until he voluntarily parts therewith. While the public exhibition of a
painting or statue where all can see and copy it might amount to a publication, where the exhibition is made subject to reservation of copyright
and to restrictions rigidly enforced against copying, it does not amount
to a publication.
In a suit brought in replevin under the New York Code to recover infringing
copies of the plaintiff's copyrighted article it is too late to object to the
form of remedy on the motion for new trial.
Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, and Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, followed to effect that defendant's rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments were not violated by the seizure of infringing copies of copyrighted
articles or by the use thereof as evidence.
146 Fed. Rep. 375, affirmed.

THIS is a writ of, error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, seeking reversal of a judgment affirming the
judgment of the Unitd 'States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York in favor of the defendant in error, adjudging him to be entitled to the possession of 1196 sheets,
each containing a copy of a certain picture called "Chorus,"
the same representing a company of gentlemen with filled
glasses, singing in chorus. The painting was the work of an
English, artist, W. Dendy Sadler. The defendant in error
claimed to be the owner of a copyright taken out under the
laws of the United States.
The judgment was rendered under authority of § 4965, as
amended.March 2, 1895. 28 Stat. 965; 3 U, S. Comp. Stat.
p. 3414.
In January, 1894, by agreement between the artist and
Werckmeister, the defendant in error, it was agreed that the
painting should be finished by March 1, and then sent to Werckmeister to be photographed and returned to Sadler in time to

OCTOBER, TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

207 U. S.

exhibit at the Royal Academy in 1894. The painting was sent
to Werckmeister at Berlin, where it was received on March 8,
1894, and was returned to Sadler in London on March 22, 1894.
On April 2, 1904, the artist Sadler executed and delivered the
following instrument:
"I hereby transfer the copyright in my picture 'Chorus' to
the Photographische Gesellschaft, Berlin (The Berlin Photographic Company), for. the sum .of £200. London, April 2,
W. DENDY SADLER."
(Signed)
1894.
Werckmeister was a citizen of the German Empire, doing
business in Berlin, Germany, under the trade name of "Photographische Gesellschaft," and did business in New York city
under the name of the "Berlin Photographic Company."
The Photographische Gesellsehaft of Berlin, by letter-dated
March 31, 1894, received on April 16, 1894, deposited the title
and description of the .painting and a photograph of the 'same
in the office of the Librarian of Congress, the intention being to
obtain a copyright under the act of.Congress. U. S. Comp.
Stat., v. 3, p. 3407. After the painting was returned to London
it was exhibited by Sadler at the exhibition of the-Royal Acad-,
emy at London, and was there on exhibition for about three
months; the exhibition opening the first Monday of' May and
closing the first Monday of August, 1894. The exhibition was.
open to the public on week days from 8 A. m. to 7 P. M. upon
the payment of the admission fee of one shilling, and during
the last week was open evenings, the entrance charge being
sixpence. There was a private view for the press on May 2,
and on May 3 up to one o'clock, and the 'emainder of the day
was for the Royal private view. There was also a general
private view on May 4. The members and the associate members of the Royal Academy and the artists exhibitingxat the
exhibition and their families were entitled at all times to free
admission, and they as well as the public.,visited the exhibition
in large numbers.
During the time that the painting was shown at the exhibition it was not inscribed as a copyright, nor were any words

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U. S.

287

Statement of the Case.

thereon indicating a copyright, nor on the substance on which
it was mounted, nor on the frame, as required by the copyright
act (3 U. S. Comp. Stat., p. 3411), if the original painting is
within the requirements of the law in this respect.
The painting while on exhibition was for sale at the Royal
Academy, but with the copyright reserved, which reservation
was entered in the gallery sale book. The by-laws of.the Reyal
Academy provided " that no permission to copy works on exhibition shall on any account be granted." The reasons for the bylaw, as it appears upon minutes of the Academy, are as follows:
"That so much property in copyright being entrusted to
the guardianship of the Royal Academy, the council feel themselves compelled to disallow, in future, all copying within their
walls from pictures sent for exhibition."
The photogravures of the painting were placed on sale in
June, 1894, or in the autumn of 1894; those photogravures
were inscribed with the notice of copyright.
Mr. Sadler, the artist, afterwards, in October, 1899, sold the
painting to. a Mr. Cotterel, residing in London, England, since
which time, so far as has been shown, it has been hanging in
the dining room of the house of that gentleman. ,
On June 20, 1902, Werckmeister commenced an action, by
the 'service of a summons, against the American Tobacco
Company, plaintiff in error, and on the same day a writ of
replevin was issued out of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, directed to the
marshal of the same district, requiring him to replevin the
chattels described, in an annexed affidavit. Under the writ the
marshal seized upon the premises of the American Tobacco
Company 203 pictures. ,On July 23, 1902, Werckmeister
caused another writ of replevin to issue out of the same court,
directed to the marshal of the Western District of 'New Yorki
under which writ the marshal seized 993 pictures.
An amendment to the complaint set forth the seizure of the
pictures. The copies seized were adjudged to be forfeited to
the plaintiff Werckrneister and to be of the value of $1,010.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

The judgment rendered in the Circuit Court was taken upon
error to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals and there
affirmed. 146 Fed. Rep. 33. The present writ of error is
prosecuted to reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
Mr. William A. Jenner for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff below (defendant in error) had no right to maintain
the action because of omission to give the notice of copyright
prescribed by § 4962 on the original painting exhibited at the
Royal Academy.
The statutory notice of copyright is most effectively given
in the case of a painting when it is inscribed upon "some visible
portion thereof, or of the substance on which the same shall
be mounted." Every one who sees the painting sees that notice, or can see it, if he looks.
Inscription upon a copy and not upon the original i, futile,
if one sees only the original and does not see the copy. To be
completely effective the notice should be inscribed upon copies
as well as upon the original.
But in the case of a painting, there may be no copies, replicas
or reproductions, and the author or proprietor may wish only
to prevent copying and to preserve the painting unique. In
that case, unless the statutory notice is inscribed upon the
painting or its mount, no notice at all would be given. But the
statute does not distinguish between those cases where the
copyrightable thing, i. e. the painting, is kept unique and
those cases where copies or reproductions are made. In both
cases there must be compliance with the same requirements.
In the case at bar the thing copyrighted was the painting.
Plaintiff's photogravure was not copyrighted at all and was
protected only by virtue of the copyright of the painting.
Section 4962 should be construed so as to promote its apparent object, that is to require the notice to be inscribed upon
the original painting. Its plain import is that the copies of
every edition of the book published is to have a notice inserted in them; if a painting, the notice is to be inscribed upon

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U.S.

289

Argument for Defendant in Error.

a visible portion of it or of its mount, without regard to publication.
Where the language is plain and unambiguous a refusal to
recognize its natural, obvious meaning would be justly regarded
as indicating a purpose to change the law by judicial action
based upon some supposed policy of Congress. Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 36; Hadden v. Collector, 5
Wall. 107, 111; Scott v. Reid, 10 Pet. 524, 527; St. Paul &c. Ry.
Co. v. Phelps, 137 U. S. 528.
The primary rule is that a statute is to receive the meaning
which the ordinary reading of its language warrants. United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch. 386; United States v. Hartwell, 6
Wall. 395; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95.
The exhibition at the Royal Academy was a publication of
the painting. Published means made public.
The only way in which a painting or statue, a model or design can be published is by exhibition thereof to the public.
If the public were admitted without restriction of number,
the'exhibition was in every sense a public exhibition.
Section 4965 cannot be enforced by an action in replevin.
The writs of replevin and proceedings thereunder were unwarReplevin under the New York
ranted in law and illegal.
Code of Civil Procedure is not adapted, and the Circuit Court
is without authority to adapt or mold it, to proceedings for
enforcing the forfeiture of. infringing sheets accruing under
Rev. Stat., § 4965.
Plaintiff's proceedings, therefore, were without authority of
law, and the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to try the
action or render a judgment. Falk v. Curtis Pub. Co., 107 Fed.
Rep. 126; Rinehart v. Smith, 121 Fed. Rep. 148; Gustin v.
Record Pub. Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 603; Hills v. Hoover, 142 Fed.
Rep. 904; Morrison v. Pettibone, 87 Fed. Rep. 330; Walker v.
Globe Newspaper Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 593.
Mr. Antonio Knauth for defendant in error:
The copyright statute does not require a notice on the original
VOL. COVII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

painting, but only on every copy of every edition issued.
Werckmeister v. Pierce & Bushnell Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 455, and
Werckmeister v. Amer. LithographicCo., 142 Fed. Rep. 827.
For the purposes of the present case it is immaterial whether
or not the original picture is included in the words "in the
several copies of every edition published," because clearly the
statute cannot be construed to require a notice on the unpublished painting. The object of the statute requiring notice is
to give notice to the public The statutes refer only to the
published edition, which is an edition offered to the public
for sale or circulation. Falk v. Gast Lith. & Eng. Co., 54 Fed.
Rep. 890, 894 (Shipman, J.); Burrow-Giles Lith. Co. V. Sarony,
111 U. S. 53; Snow v. Mast, 65 Fed. Rep. 995; Am. & Eng.
Enc. of Law, Vol. 7 (2d ed.), 555; Thompson v. Hubbard, 131
U. S. 123, 150; Mifflin v. White, 190 U. S. 260.
The action was properly brought to secure condemnation
and forfeiture, of the goods, adapting the pleadings as far as
might be to an action of replevin. Bolles v. Outing Co., 175
U. S. 266; Hageman v. Springer, 110 Fed. Rep. 374; Springer
Lith. Co. v. Falk, 59 Fed. Rep. 707; Morrison v. Pettibone, 87
Fed. Rep. 330; Childs v. N. Y. Times Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 527.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves important questions under the copyright
laws of the United States, upon which there has been diversity
of view in the Federal courts.
Before taking up the errors assigned it may aid in the elucidation of the questions involved to briefly consider the nature
.of the property in copyright whichit is the object of the statutes
of the United States to secure and protect. A copyright, as
.the term imports, involves the right of publication and reproduction of works of art or literature. A copyright, as defined
by Bouvier's Law Dictionary, Rawles' edition, volume 1, p. 436,
is: "The exclusive privilege, secured according to certain legal

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER. 291
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

forms, of printing, or otherwise multiplying, publishing and
vending copies of certain literary or artistic productions."
And further, says the same author, "the' foundation of all
rights of this description is the natural dominion which every
one has over his own ideas, the enjoyment of which, although
they are embodied in visible forms or characters, he may, if he
chooses, confine to himself or impart to others." That is, the
law recognizes the artistic or literary productions of intellect
or genius, not only to the extent which is involved in dominion
over and ownership of the thing created, but also the intangible
estate in such property which arises from the privilege of publishing and selling to others copies of the thing produced.
There was much contention in England as to whether the
common law recognized this property in copyright before the
Statute of Anne; the controversy resulting in the decision in
the House of Lords in the case of Donelson v. Beckett, 4 Burr,
2408, the result of the decision being that a majority of the
judges, while in favor of the common law right, held the same
had been taken away by the statute. See Wheaton v. Peters,
8 Pet. 591, 656"tHolmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 82.
In this country it is well settled that property in copyright
is the creation of the Federal statute passed"in the exercise of
the power vested in Congress by the Federal Constitution in
Art. I, § 8, "to promote the progress of science and useful
arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the
exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries."
See Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591, supra; Banks v. Manchester,
128 U. S.244, 252; Thompson v. Hubbard, 131 U. S. 123, 151.
Under this grant of authority a series of statutes have been
passed, having for their object the protection of the property
which the author has in the right to publish his production,
the purpose of the statute being to protect this right in such
manner that the author may have the benefit of this property
for a limited term of years. These statutes should be given
a fair and reasonable construction with a view to effecting such
purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

The first question presented in oral argument and upon the
briefs involves the construction of § 4962 Rev. Stat. as
amended (18 Stat. 78; 3 U. S. Comp. Stat., 1901, p. 3411),
which is as follows:
"That no-person shall maintain an action for the infringement of his copyright unless he shall give notice thereof by
inserting in the several copies of every edition publishe.d, on
the title page or the page immediately following, if it be a book;
or if a map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, engraving,
photograph, painting, drawing, chromo, statue,, statuary, or
model or design intended -to be perfected and completed as a
work of the fine arts, by inscribing upon. some visible portion
thereof, or of the substance on which the same shall be mounted,
the following words, viz: 'Entered according to act of Congress,
in the year - , by A. B. in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington;' or, at his option, the word 'copyright,'
together with the year the copyright was entered and the name
of the party by whom it was taken out, thus: 'Copyright 18-,
by A. B.' "
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that the original
painting was not inscribed as required by the act, and therefore
no action can be maintained, and it is insisted that the inscription upon the photogravures offered for sale is not sufficient.
It must b& admitted that the fanguage of the statute is not
so clear as it might be, nor have the decisions of the courts
been uniform upon the subject. In Werckmeister, v. Pierce &
Bushnell Manf. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 445, Judge Putnam held that
the failure to inscribe the copyright notice upon the original
painting did not effect the copyright. That judgment was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
by a divided court. 72 Fed. Rep. 54.
In the case of Werckmeister v. American Lithographic Co.,
142 Fed. Rep. 827, Judge Holt reached the same conclusion
as Judge Putnam, and in the case at bar 'the Circuit Court bf
Appeals for the Secofid Circuit approved of the reasoning of
Judges Putnam and Ilolt and disagreed with the majority of

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
Looking to the statute, it is apparent that if read literally
the words "inscribed on some visible portion thereof," etc.,
apply to the antecedent terms "maps, charts, musical compo.
sition, print, cut, engraving, photograph, painting," etc., and
the words of the first part of the sentence requiring notice to
be inserted in the several copies of every edition published apply
literally to the title page or the page immediately following, if
it be a book.
But in construing a statute we are not always confined to a
literal reading, and may consider its object and purpose, the
things with which it is dealing, and the condition of affairs which
led to its enactment so as to effectuate rather than destroy the
spirit and force of the law which the legislature intended to enact.
It is true, and the plaintiff in error cites authorities to the
proposition, that where the words of an act are clear and unambiguous they will control. But while seeking to gain the
legislative intent primarily from the language used we must
remember the objects and purposes sought to be attained.
We think it was the object of the s.taiute to require this inscription, not upon the original painting, map, photograph,
drawing, etc., but upon those published copies concerning
which it is designed to convey information to the public which
shall limit the use and circumscribe the rights of the purchaser.
As we have seen, the purpose of the copyright law is not so
much the protection of the possession and control of the visible
thing, as to secure a monopoly having a.limited time, of the
right to publish the production which is the result of the in.
ventor's thought.
We have been cited to no case, nor can we find any direct
authority in this court upon the question. But the opinion of
Mr. Justice Miller in Lithographic Company v. Sarony, 111
U. S. 53, is pertinent. The court there considered whether
Congress had the constitutional right to protect photographs
and negatives by copyright, and the second assignment of

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

error relates to the sufficiency of the words "Copyrighted 1892
by N. Sarony," when the copyright was the property of Napoleon Sarony. In treating this question the learned judge used
this very suggestive language (p. 55):
"With regard to this latter question, it is enough to say that
the object of the statute is to give notice of the .copyright to
the public; by'placing upon each copy, in some visible shape,
the name of the author, the existence of the claim of exclusive
right, and the date at which this right was obtained."
If the contention of the plaintiff in error be sustained the
statute is satisfied only when the original map, chart, etc., or
painting is inscribed with the notice, and this is requisite
whether the original painting is ever published or not. We
think this construction ignores the purpose and object of the
act, which Mr. Justice Miller has said in the language just
-quoted, is to give notice of the copyright to the publicthat is, to the persons who buy or deal With the published
thing.
It is insisted that there is reason for the distinction in the
statute between books, and maps, charts, paintings, etc.,, in
that a book can only be published in print and becomes known
by reading, while paintings, drawings, etc., are published by
inspection and observation.
It may be true that paintings are published in this way, but
they are often sold to private individuals and go into private
collections, whilst ,the copies, photographs or photogravures,
may have a wide and extended sale.
It would 'eem clear that the real object of the statute is not
to give notice to the artist or proprietor'of the painting or the
*person to whose collection it may go, who needs nq information,
but to notify the public who purchase the circulated copies of
the existing copyright in order that their ownership may be
restricted.
There does not seem to be any purpose in requiring that an
original map, chart or painting shall be thus inscribed, while
theie is every reason for requiriig the copies'of editions pub-'

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

lished to bear upon their face the notice of the limited property
which a purchaser may acquire therein.
This construction of the statute which requires the inscription upon the published copies is much strengthened by the
review of the history of copyright legislation which is contained
in Judge Putnam's opinion in Werckmeister v. Pierce & Bushnell Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 445; that legislation before the statute
of 1874, in which paintings were for the first time introduced,
shows the uniform requirement of notice upon, copies. The
apparent incongruities in the statute, in the light of its history,
have grown up from enlarging the scope of the law from time
to time by the introduction of new subjects of copyright and
engrafting them on the previous statutes. The same argument
which requires original paintings to be inscribed would apply
to all other articles in the same class in the present law, as maps,
charts, etc., which were formerly classed with books, so far as
requiring notice upon copies is concerned.
Such original maps and charts, etc., may and usually do
remain in the possession of the original makers, and there is
no necessity for any notice upon them, but the copyright is
invalid, as the plaintiff in error insists, unless the Original is
itself inscribed with the notice of copyright.
For the learned counsel for plaintiff in error says: "If the
painting or like article is ripe for copyright, it is ripe for the
inscription of the notice. The statute requires the inserting of
notice in published things only in respect to published editions
of books. The term 'published' is not used in connection with
paintings, statues and the like." And it is urged there can be
no such thing as an "edition" of a painting, and copies of published editions are the only copies mentioned in the statute.
But this phrase survives from former statutes, which dealt
only with books, maps, charts, etc. When paintings and other
things not capable of publication in "editions" were introduced into the statute, the language was not changed so as to
be technically accurate in reference to the new subjects of
copyright.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the'Court.

.207 U. S.

But the sense and purpose of the law was not changed by
this lack of verbal accuracy; and we think while the construction contended for may adhere with literal accuracy and
grammatical exactness to the language used, it does violence
to the intent of Congress in passing the law, and that the requirement of "inscription upon some visible portion thereof"
should be read in connection with the first part of the sentence,
which requires notice to be inserted in the several copies of
every edition published, .on the title page if it be a book, upon
:some visible portion of the copy if it be a map, chart, painting;
etc.
As we have said in the beginning, the statute is not clear.
But read in the light of the purpose intended to be effected by
the legislation, we think its ambiguities are best solved by the
constructions here given, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals
made ho error in this respect.
Again, it is'contended that under the facts stated Werckmeister was but the licensee of Sadler, and as such not within
the terms of tie statute (§ 4952 as amended 1891, 26 Stat. 1107;
3 U. S. Comp. Stat., p. 3406), Which is as follows:
"The author, inventor, designei- or' proprietor of any book,
map, chart, dramatic or musical composition, engraving, cut,
print or photograph or negative. thereof, or of. a painting,
drawing, chromo, statue, 'statutary, and of models or designs
intended to be perfected as works of the fine arts, and the executors, administrators or assigns of any such person shall,
upon complying with the provisions of this chapter, have the
sole liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing, completing,
copying, executing, finishing and vending. the same; and, in
the case of dramatic composition, of publicly performing or
representing it or causing it to be performed or represented
by others; and authors or their" assigns shall have exclusive
right to dramatize and translate any of their works for which
copyright shall have been obtained under the laws of the
United States."
But we thirtk the transfer in this case accomplished what it

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

was evidently intended to do, a complete
transfer of the property right of copyright existing in the picture. There is no
evidence of any intention on the part of Sadler to retain alyinterest in this copyright after the sale to Werckmeister; and
when the painting was offered for sale at the Royal Academy
it was with a reservation of the copyright.
It would be giving an entirely too narrow 6onstruction to
this instrument to construe it to be a mere license or personal
privilege, leaving all other rights in the assignor. That it was
the purpose of the parties to make a complete transfer is shown
by the instrument executed when read in the light of the attendanf cirdumstances.
In this connection it is argued that under the statute above
quoted (§ 4952 as amended March 3, 1901), an author cannot,
before publication, assign the right or privilege of taking a
copyright independent of the transfer of the copyrightable
thing itself, and it is contended that the terms author, inventor,
designer, refer to the originator of the book, map, ,chart, painting, etc., and that the term "proprietor" refers to the person
who has a copyrightable thing made for him under such circumstances as to become the proprietor, as, for instance, one
who causes a digest to be compiled or a picture to be painted.
But we think this statute must be construed in view of the
character of the property intended to be protected. That it
was intended to give the right of copyright to others than the
author, inventor or designer is conclusively shown in the use of
the terms "proprietor" and " ..ssigns" in the statute.
It seems clear that the word " assigns" in this section is not
used as descriptive of the character of the estate which the
"author, inventor, designer. or proprietor" may acquire under
the statute, for the "assigns" of any such person, as well as
tfie persons themselves, may, "upon complying with the provisions of this chapter," have the sole liberty of printing, publishing and vending the same. , This would seem to demonstrate
the intention of Congress to vest in -assigns," before copy,right, the same privilege of subsequently acqoiring complete

OOTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

statutory copyright as the original author, inventor, designer
or proprietor has. Nor do we think this result is qualified
because the statute gives to assigns, together with the right of
publishing, vending, etc., the right of "completing, executing
and finishing" the subject-matter of copyright.
And a strong consideration in construing this statute has
reference tW the character of the property sought to be protected. It is not the physical thing created, but the right of
printing, publishing, copying, etc., which is within the statutory
protection. While not in all respects analo'gous, this proposition finds illustration in Stephens v. Cady, 14.How. 528, in which
it was held, where the copyright for maphad been taken out
under the act of Congress, a sale upon execution of the' copperplate engraving from which it was made did not pass the right
to print and sell copies of the map. Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 530):
"But from the consideration we have given to the case, we
are satisfied that the property acquired by the sale in the engraved plate, and the copyright of the map secured to the author under the act of Congress, are altogether different and independent of each other, and have no necessary connection.
The copyright is an exclusive right to the multiplication of the
copies, for the. benefit of the author or his assigns, disconnected
from the plate, or any other physical existence. It is an incorporeal right to print and publish the map, or, as said by
Lord Mansfield in Millar v. Taylor, 4 Burr, 2396, 'a property
in notion, and has no corporeal tangible substance.'"
And the same doctrine was thus stated by Mr. Justice Curtis
in Sleoens v. Gladding, 17 How. 447, 452:
"And upon this question of the annexation of the copyright
to the plate it is to be observed, first, that there is no necessary
connection between them. They are distinct subjects of property, each capable of existing, and being owned and transferred,
independent of the other."
While it is true that the property in copyright in this country is the creation of statute, the nature and character of the

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.
207 U.S.

299

Opinion of the Court.

property grows'out of the recognition of the separate ownership
of the right of copying from that which inheres in the mere
physical control of the thing itself,., and the statute must be
read in the light of the intention of Congress to protect this
intangible 'right as a-reward of the inventive genius that has
produced the work. We think every consideration of the nature
of the property and the things to be accomplished supports
the conclusion that this statute nieans to give tW the assigns
of the original owner of the right to copyright an article the
right to take out the copyright secured by the statute, independently of the ownership of the article itself.
It is further contended that the exhibition in the Royal
Gallery was such a publication of the painting as prevents the
defendant in,
error from having the benefit of the copyright act.
This question has been dealt with in a inumber of cases, and
the result of the authorities establishes, we think, that it is
only in cases where what is known as a general publication is
shown, as distinguished from a limited publication under conditions which exclude the presumption that it was intended
to be dedicated to the public, that the owner of the right of
copyright is deprived of the benefit of the statutory provision.
Considering this feature of the case, it is well to remember'
that the property of the author or painter in his intellectual
creation is absolute until he voluntarily parts with the same.
One or many persons may be permitted to an examination under
circumstances which show no intention to part with the property right, and it will remain unimpaired.
The subject was considered and the cases reviewed in the
analogous case of Wercimeister v. The American Lithographic
Company, 134 Fed. Rep. 321, in a full and comprehensive
opinion by the late Circuit Judge Townsend, which leaves
tittle to be added to the discussion.
The rule is thus- stated in Slater on .the Law of Copyright
vnd Trademark (p. 92):
"It is a fundamental rule that to constitute publication
there must be such.a dissemination of the work of art itself

OCTOBER TERM, 1007.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

among the public, as to justify the belief that it took place
with the intention of rendering such work common property."
And that author instances as one of the occasions that does
not amount to a general publication the exhibition of. a work
of art at a public exhibition where there are by-laws against
copies, or where it is tacitly understood that no copying shall
take place, and the public are admitted to view the painting
on the implied understanding that no improper .advantage will
be taken of the privilege.
We think this doctrine is sound and the result of the best
considered cases. In this case it' appears that paintings are
expressly entered at the gallery with copyrights reserved.
There is no permission to copy; on the other hand, officers are
present who rigidly enforce the requirements of the society that
no copying shall take place.
Starting with the presumption that it is the author's right
to withhold his property, or only to yield to a qualified and
special inspection which shall not permit the public to acquire
rights in it, we think the circumstances of this exhibition conclusively show that it was the purpose of the owner, entirely
consistent with the acts done, not to permit such an inspection
of his picture as would throw its use -open to the public. We
do not mean to say that the public exhibition of a painting
or statue, where all might see and freely copy it, might not
amount to publication within the statute, regardless of the
artist's purpose or notice of reservation of rights which he takes
no measure to protect. But such is not the present case,
where the greatest caie was taken to prevent copying.
It is next objected that the form of action in this case was
the ordinary action for replevin under the New York Code, and
as the plaintiff did not have the right of property or possession
before the beginning of this action, no such action would lie.
Whether this action was the one in the nature of replevin for
the seizures of the plates and copies indicated in the case of
Bolles v. Outing Company, 175 U. S. 262, 266, we do not find
it necessary to determine. After verdict, and upon motion for

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. WERCKMEISTER.- 301
•207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a new trial, plaintiff in error, defendant below, moved to set
aside the verdict "On the ground that replevin under the statutes of the State of New York is not an appropriate remedy
or a lawful and legal remedy for taking possession of the alleged
incriminating sheets or pictures, and that the proceedings
taken in that behalf by the plaintiff were illegal and invalid,
and that the plaintiff cannot avail of any benefit of that proceeding, and the introduction in evidence of the re'plevin proceedings was an error." The motion was denied and exception
duly taken.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff in error admits that this
question was not formally raised until the defendant's motion
for a new trial, but maintains that the same question was raised
by the objection to admission in evidence of the replevin proceedings by the marshal for the Western and Southern Districts
of New York respectively.
Examining this record, it is perfectly apparent that no objection was made to the form of the action until it was embodied
after verdict, in the inotion for a new trial. Upon the admission
of the writ of replevin, addressed to the marshal of the Western
District of New York, and affidavit, the objection stated was
"on the ground that the process of r~plevin that was executed
by the marshal in Buffalo was an invasion of defendant's constitutional right, was an unwarrantable search, an illegal act,
and-nothing done under it,.or irformation obtained by virtue
of it, can be used in evidence against, defendant under the Fourth
andFifth Amendments of the United States Constitution."
The same objection was made when the writs of replevin,
affidavit and return were offered in evidence concerning the
Southern District of New York, and it was said: "Defendant's
counsel objects on the same grounds as stated in the introduction of the stipulation, -namely, that the papers constitute an
illegal proceeding, an invasion of the defendant's constitutional
right,as provided by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, and
plaintiff cannot avail of them as' evidence in this case, on account of their illegality."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

The argument which followed, could it be assumed to broaden
the objection, was far from complaining of the form of action
as such, but rested upon the Constitution and the character
of the seizure of the goods of which it was maintained the
plaintiff was not entitled to possession until after a judgment
of forfeiture.
The record shows that the objection to the form of the remedy
was first taken in any adequate way upon the motion for a new
trial when it was too late.
In conclusion, it was suggested rather than argued that the
constitutional rights of the plaintiff in error were violated by
the seizure of the goods, and reference was made to the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. We think we need only refer in this
connection to Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, 597, and
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.
Finding no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the same is

Affirmed.

CHUNN v. CITY AND SUBURBAN RAILWAY OF
WASHINGTON.
EROWR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 4.. Argued November 8, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

An intending passenger coming to a place where passengers habitually board
the cars of a trolley company, and which, in itself, is safe unless made

otherwise by the manner in which the cars are operated, is not a trespasser
nor a mere traveller upon the highway, but one to whom the company
owes an affirmative duty and it is for the jury to determine whether the
car injuring such person was onerated with the vigilance required by the
circumstances.
Where a trolley car platform is so narrow that its width cannot fairly be
considered without taking into consideration the dangers on both sides
of it, one taking a car on one side of it has a right to assume that he will
not be put in peril by a car running rapidly in the opposite direction; and

