HARRIS v. UNITED STATES
Opinion in Chambers

HARRIS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. 780. Decided October 10, 1970
Stay of Court of Appeals' judgment pending disposition of a petition for certiorari granted in view of substantial nature of questions presented, not previously decided by this Court, concerning
(1) the propriety of the Government's appeal under 18 U. S. C.
§ 1404, and the petitioners' right to appeal from an adverse Court
of Appeals' ruling, and (2) the validity of the Court of Appeals'
rule that "probable cause" is not necessary for an extended
border search.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

This is an application for a stay of a judgment of the
Court of Appeals pending disposition of a petition for
certiorari which has been filed here. The United States
has filed its opposition. The stay has been denied by
the Court of Appeals and I arn reluctant to take action
contrary to what it has done. There are, however, two
questions in the case not heretofore decided by this Court
which are of considerable importance.
First is a question of the propriety of petitioners seeking relief here. The District Court suppressed evidence
seized on a so-called "border" search and the United
States appealed. Its appeal apparently was under 18
U. S. C. § 1404 which creates an exception to the ban
againist appeals which are not "final' within the meaning
of 28 U. S. C. § 1291, a ban to which we gave full enforcement in DiBella y. United States, 369 U. S. 121.
Under that decision petitioners could not appeal to th:
Court of Appeals from an adverse decision in the District
Court. Whether they could appeal from an adverse
ruling of the Court of Appeals is a question we have not
adjudicated.

1212

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion in Chambers

400 U. S.

Beyond that may be a question concerning the propriety of the Government's appeal, though the question
does not seem to be raised by petitioners. Title 18
U. S. C. § 1404 provides in part:
"[T]he United States shall have the right to appeal
from an order granting a motion for the return of
seized property and to suppress evidence made before the trial of a person charged with'a violation
of(2) subsection (c), (h), or (i) of section 2 of
the Narcotic Drugs Import and Export Act, as
amended (21 U. S. C., sec. 174)...."
(Emphasis
supplied.)
The order of the District Court apparently did not
provide for the return of the property. The statute does
not in haec verba grant an appeal if there was "suppression" alone. In light of DiBella, the question is
whether the statute will be strictly construed against
appealability.*
Second is a question under the Fourth Amendment.
The Court of Appeals has adopted the rule that "probable cause" is not necessary for "a lawful bnrder search."
Castillo-Garcia v. United States, 424 F. 2d 482, 484.
In that case the "border search" took plkce 105 miles
from the border and seven hours after whe entry of the
car from Mexico, the vehicle having been followed and
kept under constant surveillance by Customs agents. In
the present case the'truck entered, this country from Mexico at San Ysidro, California, and was seized and searched
*While § 1404 (2) refers to a section dealing' with marihuana,
§ 174 is also cited in § 1404 (2) and § 174 covers narcotics rather
than marihuana. So a related question is whether that ambiguity
will be resolved in favor of the rather strict policy reflected in
DiBeUa.

HARRIS v. UNITED STATES
1211

1213

Opinion in Chambers

when it was parked in Los Angeles, some 150 miles distant. The statute, 19 U. S. C. § 482, allows searches
by Customs agents where they have "a reasonable cause
to suspect" that there is merchandise being imported
contrary to law. While the test in the Ninth Circuit
of the legality of the extended border search is constant
surveillance of the vehicle or person after entry, the
Fifth Circuit rests on "reasonable cause to suspect." See
Stassi v. United States, 410 F. 2d 946, 951. The difference between these two approaches has been noted in
the Second Circuit. United States v. Glaziou, 402 F. 2d
8, 13-14, n. 3; United States v. Pedersen, 300 F. Supp.
669. The rather old dictum of this Court in Carroll v.
United States, -267 U. S. 132, 154, hardly meets the
refinements of these new distinctions.
I indicate no view of the merits on either of the two
questions but have said only enough to illustrate the
substantial nature of the questions presented. For these
reasons I have concluded to grant the stay requested.

