FOWLER v. ADAMS

1205

Opinion in Chambers

FOWLER v. ADAMS, SECRETARY OF STATE
OF FLORIDA
ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

Decided-August 11, 1970
Applicant, who was denied a ballot place as a congressional candidate
in the September 8, 1970, primary election in Florida because
of his refusal to pay the filing fee required by state law, has
applied for injunctive relief against a three-judge Federal District
Court judgment rejecting his contentions that the law is unconstitutionaf. Since the equities of granting the requested relief
favor the applicant, Florida is directed to have his name placed
on the ballot without payment of the filing fee.
See: 315 F. Supp. 592.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

Circuit Justice.

Mr. William V. Fowler made a timely application to
the Florida Secretary of State to become a candidate
for the United States House of Representatives and was
denied a place on the ballot because he refused to pay
the $2,125 filing fee required by state statutes, Florida
Stat. Ann. §§ 99.021 and 99.092. The applicant challenged the constitutionality of these Florida laws on the
ground that since a Congressman is a federal officer a
State cannot impose such a fee as a condition for candidacy. The applicant also asserted that the fee, requirement was a denial of equal protection of the laws.
A three-judge Federal District Court in the Middle
District of Florida rejected these contentions.' The
State claims the right to impose such a fee under
Art. 1, §4, cl. 1, of the United States Constitution,
which provides:
"The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be
1315

F. Supp. 592 (MD Fla. 1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion in Chambers

400 U., S.

prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof;
but the Congress may at any time by Law make or
alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of
chusing Senators."
Florida asserts that since Congress has not exercised
its power to "make or alter" filing regulations for conducting congressional elections, the State retains the
power to impose the fee in question.
The case raises questions which make it impossible
for me to predict with certainty what the majority of
this Court would decide. 2 The full Court in all likelihood will not meet until October, after the primary on
September 8, 1970., Under these circumstances my decision on this application could settle this controversy
on a basis which the Court might not later accept. The
record presents no facts that would' show an imposition
of irreparable damage upon the State should it be
required to place the applicant's name on the ballot,
,and should the law later be upheld by. this Court, the
State might then collect the fee from the candidate.
Furthermore, even if the law is held valid after the
applicant's name has been submitted to the voters,
neither he nor the public would have suffered irreparable
damage. If, on the other hand, the applicant is denied
an opportunity to run for office and the Florida law is
later invalidated, this candidate would have been unconstitutionally barred from the ballot. In this situation,
! think the equities are with the applicant.'
The State is therefore directed to take the steps
necessary to place the applicant's name on the ballot
without the payment of the' filing fee.
It is so ordered.
Compare Fowler v. Adams, supra, with Georgia Socialist Workers
Party v. Fortson, 315 F. Supp. 1035 (ND Ga. 1970). See also my
opinion in Matthews v. Little, 396 U. S. 1223 (1969).
3 See my opinion in Davis v. Adams, ante, p. 1203.
2

