GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
Opinion of the Court

GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN

No. 26. Argued December 7,--1970Decided January 25, 1971
State law that categorically prevents a change of venue for a jury
trial in a criminal case, regardless of the extent of local prejudice
against the defendant, solely on the ground that the crime with
which he is charged is a misdemeanor held violative of the right
to trial by an impartial jury guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp: 507-512.
41 Wis. 2d 312, 164 N. W. 2d 266, vacated and remanded.
STEWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which DOUGLAS,.
HARLAN, BRENNAN, WHITE, and MARSHALL, JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which BURGER, C. J., joined,

post, p. 512.

BLACK, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 515.

Elizabeth B. Dubois argued the cause for appellant.
With her' on the briefs were Jack Greenberg, Michael
Meltsner, Anthony G. Amsterdam, Thomas M. Jacobson, and Robert E. Sutton.
Sverre- 0. Tinglum, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, argued the cause for appellee. With him on
the brief were Robert W. Warren, Attorney General, and
Roy G. Mita,, Assistant Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On August 31, 1967, during a period of civil disturbances in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the appellant, a Roman
Catholic priest, was arrested in that city on a charge of
resisting arrest. Under Wisconsin law that offense is
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

one year, or both.'

400 U. S.

After a series of continuances, the

appellant was brought to trial before a jury in a Milwaukee County court on February 8, 1968. The first
morning of the trial was occupied with qualifying the
jurors, during the course of which the appellant exhausted
all of his peremptory challenges.' The trial then proceeded, and at its conclusion the jury convicted the appellant as charged.
Prior to the trial, counsel for the appellant filed a motion for a change of venue from Milwaukee County "to
a county where community prejudice against this defendant does not exist and where an impartial jury trial
can be had." The motion asked the court to take judicial
notice of "the massive coverage by all news media in this
community of the activities of this defendant," or, in the
alternative, that "the defendant be permitted to offer
proof of the nature and extent thereof, its effect upon
this community and on the right of defendant to an impartial jury trial." The trial judge denied the motion,
making clear that his ruling was based exclusively on his
view that Wisconsin law did not permit a change of
venue in misdemeanor cases.'
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin affirmed
the conviction. 41 Wis. 2d 312, 164 N. W. 2d 266. It
'"Whoever

knowingly resists or obstructs an officer while such

officer is doing any act in his official capacity and with lawful
authority, may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than one year in county jail or both." Wis. Stat. § 946.41 (1)
(1967).
2 Apparently

no transcript was made of the voir dire proceedings.
court: "So, therefore, the change of venue as asked for
in the motion for a change of venue will be denied; it not being
provided for in the Wisconsin Statutes. . . . No, I'm denying the
motion for a change of venue because this is a misdemeanor case
and not a felony. And the Wisconsin Statute does not provide for
a change of venue in a misdemeanor matter."
3 The

GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
505

507

Opinion of the Court

held that the trial judge had been correct in his understanding that a Wisconsin statute foreclosed the possibility of a change of venue in a misdemeanor prosecution.4 It further held that this state law was constitutionally valid, pointing out that "it would be extremely
unusual for a community as a whole to prejudge the
guilt of any person charged with a misdemeanor." 41
Wis. 2d, at 317, 164 N. W. 2d, at 268. The court also
noted that a defendant in a Wisconsin misdemeanor
prosecution has a right to ask for continuances and to
challenge prospective jurors on voir dire, and if "these
measures are still not sufficient to provide an impartial

jury, the verdict can be set aside after trial based on the
denial of a fair and impartial trial." 41 Wis. 2d; at 321,
164 N. W. 2d, at 270. Two members of the court dissented, believing that the state statute did not absolutely forbid a change of venue in a misdemeanor prosecution, and that if the statute did contain such a prohibition it was constitutionally invalid. 41 Wis. 2d, at 325,
164 N. W. 2d, at 272.
, This appeal followed, and we noted probable jurisdiction. 398 U. S. 957. As the case reaches us we must, of
course, accept the construction that the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin has put upon the state statute. E. g.,
Kingsley Pictures Corp. v. Regents, 360 U. S. 684, 688.
The question before us, therefore, goes to the constitu'The relevant statute in effect at the time of the appellant's
trial was Wis. Stat. § 956.03 (3) (1967), which provided:
"If a defendant who is charged with a felony files his affidavit that
an impartial trial cannot be had in the county, the court may
change the venue of the action to any county where an impartial
trial can be had. Only one change may be granted under this

subsection."
Wis. Stat. § 971.22, effective July 1, 1970, now. permits a change
of venue in all criminal cases. See Wis. Laws 19&9, -e. 255, p. 650.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

tionality of a state law that categorically prevents a
change of venue for a ciiminal jury trial, regardless of
the extent of local prejudice against the defendant, on
the sole ground that the charge against him is labeled a
misdemeanor.' We hold that this question was answered
correctly by the dissenting justices in the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin.'
The issue in this case is not whether the Fourteenth
Amendment requires a State to accord a jury trial to a
defendant on a charge such as the appellant faced here.'
The issue concerns, rather, the nature of the jury trial
that the Fourteenth Amendment commands, when trial
by jury is what the State has purported to accord.8 We
had occasion to consider this precise question almost 10
years ago in Irvin v. Dowd, 366 U. S. 717. There we
found that an Indiana conviction could not constitutionally stand because the jury had been infected by comWe reject the suggestion that the appellant is not in a position
to attack the statute- because he made an insufficient showing of
community prejudice. His motion for a change of venue explicitly
asked in the alternative that he be permitted to "offer proof" of
the nature and extent of the local prejudice against him. His
motion was denied in its entirety, thus foreclosing any opportunity
to produce evidence of a prejudiced community. The trial court's
ruling was, of course, wholly consistent with its view that it was
powerless to grant a change of venue under Wisconsin law, regardless of what showing of local prejudice might have been made.
6 Accord, Pamplin v. Mason, 364 F. 2d 1 (CA5); State ex rel.
Ricco v. Biggs, 198 Ore. 4i3, 255 P. 2d 1055.
That question was answered affirmatively in Baldwin v. New
York, 399 U. S.66,
8 Wisconsin grants a right to trial by jury in all misdemeanor
cases. See State ex rel. Murphy v. Voss, 34 Wis. 2d 501, 505,
149 N. W. 2d 595, 597; State ex rel. Sauk County District Attorney
v. Gollmar, 32 Wis. 2d 406, 410, 145 N. W. 2d 670, 672.

GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
505

Opinion of the Court

munity prejudice before the trial had commenced. What
the Court said in that case is wholly relevant here:
"In essence, the right to jury trial guarantees to the
criminally accused a fair trial by a panel of impartial,
'indifferent' jurors. The failure to accord an accused a fair hearing violates even the minimal standards of due process. In re Oliver, 333 U. S. 257;
Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510. 'A fair trial in a
fair tribunal is a basic requirement of due process.'
In re Murchison, 349 U. S. 133, 136. In the ultimate
analysis, only the jury can strip a man of his liberty
or his life. In the language of Lord Coke, a juror
must be as 'indifferent as he stands unsworne.' Co.
Litt. 155b. His verdict must be based upon the
evidence developed at the trial. Cf. Thompson v.
City of Louisville, 362 U. S. 199. This is true, regardless of the heinousness of the crime charged, the
apparent guilt of the offender or the station in life
which he occupies. It was so written into our law
as early as 1807 by Chief Justice Marshall in 1 Burr's
Trial 416 . . . ." 366 U. S., at 722.
There are many ways to try to assure the*kind of impartial jury that the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees.'
In Sheppard v. Maxwell, 384 U. S.333, the Court enumerated many of the procedures available, particularly
in the context of a jury threatened by the poisonous influence of prejudicial publicity during the course of the
trial itself. 384 U. S., at 357-363. Here we are concerned with the methods available .to assure an impartial'
jury in a situation where, because-of prejudicial publicity
9 The Sixth. Amendment provides that "ri] n all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to . . .an impartial
jury . .. ." (Emphasis added.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

or for some other reason, the community from which the
jury is to be drawn may already be permeated with hostility toward the defendant. The problem is an ancient
one. Mr. Justice Holmes stated no more than a commonplace when, two generations ago, he noted that "[a]ny
judge who has sat with juries knows that in spite of forms
they are extremely likely to be impregnated by the
environing atmosphere." Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S.
309, 349 (dissenting opinion).
One way to try to meet the problem is to grant a continuance of the trial in the hope that in the course of time
the fires of prejudice will cool. But this hope may not
be realized, and continuances, particularly if they are
repeated, work against the important values implicit in
the constitutional guarantee of a speedy trial. ° Another
way is to provide a method of jury qualification that will
promote, through the exercise of challenges to the Yenire-peremptory and for cause-the exclusion of prospective jurors infected with the prejudice of the community from which they come. But this protection, as
Irvin v. Dowd, supra, shows, is not always adequate to
effectuate the constitutional guarantee."'
On at least one occasion this Court has explicitly held
that ohly a change of venue was constitutionally sufficient to assure the kind of impartial jury that is guaranteed by. the Fourteenth Amendment. That was in the
case of Rideau v. Louisiana,373 U. S. 723. We held that
"it was a denial of due process of law to refuse the request
for a change of venue, after the people of Calcasieu Parish
had been exposed repeatedly and in depth" to the preju10 See Klopfer v. North Carolina, 386 U. S. 213; Smith v. Hooey,
393 U. S. 374; Dickey v. Florida,398 U.. S. 30; id., at 39 (BRENNAN,
concurring).
"See 'generally Broeder, Voir Dire Examinations: An Empirical
Study, 38 S. Cal. L. Rev. 503 (1965).

GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
505

Opinion of the Court

dicial pretrial publicity there involved. 373 U. S., at
726. Rideau was not decided until 1963, but its message
echoes more than 200 years of human experience in the
endless quest for the fair administration of criminal
justice.12
It is doubtless true, as the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
said, that community prejudice is not often aroused
against a man accused only of a misdemeanor. But under
the Constitution a defendant must be given an opportunity to show that a change of venue is required in his
case. The Wisconsin statute wholly denied that opportunity to the appellant.
See Rex v. Harris, 3 Burr. 1330, 1333, 97 Eng. Rep. 858, 859
(K. B. 1762): "Notwithstanding the locality of some sorts of actions,
or of informations for misdemeanors, if the matter can not be tried
at all, or can not be fairly and impartially tried in the proper
county, it shalt be tried in the next adjoining county." .(Lord
Mansfield.)
See also Crocker v. Justices of the Superior Court; 208 Mass. 162;
178-179, 94 N. E. 369, 376-377 (1911):
"This review demonstrates that the great weight of authority
supports the view that courts, which by statute or custom possess
a jurisdiction like that of the Kings Bench before our revolution,
have the right to change the place of trial, when justice requires it,
to a county where an impartial trialmay be had.
t... There can be no justice in a trial by jurors' inflamed by
passion, warped by prejudice, - awed by violence, menaced by the
virulence of public opinion or manifestly biased by any influences
operating either openly or insidiously to such an extent as to poison
the judgment and prevent the freedom of fair action. Justice cannot be assured in a trial where other considerations enter the minds
of those who are 'o decide than the single desire to-ascertain and
declare the truth according to the law and the evidence. A court
of general jurisdiction ought not to be left powerless under the law
to do within reason all that the conditions of society and human
nature permit "to provide an unprejudiced panel for a jury trial."
See. also, e. g., State v. Albee, 61 N. H. 423, 60 Am. Rep. 325
(1881).
12

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLAcK

N, J., concurring

400 U. S.

Accordingly, the judgment is vacated, and the case is
remanded to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. 13
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
joins, concurring.
Although I agree in large part with the reasoning of

MR. JUSTICE BLACK'S opinion in dissent,

I nevertheless

join in the Court's judgment that this conviction of
Father Groppi must be vacated and the case remanded
for further proceedings. In so doing, however, I feel
compelled'to make the following observations:
1. The primary issue, it seems to me, is whether the appellant (hereafter defendant) received a fair trial, not
whether, as a matter of abstract constitutional law, he
was entitled to a change of venue in a Wisconsin misdemeanor prosecution in 1968.
2.-A fair trial, of course, is fundamental. No one disputes that. As the Court points out in footnote 12 of its
opinion, this principle of English-American jurisprudence
was evolved prior to the embodiment of the treasured
concepts of an impartial jury in the Sixth Amendment
and of due process in the Fifth and Fourteenth.
3. If the defense believes that a fair trial is unlikely
because of community prejudice, that is a matter for
proof by the defense, and, when proved, should constitutionally warrant, and indeed demand, a change of venue
in any case, whether the prosecution be for a felony or
for a misdemeanor.
4. Thus, I find myself in agreement with the two dissenting Justices of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin aria
with that court's Chief Justice, in concurring in the
13 Whether corrective relief can be afforded the appellant short
of a new trial will be for the Wisconsin courts to determine in the
first instance. Cf. Coleman v. Alabama, 399 U. S. 1, 10-11.

GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
505

BLACKMUN, J., concurring

result of the majority opinion, when the three conclude,
41 Wis. 2d 312, 324, 325, 164 N. W. 2d 266, 272, that a
change of venue in a misdemeanor case is constitutionally
required upon a proper showing.
5. I am at a loss to understand how a change of venue
statute expressed in positive but permissive terms and
specifically applicable to felony cases can be construed to
embody a negative prohibition for misdemeanor cases,
particularly with regard to so fundamental a right as the
right to have a trial untainted by community prejudice.
The statutory interpretation so made is all the more
unexpected because it raises an otherwise quite avoidable constitutional issue.
6. But the Wisconsin court has spoken and, by majority vote, has construed the state statute then in effect in
that very way. Construction of the statute is the state
court's task. It is not our task. And we are bound by
the Wisconsin court's decision as to the meaning and
application of a Wisconsin statute.
7. The record before us leaves much to be desired. It
discloses no formal offer of proof of the kind customarily
made. It contains no transcript of the voir dire, and
thus there is no way in which we or anyone else can evaluate from the voir dire the presence, or the possibility of
the presence, of actual prejudice in any member of the
jury panel. Although a "motion after verdict" was made
and although it referred to "the ground of community
prejudice," the motion does not In so many words assert
that this defendant actually was denied a fair and impartial trial. Neither is the motion supported by'affidavits incorporating the claimed prejudicial media reports.
8. The jury appears to have been selected expeditiously
and without difficulty during a single morning. And we
note what appears to be conflicting evidence in the record
as to Father Groppi's behavior at the point of his arrest,
evidence which would support *a fair jury's conclusion

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLACKMUN, J., concurring

400 U. S.

either way, that is, that he did resist arrest or that he did
not resist arrest, within the meaning and application of
the Wisconsin statute. On balance, in the face of what
may be regarded as a ruling by the trial court that no
showing, however persuasive, of community prejudice
and its effect upon the jury actually selected could command a change of venue in this misdemeanor case, I am
content to join in the vacation of the judgment of conviction and in the remand in order to allow the defendant
to attempt to make his proof.
9. I would stress, however, more than by the three-line
final footnote which may be lost to the reader who is
more interested in the notoriety of the case than in what
we are doing today by way of specific ruling, that this
remand does not necessarily mean a new trial for Father
Groppi, and freedom from his conviction on the charge
of resisting arrest. The defendant is to have his opportunity to demonstrate prejudice and the likelihood of an
unfair trial. If he fails in that quest, or if he now refuses
to undertake it, the judgment of conviction may be reinstated. If he does not fail, then of course the conviction
falls and the State is remitted to its choice between a new
trial or a dismissal of the charge.
10. Finally, I doubt very much whether this rather
unimportant case, but an admittedly sensitive one because of the identity of the defendant and the means he
has selected to make his protests known, at all approaches
the circumstances and the offensive character of what
this Court condemned in Sheppard v. Maxwell, 384 U. S.
333 (1966), in Rideau v. Louisiana,373 U. S. 723 (1963),
and in Irvin v. Dowd, 366 U. S. 717 (1961), cited in the
Court's opinion. Nevertheless, unfairness anywhere, in
small cases as well as in large, is abhorred, is to be ferreted
out, ana ia to be eliminated. Despite the unsatisfactory
record, this defendant must have his opportunity to
demonstrate what he alleges.

GROPPI v. WISCONSIN
505

BLACK, J., dissenting

dissenting.
I dissent from the Court's vacation of the judgment
of conviction. I agree, of course, that this appellant is
entitled to trial before an impartial jury. This right is
guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment and made binding
on the States by the Fourteenth. Ante, at 509. Cf.
Parker v. Gladden, 385 U. S. 363 (1966); see also Adamson v. California, 332 U. S. 46, 68 (1947) (BLACK, J.,
dissenting).
As the Wisconsin Supreme Court suggested, the right
to trial before an impartial jury can be protected in many
ways: by granting a continuance until community passions subside; by challenging jurors for cause and by
peremptory challenges during voir dire proceedings.
But it simply cannot be said that the right to trial by
an impartial jury must necessarily include a right to
change of venue. It may or may not be wiser to implement the Sixth Amendment by a change of venue
provision, but in my view, the Constitution does not
require it. If the usual devices for protection of the
Sixth Amendment right to trial by an i'mpartial jury are
insufficient, the defendant can always be given a new
trial on the ground of jury prejudice.
The Court suggests that Rideau v. Louisiana, 373 U. S.
723 (1963), controls the disposition of this case. But
there we held that prejudicial publicity was so extensive
that it was a denial of due process to refuse a motion
for change of venue where the State had provided for
venue changes as a method of ensuring an impartial
jury. See La. Rev. Stat. § 15:293 (1950). Here Wisconsin has not chosen to provide that means of implementing the Sixth Amendment right in misdemeanor
cases. So long as a defendant can protect his Sixth
Amendment right by a motion for a new trial, I see
no constitutional infirmity in the Wisconsin statute. Nor
does Irvin v. Dowd, 366 U. S. 717 (1961), compel the
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLAcK, J., dissenting

400 U. S.

majority's result. There we held that i motion for a
second change of venue should have been granted despite
a state statute which seemingly permitted only one
change. However, we carefully pointed out that the
Indiana Supreme Court had previously held as a matter
of state law that the statute's literal wording did not
foreclose a second change of venue. 366 U. S., at 721,
citing Gannon v. Porter Circuit Court, 239 Ind. 637, 159
N. E. 2d 713 (1959).
This is not a case where a State has made it impossible for a defendant to implement his right to an impartial jury trial. Wisconsin law provides for voir dire
and continuances, and this appellant exercised his right
to make peremptory challenges to jurors. In holding
that appellant had no constitutional right to a change
of venue in a misdemeanor case, the Wisconsin Supreme
Court pointed out that he could raise the claim of denial
of an impartial jury by a motion for a new trial in
accordance with Wisconsin procedure. 41 Wis. 2d 312,
321, 164 N. W. 2d 266, 270 (1969). Of course it is difficult, even in a small county, to show that its population is
so saturated with prejudice that no impartial jury can
be selected from that group. It is likely to be especially
difficult in a county as large as Milwaukee, with its
population of more than one million. However difficult
that may be, appellant has a right under Wisconsin law
to bring forth any relevant evidence to show that the
jury that tried him was not impartial. I would remand
this case for a hearing on a motion for a new trial.

