WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
Syllabus

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN
No. 95.

Argued December 10, 1970-Decided January 19, 1971

The police chief of Hartford, Wisconsin, pursuant to a state statute,
caused to be posted a notice in all retail liquor outlets in Hartford
that sales or gifts of liquor to appellee, a resident of that city,
were forbidden for one year. The statute provides for such
"posting," without notice or hearing, with respect to any person
who "by excessive drinking" produces certain conditions or exhibits
specified traits, such as exposing himself or family "to want" or
becoming "dangerous to the peace" of the community. On appellee's suit seeking, inter alia, injunctive relief, a three-judge federal
court held the statute unconstitutional as violative of procedural
due process. Held:
1. The label or characterization given an individual by "posting,"
though a mark of serious illness to some, is to others such a
stigma or badge of disgrace that procedural due process requires
notice and an opportunity to be heard. Pp. 436-437.
2. Since here the state statute is unambiguous and there is no
uncertain issue of state law, the federal court properly proceeded
to determine the federal constitutional claim. Zwickler v. Koota,
389 U. S. 241, 250-251. Pp. 437-439.
302 F. Supp. 861, affirmed.
DOUGLAS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which HARLAN,.
BRENNAN, STEWART, WHITE, and MARSHALL, JJ., joined. BURGER,
C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BLACKMUN, J., joined,

post, p. 439. BLACK, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BLACKMUN, J., joined, post, p. 443.

Benjamin Southwick, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, argued the cause for appellant. With him on
the brief were Robert W. Warren, Attorney General, and
Robert D. Martinson, Assistant Attorney General.
S. A. Schapiro argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

400 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellee is an adult resident of Hartford, Wis.

She

brought suit in a federal district court in Wisconsin to
have a Wisconsin statute declared unconstitutional.' A
three-judge court was convened, 28 U. S. C. § 2281.
That court, by a divided vote, held the Act unconstitutional, 302 F. Supp. 861, and we noted probable jurisdiction. 397 U. S. 985.
The Act, Wis. Stat. § 176.26 (1967), provides that
designated persons may in writing forbid the sale or
gift of intoxicating liquors to one who "by excessive
drinking" produces described conditions or exhibits specified traits, such as exposing himself or family "to want"
2
or becoming "dangerous to the peace" of the community.
128 U. S. C. § 1343 provides: "The district courts shall have
original jurisdiction of any civil action authorized by law to be commenced by any person .... (3) To redress the deprivation, under
color of any State law, statute, ordinance, regulation, custom or usage,
of any right, privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution of

the. United States or by any Act of Congress providing for equal
rights of citizens or of all persons within the jurisdiction of the
United States."
2Section 176.26 reads as follows:
"(1) When any person shall by excessive drinking of intoxicating
liquors, or fermented malt beverages misspend, waste or lessen his
estate so as to expose himself or family to want, or the town, city,
village or county to which he belongs to liability for the support of
himself or family, or so as thereby to injure his health, endanger
the loss thereof, or to endanger the personal safety and comfort of
his family or any member thereof, or the safety of any other person,
or the security of the property of any other person, or when any
person shall, on account of the use of intoxicating liquors or fermented malt beverages, become dangerous to the peace of any community, the wife of such person, the supervisors of such town, the
mayor, chief of police or aldermen of such city, the trustees of such
village, the county superintendent of the poor of such county, the
chairman of the county board -of supervisors of such county, the

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
433

Opinion of the Court

The chief of police of Hartford, without notice or hearing to appellee, caused to be posted a notice in all retail
liquor outlets in Hartford that sales or gifts of liquors
to appellee were forbidden for one year. Thereupon this
suit was brought against the chief of police claiming
damages and asking for injunctive relief. The State of
Wisconsin intervened as a defendant on the injunctive
phase of the case and that was the only issue tried and
decided, the three-judge court holding the Act unconstitutional on its face and enjoining its enforcement. The
court said:
"In 'posting' an individual, the particular city
official or
;agid-gis doing more than denying him
the ability to purchase alcoholic beverages within
district attorney of such ccunty or. any of them, may, in writing
signed by her, him or them, forbid all persons knowingly to sell or
give away to such person any intoxicating liquors or fermented malt
beverages, for the space of one year and in like manner may forbid
the selling, furnishing, or giving away of any such liquors or fermented malt beverages, knowingly to such person by any person in
any town, city or village to which such person may resort for the
same. A copy of said writing so signed shall be personally served
upon the person so intended to be prohibited from obtaining any
such liquor or beverage.
"(2) And the wife of such person, the supervisors of any town,
the aldermen of any city, the trustees of any village, the county
superintendent of the poor of such county, the mayor of any city,
the chairman of the county board of supervisors of such county, the
district attorney or sheriff of such county, may, by a notice made
and signed as aforesaid, in like manner forbid all perscns in such
town, city or village, to sell or give away intoxicating liquors or
drinks or fermented malt beverages to any person given to the excessive use of such liquors, drinks or beverages, specifying such person, and such notice shall have the same force and effect when such
specified person is a nonresident as is herein provided when such
specified person is a resident of said town, city or village."
Section 176.28 makes the sale or gift of liquor to such a person a
misdemeanor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

the city limits. In essence, he is giving notice to
the public that he has found the particular individual's behavior to fall within one of the categories
enumerated in the statutes. It would be naive not
to recognize that such 'posting' or characterization
of an individual will expose him to public embarrassment and ridicule, and it is our opinion that procedural due process requires that before one acting
pursuant to State statute cain make such a quasijudicial determination, the individual involved must
be given notice of the intent to post and an opportunity to present his side of the matter." 302 F.
Supp., at 864.
We have no doubt as to the power of a State to deal
with the evils described 'inthe Act. -The police power
of the, States over intoxicating liquors was extremely
broad even prior to the Twenty-first Amendment. Crane
v. Campbell, 245 U. S.304. The only'issue present here
is whether the label or characterization given a person by
"posting," though a mark of serious illness to some, is to
others such a-stigma or badge of disgrace that procedural
due proc.ss requires notice and an opportunity to be
heard. " We agree with the District Court that the private
interest is such that those requiremenits of procedural due
process must be met.
It is significant that most of the provisions of the Bill
of Rights are procedural, for it is procedure that marks
rauch of the difference between rule by law and rule by
fiat.
We reviewed in Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367
U. S.886, 895, the nature of the various "private interest[s]" that have fallen on one side or the other of the
line. See also Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp., 395
U. S. 337, 339-342. Generalizations are hazardous as
some state and federal administrative procedures are sum-

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
433

Opinion of the Court

mary by reason of necessity or history. Yet certainly
where the State attaches "a badge of infamy" to the
citizen, due process comes into play. Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U. S. 183, 191. "[T]he right, to be heard before being condemned to suffer grievous loss of any kind,
even though it may not involve the stigma and hardships
of a criminal conviction, is a principle basic to our
society." Anti-FAscist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S.
123, 168 (Frankfurter, J., concurring).
Where a persop's good name, reputation, honor, or
integrity is at stake because of what the government is
doing to him, notice and an opportunity to be heard are
essential. "Posting" under the Wisconsin Act may 'to
some be merely the mark of illness, to others it is a stigma,
an official branding of a person. The label is a degrading one. Under the Wisconsin Act, a resident of
Hartford is given no process at all. This appellee was
not afforded a chance to defend herself. She may have
been the victim of an official's caprice. Only when the
whole proceedings leading to the pinning of an unsavory
label on a person are aired can oppressive results be
prevented.
It is suggested that the three-judge court slould have
stayed its hand while the aggrieved person repaired to
the state courts to obtain a construction of the. Act or
relief from it. The fact that Wisconsin does not raise
the point does not, of course, mean that it lacks merit.
Yet the suggestion is not in keeping with the precedents.
Congress could, of course, have routed all federal constitutional questions through the state court systems, saving to this Court the final say when it came to review
of the state court judgments. But our First Congress'
resolved differently and created the federal court system
and in time granted the federal courts various heads of
s The first Judiciary Act is in 1 Stat. 73.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

jurisdiction,' which today involve most federal constitutional rights. Once that jurisdiction was granted, the
federal courts resolved those questions even when they
were enmeshed with state law questions. In 1941 we
gave vigor to the so-called abstention dbctrine in Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496. In that
case an authoritative resolution of a knotty state law
question might end the litigation and not give rise to any
federal constitutional claim. Id.,at 501. We, therefore,
directed the District Court to retain the suit pending a
determination by a state court of the underlying state
law question. We applied the abstention doctrine most
recently in Fornaris v. Ridge Tool Co., ante, p. 41,
where a relatively new Puerto Rican statute, which had
not been authoritatively construed by the Commonwealth's courts, "might be judicially confined to a more
narrow ambit which would avoid all constitutional questions." We ordered the federal courts to stay their hands
until the Puerto Rican courts had spoken. Speaking of
Reetz v. Bozanich, 397 U. S. 82, we noted that the "threejudge federal court should not have proceeded to strike
down an Alaska law which, if construed by the Alaska
Supreme Court, might be so confined as not to have any
constitutional infirmity." Ante, at 43. But the abstention rule only applies where "the issue of state law is
uncertain." Harman v. Forssenius, 380 U. S. 528, 534.
Thus our abstention cases have dealt with unresolved
questions of state law which only a state tribunal could
authoritatively construe. Reetz v. Bozanich, supra; City
' 28 U. S. C. § 1343 (3) involved in the present case came into the
statutes in 1871. 17 Stat. 13. In 1875 Congress enlarged federal
jurisdiction by authorizing the "federal question" jurisdiction presently contained in 28 U. S. C. § 1331. See 18 Stat. 470. We recently reviewed this history in Zwickler v. Koota, 389 U. S. 241,

245-248.

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
433

BURGER, C.

J., dissenting

.of Meridian v. Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co., 358 U. S.
639.
In the present case the Wisconsin Act does not contain
any provision whatsoever for notice and hearing. There
is no ambiguity in the state statute. There are no
provisions which could fairly be taken to mean that notice
and hearing might be given under some circumstances
or under some construction but not under others. The
Act on its face gives the chief of police the power to do
what he did to the appellee. Hence the naked question,
uncomplicated by an unresolved state law, is whether
that Act on its face is unconstitutional. As we said in
Zwickler v. Koota, 389 U. S. 241, 251, abstention should
not be ordered merely to await an attempt to vindicate
the claim in a state court. Where there is no ambiguity
in the state statute, the federal court should not abstain
but should proceed to decide the federal constitutional
claim. Id., at 250-251. We would negate the history
of the enlargement of the jurisdiction of the federal district courts,5 if we held the federal court should stay its
hand and not decide the question before the state courts
-decided it.
Affirmed.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

BLACKMUN

with whom MR. JUSTICE

joins, dissenting.

The Court today strikes down, as unconstitutional, a
Wisconsin statute that has never been challenged or
tested in the Wisconsin state courts. The judges of Wisconsin probably will be taken by surprise by our summary action since few, if any, have ever heard of this
case.
5See

n. 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BURGER, C. J., dissenting

400 U. S.

Very likely we reach a correct result since the Wisconsin statute appears, on its face and in its application, to
be in conflict with accepted concepts of due process.
The reason for my dissent is that it seems to me a
very odd business to strike down a state statute, on the
books for almost 40 years, without any opportunity
for the state courts to dispose of the problem either
under the Wisconsin Constitution or the U. S. Constitution. For all we know, the state-couits would find this
statute invalid under the State Constitution,' but no one
on either side of the case thought to discuss this or
exhibit any interest in the subject. Since no one could
reasonably think that the judges of Wisconsin Lave less
fidelity to due process requirements of the Feder-al Constitution than we do, this case is, for me, a classic
illustration of one in which we should decline to act until
resort to state courts has been exhausted. At oral argument counsel for Mrs. Constantineau was candid in saying that he had deliberately avoided resort to the state
courts because he could secure, and indeed did secure, a
three-judge federal district court to decide the issue and,
in that posture, appeal would lie directly to this Court.
Only recently in the 1969 Term we held unanimously
that a challenge, under the Equal Protection Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment and under certain provisions
of the Alaska Constitution, to the constitutionality of a
state statute restricting commercial salmon fishing licenses should not have been decided by the federal district court until the courts of Alaska had acted. There,
Although Wisconsin has no due process clause as such, Art. I,
§ 1, of the Wisconsin Constitutiofi has been held by the Wisconsin
Supreme Court to be substantially equivalent to the limitation on
state action contained in the Due Process and Equal Protection
Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pauly v. Keebler, 175
Wis. 428,, 185 N. W. 554 (1921).

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
433

BURGER, C. J., dissenting

as here, the statute's challenger wanted to use the "short
cut" Congress has authorized. As here, the "short cut"
was to convene a three-judge federal district court which
held the Alaska statute invalid. Notwithstanding that
the license applicants presented a sound claim, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, speaking for a unanimous Court, said:
"We are advised that the provisions of the Alaska
Constitution at issue have never been interpreted by
an Alaska court. The District Court, feeling sure of
its grounds on the merits, held, however, that this
was not a proper case for abstention, saying that 'if
the question had been presented to an Alaska court,
it would have shared our conviction that the chal'.nged gear licensing scheme is not supportable.'
297 F. Supp., at 304. The three-judge panel was a
distinguished one, two being former Alaska lawyers.
And they felt that prompt decision was necessary to
avoid the 'grave and irreparable' injury to the 'eeonomic livelihood' of the appellees which would result,
if they could not engage in their occupation 'during
this year's forthcoming fishing season.' Ibid.
"It is, of course, true that abstention is-not necessary whenever a federal court is faced with a question of local law, the classic case being Meredith v.
Winter Haven, 320 U. S. 228, where federal jurisdiction was based on diversity only. Abstention certainly involves duplication of effort and expense and

an attendant delay. See England v. Louisiana State
Board, 375 U. S. 411. That is why we have said
that this judicially created rule which stems from
Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496,
should be applied only where 'the issue of state law
is uncertain.' Harman v. Forssenius, 380 U. S. 528,
534." Reetz v. Bozanich, 397 U. S. 82, 86 (1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BURGER, C. J., dissenting

400 U.S.

This very wise doctrine is an essential one of policy
and is a keystone of federalism. Previously this Court
had underscored this concept, saying:
"Proper exercise of federal jurisdiction requires
that controversies involving unsettled questions of
state law be decided in the state tribunals preliminary to a federal court's consideration of the underlying federal constitutional questions. . . . In such
a case, when the state court's interpretation of the
statute or evaluation of its validity under the state
constitution may obviate any need to consider its
validity under the Federal Constitution, the federal
court should hold its hand, lest it render a constitutional decision unnecessarily." City of Meridian v.
Southern Bell Tel. & Tel: Co., 358 U. S. 639, 640641 (1959).
See also Fornaris v. Ridge Tool Co., ante, p. 41.
It is no answer to contend that there is no ambiguity
in the Wisconsin statute and hence no need to abstain;
in Reetz the Alaska statute could not have been more
plain, or less susceptible of a limiting construction. Yet,
in furtherance of this Court's firm policy to steer around
head-on collisions with the States by avoiding unnecessary constitutional decisions, we reversed the District
Court and remanded with instructions to stay its hand
while the litigants exhausted state court remedies for
resolution of their challenge to the statute. See also
Fornarisv. Ridge Tool Co., supra. Reetz cannot be distinguished and I see no reason to depart from the principles it reaffirmed.2
2

Here there is not the urgency presented by Reetz where our

action in remanding for state court consideration effectively precluded appellees from securing a commercial. fishing license for at
least one more season. No such urgency is presented by the instant
case.

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU
433

443

BLACK, J., dissenting

I quite agree that there is no absolute duty to abstainto stay our hand-until the state courts have at least
been asked to construe their own statute, but for. me
it is the negation of sound judicial administration- and
an unwarranted use of a limited judicial resource-to
impose this kind of case on a three-judge federal district
court, and then, by direct appeal, on this Court. Indeed,
in my view, a three-judge district court would be well
advised in cases such as this, involving no urgency or
question of large import, to decline to act.
This Court has an abundance of important work to do,
which, if it is to be done well, should not be subject to
the added pressures of non-urgent state cases which the
state courts have never been called on to resolve.
Neither the historic role of this Court nor any reasonable
duty placed on us, calls for our direct intervention when
no reason for expedited review is shown. Here we have
an example of an unwise statute making direct review
prima facie available, and an unwillingness by the Court
to follow its own §recedents by declining to pass on the
Wisconsin statute before Wisconsin courts do so. We
should remand this case with directions to the three-judge
court to refrain from acting until the Wisconsin courts
have acted.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE BLACK-

MUN joins, dissenting.
I agree substantially with the dissent of.THE CHIF
JUSTICE. I would vacate the District Court's judgm&nt
and remand with directions, to withhold its proceedings
to enable appellee to. file a declaratory judgment or other
state court action challenging the polfce chief's posting
of notices in all Hartford retail liquor outlets forbidding
sales or giftsof liquors to appellee for one year. As the

406-342 0 - 71 - 35

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
BLCK, J., dissenting

400 U. S.

Court's opinion, the cases there cited, and THE CHIEF
JUSTICE'S

dissent point out, such a course of action is

justified "where the issue of state law is uncertain" and
where the state court might confine the state law's
meaning so "as not to have any constitutional infirmity." The Wisconsin Act appears on its face to
grant authority to a man's wife, a mayor, a town's
supervisors, the county superintendent of the poor, a
sheriff, or a district attorney to post notices forbidding
liquor establishments from giving or selling any alcoholic beverages to the person so posted. The effect
of such sweeping powers, if there is nothing else in
'the State's law to limit them, is practically the same
as that of an old common-law bill of attainder, against
which our forebears had such an abhorrence that they
forbade it in Art. I, § 9, of the Constitution. See, e. g.,
'United States v. Lovett; 328 U. S.303 (1946). And here
the Wisconsin law purports on its face to place such
arbitrary and tyrannical power in the hands of minor
officers and others that these modern bills of attainder
can be issued ex parte, without notice or hearing of any
kind or character. It is) impossible for me to believe
that the Supreme Court of Wisconsin would uphold any
such boundless power over the lives and liberties of its
citizens. It seems to me therefore wholly uncertain that
the state law has the meaning it purports to have, and
I believe it is unfair to Wisconsin to permit its courts
to be denied the opportunity of confining this law within
its proper limits if it could be shown that there are other
state law provisions that could provide such boundaries.
For example, notice and-hearing might be provided by
principles of state administrative procedure law similar
to the federal Administrative Procedure Act.
I realize that there are many cases where federal courts
should not stay their hands to permit state courts to

WISCONSIN v. CONSTANTINEAU

433

445

BLACK, J., dissenting

interpret state law. Compare Clay v. Sun Insurance
Office, 363.U. S. 207, 213-227 (1960) (BLACK, J., dissenting), with Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U.'S. 315 (1943).
Here, however, no state court appears to have passed on
this Act at all, and a state decision might well apply the
body of other state law to require notice, hearing, and
other necessary provisions to render the challenged Act
constitutional.

