DAVIS v. ADAMS

1203

Opinion in Chambers

DAVIS v. ADAMS, SECRETARY OF STATE
OF FLORIDA
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

Decided August 5, 1970*
Applicants, would-be candidates for Congress, seek to stay a judgment of the Florida Supreme Court upholding a state law that
requires state officials to resign before becoming candidates for
another office. Since the constitutional issues cannot be finally
resolved before the September 8, 1970, primary election, and the
risk of injury to the applicants outweighs that to Florida, the
applications for stays are granted.
See: 238 So. 2d 415.
MR: JUSTICE BLACK,

Circuit Justice.

The State of Florida has enacted a law that requires
the incumbent of a state elective office to resign before
he can become a candidate for another office. Fla. Laws
1970, c. 70-80. The validity of this enactment is chal-

lenged because the Florida Secretary of State has applied
it to bar the candidacies for the United States House
of Representatives of William E. Davis, currently sheriff
of Escambia County, Florida, and James J. Ward, Jr.,

currently mayor of the city of Plantation, Florida.

The

Supreme Court of Florida has upheld the actions of the

Secretary of State.'

On the other hand, a three-judge

federal district court in the Northern District of Florida
has invalidated Florida's law as applied to another sheriff

seeking to qualify as a candidate for Congress.'

Ulti-

*Together with Ward v. Adams, Secretary of State of Florida,
also on application for stay.
'Florida ex rel. Davis v. Adams,. 238 So. 2d 415 (Fla. 1970),
aff'd on rehearing, id., at 418.
2 Stack v. Adams, 315 F. Supp. 1295 (ND Fla. 1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion in Chambers

400 U. S.

mately, the question presented by these disputes is
whether Florida can constitutionally add to or subtract
from the qualifications established by federal law for
candidates for federal office. Because the primary election in these cases will be held on September 8, 1970,
however, time will not permit a final resolution of these
constitutional controversies before the voters go to the
polls.
I must decide, then, whether" these two candidates
must be permitted to run for the United States House
of Representatives. The decision necessarily requires
a forecast of this Court's decision on the constitutionality of the Florida statute, should the Court decide to
hear these cases. On balance, I am inclined to think
the Court would hold that Florida has exceeded its constitutional powers. Beyond that judgment, these applications require me to consider the possibility of injury
to one of the parties should my forecast on the merits
be wrong. If I were to deny these applications and the
Court were later to invalidate the Florida statutes, these
men would have been unconstitutionally deprived of
their right to run for office. If, on the other hand, I
grant relief and the Court should later sustain the
Florida statute, little damage would have been done.
The applicants might lose at the polls, and even if they
were to be elected, Florida could challenge them as having failed to qualify. The risk of injury to the applicants from striking their names from the ballot outweighs
the risk of injury to Florida from permitting them to run.
The applications for stays are granted.

