OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error. 226 U. S.

FOUR HUNDRED AND FORTY-THREE CANS OF
FROZEN EGG PRODUCT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 590. Argued October 24, 25, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
The provision in§ 10 of th6 Pure Food Act of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat.
768, c. 3915, that proceedings for seizure of goods shall be by libel
and conform, as near as may be, to proceedings in admiralty, does
not include appellate proceedings; the action of the District Court
on the libel can only be reviewed as at common law by writ of error
and not' by appeal.
When Congress enacted the Pure Food Act it was known that as to
seizures on land the District Court proceeded as in actions at common law.
The provision for jury trial in .§10 of the Pure Food Act was probably
inserted by Congress with a view to removing any question of constitutionality of thb act.
While proceedings for seizure and condemnation under § 10 of the
Pure Food Act are intended to be summary, the owner, as this couit
construes the statute, has a right to a hearing in a court of record,
with a right of review upon questions of law by writ of error in ihe
Circuit Court of Appeals, and where more than $1,000 is involved
finally in this court under § 6 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction to review. the action
of the District Court on a libel filed under the Pure Food Act, neither
its own action thereon nor the consent of the parties could give such
jurisdiction.
Where the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeds without jurisdiction this
court should, on acquiring jurisdiction of the cause, remand it to the
Circuit Court of Appeals with instructions to dismiss the appeal for
want of jurisdiction.
193 Fed. Rep. 589, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ralph S. Rounds for appellant and plaintiff in error:
The proceeding was one at common law which. the Circuit Court of Appeals could acquire no jurisdiction to re-'

443 CANS .OF EGG PRODUCT.
226 U. S.

Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

view by appeal, and appeal having been taken and not
error, the judgment reversing the decree of the trial court
is void for lack of jurisdiction.
Although, this statute prescribes that the proceedings
shall conform "as near as raay be to the proceedings in
admiralty," the proceeding being a seizure on land is,
in its nature, a common-law proceeding. The Sarah, 8
Wheat. 391; Morris's Cotton, 8.Wall. 507; United States
V. Bales' of Cotton, 154 U. S. 556; Union Insurance Co. v.
United States, 6 Wall. 759; .Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall.
766; St. Louis Street Foundry, 6 Wall. 770; United States
v. Emholt, 105 U. S. 414.
The objection that the case was, not properly before
the Circuit Court of Appeals on appeal is jurisdictional
and could not be waived. Consent will not give jurisdiction. Brooks v. Norris, 11 How. 204; Barry v. Mercien, 5
How. 103; United States v. Curry, 6 How. 106; Jones v.
La Vallette, 5 Wall. 579; Sarchet v.' United States, 12 Pet.
143; Ballance v. Forsyth, 21 How. 389; Kelsey v. Forsyth,
21 How. 85; The Lucy, 8 Wall. 307; United States v. Emholt, 105 U. S. 414.
The Circuit Courts of Appeals of the several. circuits
have given effect to the statute by consistently following
the rule laid down by the Supreme Court. Stevens v.
Clark, 62 Fed. Rep. 321; De Lemas v. United States, 107
Fed. Rep. 121; Nelson v. Huitekoper, 66 Fed. Rep. 616;
Leo Lung On v. United States, 159 Fed. Rep. 125; Taylor
on Jurisdiction of U. S. Supreme Court, § 119.
The practice followed by this court in cases where the
trial court or intermediate appellate court is without
jurisdiction is to reverse the decree and to direct the
inferior court to dismiss the proceeding. Mordec.i v..
Lindsay, 19 How. 199; Stickr,-ey v. Wilt, 23 Wall. 150, 162;
United States V. Huckabee, 16 Wall. 414, 435.
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not have, and could
not by any procedure obtain, the right to review the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error. 226 U. S.

judgment below upon the facts, and its action in doing
so was reversible error.
Proceedings of condemnation under the Pure Food Act
are triable by jury under § 566, Rev. Stat., and where an
issue of fact has been raised and trial had before the court
without a jury' no question is open for review by the Circuit Court of Appeals, except those arising upon the
process, pleadings or judgment, because there is no statutory or common-law provision allowing the review of the
proceedings on trial in such a case. Campbell v. Boyreau,
21 How. 223; Rogers v. United States, 141 U. S. 548.
A proceeding for the condemnation of property on land
is a common-law proceeding. The Sarah, 8 Wheat. 391;
Morris's Cotton, 8 Wall. 507; Union Insurance Co. v.
United States, 6 Wall. 759; Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall.
766; United States v. Emholt, 105 U. S. 414; Parsons
v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433; Insurance Co. v. Comstock, 16
Wall. 258; § 566, Rev.' Stat.; Parsons v. Bedford et al., 3
Pet. 433, 447.
It follows that unless a jury is waived a proceeding of
condemnation under the Pure Food Act, being a commonlaw proceeding, must be tried before a jury, unless the
provisions of § 566, Rev. Stat., have been modified or
repealed by the provisions of that act.
If a'jury is waived, however, the procedure is so irregular that an appellate court can acquire no jurisdiction to
review the proceedings had at trial, although the judgment is not erroneous and will be upheld. Kearney v.
Case, 12 Wall. 275. See § 10 of the Pure Food Act, cited
with approval in White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 551.
Where Congress has changed the rule that common-law
cases shall be tried by a jury, it has done so in plain and
unmistakable terms. Sections 648, 649, Rev. Stat., aujury.
thorize trials in the Circuit Court without a
The trial had in the District Court being a trial of a
common-law Cause and a jury having been waived, the

443 CANS OF ]EGG PRODUCT.,
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

judgment of the court was*not open for review even upon
writ .of error, except as to errors arising from the process, pleadings or judgment. See Dirst v. Morris, 14 Wall.
484; Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237; Cooper v. Omohundro, 19 Wall. 65; Martinton v. Fairbanks, 112 U. S.
670; Wilson v. Merchants' Loan & Trust Co., 183 U. S.
121; Distilling & Cattle Feeding Co. v. Gottschalk Co., 66
Fed. Rep. 609; Hill v. Walker, 167 Fed. Rep. 241; Bond
v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604; Dundee Mortgage Co. v. Hughes,
124 U. S. 157; Spalding v. Manasse, 131 U. S. 65.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom
Mr. Louis G. Bissell was on the brief, for the United
States:
Congress has provided for the review of libels under the
Food and Drugs Act by appeal where a jury trial is
waived.
The entire proceedings, with the exception stated, are
to conform to those in admiralty. The word "proceedings" covers all steps taken in a case from its inception,
including those necessary to remove the case to a higher
court for review. O'Deav. Washington County, 3 Nebraska,
118; Campbell v. United States, 224 U. S. 99; United States
v. 779 Cases of Molasses, 174 Fed. Rep. 327.
Deland v. Platte County, 155 U. S. 221; Oklahoma City
v. McMaster, 196 U. S. 529, are not pertinent, for Congress had not there prescribed the appellate procedure in
the event of waiver of a jury trial.
But 'if appellant's construction were correct, the objection was waived in the Circuit Court of Appeals. Mordecai v. Lindsay, 19 How. 199; Stickney v. Wilt, 23 Wall.
150, distinguished.
The question of the proper method of review is important because of the uncertainty in the lower courts.
In some cases the review has been by appeal, United
States v. 65 Casks of Liquid Extract, 175. Fed. Rep. 102;

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

United States v. 74 Cases of Grape Juice, 189 Fed. Rep.
331; and in others it has been by writ of error. United
States v. 779 Cases of Molasses, 174 Fed. Rep. 325; United
States v. 275 Cases of Tomato Catsup, 185 Fed. Rep. 405;
Hudson Manufacturing Co. v. United States, 192 Fed. Rep..
920; Henning v. United States, 193 Fed. Rep. 52.
The trial in the Court of Appeals was properly a new
trial upon the whole record.
Under the admiralty practice the appeal removed into
the appellate court the entire record for a new trial.
The original Judiciary Act of 1879 provided for the
review of equity and admiralty cases by writ of error, and
under that act this court could consider only matters of
law in such cases.
The act of March 3, 1803, 2 Stat. 244, now § 692, Rev.
Stat., restored the old practice, and provided for the right
of review in admiralty cases by appeal. Under that act
this court tried the case de novo. Yeaton v. United States,
5 Cranch, 281; Irvine v. Hesper, 122 U. S. 256; Munson S.
S. Line v. MiramarS. S. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 690.
Under act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, it was
held that this court was limited to questions of law as
before the act of 1803. The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440; The
Francis Wright, 105 U. S. 381.
The Circuit Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891,
transferred appellate jurisdiction in admiralty causes to
the courts of appeals and made their jurisdiction final.
This part of the act has become § 128 of the Judicial Code.
The courts of appeals for .the several circuits have
agreed in holding that the act of 1875. was'not applicable
to admiralty appeals from the District Courts, but that
the case is brought up for trial de novo in accordance with
the practice in this court before 1875. The Philadelphian,
60 Fed. Rep. 423; The Havilah, 48 Fed. Rep. 684; Munson
S. S. Line v. Miramar S. S. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 960; The
E. A. Packer, 58 Fed. Rep, 251; Earn Line S. S. Co. v.

443 CANS OF EGG PRODUCT.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ennis, 165 Fed. Rep. 633; The Brandywine, 87 Fed. Rep.
652; City of Cleveland v. Chisholm, 90 Fed. Rep. 431;
Royal Exch. Assurance v. Graham, 166 Fed. Rep. 32;
Pioneer Fuel Co. v. McBrier, 84 Fed. Rep. 495; The State
of California, 49 Fed. Rep. 172; The Bailey Gatzert, 179
Fed. Rep. 44.
*Thejurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final,
and the appeal and writ of error herein must be dismissed.
See § 128 of the Judicial Code.
Congress never intended to cast upon this court the
burdeii of deciding every case of this character where the
amount involved might exceed one thousand dollars.
Such has been the practical construction of this act
during the six years of its enforcement. Of the thousands
of suits under it but.-few .havecome to this court. Two
were criminal cases, brought here by the Government
under the Criminal Appeals Act, of 1907, United States v.
.Johnson,221 U. S. 488; United States v. Morgan, 222 U. S.
274, while a forfeiture case (Hipolite Egg Company v.
United States, 220 U. S. 45, 49), was heard on a question
of jurisdiction certified by the District Court; the fourth
case (United States v. Antikamnia Chemical Company,
No. 455, this term) arose in the District of Columbia, and
the appeal is governed, by other statutes.
This is the only case therefore in which it has been
claimed that the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is not final.
The writ of error and the appeal should be dismissed.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here on both writ of error to and appeal
from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, reversing the judgment of the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey dismissing
a libel brought by the United States which had for its
object the condemnation of four hundred and forty-three
VOL. ccxxvi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

cans of frozen egg product seized under the Pure Food
Act of June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 768, c. 3915).
The United States filed its libel alleging that four hundred and forty-three cans of frozen egg product, in the
possession of the Merchants' Refrigerating Company at
Jersey City, New Jersey, consisted in whole or in part of
a "filthy, decomposed and putrid animal, to wit, egg substance," and praying for their condemnation. At the
trial the issues were narrowed so as to exclude filthy and
putrid substances, leaving the charge to stand as to decomposed substance. Three hundred and forty-two cans
were seized. The H. J. Keith Company appeared and
claimed the goods, denying the charges concerning them.
The case was tried without a jury to the District Judge,
who entered a decree dismissing the libel. The United
States took an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and, after consideration in that court, the decree dismissing the libel was reversed and, upon the facts, a decree of
condemnation in favor of the Government was entered.
193 Fed. Rep. 589. The claimant, the H. J. Keith Company, thereupon appealed to this court, and also sued out
a writ of error to the same decree.
We are met at the outset with a question of jurisdiction.
Section 10 of the Pure Food Act provides:
"That any article of food . . . that is adulterated
or misbranded within the meaning of this Act, and is
being transported from one State . . . to another
for sale, . . . shall be liable to be proceeded against
in any district court of the United States within the district where the same is found, and seized for confiscation
by a process of libel for condemnation. . . . The
proceedings of such libel cases shall conform, as near as
may be, to the proceedings in admiralty, except that either
party may demand trial by jury of any issue of fact joined
in any such case, and all such proceedings shall be at the
suit 'of and in the name of the United States."

443 CANS OF EGG PRODUCT.
226 U. S.

Opinion f the Court.

It will be observed that the last sentence of the section
provides that "the proceedings of such libel cases shall
conform, as near as may be, to the proceedings in admiralty, except that either party may demand trial by jury.
of any issue of fact joined in any such 'case, and all such
proceedings shall be at the suit of and in the name of the
United States." The contention- of the Government upon
this question of jurisdiction is, that .the Words, "conform,
as near as may be, to the proceedings in admiralty,"
mean, except in cases where jury trial is demanded, to
include appellate proceedings, as well, as original proceed-'
irigs in the District. Court, and-therefore the review of the
judgments of the :District Court would V'l$by appear to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, as in admiralty cases under
the Circuit' Court of Appeals Act (26 Stat. 826, c. 517)
and under the Judicial Code (36 Stat. 1087, 1133, c. 231,
§ 128). If that is a proper construction of the statute,
then the Circuit Court of Appeals had the right to review
the case upon the facts and enter a final decree, which,
under the Circuit Court of Appeals Act and Judicial Code,
would be reviewable here only upon writ of certiorari.
The appellant, also plaintiff in error, contends that the
seizure being upon land, the prbceeding was at law and
reviewable only upon writ of error in the Circuit 'Court of
Appeals; that the attempted appeal did not give the Circuit Court of Appeals jurisdiction, and that upon the
wr't of error here this court should reverse the judgment
and remand the case to that court with directions to dismiss the appeal.
The determination of thds controversy requires some
examination of previous legislation and f the decisions of
this court interpreting such legislation as to the nature and
extent of the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the
United States in seizure cases.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 73, 76, c. 20, § 9)
gave to the District Courts;

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U: S.

"Exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including all seizures
under laws of impost, navigation or trade of the United
States, where the seizures are made, on waters which are
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons
burthen, within their respective districts as well as upon
the-high seas; saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of a
common law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it; and . . . also have exclusive original cognizance of .all seizures on land, or other waters than
as aforesaid, made, and of all suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred, under the laws of the United States."
In the case of The Sarah, 8 Wheat. 391, a libel was filed
against 422 casks of wine alleging a forfeiture by false
entry. It appearing in the course of the trial that the
seizure was made on land, it was held that this court could
not review the case save upon writ of error. Chief Justice
Marshall, delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 394):
"By the act constituting the judicial system of the
United States, the district courts are courts both of common law and admiralty jurisdiction. In the trial of all cases
of seizure on land, the court sits as a court of common law.
In cases of seizure made on waters navigable by vessels
of ten tons burthen and upwards, the court sits as a-court
of admiralty. In all cases at common law, the trial must
be by jury. In cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, it has been settled, in the cases of The Vengeance
(reported in 3 Dallas' Rep. 297); The Sally (in 2 Cranch's
Rep. 406) and The Betsy and Charlotte (in 4 Cranch's
Rep. 433),. that the trial is to be by the court.
"Although the two jurisdictions are vested in the same
tribunal, they are as distinct from each other as if they were
vested in different tribunals, and can no more be blended,
than a court of chancery with-a court of common law."
A statute, practicalUy the same, with some slight
changes, was embodied in § 563 of the Revised Statutes,

443 CANS OF EGG PRODUCT.
226 U. S.

181"

Opinion of the Court.

subdivision 8, giving, the District Courts jurisdiction "of
all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
and of all seizures on land and on waters
not within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," the sub-.
division mentioned omitting the provision found in the
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 to which we have referred as to seizures "within their respective districts,",
andincluding cases of "seizures on land and- on waters
not vithin ardmiralfy and maritime jurisdiction." Under
this statute it has been uniformly held that the District
Court as to seizures on land proceeds as a court of common
law with trial by jury and not as a court of admiralty.
United States v. Winchester, 99 U.. S. 372.
Questions analogous to the one here came before this
court in construing the Confiscation Acts enacted in 1861
and 1862. This court, in Union Insurance Co. v. United
States, 6 Wall. 759, construed the act of Congress of
August 6, 1861, entitled "An act to confiscate property
used
for insurrectionary purposes." That
act provided
for the seizure of such property and its condemnation in
the District or Circuit Court having jurisdiction of the
amount, or in admiralty in any district -in which the'
property might be- seized, and authorized the Attorney
General to institute proceedings of condemnatibn. In
that case it was held that in the condemnation of real
estate or property on land the proceedings were to be
shaped in general conformity to the practice n admiralty,
but in respect to trial by jury and exceptions to evidence
the proceedings should conform to the course of pro~eeding by information on the common-law side of the court.
It was held that where proceedings for the forfeiture of real
estate were had in conformity with the practice in courts
of admiralty they could not be reviewed in this court by
appeal, and that the case could come here only for the
purpose of reversing the decree and directing 4new trial.'
In the case of Morris's' Cotton,, 8 Wall. 507, this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

had under consideration the acts of 1861 and of July 17,
1862, which act provided (12 Stat. 589,. 591, § 7) for the
institution of proceedings in the name of the United States
in any District Court, etc., where the property might be
found, etc., "which proceedings shall conform as nearly
as may be to proceedings in admiralty or revenue cases."
In the Morris Case it was said (pj.511):
"Where the seizure is made on navigable waters, within
the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, the case. belongs, to
the instance side of the District Court; but where the
seizure was made on land, the suit, though in the form of
a libel of information, is an action at common law, and
the claimants are entitled to trial by jury.
"Seizures, when made on waters.which are navigable,
from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden, are exclusively cognizable in the District Courts, subject to appeal,
as provided by law; but all seizures on land or on.waters
not navigable, and all suits instituted/ to recover penalties
and forfeitures incurred, except for seizures on navigable
waters, must be prosecuted as other common-law suits,
and can only be removed into this court by writ of error."
This jurisdiction of the District Court was known to
Congress at the time it passed the Pure Food Act, as were
the decisions of this court construing the former acts of
Congress, and it declared that such proceedings shall conform to those in, admiralty, as near. as may be, giving to
either party, however, the'right to demand a trial by jury
in case of issues. of fact joined. We think this act must be
held to have been passed not to confer a new jurisdiction
upon the District Court, but in recognition of the jurisdiction already created in seizures upon land and water.
The act makes no refereice, in conforming the proceedings
as near as may be to.those in admiralty, to appellate procedure. It leaves that to be determined by. the nature of
the case and the statutes already in force. It is true that
the right of trial by jury is preserved, where 'demanded

443 CANS OF EGG PRODUCT..
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by either party. We think Congress inserted this provision with a view to removing any question as to the
constitutionality of the act. It was held under the Confiscation Acts, although no such specific provision is contained, that the action provided was one at common law,
with a right to trial by jury. The Seventh Amendment.
to the Constitution preserves the right of trial by jury in
suits at common law involving more than twenty, dollars,
and provides that no fact tried by a jury shall be reviewed
otherwise than according to the rules of the conmon law.
Having in mind these provisions and as well the construction of the previous acts, we think it was the purpose of
Congress to leave no doubt as to the 'right of trial by jury
in' the law proceeding for condemnation which the act
intended to provide.
These proceedings. for the seizure and condemnation of
property which is"impure or adulterated are intended to
be in a sense summary, and yet the statute as wve have
construed it gives the owner a right to a hearing in a court
of record with a right ,of review upon questions of law by
writ of error in the Circuit Court, of Appeals, and, where
more than one thousand dollars is involved, finally in this.
court (§ 6 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act). It is to
be noted in this connection that where the examination
of specimens of food or drugs made by the Department
of Agriculture shows that the articles ,are adulterated or
misbranded, the parties from whom the specimens were
obtained are (§ 4 of the Pure Food act) given a hearing
before the matter is certified to the district attorney by the
Secretary.of Agriculture.
We do not think it was intended to liken the,proceedings
to those in admiralty beyond the seizure of the property
by process in rem, then giving the case the character of a
law action, with trial by jury if demanded and with the
review already obtaining in actions at law. It is true
that, if the action is tried in the District Court without a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

jury, the Circuit Court of Appeals is limited to a consideration of such questions of law as may have been presented
by the record proper, independently of the special finding.
Campbell v. United States, 224 U. S. 99. But the party on
jury trial may reserve his exceptions, take a bill of exceptions and have a review upon writ of error in the manner
we have pointed out.
It is insisted for the Government that inasmuch as the
hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals upon appeal was
without objection by the claimant, the jurisdictional objection was waived. We cannot take that view. As we
construe the statute, the Circuit Court of Appeals had no
jurisdiction upon the appeal, and neither the action of
the court nor the consent of the parties could give it. Leo
Lung On v. United States, 159 Fed. Rep. 125; Jones v.
La Vallette, 5 Wall. 579; United States v. Emholt, 105 U. S.
414; Perez v. Fernandez, 202 U. S. 80, 100.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals, in our opinion, proceeded without jurisdiction by reason of the appeal, this
court, having acquired jurisdiction, should reverse the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and remand the
case to that court with instructions to dismiss the appeal
for want of jurisdiction. Union & Planters'Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71.
Judgment accordingly.

TOYOTA v. TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY. OF
HAWAII.
No. 49.

Submitted November 13, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

Section 1343, Revised,Laws of Hawaii, imposing a license fee of sixhundred dollars for auctioneers in the district of Honolulu and
fifteen dollars for each other taxation district, is not unconstitutional

