OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

clearly right in holding that the evidence did not establish
that the letters patent were conveyed or delivered to the
Postmaster-General.
The theory of implied contract is likewise untenable.
In the first place, the want of statutory authority on the
part of the Postmaster-General to represent the Government in making an express contract is equally fatal to the
theory of an implied contract. For it is fundamental that
he who is without authority to bind his principal by an
express contract cannot be held to have done so by implication.
Another and sufficient answer is that the appellant has
failed to show any use by the Postmaster-General or his
successors of the patented inventions or devices of the
appellant, or to show that the contractors or agents of the
Government have made any use of them. His case here
fails because he does not show that the inventions or
devices'used are those covered by his patents.
Therefore the Court of Claims correctly held that the
appellant had not made out a case of contract.
Judgment affirmed.

ROSENTHAL v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MONROE COUNTY, IN THE
STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 28. ' Argued November 5, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
The prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendmexit against abridgment of
privileges or immunities of a citizen of the United States relates only
to such privileges and immunities as pertain to citizenship of the
United States as distinguished from state citizenship. Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.

ROSENTHAL v. NEW YORK.
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A State may, in the exercise of its police power, classify separately
particular kinds of personal property which the legislature considers,'
more susceptible of theft than other property.
It is not unreasonable or arbitrary to require dealers in junk to make
diligent inquiry to ascertain that persons selling to them wire cable,
iron &c. belonging to railroads or telegraph companies have a legal
right to do so.
Dealers who provide an important and separate market for a particular class of stolen goods may be put in a class by themselves, and
so as to dealers in junk.
One not included in a class established by a police statute or who is not
injuriously affected by the classificatfon cannot be heard to attack
the statute on the ground that the classification denies equal protection of the law.
A State is not required to go as far as it may in establishing a police
reguh tion; the entire field of proper legislation need not be covered
in a single act.
Section 550 of the Penal .Code of New York as amended in 1903,prohibiting dealers in junk from buying wire, copper, &c., used by, or
belonging to a railroad, telephone or telegraph company without first
ascertaining by diligent inquiry that the person selling had a legal
right to do so, is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment eithcr as depriving junk dealers of their property without due
process of law or denying them equal protection of the law by an
arbitrary classification of junk dealers or of the property specified.
Whether a state law is unconstitutional as ex post facto by reason of the
construction given it by the state court iot considered in this case
because no such point was raised in the 66urt below or covered by
assignments of error in this court.
197 N. Y. 394, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute cf New York relating to dealers in junk, are stated

in the opinion.
Mr. Percival D. Oviatt for plaintiff in error:

Chapter 326 of the Laws of 1903, is unconstitutional
even as interpreted by the New York Court of Appeals.
The laws relating to criminally receiving stolen prop-

erty as they existed prior to 1903, were adequate to pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

tect against the evils involved. Chapter 308, Laws of
1903, compels every junk dealer to obtain a license. See
People v. Wilson, 151 N. Y. 403; People v. Dowling, 84
N. Y. 478, 485.
See also § 290, subd. 6 of the Penal Code providing that
no junk dealer shall receive or purchase anything from
a child under sixteen years of age; Laws of 1907, Chapter
755, New Charter of Rochester. The statute cannot be
constitutional as to cities of the first class, and unconstitutional as to all other places.
There is no justification for the Court of Appeals to
say that the materials are usually of such shape and form
as to indicate use or ownership.
The statute applies only to dealers in metals, etc., and
is class legislation based upon illogical and arbitrary distinctions. Re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 106; People v. Marx,
99 N. Y. 377; Madden v. Dycker, 72 App. Div. 308;
Schnaier v. Navarre Hotel & Importation Co., 182 N. Y.
83; Wright v. Hart, 182 N. Y. 330; Buffalo v. Linsman,
113 App. Div. 584; Fisher Co. v. Woods, 187 N. Y. 90;
People V. Williams, 189 N. Y. 131; Tyroler v. Warden,
157 N. Y. 116; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 56;
Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79, 107; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356, 369; Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 294; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150; Josma v. Western Steel Car Co., 249 Illinois,
508; Chicago v. Lowenthal, 242 Illinois, 404.
The case at bar involves any dealer in metals, not only
junk dealers. Fisher Co. v. Woods, 187 N. Y. 90; People v.
Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 1; Phillips v. Raynes, 136 App. Div.
417; People v. Beattie, 96 App. Div. 383.
The statute is solicitous concerning the property of
only railroad, telephone, gas and electric companies, and
is class legislation based upon illogical and arbitrary
dictinctions.
This legislation is as offensive as that which was de-

ROSENTHAL v. NEW YORK.
226 U. S.

Argument for ]Plaintiff in Error.

clared unconstitutional in Shaver v. Pennsylvania Co.,
71 Fed. Rep. 931; Wright v. Hart, supra; Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, 56.
The motive for passing the statute in the case at bar
was not to protect all persons similarly situated, owning
the property described, but it was to protect only the
specific corporations named without regard to the welfare of the other owners of the same character of property.
Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79, 109; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 1.
The incident of who owned the property can have no
bearing upon the guilt or innocence of the purchaser.
If the property is of such a nature that it is peculiarly susceptible to theft, it is the nature of the property and not the
owner of it which constitutes the fundamental and logical
distinction. Phillips v. Raynes, 136 App. Div. 417, 425;'
People v. Marcus, 110 Am. Dec. 255; Appel v. Zimmerman,
102 Am. Dec. 103; People v. Beattie, 96' Am. Dec. 383,
392; In re Van Home, 70 AtI. Rep. 986.
The statute required the plaintiff in error to determine
a legal question which was not a question as to whether
the property. had been stolen, but the question as to the
legal right of the seller to sell it. Lawton v. Steel, 119
N. Y. 226; Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79; United States v.
Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Co.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Rodgers v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1;
Board of Commissioners v. Merchant, 103 N. Y. 143, 148;
People v. Gillson, 109 N. Y.. 389, 400.
In the case at bar, the dealer's power to purchase is
restricted by the absurd condition of making him ascertain a legal right. Such legislation is not necessary because if legislation of this character were necessary for
the common welfare it should apply to all persons about
to purchase such property, and to all owners of such property without restriction; it should compel an inquiry, not

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

as to a legal right of the seller to sell, but as to whether
or not the property had, in fact, been the subject of a
larceny.
The construction placed upon this statute by the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York is clearly erroneous.
In this situation this court may interpret the statute for
itself. Under a proper interpretation the statute is unconstitutional for other reasons than those already argued.
In a criminal statute, the elements constituting the
offense must be so clearly stated and defined as to reasonably admit of but one construction. Otherwise, there
would be lack of uniformity in its enforcement. The
dividing line between what is lawful and unlawful cannot
be left to conjecture. United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214;
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 355; Baldwin v. Frank, 120 U. S. 680; Burgess
v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 21.
The constitutional rights of the plaintiff in error either
were or were not violated at the time he was sentenced
upon his plea of guilty, and when his motion in arrest of
judgment was -denied. At that time there was no state
decision interpreting this statute. Douglas v. Pike Co.,
101 U. S. 679; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 215; State
Bank v. Knoop, 16 How. 369; Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe R. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96. See also Louisuille
Trust Co. v. City of Cincinnati, 76 Fed. Rep. 296; Loeb v.
Columbia County, 91 Fed. Rep. 37.
Mr. Freeman F. Zimmerman for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error pleaded guilty to an indictment
charging him with "the crime of criminally receiving
stolen property," in that he, being a dealer in and collector
of junk, metals and second-hand materials, did feloniously

ROSENTHAL .v. NEW YORK.
226 U. S.

Opinion f the Court.

buy and receive, from persons named, certain copper w're,
"the same then and there consisting of copper wire used
by and belonging to a telephone company, tO wit, used
by and being the goods, chattels and personal property
of the Bell Telephone Company, of Buffalo,
then lately stolen, taken and carried away from the possession of the said Bell Telephone Company, .. .
without ascertaining by diligent inquiry that the said
persons so selling and delivering the same had a -legal
right to do so."
The indictment was. founded upon Chap. 326 of the
Laws of 1903 of the State of New York, amending § 550
of the Penal Code. The section as amended reads as
follows:
"SEC. 550. Criminally receiving property.--A person,
who buys or receives any stolen property, or any property
which has been wrongfully appropriated in such a manner
as to constitute larceny according to this chapter, knowing
the same to have been stolen or so dealt with, or Who
corruptly, for any money, property, reward, or promise
or agreement for the same, conceals, withholds, or aids in
concealing or withholding any property, knowing the
same to have been stolen, or appropriated wrongfully
in suoh a manner as to constitute larceny under the provisions of this chapter, if such misappropriation has been
committed within the, state, whether such property were
stolen or misappropriated within or without the state,
[or who being a dealer in or collector of junk, metals or secondhand materials, or the agent, employg, or r'epresentative of
such dealer or collector, buys or receives any wire, cable,
copper, lead, solder, iron or brass used by or belonging to a
railroad, telephone, telegraph, gas or electric light company
without asr'ertaining by diligent inquiry, that the person
selling or delivering the same has a legal right to do so,] is
guilty of criminally receiving such property, and is punishable, by imprisonment in a state prison for not more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

five years, or in a county jail for not more than six months,
or by a fine of not more than two hundred and fifty dollars,
or by both such fine and imprisonment."
The words inclosed in brackets were added by the
amendment of 1903, which made no other change in the
section. The section as amended was reenacted in the
Penal Code as § 1308.
Having pleaded guilty, the plaintiff in error moved' in
arrest of judgment, upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of the amendment of 1903, and this motion having been denied, sentence of fine and imprisonment was
imposed, whereupon he took an appeal to the Appellate
Division, and from an adverse ruling in that court he
appealed to the Court of Appeals, which court sustained
the statute against the constitutional objections and
affirmed the judgment of conviction. 197 N. Y. 394.
The record having been remitted to the county court,
the present writ of error was taken. The errors relied
upon are that the courts of the State of New York erred,
because they ought to have decided that the amendment
of 1903 to § 550 of the Penal Code was in conflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that (a) it abridged the privilege, and immunities of the plaintiff in error; (b) deprived
him of his liberty and property without due process of
law, and (c) denied to him the equal protection of the laws.
No serious argument was made to support the contention that the act in any way abridged the privileges or
immunities of the plaintiff in error as a citizen of the
United States. This part of the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment refers only to such privileges and immunities as pertain to citizenship of the United States, as
distinguished from state citizenship. Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 74, 80. We are unable to see that the
statute under consideration, or its enforcement in the
case at hand, even if the act be fairly open to any or all
of the criticisms that are made upon it, abridges in the

ROSENTHAL v. NEW YORK.
226 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

least any privilege 'or immunity that arises out of the
national citizenship of the plaintiff in error.
The argument is thus na:rrowed to a-consideration of
the statute in the light of the "due process of law'! and.
"equal protection" clauses.
The New York Court of Appeals in the present case
construed the amendment of 1903 as applying only to
stolen property, and as putting upon the dealer in junk,
metal or second-hand materials, not the burden of ascertaining at his peril that the person selling or delivering
the wire or other property specified, has a legal right to do
so, but only the duty of making diligent inquiry for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the person, selling or
delivering it has such legal right.
Counsel for the plaintiff in error -argues, first, that the
act in question is unconstitutional even as thus interpreted; and this on the grounds that the previous laws
relating to criminally receiving stolen property, were
adequate to protect against, the evils involved and that
the act of 1903 is unreasonable and oppressive and an
undue interference with the liberty of contract; that since
the act applies only to dealers in metals, etc., it is class.
legislation, based upon arbitrary distinctions; and that
the statute protects the property only of railroad, telephone, gas and electric companies, and for this reason
likewise is based upon arbitrary distinctions.
In support of this argument, counsel points out that,
without the amendment of 1903, the Penal Code provides
that anyone who buys or receives property, knowing it
to be stolen, is guilty of a felony; that anyone who conceals or withholds or aids in the concealment or withholding of such property is guilty- of a felony; that the decisions
of the courts of New York hold that actual knowledge of
the fact that*the property is stolen is unnecessary, and
that anything in the circumstances that would put an
honest or prudent man upon inquiry is sufficient to war-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

rant a conviction. People v. Dowling, 84 N. Y. 478, 485;
People v. Wilson, 151 N. Y. 403. It is also pointed out
that chapter 308 of the Laws of 1903 compels every junk
dealer (except in cities of the first class), to obtain a license, provides that when such a dealer purchaces any
pig iron, pig metal, copper wire, or brass car journals, he
shall cause a statement to be subscribed by the seller as
to when, where, and from whom he obtained the property, which statement must be filed with the chief of
police; and that when a junk dealer purchases the property described, he must keep such purchase absolutely
separate and distinct, without change or mutilation, for
a period of five days after the purchase, and must tag it
with a tag bearing the particulars of the purchase. And
that all cities of the first class have dealt with the subjectmatter through the means of local ordinances at least as
compiehensive as the'statute just mentioned.
Counsel, indeed, concedes the abundant right of the
legislature to regulate the junk business, and admits that
such regulations as those just referred to are quite within
the legislative power of the State.
This concession is, we think, very properly made; and,
this being so, there is little ground left for an attack
upon the amendment of 1903 because of its alleged unreasonable and arbitrary requirement that a dealer in
or collector of junk, metals, or second-hand materials,
who buys or receives any stolen wire, cable, copper, lead,
solder, iron, or brass, used by or belonging to a railroad,
telephone, telegraph, gas, or electric light company, shall
make diligent inquiry to ascertain that the person selling
or delivering it has a legal right to do so.
When it is conceded that such a dealer may be properly subjected to punishment as a criminal if he receives
stolen property without actual knowledge that it has been
stolen, and merely because charged with notice of circumstances such as would have put an honest or prudent

ROSENTHAL v. NEW YORK.
226 U. S.

269.

Opinion of the Court.

man upon inquiry, it needs little argument to vindicate
legislation with respect to particular kinds of personal
property that the, legislature in its wisdom presumably
deemed to be more susceptible of theft than other property, when that legislation but adds the further requirement of diligent inquiry by the dealer with respect to the
right of the seller.
It is urged as a criticism that the statute directs the
junk dealer's inquiry to the question of the legal right of
the seller to sell, rather than to the question of an original
larceny. It ought to be unnecessary to say that if goods
have in fact been stolen, a diligent inquiry into the right
,of the present possessor to make sale or delivery of them
will very surely tend to disclose the larcenous origin of
his title. Indirect questions in such a case will very
probably bring out the truth as readily and as surely as
the plump inquiry-" Did you steal these goods?" Or,
at least, the legislature might so presume. For of course
all such matters rest in legislative discretion.
Counsel suggests that diligent inquiry by a junk dealer
respecting the legal right of' one offering certain wire or
other goods for sale might lead to perplexing questions
that only a court of last resort could properly determine.
The obvious answer is that a method of inquiry that
would bring to light, in' rare instances, even the occult and
doubtful point in a vendor's title, would, if systematically
adhered to, be reasonably sure ina greater number of instances to develop the fact that the goods under investigation had been acquired by theft.
We have said enough to indicate the character of the
arguments employed in the effort to show that the act
of 1903 is wholly arbitrary and constitutes so groundless
an interference with the citizen's liberty of contract as
to bring it within the denunciation of the due process of
law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. It seems to
us that the object of the liegislation is well within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

legitimate bounds, of the police power of the State and
sustainable upon the principles discussed in Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661, etc., of which more recent
applications are to be found in Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S.
425, 429, and Lemieux v. Young, 211 U. S. 489. See also
Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 568.
Nor can the act in question be deemed to conflict
with the "equal protection" clause because it places junk
dealers, etc., in a class by themselves. The argument
under this head is that if property of the kinds mentioned
in the act is peculiarly susceptible of theft, there is no
reason that all persons should not be subjected to the
same rules with reference to its purchase. This needs no
answer beyond a reference to the well-known fact, alluded
to by the New York Court of Appeals in its opinion herein,
that junk dealers provide an important market for stolen
merchandise of the kinds mentioned, and that because
of their experience they are peculiarly fitted to detect
whether property offered is stolen property. Plainly it
cannot be said that the classification rests on no reasonable basis. It is unnecessary to rehearse the grounds upon
which rests the authority of the States to resort to classification for purposes of legislation. The, citation of a
few recent illustrative cases will obviate extended discussion. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
283, 293; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, 562;
Louisville & Nashville R.' R. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36, 52;
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78.
The fact that the act of 1903 has reference to the property of only railroad, telephone, gas, and electric companies, furnishes no ground for the plaintiff in error to
invoke the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The failure of the legislature to extend the
protection of the act to the like kinds of property when
owned by manufacturers of equipment for railroads, telephone and telegraph lines, as well as when owned by the

ROSENTIIAL v. NEW YORK.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

companies operating such lines; or the failure to include
the owners of blast furnaces and brass foundries, or other
classes who, as claimed by counsel, are liable to losses by
theft of articles of the like kinds, affords no footing for
an attack by plaintiff in error upon the constitutionality
of the act, for the reason that he does not bring himself
within any of the classes that, according to the argument,
are peculiarly susceptible to losses of the kind that the
statute is designed to prevent, nor does he show that lie
has suffered any injury by reason of the failure of the
legislature to extend the protection of the act to other
classes of owners. Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S. 405, 409;
Hooker v. Burr, 194 U. S. 415, 419; Hatch v. Reardon,
204 U. S. 152, 160; Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217
U. S. 524, 534; Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225
U. S. 540, 550.
So far, therefore, as plaintiff in error is concerned,
the
legislature has simply not extended the scope of the act
so far as it might properly have done. The argument
under this head concedes, and must concede, that the act
is beneficial as far as it goes, the complaint being that' it
does not go far enough. But the Federal Constitution
does not require that all state laws shall be perfect, nor
that the entire field of proper legislation shall be covered
by a single enactment.
The Court of Appeals, iuthe case before us, said with
respect to this topic: ."The legislature is presumed to
have been familiar with current history and the decisions
of the courts, which show that property of a certain kind,
such as copper, brass, iron, etc., is frequently stolen from
railroad, telegraph, and similar corporations, which cannot adequately protect it because it is scattered through
the country along extensive lines of transportation or
communication, and which is exposed to view and caption
by the evil minded, who find their best market in the
shops of certain junk dealers."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

If the act required any defense against the criticism
now under consideration, this expression would suffice.
It remains only to notice the second principal contention
of plaintiff in error, which is that the construction placed
upon the act of 1903 by the Court of Appeals is clearly
erroneous, and that the situation is such that this court
ought not to hold itself bound by that construction.
It is ingeniously argued that since the statute had never
been judicially construed until the decision of the Court
of Appeals in this case, and since that court (erroneously,
it is asserted) injected into the act by construction two
elements that are said not to be apparent from a literal
reading-to wit, that the statute applies only to stolen
property, and that the dealer need not ascertain the legal
right of the seller, but need only make diligent inquiry
to ascertain the same, the plaintiff in error is aggrieved
by what is called the "judicial amendment" of the statute.
Although not distinctly invoking the prohibition of
ex post facto laws, as contained in Art. I, § 10, cl. 1, of
the Federal Constitution, the argument, if it have any
basis, must be rested upon that prohibition.
It is sufficient to say that no such point appears to have
been raised in the court below, although it might have

been raised by an application for rehearing. Nor is any
such point covered by the assignments of error in this
court.
Judgment affirmed.
ZAKONAITE v. WOLF, JAILOR OF THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 53.

Argued November 14, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

The evidence in this case, upon which the order of deportation of an
alieon the ground that she was a prostitute and wa8i found practic-

