CENTRAL LUMBER CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA. 157
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

none contradicts the limitation supposed. We are of
opinion that the power of the territorial court remained.
"For necessity (which is excepted out of the law) the sale
in that case is good." '2 Inst. 168. The proceeding is in
rem, against all the world, the sale stands, and the claim
of the trustee is transferred to the proceeds, which ordinarily must be presumed to represent the fair value of
the goods and take their place.
* Finally it is argued that the court of bankruptcy must
decide whether the property is perishable or not, and that
this property was not within the power conferred by the
statute of New Mexico. The first proposition is little
more than the one last discussed in another form. But
assuming that.'for any reason we could go behind the
findings on which the case comes here we see no reason.
for doing so, if the sale was within the terms of the local
act. On that question, as usual, we follow the ruling of
the Supreme Court of the Territory unless there are
stronger reasons to the contrary than are shown here.
Fox v. Haarslick, 156 U. S. 674. Albright v. Sandoval, 216
U. S. 331, 339. The act as construed, though possibly
broader than General Order XVIII, 3, does not go beyond
the principle of necessity, at least as applied to this case.
Judgment affirmed.

CENTRAL LUMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF
SOUTH DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
'DAKOTA.
No. 51.

Argued November 13, 14, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

Regulating discriminatory sales made within the State for the purpose
of destroying competition is within the legislative power of the
State unless the statute conflicts with the Constitution of the United
States.

.158

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U.. S.

The legislature of a State may direct its police regulations against what
it deems an existing evil without covering the whole field of possible
abuses. 'It may direct alaw for the. protection of trade in accord,
with its policy against one particular instrument of trade war.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit state legislation special
'in character. The legislature may deal with a class which it deems
a conspicuous example of what it seeks to prevent, although logically
that class may not be distinguishable from others not embraced by
the law.
A classification that logically affects only those who deal , in more than
one place in the State is not necessarily so unreasonable as to amount
to denial of equal protection of the laws.
This court cannot review the economics or facts on which the legislature of a State bases its conclusions that an existing evil should be
remedied by an exercise of the police power.
The- enactment of police statutes regulating discrimination in prices
for the purpose of destroying competition in several States demonstrates that there is a widespread conviction in favor of such regulation.
Chapter 131 of the Laws of South Dakota of 1907, prohibiting unfair
discrimination by' anyone engaged in manufacture or distribution
of''a commodity in general use for the purpose of -intentionally
destroying 'competition of any regular dealer in'such conm'~dity by
making sales thereof at "Alower rate im one section of the State than
in other sections, after equalization for distance, is a constitutional
exercise of the police power of the State azd is not unconstitutional
under the Fourteenth Amendment as depriving persons having more
than one place. of business in the State of their property without due
process of law, or as denying them the equgl protection of the laws,
or as abridging their liberty of contract..
Where the highest court of a State has construed a statute as aiming
at the prevention of a monopoly in a commodity 'by means-likely to
be employed and prohibited by the statute, this. court should read
the statute as having ultimately in view the benefit of buyers of th.
goods.
24 So. Dak. 136, affirmed.

Tom facts, which invoice the constitutionality unler
the Federal Constitution of the "one price" statute
of the State 'of South Dakota, are stated in the opinIon.

CENTRAL LUMBER CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA. 159
226 U. S.'

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. David F. Simpson, with whom Mr. L. L. Brown,
Mr. Win. A. Lancaster and Mr. Milton D. Purdy were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Royal C. Johnson, Attorney General of the State
of South Dakota, Mr. Samuel W. Clark and Mr. James M.
Brown, for defendant in error.
MR.JUsTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was found guilty of unfair discrimination under Session Laws of South Dakota for 1907,
c. 131, and was sentenced to a fine of two hundred dollars
and costs. It objected in due form that the statute was
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, but on appeal
the judgment of the trial court was sustained. 24 So.
Dak. 136. By the statute anyone "Engaged in the production, manufacture or distribution of any commodity
in general use, that intentionally, for the purpose of destroying the Competition of any regular, established dealer
in such commodity, or to prevent the competition of any
person who in good faith intends and attempts to become
such dealer, shall discriminate between different sections,
communities, or cities of this: state, by selling such commodity aa lower rate in one section . . . than such
person
.
. charges:for such commodity in another
section,
.
. after equalizing the distance from the
point 61. production," &c., shall be guilty of the crime
and liable to the fine.
The subject-matter, like the rest of the criminal law, is
under the control of the legislature of South Dakota, by
virtue of its general powers, unless the statute conflicts
as alleged with the Constitution of ,the United States.
The grounds on which it is, said to do so are that it denies
the equal. protection of the laws, because it affects the
conduct of only a particular class-those selling goods in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

226 U. S.

two placesin the State-and is intended for he protection
of only a particular class-regular established dealers;
and also because it. unreasonably limits the liberty of
people to make such bargains as they like.
On the first of these points it is said that an indefensible
classification. may be disguised in the form of a description
of the acts constituting the offence, and it is urged that
to punish selling goods in one place lower than at another
in effect is to select the class of dealers that have two places
of business for a special liability, and in real fact is a blow
aimed at those who have several lumber yards along a
line of railr6ad, in the interest of independent dealers. All
competition, it is,added, imports an attempt to destroy
or prevent the competition of rivals, and there is no difference in principle between the prohibited act and the
ordinary efforts of traders at a single place. The premises
may be conceded without accepting the conclusion that
this is an unconstitutional discrimination.' If the legislature
-the now prevailing belief as to what is public
policy shares
and finds that a particular instrument of trade
'war
is being used against that policy in certain cases, it-may
direct its law against what it deems the evil as it actually
exists without covering the whole field of possible abuses,
p.nd it may do so none the less that the forbidden act does
not differ in kind from those that are allowed. Lindsley v.
Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81. Missouri
.Pacific Ry. Co. v.- Mackey, 127 U. S. 205.
That is not the arbitrary selection that is condemned in
such cases as Southern'Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit legislation
special in character. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank 170 U. S.283, 294. It does not, prohibit a. State
from carrying out a policy that cannot be pronounced
purely arbitrary, by taxation. or penal laws. Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.557; 562. Quong Wing v.
Kirkendall, 223 U. S.59, 62. If a class is deemed to pre-,

CENTRAL LUMBER CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA. 161
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sent a conspicuous example of what the legislature seeks
to prevent, the Fourteenth Amendment allows it to be
dealt with although otherwise and merely logically not
distinguishable from other not embraced in the law.
Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411. We
must assume that the legislature of.South Dakota considered that people selling in two places made the prohibited use of their opportunities and that such use was
harmful, although the usual efforts of competitors were
desired. It might have been argued to the legislature with
more force than it can be to us that recoupment in one
place of losses in another is raerely an instance of financial
ability to compete. If the legislature thought that that
particular manifestation of ability usually came from
great corporations whose power it deemed excessive and.
for that reason did more harm than good in their State,
and that there was no other case of frequent o'currence
where the same could be said, we cannot review their
economics or their facts. That the law embodies a widespread conviction appears from the decisions in other
States. State v. Drayton, 82 Nebraska, 254. State v.
StandardOil Co., 111 Minnesota, 85; 126 N. W. Rep. 527.
'State v. Fairmont Creamery, 153 Iowa, 702; 133 N. W.
Rep. 895. State v. Bridgeman & Russell Co., 117 Minnesota, 186; 134 N. W. Rep. 496.
What we have said makes it unnecessary to add much
on the second point, if open, that the law is made in favor
of regular established dealers-but the short answer is
simply to read the law. It extends on its face also to those
who intend to become such dealers. If it saw fit not to
grant the same degree of protection to parties making a
transitory incursion into the business, we see no objection. But the Supreme Court says that the statute is aimed
at preventing the creation of a monopoly by means likely
to be employed, and certainly we should read the law ashaving in view ultimately the benefit of buyers of the goods.
VOL. CCXXVI-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

Finally, as to the statute's depriving the plaintiff in
error of its liberty because it forbids a certain class of
dealings, we think it enough to say that as the law does.
not otherwise encounter the Fourteenth Amendment, it
is not to be disturbed on this ground. The matter has
been discussed so often in this court that we simply refer
to Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire,
219 U. S. 549, 567, 568, and the cases there cited to illustrate how much power is left in the States. See also
Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi,'217 U. S. 433, 442.
Lemieux v. Young, 211 U. S. 489, 496. Otis v. Parkeri,187
U. S. 606,609.
Judgment affirmed.

SOUTHWESTERN BREWERY AND
PANY v. SCHMIDT.

ICE COM-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY oF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 55.

Argued November 14, 15, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

A master may remain liable for a certain time for a failure to use reasonable care in furnishing a safe 'place for the servant to work, notwithstanding the servant's appreciation of the danger, if he induces
the servant to keep on by a promise to remove the source of danger.
Even if it is open, it will require a strong case to induce the appellate
court to review the discretion of the trial couirt in allowing leading
questions; in this case, the witness being a foreigner who seemingly
did not understand the English language, there is no ground for
revision.
This court will not go behind the decision of the Supreme Court of a
Territory upon a matter of loca, practice in order to reverse the
judgment upon a technicality and an assumption contrary to a fact
appearing in the record.

