C., B. & Q. RY. v. MILLER.
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The demurrer to the answer of the defendant below
should have been overruled.
For this reason the judgment is reversed, with direction to
overrule the demurrer, and for such further proceedings
as are not inconsistent with this opinion.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MILLER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 17.

Argued March 8, 1912; reargued October 22, 1912.-Decided
January 6, 1913.

Adams Express Company v. Croninger, ante, p. 491, followed to the
effect that the Carmack Amendment of the Hepburn Act of June 29,
1906, regulating liability of interstate carriers, superseded all state
regulations on the same subject.
85 Nebraska, 458, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the Carmack Amendment of schedules of rates based upon value
and the extent of the liability of the carrier on bills of
lading, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur R. Wells and Mr. Robert B. Scott for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. Edwin E. Squires and Mr. H. M. Sullivan, with
whom Mr. Norris Brown was on the brief, for defendant
inerror:
The Carmack Amendment to the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, does not abrogate the Iowa rule that the
company can in no way limit its liability, but on the contrary incorporates that rule into the body of the Federal
voL. ccxxvi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

law so that the. Federal statute forbids the company in
this case to limit its liability.
The Iowa state court has 'held that the Carmack
Amendment did not contravene the local Iowa state rule.
Cramer v. Railway Co., 133 N. W. Rep. (Ia.) 387; Betus
v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 129 N. W. Rep. (Ia.) 962; Winn v.
Am. Ex. Co., 128 N. W. Rep. (Ia.) 663. See also Latta v.
-RailwayCo., 172 Fed. Rep. 850; Miller v. C., B. & Q.Ry.
Co., 85 Nebraska, 458; T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Rodgers, 113
Pac, Rep. 80; Railway Co. v. Pew, 64-S E. Rep. 35.
As a matter of fact the Carmack Amendment by necessary construction of language brings the Federal statutes
into perfect accord with the Iowa and Nebrasklarule, and
expressly forbids a railway company from limiting its
liability for its own negligence.
This statute clearly deals- only with loss "caused" by
the carrier, and the carrier is clearly made liable for loss
Sdue to its-negligence, which is the situation in the case at
bar.
The use of the word "any" is of paramount importance. "Any" in this context means "all." 1 Words and
Phrases, 421; MonongahelaNay. Co. v. Coon, 47 Am. Dec.
-474; 2 Cyc. 472 (note 21); Jones v. Whitworth, 30 S. W.
Rep. (Tenn.) 736; L. N.-R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 479.
Under the decision of Released Rates, 13 I. C. C: Rep.
560, the Interstate Commerce Commission holds to this
construction of the Carmack Amendment, and that as a
matter of contract the carrier cannot limit its liability for
its negligence in whole or in part.
In passing this act; Congress had chiefly in rmind to compel the carriers to be fair with the shipper. and to prevent
discrimination.
Instead of the Federal statutes striking down state
.statutes and constitutions as to non-limitation of liability
by conflict therewith, it exhibits no conflict and is in
perfect accord with those of the Iowa and Nebraska type.

C., B. &Q. RY.- v. MILLER.
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The carrier cannot, because it filed with the Commission
a rate proportioned upon a declared valuation, in this
case, shield itself from full liability for loss caused by it.
There is no Federal decision upon this point, but see
Cramer V. C., B. & Q. Ry: Co., 133 N. W. Rep. (Ia.) 388;
Railway Co. v. Pew, 64 S. E. Rep. (Va.) 35.
more a
The question of value as a basis of rates is no
subject of contract than any other feature tending to make
freight rates fixed and certain and to prevent discrimination. The value must be the true value or so near 'such
as to stamp the proceedings with bona fides. The Federal
statutes provide that there shall be-no false classification
and no false billing. It further provides for penalties
for false classification, and false billing whether done
knowingly or not. To charge a rate upon a false value is
to fix a false classification. Such a rate forbidden by law
would bind neither carrier nor shipper. T. & P. Ry. Co.
v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Railway Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S.
98; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S.'431.
A provision 'for the limitation' of liability unless it
specifically so recites will not be construed to apply in
the event of negligence on part of the carrier. This principle applies in the construction of the schedules made,
offered and filed by the carrier. The salutary principle
that the carrier should not escape the consequence of its
negligence should not be lightly set aside and its language
should not be interpreted to contravene the well-settled
principles of public policy unless such interpretation is
unavoidable. If the language of the schedules is not so
interpreted and if the limitation of liability therein mentioned does not apply in the event of the negligence of
the carrier, it is not a departure from the schedules filed
when the carrier is held fully to such liability as arises.
from negligent conduct.
This case is not one which under the rule of the Hart
Case-, 112 U. S. 331, permits of a limitation of liability,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

because, first, the alternative of rates offered is so arbitrary and unreasonable as to show a purpose of forcing
an acquiescence on part of the shipper to the lower rate
and thus to procure a limitation of liability; second, the
value fixed is not fairly made, the variation from the true
value being so great as to show bad faith and that the
same was arbitrarily made for the purpose of obtaining
a limitation of liability. Released Rates, 13 I. C. C.
Rep. 565; Cramer v. Railway Co., 133 N. W. Rep. (Ia.)
387.
A reasonable alternative of rates and an opportunity
to contract with full common-law liability at a reasonable
differential rate must be offered or the contract will be
construed as unreasonable and void. Railway Co. v.
Cravens, 38 Am. St. Rep. 230, and see note, 88 Am. St. Rep.
933; L. & N. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 134 S. W. Rep. 866;
6 Cyc. (Carriers), 401; 1 Hutchinson's Carriers, 427;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Jones, 31 So. Rep. (Ala.) 501; Railway
Co. v. Henlein, 23 Am. St. Rep. 578.
It cannot be said that the Carmack Amendment or any
other Federal statute validates in terms a contract limiting
liability for negligence of carriers. At most it can only be
said that it does not forbid them. If then the question of
estoppel is left for determination of principles of the common law, the state court may determine and apply these
principles for itself. As long as the Federal statute is
not in conflict with the law of the State, the latter remains
operative and a carrier cannot limit its liability in the
States of Iowa and Nebraska. The state statutes forbidding limitation of liability are enacted under the police
power of the State,. and so long as the state and Federal
statutes are not in conflict both may stand. Cramer v.
Railway Co., 133 N. W. Rep. 387; Railway Co. v. Solan,
169 U. S. 98; Railway Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S.299; Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S.204; TransportationCo. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S.691.

C., B. & Q. RY. v. MILLER.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case, as in Adams Express Company
v. Croninger, just decided, iswhether the provision of
ยง 20 of the act of February 4, 1887, as amended. by the
act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, constitute an
exclusive regulation of contracts for interstate shipments
of property by railroad common carriers, superseding all
state regulations upon the same subject.
The action in this case was to recover the full value of a
stallion shipped from a point in Iowa to a point in Nebraska, under a valued live stock contract. The loss
occurred in the State of Nebraska through the negligence
of the carrier, and the suit was in a court of that State..
The receipt or bill of lading placed a value upon the
animal of two hundred dollars, and was signed by the
shipper's agent. It recited that the schedules of rates and
regulations filed with the Interstat6 Commerce Commission provide alternative rates of charges proportioned to
the value of the stock delivered for tral4sportation, as declared by the shipper, and that the recovery of the shipper
in ease of loss or injury should not be in excess of the value
thus agreed upon for the purpose of determining the rate.
* The plaintiff's claim is that the stallion was in fact of
the value of two thousand dollars, and that the limitation
of recovery stipulated is void under a statute of Iowa,
where the contract was made, and also illegal and invalid
under a clause in the const'itution of Nebraska, the State
in which the loss occurred and of the forum.
The Company relies upon the provisions of the act of
1906 as an exclusive rule regulating every contract for an
interstate shipment and declaring the liability of the
carrier, and contends that the regulations provided by
ยง 20 of that act operate to supersede the legislation of both
Iowa and Nebraska, in so far as they applied to interstate
shipments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

This defense was overruled in the trial court, and the
agreement in the plaintiff's bill of lading limiting any re-

covery in case of loss or damage to the value declared
for the purpose of obtaining the lower or alternative rate
of freight, was held to be illegal both under the law of
Iowa and Nebraska, and judgment was rendered for the
full value of the animal. This judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Nebraska, that court ruling that
the case was controlled by the state regulations referred
to, and that these regulations had not been superseded
by acts of Congress regulating interstate commerce. For
this the court cited and relied upon certain decisions by
the Nebraska courts, and the cases of Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, and Pennsylvania Railroad v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477. Both of the cases decided
by this court were decided prior to the extensive amendment of the act regulating interstate commerce of 1887
by the act of June 29, 1906.
In Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, just decided, ante,
p. 491, we reached the conclusion that by the provisions of
ยง20 of the latter act Congress had manifested a purpose to
take possession of the subject of the liability of a carrier
by railroad for interstate shipments, and that the regulations therein had superseded all state regulations upon the
same subject. This case is therefore controlled by that
judgment.
It follows that the Supreme Court of Nebraska erred
in applying to the contract here involved the provisions
of the Iowa statute, and of the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, and in refusing to apply the exclusive regulation prescribed by ยง20 of the act of 1906, as that provision
has been construed by this court in the Croninger Case,
above referred to.
The judgment is accordingly reversed and remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

