YAZOO & MISS. R. R. v. JACKSON VINEGAR CO. 217
226 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD CO.
v. JACKSON VINEGAR CO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF HINDS COUNTY, STATE OF
MISSJSSIPPI.
No. 57. Submitted November 13, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
.The statute of Mississippi imposing a penalty on common carriers for
failure to settle claims for lost or damaged freight in shipment
within the State within a reasonable specified period is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment, as depriving the carrier
of its property without due process of law or as. denying it the equal
protection of the laws, as to claimants presenting actual claims for
amounts actually due.
It is within the police power of the State to provide by penalty for
delay a reasonable incentive for prompt settlement without suit of
just demands of a class admitting of special legislative treatment; in
this case of claims against connon carriers for damage to goods.
-shipped between two points within the ,State.
This court deals with the case in hand and not with imaginary ones;
and if a stdte statute is constitutional as against the class to which
the party attacking it belongs, it, will not consider whether the same
statute might be unconstitutional as applied to other. classes not
before the court.
Quere, and not now to be decided, whether the statute now sustained
as constitutional as against the party attacking it would be void in
toto if unconstitutional as against other classes who have not yet
attacked it.

THE facts; which involve .the constitutionality of a
statute of Mississippi imposing penalties on common carriers for failure to settle claims for damage to goods in

shipment within the State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward Mayes and Mr. CharlesN. Burch for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William H. Watkins for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action to recover damages from a railway

company for the partial loss of a shipment of vinegar carried over the company's line from one point to another in
the State of Mississippi. The case originated in a justice's
court and was taken on appeal to the Circuit Court of
Hinds County, where'the plaintiff recovered a judgment
for actual damages and $25.00 as a statutory penalty.
That being the highest court in the State to which the
case could be carried, it was then brought here. The position -of the railway company, unsuccessfully -taken in the
state court and now renewed, i' that.the Mississippi statute providinig for ,the penalty is repugnant to the due
process of law and equal protection clauses- of the Fourteenth ,Amendment to the Constitution of the UnitedStates.. The statute reads:
"Railro ds, corporations and individuals engaged as.
common carriers in this state are required to settle all
claims for lost or- damaged freight which has been lost.
or 'damaged between two given points on the same line
or system, within sixty days from the filing"I of. writt~n notice of the losp or damage with the agent at the
point of destination; 'and where freight is handled by two
or more roads or systems of roads and is lost or damaged, claims therefor shall be settled Within ninety days
from the filing of written notice thereof With the 'agent
by consignee at lhe point of destination. A common carrier failing to settle ,such claims as herein required'shall
be liable to the, consignee for twentyfive dollars damages
in each case' in addition to actual damages, all of which,
may be recovered in the same suit.provided that this sec-,
tion shall- only apply when the amount claimed is two
hundred dollars or less." Laws 1908, c. 196, p.-205.
The facts showing the application made of the. statute

YAZOO & MISS. R. R. v. JACKSON VINEGAR CO. 219
226 U. S.

Qpinion of the Court.

are these: The plaintiff gave notice of its claim in the
manner prescribed, placing its damages at $4.76, and,
upon the railway company's failure to settle within sixty
days, sued to recover that sum and the statutory penalty.
lUpon the trial the damages were assessed at the sum
stated in the notice, and judgment was given therefor,
with the penalty. Thus, the claim presented in advance
of the suit, and which the railway company failed to settle
within the time allotted, was, fully sustained.
As applied to such a case, we think the statute is not
repugnant to either the due process of law or the equal
protection clause of the Constitution, but, on the contrary,
merely provides a reasonable incentive for the prompt
settlement, without suit, of just demands of a class admitting of special legislative treatment. See Seaboard
A i Line Railway v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; St. Louis, Iron
Mountain '& Southern Railway Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S.
354.
Although seemingly conceding thus much, coun§el for
'the railway company urge that, the statute is not confined
to cases like the present, but equally penalizes the failure
to accede to an excessive or extravagant 'claim; in other
words, that it contemplates the assessment of the penalty
in every case where the claim presented is not settled
within the time allotted, regardless of whether, or how
much, the recovery falls short of the amount claimed.
But it is not open to the railway company to complain
on that score. It has not been penalized for failing to
accede to an excessive or extravagant claim, but for failing to make reasonably prompt settlement of a claim
which upon due inquiry has been pronounced just in
every respect. Of course, the argument to sustain the
contention is that, if the statute embraces cases such as
are supposed, it is void as to them, and, if so void, is void
in toto. But this c6urt must deal with the case in hand
and not with imaginary ones. It suffices, therefore, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

hold that, as applied to cases like the present, the statute
is valid. How the state court may apply it to other cases,
whether its general words may be treated as more or less
restrained, and .how fax parts of it may be sustained if
others fail are matters upon which we need not speculate
.now. Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160; Lee v. New
Jersey, 207 U. S. 67, 70; Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217

U. S. 524, 534; Collins v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288, 295; Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550.
* The judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

GERMAN ALLIANCE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
HOME WATER. SUPPLY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 19.

Argued April 26, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912

A municipality is not bound to furnish water for fire protection, and if
it voluntarily undertakes to do so it does not subject itself to a
* greater liability.
While a diversity of opinion exists, a majority of the American courts
hold that the taxpayer has no such direct interest in an agreement
between the municipality and a corporation for supplying water as
will allow him to sue either ex contractu for breach, or ex delicto for
violation, of the public duty thereby assumed.
In this case held that a taxpayer has no claim against a water supply
company for damages resulting from a failuie of the company to
perform the contract with the municipality.
One.agreeing to perform a public service for a municipality is responsible for torts to third persons, but for 'omissions and breaches of
•contract he is responsible to the municipality alone.
A contract between a public service corporation and the municipality
should not be unduly extended so as to introduce new parties and new
rights and subject those contracting to suits by a multitude of

