BURNET v. DESMORNES.
226 U. S.

Counsel for Appellant.

which are cited are not apposite to the present case. The
ordinances or statutes which were passed on had more
general foundation and a more general purpose, whether
exercises of the police power or that of eminent domain.
Nor need we consider the cases which distinguish between
the esthetic and the material effect of regulations the
consideration of which occupies some space in the argument and in the reasoning of the cases.
Judgment reversed and case remandedfor further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

BURNET v. DESMORNES Y ALVAREZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 11.

Submitted October 30, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

Whether prescription goes only to the remedy or extinguishes the
right, it affects the jurisdiction no more than any other defense.
The judgment of a court that a right is established cannot be impeached
collaterally by proof that the judgment was wrong.
The provisions of Article 137 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico of 1889
and of ยง'199 of the act of March 1,. 1902, of Porto Rico, requiring
actions to claim filiation to be commenced within prescribed periods,
do not deprive the court of jurisdiction in case the action is not
brought until after the prescribed period. It is a defense that must
be pleaded.
This court will be slow to control the discretion of the Supreme Court
of Porto Rico as to a matter wholly within its power-such as
sending a ease back to the lower court for further opportunity to
cross-examine.
13 Porto Rico, 18, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Willis Sweet for appellant.
VOL. CCXXVI-10

OCTOBER TERM

1912-

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

No appearance for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a proceeding by the appellees as illegitimate
children of Adolfo Desmornes, deceased, to be adjudged
his recognized children. The appellant answered that he
was the nephew and heir of Desmornes and denied that
the appellees were his children or ever were recognized as
such. The District Court held that the action had prescribed under the limitations imposed upon actions of this
class by the Civil Codes of 1889 and 1902. This decision
was reversed by the Supreme Court on the ground that
the bar to the action had not been pleaded, and a decree
was entered for the appellees upon a consideration of the
evidence taken below.
The case was argued in this court on behalf of the appellants only, and we shall content ourselves with discussing the argument made by them. By the Civil Code of
1889, Art. 137, actions of this kind 'can be instituted only
during the life of the presumed parents,' with certain
exceptions. It appears by the complaint that Desmornes
died on November 2, 1905, before this suit was brought.
By the statute of Porto Rico approved March 1, 1902,
ยง 199 (Rev. Stat. and Codes, 1902, p. 821), under which
the appellant says that the appellees proceed, 'An action
to claim filiation may be filed at any time within two
years after the child shall become of age,' &c. It appeared in evidence that the appellees became of age more
than two years before this action was filed. It is urged
that the words of both statutes are jurisdictional and
constitute a condition precedent. It is said further that
the Supreme Court of Porto Rico in later decisions has
shown an inclination to recede from the doctrine of the
present one; but as this case has not been overruled in
terms we shall do no more than indicate- why we think
the decision right.'

BURNET v. DESMORNES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whether prescription goes only to the remedy or extinguishes the right, it affects the jurisdiction no more
than any other defence. When a court has general jurisdiction to try the question whether an alleged right exists
the rules that determine the existence of the right ordinarily govern the duty only of the Court, not its power. Its
judgment that the right is estlablished'cannot be impeached
collaterally by proof that the judgment was wrong. For
instance, a common-law court ought not to give judgment
for the plaintiff upon a parol promise without consideration, but if it does so the judgment is not open to collateral
attack. Even words in a statute that might seem to
affect the power of the court, such as 'no action shall be
brought' in the Statute of Frauds, are assumed without
question merely to fix the law by which the court should
decide, as is explained in Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230,
235. We see no reason why the ordinary rule should not
apply to this case.
But it is said that, whether the statutes go to the jurisdiction or not,,they establish,a condition precedent. Of
course all defences disclose conditions precedent to the
successful maintaining of the action; but -more than that
must be meant, and we take the argument to be that the
statute extinguishes the right if the suit is not brought in
time and therefore creates a condition precedent to the
right of the appellees. But that abstract proposition does
not decide the case. The question before us is a question
of pleading, and not every matter that may affect the
existence of the right at the time of bringing suit must be
dealt with by the plaintiff in stating his cause of action.
A release under seal destroys a right as fully as prescription could, yet a plaintiff does not have to deny a release
in his declaration., Usually, if facts have arisen since the
cause of action accrued, that take it away, it is more convenient and it is required' that the defendant should
allege them, rather than that the plaintiff should be called

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

on to deny in the first place all possible matters of that
sort. Sawyer v. Boston, 144 Massachusetts, 470, 472.
"For if he should do so, the declaration would be more
prolix than was convenient." Hawkings v. Billhead, Cro.
Car. 404. "The mere fact that the time of lringing suit
goes in some sense to the jurisdiction of the court does not
necessarily take the case out of the general rules of pleading." Sawyer v. Boston, 144 Massachusetts, supra. It
would seem, as observed by the court below, that. the
defendant was free to renounce the objection if he saw fit.
We know of no public policy that would prevent his permitting the appellees to acquire rights that earlier they
were entitled to. So that on this ground as well as on that
of convenience we are of opinion that the general rule of
pleading applies.
The only matter remaining to be mentioned is a suggestion that the Supreme Court should have -sent the case
back to the lower court to give the appellant an opportunity to cross-examine the appellees, but there being no
question of the power of the Supreme Court- we should be
slow to control its discretion on this point.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF ORO
DREDGING COMPANY, v. SPRINGER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 23. Argued October 30, November 4, 1912.-Decided December
.2, 1912.

'A bona fide purchaser for value of perishable property held under
attachment at a sale made by order of the local court gets a good
title notwithstanding bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted
witfiin four months after the attachment and had proceeded to adjudication before the sale.

