OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

MONSIGNOR

226 U. S.

HARTY v. MUNICIPALITY
VICTORIA.

OF

APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 13.

Argued October 30, 1912.-Decided November 11, 1912.

A suit to recover real estate, like-an ordinary action at law, can only be
brought to this court from the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands by writ of error; it cannot be brought by appeal.
Where, as in this case, there is no question of law, this court cannot, on
writ of error, review the finding of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands that the preponderance of contradictory evidence was
on the defendant's side.
Querre whether in this case the jurisdictional amount of $25,000 was
involved.
Appeal from and writ of error to review 18 Phil. Rep. 600, dismissed.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

of appeals from, and error to, the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. FredericR. Coudert, with whom Mr. Henry W. Van

Dyke was on the brief, for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Felix Frankfurter for appellee and defendant in
*error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit, was brought by the Archbishop of Manila to
recover a square in the Municipality of .Victoria. The
church of the town and its parish house stand in this
square and they are admitted to be church property, but

the land not occupied by them was declared by the
Supreme Court to constitute the public square or plaza

HARTY v. VICTORIA.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the town, devoted to public uses. The plaintiff brought
a writ of error and appealed. The appeal must be dismissed. Jover v. Insular Government, 221 U. S. 623, 635.
Carifio v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449, 456. The
suit is like an ordinary action at law, and can be brought
to this court only by writ of error, as was done in Santos
v. Roman Catholic Church, 212 U. S. 463, and Ker v.
Couden, 223 U. S. 268.
There is a motion to dismiss the writ of error also,
on
the ground that the value of the real estate in controversy
does not exceed $25,000. Affidavits to that effect are
offered, and the order allowing the writ purports to do so
on affidavits of the plaintiff and two others, "notwithstanding the fact that by admission of counsel for plaintiff,
it appears that the value of the parcel of land for which
judgment was rendered in favor of the defendant munici- pality, exclusive of the value of the adjoining parcel of
land with the church and convent situated thereon, title
to which is recognized to be in the plaintiff, and damages
thereto resulting from the aforesaid judgment, does not
exceed twenty-five thousand dollars." We doubt whether
the affidavits do not imply the same admission, and
whether the action should not be dismissed on that ground.
The affidavit of the plaintiff puts the value of the land in
controversy at over $25,001) on the manifestly untenable
ground that the church edifices are deprived of free egress
and ingress by the decision, and the others seemingly
mean that the parcel of land with the church buildings
included is worth thirty thousand dollars, the buildings
being valued at twenty-five thousand dollars-leaving
five thousand dollars for the land in dispute.
But the result is the same if we go further. The evidence was contradictory, and although we were invited to
consider it on the one side in the light of the relation of
the church to the community and on the other in that of
the custom by which the plaza is of the essence of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

town, we can do neither. There is no question of law before us-for it hardly was argued, and could not be with
any seriousness, that the Supreme Court was not autlfiorized to review the evidence under ยง 497 of the Philippine Code, or that this court can consider whether it was

right in finding the preponderance of evidence to be on
the defendant's side.
Appeal and writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES, CINCINNATI AND COLUMBUS
TRACTION COMPANY, AND INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BALTIMORE AND
OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
AND THE NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 648.

Argued October 25, 28, 1912.-Decided November 11, 1912.

Under ยง 7 of the act of June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539, 547, c. 309, the
Interstate Commerce Commission cannot require a main trunk road
to make switch connections with a road which is not actually at the
time a lateral branch road.
In this case held, that a railroad parallel with a main trunk line and
operated by a traction company as an independent venture and not
as a mere feeder was not a lateral branch railroad within the meaning
of ยง 7 of the act of June.18, 1910.
An 'order to maintain through rates incident to a requirement to make
switch connections is incidental thereto and falls with it.
Quwre whether parties are bound in a higher court by findings based
on specific investigations made by the lower tribunal without notice.
See Oregon R. R. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 525.
195 Fed. Rep. 962, affirmed.

