OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

hold that, as applied to cases like the present, the statute
is valid. How the state court may apply it to other cases,
whether its general words may be treated as more or less
restrained, and .how fax parts of it may be sustained if
others fail are matters upon which we need not speculate
.now. Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160; Lee v. New
Jersey, 207 U. S. 67, 70; Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217

U. S. 524, 534; Collins v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288, 295; Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550.
* The judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

GERMAN ALLIANCE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
HOME WATER. SUPPLY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 19.

Argued April 26, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912

A municipality is not bound to furnish water for fire protection, and if
it voluntarily undertakes to do so it does not subject itself to a
* greater liability.
While a diversity of opinion exists, a majority of the American courts
hold that the taxpayer has no such direct interest in an agreement
between the municipality and a corporation for supplying water as
will allow him to sue either ex contractu for breach, or ex delicto for
violation, of the public duty thereby assumed.
In this case held that a taxpayer has no claim against a water supply
company for damages resulting from a failuie of the company to
perform the contract with the municipality.
One.agreeing to perform a public service for a municipality is responsible for torts to third persons, but for 'omissions and breaches of
•contract he is responsible to the municipality alone.
A contract between a public service corporation and the municipality
should not be unduly extended so as to introduce new parties and new
rights and subject those contracting to suits by a multitude of

GER. ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

221

Statement of the Case.

persons for damages for causes which could not in the nature of
things have been in contemplation of the parties.
The conclusion that a property owner has no claim against a water
supply company for failure to conform to the contract does not
deprive him of any right, for had the municipality been guilty of the
same ,acts no suit could be maintained.
In Guardian Trust Co. v. Fisher, 200 U. S. 57, the contract with the
water company expressly provided for liability of the company to
third parties, and the state court having held that, under the law of
North Carolina, an action of thds nature can be maintained, that
question was not in issue in this court.
What is said in an opinion of this court must be limited to the facts
and issues involved in the particular record under investigation.
Guardian Trust Co. v. Fisher did not overrule National Bank v. Grand
Lodge, 98 U. S. 124, holding that a third person cannot sue for the
breach of a contract to which he is a stranger unless in privity with
the parties and is therein given a direct interest.

Spartan Mills" owned a number of houses in
Spartanburg, South Carolina. They were damaged by
fire on March 25, 1907. The German Alliance Company,
which had insured the buildings, paid $68,000, the amount
of the loss, took from the mills an assignment "of all
claims and demands against any person arising from or
connected with the loss or damage," and brought suit, in
the United States Court for the District of South Carolina,
against the Home Water Supply Company, on the ground
that the fire could easily have been extinguished and the
damage prevented if the Water Company had complied
with its contract and duty to furnish the inhabitants of
the city with water for fire protection.
The complaint alleged that on February 14, 1900, the
City Council adopted an ordinance, ratifying a contract,
previously prepared, between the city and the Water
Company, by which the latter was empowered, for a term
of 33 years, to lay and maintain pipes in the streets and
operate waterworks with which "to supply the city and
its inhabitants with water suitable for fire, sanitary and
domestic purposes." The city agreed to use the hydrants
"THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U.,S.

for the extinguishment of fires and -sprinkling purposes
only; to make good any injury which might happen to
them when used by'its fire department; to pay rent for
fire protection, for the term of ten years, at the rate of $40
per year for each hydrant, and, annually, to levy a tax sufficient to pay what should become due under the contract.
The company* agreed to lay at least six mires of pipe,
but on 60 days' notice from the city would lay additional
pipes and install hydrants, not less than ten to the mile,
for each of which, the city was to pay $40 per year.
The company agreed to keep all hydrants supplied with
water for fire protection, and to maintain -a height of at
least 70 feet of water in the standpipe. If any hydrant
remained out of order for more than 24 hours, after notice,
the company was to pay the city $7 per week while each
hydrant was unfit for use.
It 'was further alleged that in 1905 and 1906 the city
ordered the -company to "put in certain hydrants with
connecting pipes,". "which order,, if obeyed, would have
carried water protection to within about 200 feet of the
building which first-caught fire 'on March 25,. 1907, instead
of 650 feet, which was the distance of the nearest hydrant
to the said fire on said day; that in violation of its duty
and obligation to adequately protect the property from
fire, and in defiance of the order of council, the defendant
failed to make such extensions, and as a direct result
there was no 'plug near enough to furnish water to extinguish said fire-all due to the defendant's culpable and
wilful negligence and disregard, of duty and obligations
to said city and its inhabitants."
Other breaches were charged, in laying 4-inch instead
of 6-inch pipe; in neglecting to install the electric cut-off,
and "in failing absolutely to furnish water with which to
extinguish such fire and prevent its spreading to other
houses."
The defendant made no question as -to the right of. the

GER. ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

223

Argument for Petitioner.

Insurance Company to maintain the action if th- Spartan
Mills could have done so, but filed a general demurrer
which was sustained July 14, 1908. That judgment was
affirmed November 4, 1909, by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, (174 Fed. Rep. 764), and the case was brought
here by writ of certiorari.
Mr. Hartwell Cabell, with whom Mr. Stanyarne Wilson
was on the brief, for petitioner:
The only question presented by the demurrer to the
complaint is whether an action in tort will lie against a
private water company whose negligence and willful disregard of its duties in supplying water has been the proximate cause of loss of plaintiff's property.
GuardianTrust Co. v. Fisher 200 U. S. 57, sustained such
a right against a water company by whose negligent performance of its duties private propertyhad been destroyed;
that decision was binding upon the lower Federal courts
and the affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court
dismissing the complaint, was in effect a refusal of the
court below to follow the law as laid down by this court.
In that case the judgment recited that the recovery was
for a tortious injury and damage done by the negligence
of the defendant. Fisher v. Greensboro Water Supply Co.,
128 No. Car. 375.
The previous cases in North Carolina allowing recoveries against private water companies under similar circumstances (Gorrell v. Greensboro Water Supply Co., 124
No. Car. 328; Jones v: Durham Water Co., 135 No. Car.
553) proceeded upon the thEory of the right of the party
aggrieved to recover in an action upon the contract with
the municipality, holding that the contract had been entered into for the benefit of the inhabitants, and that therefore they were entitled to maintain an action thereon.
There was therefore no "rule of property" in North Carolina arising out of numerous adjudications upon the con-

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Petitioner.

226 U. S.

struction of § 1255, which Federal courts would feel inclined
to follow.
Federal courts in. construing state statutes have uniformly declared their independence of state decisions,
where the questions involved were matters of a general
nature; or the terms to be defined those of general use in
jurisprudence. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1; B. & 0. R. R.
v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Venice v. Murdock, 92 U. S. 494,
501; Pleasant Township v. E'tna Life Ins. Co., 138 U. S.
67; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20,.'34.
This court has committed the Federal courts to the
doctrine that a private water company, when it enters
.upon the performance of its contract with a municipality,
incurs certain 'duties to the public, the breach of which,
when attended by injury to private property, constitutes
a tort, and that such injury is not damnum absque injuria.
Guardian Trust Co. v. Fisher, supra; and see Mugge v.
Tampa Water Works Co., 42 So. Rep. 81; Ancrum v.
Camden Water, Liiht & Ice Co., 64 S. E. Rep. 151; Knuth
v. Butler Elect. Ry., 148 Fed.. Rep. 73.
Private corporations who! contract with municipalities
to supply water for public and private use, enjoy, through
the nature of their business, valuable franchises, rights and
privileges. They are granted monopolies for long terms;
they exercise the right of eminent domain, by virtue of
*which they use the public streets and highways, condemn private property, enter upon the premises of citizens, and possess other privileges of an extraordinary nature. In. return and in consideration of a stipulated
charge, they undertake to furnish water to the municipality and its inhabitants for fire protection and domestic
purposes.
The: English courts from early times have held that
when: an individual or a private corporation for valuable
consideration has contracted to render services of a public
nature, such individual or corporation by operation of law

GER. ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

225

Argument for Petitioner.

become§ charged with a duty to the public and may be
held liable for the negligent discharge of that duty to any
member of the public who may be injured thereby. The
Mayor &c. v. Henley, 3 B. & A. 77; Paine v. Partridge, 1
Shower, 255; Mayor of Lynn v. Turner, Cowp. 86; Mersey
Docks v. Gibbs, 11 H. L. Cas. 686; Robinson v. Chamberlain, 34 N. Y. 389; Fulton Fire Ins. Co. v. Baldwin, 37
N. Y. 648; Little v. Banks, 85 N. Y. 258; Lampert v. Laclede Gas Light Co., 14 Mo. App. 376; Appleby v. The State,
16 Vroom. (N. J.) 161..
The right of a private citizen to recover as for a tort
against a water company whose failure to furnish adequate
water for fire protection has caused damage, has been sustained in a number of cases. Paducah Lumber Co. v.
Paducah Water Supply Co., 89 Kentucky, 340; Griffin v.
Goldsboro Water Co., 122 No. Car. 206; Fisherv. Greensboro
Water Supply Co., 128 No. Car. 375; Mugge v. Tampa
Water Works Co. (Fla.), 42 So. Rep. 81.
The neglect or failure to do the things that should be
done in order to perform the contract properly, is not nonfeasance, but misfeasance. Gregor v. Cady, 82 Maine,
131, 136; Olmstead v. Morris Aqueduct, 17 Vroom. 495, 501;
House v. Houston W. W. Co., 88 Texas, 233; Wainwright
v. Queens Co. Water Co., '78 Hun, 146; Ukiah City v.
Ukiah Water Co., 75 Pac. Rep. 773; Howsman v. Trenton Water Co., 119 Missouri, 304, holding that the duty to
furnish water at the hydrants was one owing to the general
public in its collective capacity and not to individuals
composing the general public are not supported in reason
and are answered in Pkcmters' Oil Mill v. Monroe
Waterworks & Light Co. (1900), 52 La. Ann. 1243,p. 1250.
The question is, for whose benefit the water was brought
to the hydrant to be used to extinguish fires, that of the
city as such or of the individual property owner whose
property lies within the protected zone?
VOL. CCXXVI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1912..
Argument for Petitioner.

226 U. S.

Ferris v,Carson Water Co.; 16 Nevada, 44, can be distinguished, and see Bonaparte v. Camden & Amboy R. R.
Co., Baldwin C. C. (U. S.) 205, 223; Kiernan v. Metropolitan Construction Co., 170 Massachusetts, 378; Borough
of Washington v. Washington Water Co., 4 Robbins (N. J.),
254; Public Service Corp. v. American Lighting Co., 1
Robbins, 122, as-to the rights of individuals and duties of
public utilities corporations.
The immunity from suit enjoyed by a municipality
which"undertakes to, furnish Water for fire purposes does
not inure to the benefit of a private water company with
which it has contracted for such supply. The cases which
hold otherwise, Britton v. Green Bay Water Co., 81 Wisconsin, 48; Nichol v. Huntington Water Co.i 53 W. Va.
348; Akron Water Works Co. v. Brownless, 10 Ohio C. C.
620, are in error.
The , individ~hal property owner may be without a
remedy against the city simply because the city in providing fire protection exercises the sovereign power of the
State and hence cannot be sued, as held in Springfield
Ins. Co. v., Keeseville, 148 N. Y. 46, but it does not follow
that because a municipality is not liable to individuals, a
private water company which undertakes to perform the
same acts is also not liable. Mills W. Wj Co. v. Forrest,
.97 N. Y. 97.
The objection that unless water companies are protected
from the consequences of their own faults capitalists would
not readily seek investment in enterprises involving such
incalculable hazards, and the general public would lose.
the benefits now derived from them should not prevail.
To permit a tort feasor to escape the result of his own
acts. or .omissions merely because his disregard of the
duties laid upon him by law has caused a,loss to others,
which, by reason of its magnitude it would ruin him to
pay, is surely a strange doctrine.

GER. ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

227

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. I. A. Phifer, with whom Mr. Ralph K. Carson was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
In Ancrum v. Camden Water Company, 82 S. Car. 284,
the Supreme Court of South Carolina, construing a contract much like the one here involved, held that a taxpayer
could not maintain an action against a Water Company
for damage due to its failure to furnish water as required
by such an agreement with the city. The plaintiff, however, contends that although'the present suit is for damage
to property located in South Carolina, that decision is not
of controlling authoritY, because it was rendered two years
after this action was begun. Relying on Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, it insists that when the contract was
made, February, 1900, there was no settled state law on
the subject, and therefore the Federal courts must decide
for themselves, as matter of general law, the much controverted question as to a water company's liability to a
taxpayer for failure to furrish fire protection, according
to the terms of its contract with the city.
The courts have almost uniformly held that municipalities are not bound to furnish water for fire protection.
Such was the unquestioned rule when they relied, as some
still do, on wells and cisterns as a source of supply; nor was
there any increase of liability with the gradual increase of
facilities-though, with the introduction of reservoirs,
standpipes, pumping stations and steam engines, cities
were frequently sued for damages resulting from an
inadequate supply or insufficient pressure. But the city
was under no legal obligation to furnish the water; and
if it voluntarily undertook to do more than the law required, it did not thereby subject itself to a new or greater
liability. It acted in a governmental capacity, and was

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

no more responsible for failure in that respect than it
would have ,been for failure to furnish adequate police
protection.
If the common law did not impose such duty upon a
public corporation, neither did it require private companies to furnish fire protection to property reached by
their pipes. And there could, of course, be no liability
for the breach of a common law, statutory or charter
duty which did not exist. It is argued, however, that
even if, in the first instance, the law did not oblige the
company to furnish property owners with water, such a
duty arose out of the public service upon which the defendant entered. But if, where it did not otherwise exist,
a public duty could arise out of a private bargain, liability would be based on the failure to do or to furnish what
was reasonably necessary to discharge the duty imposed.
The complaint proceeds on no such theory. It makes no
allegation that the defendant failed to furnish a plant of
reasonable capacity, or neglected to extend the pipes where
they were reasonably required. Nor is it charged that
what the company actually did was harmful in itself or
likely to cause injury to others, so as to bring the case
within the principle applicable to the sale of unwholesome
provisions, or misbranded poisons which, in their intended
use, would be injurious to purchasers from the original
vendee. So that, notwithstanding numerous charges of
culpable, wanton and malicious neglect of duty, this
suit-whether regarded as ex contractu or ex delicto-is
for breach of the provisions of the contract of February 14,
1900, which must, therefore, be the measure of plaintiff's
right and of the defendant's liability.
Whether a right of action arises, out of such a contract,
in favor of a taxpayer is a matter about which there has
been much discussion and some conflict in decisions. Although for nearly a century it has been common for prig
vate corporations to supply cities with water under this,

(SER. ALMLIANCE INS. CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

229

Opinion of the Court.

sort of agreement, we find no record of a suit like this
prior to 1878, when the Supreme Court of Connecticut, in a
brief decision, (Nickerson v. HydraulicCo., 46 Connecticut,
24), held that the property owner was a'stranger to the
agreement with the municipality, and, therefore, could not
maintain an action against the company for a breach of its
contract with the city. Since that time similar suits,
some in tort and some for a breach of the contract, have
been brought in many other States. In view of the importance of the question, the subject has been examined
and reexamined, the contract subjected to the most critical analysis and many elaborate opinions have been rendered. They are cited in 3 Dillon Munic. Corp., § 1340,
and in Ancrum v. Water Co., 82 S. Car. 284.
From them it appears that the majority of American
courts hold that the taxpayer has no direct interest in
such agreements and, therefore, cannot sue ex contractu.
Neither can he sue in tort, because, in the absence of a
contract obligation to him, the water company owes him
no duty for the breach of which he can maintain an
action ex delicto. A different conclusion is reached by the
Supreme Courts of three States, in cases cited and discussed in Mugge v. Tampa Water Works, 52 Florida, 371.
They hold that such a contract is for, the benefit of taxpayers, who may sue either for its breach, or for a violation
of the public duty which was thereby assumed.
The plaintiff presses these decisions to their logical conclusion and sues,-not for negligence in operating the
plant, but for breach of the contract of construction. The
complaint charges that as a direct consequence of the
refusal to lay the pipes, as provided by the contract, there
was no plug near enough to extinguish the fire. The other
allegations as .to putting in 4-inch instead of 6-inch pipe
and failing to install the electric cut-off are immaterial,
except on the theory that if the property owner was,
indeed, a beneficiary, it, after acceptance, would be en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

titled to all the rights of the original promisee, and if not
otherwise injured, might at least recover nominal damages for any breach. By the same reasoning it, with the,
other members of the class, might release the company
from liability already incurred, or even discharge it altogether from the duty of carrying out the agreement in the
future. If this did not entirely substitute the taxpayer for
the municipality, it would at least subject the promisor to
liability to many, where it only had contracted with one.
Dow v. Clark':7 Gray, 198, 201.
In many jurisdictions a third person may now sue for
the breach of a contract made for his benefit. The rule
as to when this can be done varies in the different States.
In some he must be the sole beneficiary. In others it must
appear that one of the parties owed him a debt or duty,
creating the privity, necessary to enable him to hold the
promisor liable. Others make further conditions. But
even where the right is most liberally granted it is recognized as an exception to the general principle, which proceeds on the legal and natural presumption, that a contract is only intended for the benefit of those who made
it. Before a stranger can avail himself of the exceptional
privilege of suing for a breach of an agreement, to which
he is not a party, he must, at least show that it was intended for his direct benefit. For, as said by this court,
speaking of the right of bondholders to sue a third party
who had made an agreement with the obligor to discharge
the bonds, they "may have had an indirect interest in the
performance of the undertakings, but that is a very different thing from the privity necessary to enable them to
enforce the contract by suits in their own names." Nat.
Bk. v. Grand Lodge, 98 U. S. 123, 124. Hendrick v.
Lindsay, 93 U. S. 143, 149; National Savings Bk. v. Ward,
100 U. S. 195, 202, 205.
Here the city was under no obligation to furnish the
manufacturing company with fire protection, and this

GER. ALLIANCE INS. CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

231'

Opinion of the Court.

agreement was not made to pay a debt or discharge a
duty to the Spartan Mills, but, like other municipal contracts, was made by Spartanburg in its, corporate capacity,.
for its corporate advantage, and for the benefit of the inhabitants collectively. Tho. interest which each taxpayer had therein was indirect-that incidental benefit
only which every citizen has in the performance of every,
other contract made by and with the government under
which he lives, but for the breach of which he has no
private right of action.
He is interested in the faithful performance of contracts
of service by policemen, firemen, and mail-contractors,
as well as in holding to their warranties the vendors of
fire engines. All of these employs, contractors, or vendors
are paid out of taxes. But for the breaches of thpir contracts the citizen cannot sue-though he'suffer 'loss because the carrier delayed in hauling the mail, or the policeman failed to walk his beat, or the fireman delayed in
responding to an alarm, or the engine proved defective,
resulting in his building being destroyed by fire. 1 Beven,
Negligence in Law (3d ed.):, 305; Pollock on Torts (8th
ed.), 434, 547; Davis v. Clinton, 54 Iowa, 59, 61.
Each of these promisors of the city, like the Water
Company here, would be liable for any tort done by him
to third persons. But for acts of omission and breaches
of contract, he would be reSponsible to the municipality
alone. To hold to the contrary would unduly extend
contract liability, would introduce' new parties with new
rights, and vould subject those contracting with
municipalities to suits by a multitude of persons for
damages which were not, and, in the nature of
things, could not have been, in contemplation of the
parties.
The result is that plaintiff cannot maintain this action,
and though based upon the general principle that the
parties to a contract are those who are entitled to its rights,

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

is in accordance with the particular intent of those who
made this agreement.
If the company had, indeed, made a valid contract for
the benefit of a third person, the amount of the damages
for which it might be liable would be immaterial. Yet
where there is no such express agreement, and liability
to a taxpayer is sought to be raised by implication, it is
proper to test the correctness of the proposed construction
by noting the results to which it would lead. The contract was made in February, 1900. By its terms the city
was, during a period of 10 years, to pay $40 per annum for
each hydrant. During that time the property subject to
damage by fire might double or quadruple in value-. The
failure to provide that the water rent of $40 per hydrant
should rise or fall with the increase or decrease in such
values indicates that liability for damage to that property
was not in the contemplation pf the parties and that no
payment therefor was included in the price for each hydrant. Otherwise the amount of payment would naturally
have varied with the risk assumed.
In some States it is held that, in the absence of a statute, a city can neither directly nor indirectly make a contract with a water company that the latter should pay
private individuals for fire damage, since that would involve the use of public money to secure a private benefit
to the owner of private property. Hone v. Water Co., 104
Maine, 217. In Ancrum v. Water Co., supra, the South
Carolina court held that the amount paid per hydrant
was so insignificant by comparison with the enormous
risk involved, as clearly to indicate that neither the city
nor the water company intended that the latter should
be liable to the taxpayer for a breach of the company's
contract with the city.
This conclusion deprives the property owner of no right,
for if the city had owned the works, and had been guilty of
the same acts as are charged against the water company

GER. ALLIANCE INS.'CO. v. HOME WATER CO.
226 U. S.

233

Opinion of the Court.

here, no suit could have been maintained against the municipality. There was i1o creation of a right to fire protection if, instead of doing so itself, the city contracted
with a private company to furnish water. It bought the
icitizen no new right of action, and did not
bargain to
secure for him an indemnity against loss by fire, but left
him to protect himself against that hazard by insurance, paying the premium direct to an insurance company
instead of indirectly through taxation. When, in pursuance of such precaution, the Spartan Mills insured the
houses, and the plaintiff later settled the fire loss, there
was no right of action in favor of the manufacturing
company against the Water Company to which the Insurance Company could be subrogated.
The plaintiff urges that, whatever the rule elsewhere, it
is entitled to recover under the decision in Guardian Trust
Company v. Fisher, 200 U. S. 57. But the facts there
differ from those in this record. There the water company had an exclusive right, to use the streets in the city
of Greensboro, under an ordinance which, among other
things, provided that "said water company shall be responsible for all damage sustained by the city, or any
individual or individuals, for any injury sustained from
the negligence of the said company, either in the construction or operation of their plant." (p. 58.) Buildings were
destroyed as a result of the negligent failure of the company to furnish sufficient water while operating its plant.
The owner brought suit against the water company in the
courts of North Carolina, where it had previously been
settled that such actions could be maintained. He recovered a judgment "for the totious injury and damage done
to the plaintiff by the negligence of the defendant." 128
No. Car. 375; 115 Fed. Rep. 187. Execution issued, but
no levy could be made, because the property of the water
company was in possession of a receiver, appointed in
foreclosure proceedings pending in the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

court. The plaintiff inteivened therein, claiming that he
was entitled to be paid before the bondholders by virtue
of the North Carolina statute, which provided that
"judgments for corporate torts" should take priority over
older mortgages.
It was urged, among other things, by the bondholders
that the suit in the state court was really for breach of
contract, and that entering the judgment as for a tort did
not change the nature of the action so as to entitle the
plaintiff to the benefits of the North Carolina statute.
It was that question alone, as to the character of the
suit and judgment, which was before this court. What was
said in the opinion must be limited, under well-known
-iules, -to the facts and issues involved in the particular
-recurd imder investigation. The Fis7zer Case Tould -not
have decided the primary question as to the right of the
taxpayer to sue, for that issue had been finally settled by
the state court. It raised no Federal question and was
not in issue on the hearing in this court. Neither did the
Fisher Case overrule the principle, announced in National
Bank v. GrandLodge, 98 U. S. 123, 124, that a third person
cannot sue for the breach of a contract to which he is a
stranger unless he is in privity with the parties and is
therein given a direct interest. The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.
VEVE v. SANCHEZ.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 42.

Argued November 7, 1912.-Decided-December 2, 1912.

While a tract may.be so well known by name that it can be described
and conveyed without- other designation, ordinarily designation by
name will yield to the more definite by metes and bounds; and in
this case the latter rule should apply.

