1570

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

authorized by law, and the appropriation therefor explicitly states that it is for such additional pay, extra
allowance, or compensation."
It seems to us that the appointment of the appellant as
"special disbursing agent" was not an appointment to a
separate and distinct office from those already held by
him, but was merely an order requiring him to perform
additional services in the way of disbursing public moneys.
This being so, payment for the extra services is prohibited
by the terms of § 1765, Rev. Stat., without reference to
the fact that the appellant already held offices whose
salary or- annual compensation amounted to more than
two thousand five hundred dollars. The case is within
the authority of Woodwell v. United States, 214 U. S. 82.
The fact that in the present case it was understood that
the appellant should have additional pay makes this case
different in its circumstances, but does not render inapplicable the statutory prohibition.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HUGHES,

dissent.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. WULF.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 517.

Argued December 3, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court does not depend entirely
on diverse citizenship but is also founded upon a Federal statute
and the amount exceeds one thousand dollars, the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is not final under § 6 of the Judiciary Act
of 1891.

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. WULF.
226 U. S.

Opinion o:l the Court.

Even if the petition in a suit against an interstate carrier for the death
of one engaged in interstate commerce asserts a cause of action under
the state statute, without referring to the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the court is presumed to be cognizant of the Federal act
and of the fact that it has superieded state laws upon the subject.
Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act the beneficiaries of one
killed cannot maintain an .action against the employer except as
personal representatives of the deceased; but where the plaintiff is
sole. beneficiary and takes out letters after the commencement of
the action, the court may allow an amendment alleging that the
plaintiff sues in the capacity of administrator.
An amendment to the effect that plaintiff sues as personal representative on the same cause of action under the Federal statute instead
of as sole beneficiary of the deceased under the state statute, is not
equivalent to the commencement of a new action and is not subject
to the statute of limitations. Union Paciftc Ry. Co. v. Wyler, 158
U. S. 285, distinguished.
192 Fed. Rep. 919, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act and to what extent amendments
of pleadings are allowable, axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. James Hagerman, Mr. Joseph M. Bryson, Mr.
Alex. S. Coke and Mr. A. H. McKnight, for plaintiff in
error, submitted.
Mr. Judson H. Wood, with whom Mr. James P. Haven
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
M&. JusTcE PiTrrY delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, Sallie C. Wulf, in her individual
capacity, commenced this action January 23, 1909, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas, to recover damages by reason of the death
of her son, Fred S. Wulf, which occurred November 27,
1908, while he was in the employ of the defendant. (now
plaintiff in error) as a locomotive fireman, and in the
performance of his duties as such upon a train bound

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

from Parsons in the State of Kansas to Osage in the State
of Oklahoma. The original petition set up diversity of
citizenship, plaintiff being alleged to be a bona fide inhabitant, resident and citizen of Texas, and the defendant
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Kansas. For cause of action it was averred that the decedent's death was the result of a bursting of the locomotive boiler, due to defects therein attributable to the
negligence of the employer. It was further averred that"Plaintiff is the mother of the said Fred S. Wulf and is a
feme sole: and the said Fred S. Wulf was an unmarried
man, :leaving no wife or children surviving. That his
father died prior to the time that he died, and plaintiff is
the sole heir, next of kin, and beneficiary of the estate of
the said Fred S. Wulf, deceased. That there is no administration pending on the said estate of the said Fred S.
Wulf,within this State (Texas) or elsewhere, and that none
is necessary. That said decedent was a resident citizen of
the State of Texas when he was killed, but was temporarily working in Kansas. That by virtue of the laws of the
State of Kansas, where the said Fred S. Wulf was killed, a
right of action is provided by statute, for injuries resulting
in death." The plaintiff demanded $40,000 damages. On
May 19, 1909, defendant filed its original answer, consisting of a general demurrer, a general denial of the allegations of the petition, and averments that the injuries
complained of'were proximately caused and contributed
to by deceased's own negligence and want of ordinary caie
and by that of his fell6w-servans.. No action appears to
have been taken upon this pleading; but on Januaty 6,
1911, defendant filed its first amended answer, consisting
of a general demurrer; a special demurrer to the claim of
$40,000 damages, on the ground that under the laws of
Kansas the damages were limited to $10,000; and averments that at the time of the injury and death of de'
ceased defendant was engaged in interstate commerce,.

MO., KANS. & 'rEX. RY. v. WULF.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and deceased was in its employ and was himself engaged
in interstate commerce, and that the cause of action is not
governed by the laws of Kansas, but arises out of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1908. There was
also a general denial of the allegations of the petition, and
an averment of contributory negligence on the part of the
deceased and of his fellow-servants. Upon the same day
(January 6, 1911), the plaintiff filed her first amended
original petition, averring that she was the sole heir and
next of kin of Fred S. Wulf, deceased; that at the time of
the filing of the original petition there was no administration upon his estate and no necessity for any; that on
January 4, 1911, she was duly appointed temporary administratrix of his estate by the County Court of Grayson
County, Texas, a court of competent jurisdiction, and
qualified as such, with full power and authority to prosecute this suit as party plaintiff, and had made application
to be appointed permanent administratrix; "That there
now exists no necessity for an administration upon the
estate of the said Fred S. Wulf, deceased, unless the same
should be necessary for the sole purpose of prosecuting
this suit as administratrix of said decedent for the benefit
of herself as the surviving parent and next of kin of the
said decedent; said plaintiff being the next of kin and sole
beneficiary of whatever may be recovered in this suit.
She therefore sues in her original capacity as such sole
beneficiary and next of kin, but in the event it shall be
determined that she is not entitled to recover in said
capacity, then she asks that she be allowed to recover as
administratrix for her benefit as aforesaid. Therefore, she
sues both in her individual capacity and as administratrix
as aforesaid." The averment of diversity of citizenship
was repeated, as were those averments pf the original
petition that set forth the cause of action. The amended
petition further averred-'"That by virtue of both the
laws of the State of Kansas, where the said Fred S. Wulf

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

was killed and the acts of Congress of the United States
of America, a right of action is'provided for injuries re-

sulting in death in the manner and formand in the occupation that deceased was engaged. in at the time of his
.death." This amendment wa allowed by the court, and
an order was made permitting the plaintiff to prosecute as
the personal representative of the deceased for her individual benefit, as well as in her individual capacity.
Thereafter the defendant filed its second amended answer,
by which it excepted to that portion of the amended petition making Sallie C. -Wulf a party plaintiff; because
"under the act of Congress, known as the Employers'
Liability Act, she is not a proper party to said suit;"
excepted to that portion making her a party as temporary
administratrix, "because she was not made a party
thereto as such administratrix at the time of the filing Qf
the original petition;" and excepted to that portion seeking to make her a party as administratrix, because the
amendment making her a party in that -capacity was
made more than two years from the time the alleged cause
of action accrued, and for that the cause of action, if any,
was barred by the limitation of two years. There was also
a general denial of the allegations of fact in-plaintiff's
petition contained, "except that this defendant says that
at the time the said-deceased was killed he Was engaged in
interstate commerce."7
The exceptions being overruled, a trial was had upon
the issues of fact, and.resulted in a verdict and judgment
in favor of the plaintiff (now defendant in error) for $7,000,
which was affirmed by'the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit (192 Fed. Rep. 919), and the case comes
here by writ of error.
The judgment of the Circuit: Court being founded upon
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, so that the jurisdiction of that court was not:dependent entirely upon the
.diversity of 'citizenship of the parties,. the judgment of the

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. WULF.
226 U. S.

Opinion or the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals was not made final by § 6 of
the Evarts Act, and thus (1he matter in controversy exceeding one thousand dollars), there is a right to a writ
of error from this court. Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
828, c. 517, § 6; Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, 36
Stat. 1087, c. 231; p. 1133, § 128; p. 1157, § 241.
The argument for reversal rests wholly upon the mode
of procedure followed in the Circuit Court. It is contended
that the plaintiff's original petition failed to state a cause
of action, because she sued in her individual capacity
and based her right of recovery upon the Kansas statute,
whereas her action could legally rest only upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1908, which requires the
action to be brought in the name of the personal representative of the deceased; that the plaintiff's amended petition, in which for the first time she set up a right to sue
as administratrix, alleged an entirely new and distinct
cause of action, and that such an amendment could not
lawfully be allowed so as to relate back to the commencement of the action, inasmuch as the plaintiff's cause of
action was barred by the lmitation of two years before
she undertook to sue as adninistratrix.
It seems to us, however, that, aside from the capacity
in which the plaintiff assumed to bring her action, there
is no substantial difference between the original and
amended petitions. In the former, as in the latter, it was
sufficiently averred that the deceased came to his death
through injuries suffered while he was employed by the
defendant railroad company in interstate commerce; that
his death resulted from the negligence of the' company
and by reason of defects in one of its locomotive engines
due to its negligence;. and that since the deceased died
unmarried and childless, the plaintiff, as his tole surviving
parent, was the sole beneficiary of the action. It is true
the original petition asserted a right of action under the
laws of Kansas, without making reference to the act of

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Congress. But the court was presumed to be .cognizant
of the enactment of the Employers' Liability Act; and to
know that with respect to the responsibility of interstate
carriers by railrokd to their employ6s injured in such commerce after its enactment it had the effect of superseding
state laws upon the subject. Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 53. Therefore the pleader was not required to refer to the Federal act, and the reference
actually made to the Kansas statute no more Vitiated the
pleading than a reference to any other repealed: statute
would have done.
It is true that under the Federal statute the plaintiff
could not, although sole beneficiary, -maintain the action
except as personal representative. So it was held in
American Railroad Co. v. Birch, 224 U. S. 547. But in
that case there was no offer to amend by joining or substituting the personal representative, and this court, while
reversing the judgment, did so without prejudice to such
rights as the personal representatives might have. The
decision left untouched the question of the propriety of
such an amendment as was applied for and allowed in the
case before us; an amendment that, without in any way
modifying or enlarging the facts upon which the action
was based, in effect merely indicated the capacity in which
the plaintiff was to prosecute the action. The amendment
was clearly within § 954, Rev. Stat.
Nor do we think it was equivalent to the commencement of a new action, so as to render it subject to the two
years' limitation prescribed by § 6 of the Employers'
Laibility. Act. The change was in form rather than in
substance. Stewart v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 168
U. S. 445. It introduced no new or different cause of
action, nor did it set up any different state of facts as the
ground of action, and therefore it related back to the beginning of the sit. Texas & PacificRy. Co. v. Cox, 145
U. S. 593, 603;_Aantic,& Pacific R., Co. v. Laird, 164

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. WULF.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 393, 395. See also McDonald v. State bf Nebraska,
101 Fed. Rep. 171, 177, 178; Patillo v. Allen-West Commission Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 680; Reardon v. Balaklala
Consol. Copper Co., 193 Fed. Rep. 189. Reliance is placed
by plaintiff in error upon Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wyler,
158 U. S. 285. There the action was commenced in a
state court of Missouri and afterwards removed to the
United States Circuit Court. The original petition was
based upon the common law of master and servant, and
set up an injury to the plaintiff occurring in the State of
Kansas while he was in the employ of the defendant,
averring that the injury was due to the negligence of the
defendant in employing and retaining in its employ as
fellow-servant of the plaintiff one Kline, an incompetent
person, with knowledge of his incompetency; afterwards
plaintiff filed an amended petition, eliminating the charge
of incompetency on thepart'of Kline and the averment
of defendant's knowledge of such incompetency, and
resting the cause of action exclusively upon the negligence
of Kline as a fellow-servant of plaintiff, averring that the
employer was liable to the plaintiff for the injury suffered
by him through such negligence because a right of action
was given in such case by the law of Kansas where the
accident occurred. This court held that the amendment
introduced a substantially new cause of action, to which
the bar of the statute of limitations applied. But in that
case,. as is made plain in the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice White (now Chief Justice), the amended petition set
up not only a different state of facts, but a different rule
of law as the ground of the action; the original petition
proceeding exclusively on the common law rule which held
a-master liable who with knowledge employs or retains an
incompetent servant, and making no reference to the
Kansas statute, nor averrig negligence on the part of the
fellow-servant, excepting so far as this might be inferred
from the averment of his incompetency; while the amendVOL. ccxxvi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

226 U. S.

ment relied .upon the fellow-servant's mere negligence
together with a statute of Kansas which made the master
responsible for the consequences of the negligence of a
fellow-servant. The action having been commenced in a
Missouri court which would not take notice of the Kansas
statute unless it were pleaded (Babcock v. Babcock, 46
Missouri, 243), this court held that'the rule that the Federal courts take 'judicial notice of the laws of the several
States did not apply. Since in the present case the
Federal statute did not need to be pleaded, and the
amended petition set up no new facts as the ground of
action, the decision in the. Wyler Case is not controlling.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

entertains doubts as to whether

the two years' limitation does not apply.

SCHMIDINGER v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 115.

Argued December 20, 1912.-Decided:January 13, 1913.

The right of the legislature, or the municipality under legislative authority, to regulate one trade and not another is well settled as not
denying equal protection of the laws.
The right of the legislature, or the municipality acting under state
authority, to regulate trades and callings in the exercise of the police
power without F~deral interference under the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, is also. well settled. Gundling v. Chi-

cago, 177 U. S. 183.
The making and selling of bread, particularly in large cities, is obviously
a trade subject to police regulation.
* Local legislative authorities, and. not the courts, are primarily the
judges of the necessities of local situations calliiig for police regula-

