OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

McLEAN, WIDOW OF NATHANIEL H. McLEAN, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 33.

Argued November 6, 1912.-Decided December 23, 1912.

Under the act of' Congress of February 24, 1905, 33 Stat. 806, c. 777,
directing the accounting officers to settle and adjust all back pay and
emoluments that would have been due to an officer had he remained
in the army for a period that he was out of tlie army after an enforced
resignation from that time until his reinstatement held that, under

such a statute:
The duties of accounting officers are administrative and not judicial,
and as to whatever rights arose under the act as to its construction,
the Court of Claims had jurisdiction to determine.
In order to construe the statute and make the redress as complete as
-Congress intended, reports of the committees of both houses having the matter in charge may be referred to.
Public moneys are not appropriated as mere gifts and such an act
will.not be regarded as a simple gratuity.
The words "all back pay and emoluments" include forage, rations,
and pay for servants to which the officer would have been entitled
under the statutes had he remained in the army, and in adjusting
under the'statute those items should not have been excluded be-cause the officer was not actually in service of the United States.
An act of Congress will not be construed as giving a right and taking
it away at one and the same instant; nor will the conditions making it necessary be made a reason for defeating it.
The word "all" excludes the idea of limitation.
45 Ct. Cls. 95, reversed.

facts, which involve the amount due to a reinstated
officer of the United States Army for back pay and emoluments under an act of Congress and the proper method of
computing the same, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Archibald King for appellant.
Mr. William W..Scott, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney

McLEAN v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

General John Q. Thompson was on the brief, for the
United States:
This court has repeatedly held that it will not go behind the findings of fact as made by the Court of Claims
and will not consider the evidence upon which they were
founded. 5 Wall. 419; 17 Wall. XVII; 93 U. S. 605; 111
U. S. 609. See also Sisseton & Wahpeton Indiansv., United
States, 208 U. S, 561, 566, citing McClure v. United States,
116 U. S. 145; District of Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S.
146, 150; Sac & Fox Indians v. United States, 220 U. S.
481, distinguishing United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S.
427.
The act of February 24, 1905, constituted the accounting officers and not the courts the tribunal to settle the
accounts.
In order to ascertain if there was anything due under
said act the accounting officers were required to decide
as a question of. fact whether or not McLean "actually
kept in service" any servants and, if so, how many.
Still another question of fact to be determined by the
accounting officers was whether or'not McLean actually
kept any horses during said period at the place where he
was on duty.
To decide these two questions of fact it was necessary
for the accounting officers to pass upon the weight and
competency of evidence.
The finding and conclusion reached by the accounting
officers of the Treasury is final and conclusive, and the
Court of Claims ,was without authority to review it.
'United States v. California & Oregon Land Company, 148
U. S. 31, 43; Foley v. Harrison,15 How. 433, 446; Steele v.
Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447, 451; Adams Express Co. v.
Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S. 194,'229; Marshall's Case,
21 Ct. Cls. 307; Plummer's Case. 24 Ct. Cls. 517; Parish
v. MacVeagh, 214 U. S. 124.
If the act required only an administrative action on the

" 376

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

part of the accounting officers, the requirements of said
act were complied with by them when payment was made
of the pay of a major and personal subsistence.
If the act required discretionary action by the accounting officers of the Treasury, then the act made those officers
a special tribunal, and their findings and payments made
thereunder are conclusive and were not properly reviewable by the Court of Claims.
An officer resigning is not entitled to commutation of
allowances. United States v. Sweet, 189 U. S. 471; Jones
v. United States, 4 Ct. Cls. 197.
McLean was out of the service and with him it was
impossible to make the certificate required to entitle him,
much less his widow, to servants' pay and allowances.
Kilburn v. United States, 15 Ct. Cls. 41, 46, differs from
the present case, as Kilburn was unjustly or inadvertently
dismissed the service, while McLean voluntarily separated
himself from the service by resigning.
The findings do not show that McLean had servants
and horses actually in the service.
The act of July 15, 1870, abolished all emoluments and
allowances for forage and servants. 18 Stat. 320, § 24.
The law authorizing commutation of forage provided
"that neither forage nor money shall be drawn by officers,
but for horses actually kept.by them in service." 3 Stat.
299; United States v. Phisterer, 94 U. S. 219; United States
v. Lippitt, 100 U. S. 663, 670.
As to what are pay and emoluments, see Sherburne's
Case, 16 Ct. Cls. 491, 496; Wilson's Case, 44 Ct. Cls. 428;
Odell's Case, 38 Ct. Cls. 194.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is the extent of relief to which
appellant is entitled under the following act of Congress,
passed February 24, 1905:

McLEAN v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That the proper accounting officers be, and they are
hereby directed to settle and adjust to Sarah K. McLean,
widow of the late Lieutenant-Colonel Nathaniel H. McLean, all back pay and emoluments that would have been
due and payable to the said Nathaniel H. McLean as a
major from July twenty-third, eighteen hundred and
sixty-four, to the date of his reinstatement, March third,
eighteen hundred and seventy-five, and that the amount
found due by said adjustment is hereby appropriated, to
be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated." 33 Stat. 8013, c. 777.
McLean entered the United States Military Academy
July 1, 1844, graduated therefrom and was appointed
brevet second lieutenant in the army July 1, 1848, and
served until the year 1864, when, having attained the
rank of major and assistant adjutant general, he resigned,
his resignation being accepted July 23, 1864. By act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. c. 187, p. 515, Congress authorized
the President to appoint Major McLean to fill the first
vacancy which might occur in the lowest grade of the
adjutant general's department, "or, if he shall deem it
best, to reinstate and retire him with the rank to which
he would have attained in service at the date of the passage of this act." Under this authority Major McLean
was reinstated and placed on the retired list as lieutenant
colonel and assistant adjutant general, to rank from
March 3, 1875. He continued in that rank until his death,
which occurred June 28, 1884. From the date of the acceptance of his resignation, July 23, 1864, to the date of
his reinstatement, March 3, 1875, he received no pay.
This interval is provided for by the act of February 24,
1905, supra.
Under that act appellant presented a claim to the
Auditor of the War Department, who allowed her pay
and personal subsistence which would have been due her
husband from the date of the acceptance of his resigna-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

tion, July 23, 1864, to the date of his reinstatement,
March 3, 1875, but disallowed a claim made by her for
forage and servants' pay. The disallowance was confirmed by the Comptroller of the Treasury. This action
was then brought in the Court of Claims. The court sustained the accounting officers as to forage and servants'
pay, saying: "As an officer of his grade, plaintiff's intestate
was entitled to two servants and forage for two horses had
he remained in the military service. But the officer resigned, and such voluntary retirement from the service
operated to deprive the officer by his own act of the
opportunity to draw the allowance incident to the keeping
of two servants and two horses." As to those two items
the petition was dismissed. The court, however, decided
that the claim for a ration is analogous to longevity pay
*and is on a different basis. The court said: "The officer,
by the act of reinstatement, became entitled to compensation for and during the whole period of service, with the
consequent ration increase incident to the services supposed to have been rendered for the time set forth in the
petition. It is all, strictly speaking, 'pay proper' .
.
This entitled the plaintiff to $682.75 in addition to the
amount allowed by the accounting officers." Judgment
was ordered and entered for that sum. 45 Ct. Cls. 95.
The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to entertain the
action was attacked in that court and is attacked here,
the contention being that the act for the relief of appellant
"constituted the accounting officers and not the courts
the tribunal to settle the accounts." The court ruled
against the contention, and rightly. It is not necessary
to repeat its reasoning. The duties of the accounting
officers were, as the court said, administrative, not judicial,
and as the rights of appellant arose under an act of Congress t!,e court had jurisdiction to determine them. Medbury V. United States, 173 U. S. 492.
Upon the merits certain acts of Congress besides that

McLEAN v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the relief of appellant are pertinent to be considered.
The act of July 17, 1862, 1.2 Stat. 594, c. 200, provides
that majors-shall be entitled to draw forage in kind for
two horses and that in case forage in kind cannot be
furnished by the proper department, officers may commute the same according to existing regulations. The
act of April 24, 1816, § 12, 3 Stat. 297, c. 69, fixes the
money value of forage at eight dollars per month for each
horse when the same shall be commuted. But it is provided "that neither forage, nor money shall be drawnoby
officers, but for horses actually kept by them in service."
The act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 315, 320, c. 294, provides a new pay system for officers of the army, abolishing
commuted forage and all such emoluments, by including
them in pay proper.
Under the acts of March 30, 1814, §§ 9 and 10, 3 Stat.
114, c. 37; April 24, 1816, supra, and March 3, 1865, 13
Stat. 487, c. 79, and the Array Regulations in force from
July 24, 1864, to July 14, 1.870, there would have been
due and payable to McLean, as an emolument in the
grade of major, servants' pay and allowance for as many
servants, not exceeding two, as were actually kept by him
at his expense, at the rate of pay, ration and clothing
allowance of a private soldier in the army for each servant
so kept. By other acts of Congress commissioned officers
other than general officers were entitled to receive one
additional ration per diem for every five years of service, which had a commuted value at various sums until
July 28, 1867, when iAbecame thirty cents.
The Court of Claims found that from the date of the
acceptance of McLean's resignation until September 23,
1864, he had one servant in his employment on the trip
from Portland, Oregon, the -place of his resignation, to his
home in Cincinnati, Ohio-time two months. From the
latter date to July 14, 1870, inclusive, he had servants in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

his private employ, but how many is not satisfactorily
established -from the evidence. The servants were not
enlisted men of or connected with the army. From the
dates before mentioned he owned two horses, one used
occasionally for a saddle horse, but they were generally
used for his private carriage.
rThe question, then, is whether under the facts as found
and the acts of Congress above stated in regard to officers'
pay and allowance and the act for the relief of appellant,
she is entitled to the commuted value of forage which
would have been due and payable to her husband as a
major from September 24, 1864, to July 14, 1870, and
servants' pay. Urging the negative of the question and
in support of the decision of the Court of Claims, it is
contended that for the period specified McLean was not
in the service of the United States and therefore did not
have and could not have had any horses or servants
"actually kept in service" by him as required by the
act of April 24, 1816,_supra. To the contention appellant
opposes the purpose and words of the statute. She asserts
that. the prompting of the- act was to repair an injustice
done to' Major McLean, and, to support-the assertion,
she refers to the report of the committee of, the House
of Representatives and that of the Senate, Fifty-third
Congress. 'The reference is justified (OceanicSteam Navi-gation C9 v. Stranahan,'214 U. S. 320, 333; Northern.
Pacific Co. v. Washington,-222 U. S. 370, 380) and gives
,support to the contention that the circumstances which
preceded and- provoked Major McLean's resignation
appealed to Congress,- and to redress -.its consequences
Congress authorized his reinstatement, and, to make it
complete, passed the act of February 24, 1905.
It. certainly may be assumed that the act was not a
simple gratuity. -Public moneys are not appropriated as
mere gifts. They are appropriated in recognition and reward of merit or in recompense for service, or, as it may

McLEAN v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be inferred in the present case, reparation for injustice
done. Keeping this in mind, the extent of the relief
granted to appellant may be determined. Indeed, the
plain directness of the act of Congress leaves nothing to
interpretation. The proper accounting officers are directed to settle and account to her "all back pay and
emoluments that would have been due and payable" to
her husband as a major of the United States Army from
July 23, 1864, 'to March 3, 1875. The words are allcomprehensive. They embrace all the compensation,
perquisites and dues to which he was entitled as an officer.
About back pay there is no question. The accounting
officers allowed the pay of, the designated rank and the
personal subsistence *hich would have been due and payable to the deceased officer. The Court of Claims extended
the definition of "pay" somewhat farther and included in
it "ration increase incident to the service supposed to have
been rendered for the time set forth in the petition." And,
necessarily, for "service-supposed" is the attribution of
the act of Congress, not service rendered or possible to be
rendered. But the supposition which is made efficient to
give pay is sought to be halted at "emoluments," and the
contention is advanced, as we have seen, that they must
be considered as including only allowances or reimbursement for expenses actually incurred while in the service
of the United States. The contention is not justified. The
act, in order to make its relief complete, treats the officer
and compensates him as though he had been in actual
service from the date of his retirement to the date of his
reinstatement. It is in this aspect that we must apply it.
He is to be regarded for the time stated to have been in
the Army of the United States, entitled to pay, entitled
to emoluments, the latter as much as the former. The
words of the statute make no distinction between them.
Whatever is directed to be settled-pay or emolumentsis for compensation, not for actual service, but for at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

tributed service. This, we repeat, is the scheme of the
statute and the test of its application. It is difficult to
deal with a distinction between pay and emoluments.
Both are rewards or compensation, the one no more than
the other, for "service supposed." To say that one is
certain and the other contingent has no meaning in the
situation of Major McLean. He could not have performed the condition upon which either depended under
the then existing law, and to distinguish between them
notwithstanding is to enter Wmaze of irrelevant considerations. The enactnent is, and we return to it as its own
best interpreter, "that the proper accounting officers be,
and they are hereby, directed to settle and adjust to Sarah
-K.McLean, widoW of the late LIeutenant-Colonel Nathaniel H. McLean, all back pay and emoluments that would
have been due and payable"'.' to him "as major from
July 23, 1864, to the date of his reinstatement, March 3,
."
It -is. manifest'that the supposition of
.
1875 ._
.service by the officer is attributed to both pay and emoluments. Under that supposition what essential difference
is there between. them? Pay and emoluments are but
expressions of value used to give complete recompense to
a deserving officer. Their association was- deliberate;
emoluments were additive to pay; and the direction as to
them is as substantive as the direction as to it, and quali-.
fied by no other condition. Of what consequence, then,
how they may be defined? They may, be called "indirect
or contingent- remuoeration," as they have been called;
it may be said, as it hs'been said, that "they are sometimes in the nature of compensation and sometimes in
the nature of reimbursement." " But, however they be
defined, Congress has granted them, and advisedly, knowing Major McLean's situation, knowing that they included
allowance for servants and forage for horses, and knowing
that while'the servants and horses could not have been
used by him in- the service of the United States, they could

McLEAN v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have been used, as they were used, and ascribed to that
service. With this knowledge and with full understanding
of what it was doing, Congress directed the accounting
officers "to settle and adjust all back pay and emoluments." To decide otherwise is to say that Congress gave
a right and took it away at one and the same instant, or,
in some confusion of mind, intended to withhold it by
using the aptest word to confer it.
The Government realizes the situation and attempts to
explain or escape it. Its argument is somewhat peculiar.
Its contention is that Major McLean, by his resignation,
"must be considered as having intentionally [and the
word is especially emphasized] placed himself without the
service of the United States," and so, having voluntarily
separated himself from the service, he was, and his widow
is, unable to furnish the certificate required by statute to
secure commutation for forage and servants' pay. Of
course, he was out of the Array. If he had not been out
of the Army there would have been no necessity for the
act of Congress, and we cannot consider the condition
which made the act ne.;essary a reason for defeating it.
The plain motive of the act exposes the weakness of the
contention. If we keep in irdnd the purpose which impelled the enactment in behalf of Mrs. McLean we will
have no difficulty in deciding how adequate its language
is to accomplish it. "All back . . . emoluments"
are the words used. "All" excludes the idea of limitation,
and 'the word "emoluments" is the most adequate that
could have been used. It especially expresses the perquisites of an office, and its use in conjunction with "pay"
makes the restitution of the statute complete.
Judgment dismissing the petition as toforage and servants'
pay reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in accordance with thi,: opinion.

