OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

226 U. S.

ment relied .upon the fellow-servant's mere negligence
together with a statute of Kansas which made the master
responsible for the consequences of the negligence of a
fellow-servant. The action having been commenced in a
Missouri court which would not take notice of the Kansas
statute unless it were pleaded (Babcock v. Babcock, 46
Missouri, 243), this court held that'the rule that the Federal courts take 'judicial notice of the laws of the several
States did not apply. Since in the present case the
Federal statute did not need to be pleaded, and the
amended petition set up no new facts as the ground of
action, the decision in the. Wyler Case is not controlling.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

entertains doubts as to whether

the two years' limitation does not apply.

SCHMIDINGER v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 115.

Argued December 20, 1912.-Decided:January 13, 1913.

The right of the legislature, or the municipality under legislative authority, to regulate one trade and not another is well settled as not
denying equal protection of the laws.
The right of the legislature, or the municipality acting under state
authority, to regulate trades and callings in the exercise of the police
power without F~deral interference under the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, is also. well settled. Gundling v. Chi-

cago, 177 U. S. 183.
The making and selling of bread, particularly in large cities, is obviously
a trade subject to police regulation.
* Local legislative authorities, and. not the courts, are primarily the
judges of the necessities of local situations calliiig for police regula-

SCHMIDINGER v. CHICAGO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tion, and the courts can only interfere when such regulation
arbitrarily exceeds a reasonable exercise of authority.
The fact that laws prescribing standard sizes of loaves of bread and
prohibiting the sale of other sizes have been sustained by the courts
of several States shows the necessity for police regulation of the
subject.
Mere inconvenience to merchants conducting -a business subject to
police regulation does not -vitiate the exercise of the power.
There is no absolute liberty of contract, and limitatiqns thereon by.
police regulations of the State are frequently necessary in the interest of public welfare and do riot violate the freedom of contract
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. C., B. & Q. R.'R. Co.
v. McGuire, 219 U. S.549..
The ordinance of Chicago of 1908 enacted under legislative authority,
fixing standard sizes of bread loaves and prohibiting the sale of other
sizes, is not unconstitutional as depriving those dealing therein of
their property without due process of law or as denying them equal
proteotion of the law or as interfering with their liberty of contract.
245 Illinois, 317, affirmed.

THE. facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the bread loaf ordinance
of the Cityi of Chicago, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harry Rubens, with whom Mr. Benjamin F. Ninde
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
'The prohibition of the making of loaf bread in weights
,such as were in large demand at the time of the passage
of the ordinance in question'in the ordinary and customary
course of business, and in weights which are necessary to
satisfy reasonable and legitimate business requirements,
although the loaves are labeled in accordance with their
exact weight, and therefore no fraud is attempted, :unreasonably, arbitrarily and unnecessarily interferes with
the legitimate pursuit of an ordinary, private and useful
business and with the right of contracting in relation
thereto.' It thus deprives the plaintiff in error. of liberty
and property without due process of law. Buffald v.
Collins Baking*Co., 39 N. .Y. App. Div. 432; Lochner v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

New York, 198 U. S. 45, 64, and see Kansas v. McCool,
83 Kansas, 428.
in whatever language a law may be framed, its purpose
must be determined by its natural and reasonable effect,
and the presumption that it was enacted in good faith
cannot control the determination of the question Whether
it is or is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. The police power cannot be put forward as an
excuse for oppressive and unjust legislation. Minnesota
v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S.
78; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, 64.
The sanitary provisions of the ordinance, and the
requirements of correct labels and facilities for weighing
are legitimate and appropriate regulations for the protection of health and for the prevention of imposition
and fraud and are not complained of. The ordinance,
however, improperly prohibits the making of contracts
by the baker with his customer for large quantities of loaf
bread, not for resale in the loaf but for restaurant and
hotel use, in weights other than those fixed in the ordinance.
The plaintiff in error was charged with and found guilty
of making and selling bread in loaves in excess of the
prescribed weights, although Correctly labeled as to the
actual weight thereof and otherwise in accordance with
the ordinance.
Cases relied on by the state court, such as Munn v.
The People, 69 Illinois, 80; S. C., Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113; Guillotte v. New Orleans, 12 La. Ann. 432; Mayor v.
Yuille, relate to businesses affected with a public interest
and to ordinances passed to meet conditions which have
ceased to exist.
In Paige v. Fazackerly, 36 Barb. 392; Re Nasmith, 2
Ontario, 192; Commonwealth v. McArthur, 152 Massachusetts, 522; People v. Wagner, 86 Michigan, 594, either the

SCHMIDINGER v. CHICAGO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

constitutional question was not raised at all or the ordinance was different from the one here involved, so that
these cases do not apply.
The attack of plaintiff in error on the ordinance is directed not only, and not so much, to the power itself, when
limited to ordinary retail sales and in the absence of legitimate special contracts to the contrary, but principally to
the manner in which the power has been exercised by the
City of Chicago. See Attorney v. Farrell, 18 Cox C. C.
321; 1 Dillon's Mun. Corp., 3d ed., p. 328; Hawes v.
City, 158 Illinois, 653; C. A. & R. R. Co. v. Carlinville,
200 Illinois, 314; Wice v. C. & N. W. R. R., 193 Illinois,
351, 356; Chicago v. Gunning System, 214 Illinois, 628.
The real purpose of the ordinance is arbitrarily to influence the price of bread. This appears from the schedules annexed to brief of plaintiff in error.
Mr. William H. Sexton and Mr. Joseph F. Grossman, for
defendant in error, submitted:
The power of the City of Chicago to prescribe the
weight of bread in the loaf is expressly conferred by statute, and the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
of Illinois in the case at bar precludes this court from
questioning the right to exercise that power by the City
of Chicago. Starr & Curtis Ann. Stat. of Ill., vol. 1, p. 705;
cl. 52, § 1, art. 5 of the Cities and Villages Act; Schmidinger
v. Chicago, 243 Illinois, 167, 171; Fischer v. St. Louis, 194
U. S. 362; People's Gas Light Co. v. Chicago, 194 U. S. 1;
aff'g 114 Fed. Rep. 384, 388; Mobile, Jackson &c. R. R.
Co. v. Mississippi, 210 U. S. 187.
The regulation of the weight of bread in the loaf has
been recognized by all courts as a legitimate exercise of
the police power of the State. People v. Wagner, 86 Michigan, 594; Paige v. Fazackerly, 36 Barb. 392; Commonwealth V. McArthur, 152 Massachusetts, 522; Schmidinger
Kansas,
167; Kansas v. McCool, 83_t!I.'
v. Chicago, 243 Illinois,
'
,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

428; In re Nasmith, 2 Ontario, 192; Guillotte v. New Orleans, 12 La. Ahn. 432; Mayor v. Yuille, 3 Alabama, 137.
Laws providing for the prevention and detection of
imposition and fraud are generally held to be free from
constitutional objection, on the ground that they are a
proper exercise of the police power of the State. Heath &
Milligan Mfg. Company v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338; Lemieux v. Young, 211 U. S. 489; Plumley v. Massachusetts,
155 U. S. 461; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S.
238; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Chicago v.
Bowman Dairy Co., 234 Illinois, 294; Waterbury v. Newton;
50 N. J. L. 534; People v. Arensberg, 105 N. Y. 123;
State v. Rogers, 95 Maine, 94; Commonwealth v. Waite, 11
Allen, 264; State v. Cipperly, 101 N. Y. 634, rev'g 37 Hun,
219; State v. Campbell, 64 N. H. 402; State v. Smyth, 14
R. I. 100; State v. Schlenker, 112 Iowa, 642; State v. Crescent Creamery Co., 83 Minnesota, 284; State V. Williams,
93 Minnesota, 155; State v. Holton, (Iowa), 126 N. W.
Rep. 1125; American Linseed Oil Company v. Wheaton
(S. D.), 125 N. W. Rep. 127.
The ordinance is not so arbitrary and unreasonable in its
terms as to amount to a confiscation of the property rights
of plaintiff in error or to a deprivation of his freedom of
contract in the sale of bread, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Both property and liberty are held on such reasonable
conditions as may be imposed by the governing power of
the state in the exercise of its police powers, and no person has such absolute and unqualified right of -control over
his liberty or property that it cannot be curtailed by the
sovereign power of the state for the' general welfare of the
people. Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 53; St. Louis
&c. Ry..v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404, 409; Holden v. Hardy, 169
U. S. 366, 391, 392; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.133, 136.
A very wide discretion must be given to the legislative.
.department of Government in determining the manner

SCHMIDINGER v. CHICAGO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and extent of the exercise of the police powers of the State.
"Exact wisdom and nice adaptation 5f remedies are not
required by the Fourteenth Amendment, nor the crudeness, nor the impolicy nor even the injustice of state laws
.redressed by it." Heath & Milligan,Mfg. Co. v. Worst,
207 U. S. 338, 354-355; Jacobsonv. Massachusetts, 197 U. S.
11, 25, 31; Otis v. Parker,187 U. S. 606, 608, 609; Gundling
v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 188; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.
133, 136; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 91, 92;
Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 686.
The impossibility of baking a loaf of bread so that it
will be of the weight prescribed in the ordinance at all
times after it leaves the ov(.n, does not render it unreason-able in view of the construction of the ordinance by the
-Supreme Court of the State of Illinois that it prohibits
the sale of loaves of bread which are short in weight only.
In cases involving police power, the interpretation
placed by the highest court of the State upon its statutes
and the ordinances of its municipalities is conclusive on
the Federal court. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447, 455;
St. Louis &c. Ry. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404,408; M., K. -& T.
Railway v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580, 586; TuIlis v* L. E.
& W. R. R., 175 U. S. 348, 353.
'The ordinance does not by its terms, nor iii effect, regulate the price of bread. Chicago v. Schmidinger, 243
Illinois, 167, 173.
MR. JusncE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The City of Chicago instituted suit against the plaintiff
in error in: the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, to
recover penalties, for certain violations of an ordinance of
that city. The violations alleged in the declaration which
are material here consisted in the making and selling of
loaves of bread differing in weight from the weights prescribed by the ordinance. Upon the first trial in the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

cuit Court judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff
in error, then defendant. The judgmenL was reversed
upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Illinois and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court (243 Illinois, 167). That'
court, following the decision of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, rendered judgment for certain penalties against
the plaintiff in error. The case was again appealed to the
Supreme Court of Illinois and the judgment affirmed in a
per curiam opinion, following 243 Illinois, supra (245
Illinois, 317). The case was then brought here on writ of
error.
The ordinance in question, passed January 6, 1908,
undertakes to regulate the sale of bread in the loaf within
the City of Chicago, and the parts pertinent to the present
case provide:
"Section 2. Every loaf of bread made or procured for
the purpose of sale, sold, offered or exposed for sale in the
City of Chicago shall weigh a pound avoirdupois (except
as hereinafter provided) and such loaf shall be considered
to be the standard loaf in the City of Chicago. Bread
may also be made or procured for the purpose of sale, sold,
offered or exposed for sale, in half, three-quarter, double,
triple, quadruple, quintuple or sextuple loaves, and in no
other way. Every loaf of bread made or procured for the
purpose of sale, sold, offered or exposed for sale in the city
shall have affixed thereon in a conspicuous place a label
at least one inch square, or if round, at least one inch in
diameter, upon vhich label there shall be printed in plain
type . . . the weight of the loaf in pound, pounds or
fraction of a pound avoirdupois, whether the loaf be a
standard loaf or not. The business name and address of
the maker, baker or manufacturer of 'the loaf shall also
be printed plainly on each label.
"Section 3. Every maker, baker or manufacturer of
bread, every proprietor of a bakery or bakeshop, and every
seller of bread in the City of Chicago shall keep scales and

SCHMIDINGER v. CHICAGO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

weights, suitable for the weighing of bread in a conspicuous place in his bakery, bakeshop or store, and shall,
whenever requested by the buyer and in the buyer's
presence, weigh the loaf or loaves of bread sold or offered
for sale.
"Section 4. If any person, firm or corporation shall
make or procure for the purpose of sale, sell, offer or expose
for sale within the City of Chicago, any bread .
*the loaf or loaves of which are not standard, half, threequarter, double, triple, quadruple, quintuple or sextuple
loaves as defined in sedtion 2 of this ordinance,
or shall make or procure for the purpose of sale, sell, offer
or expose for sale, within the City of Chicago any standard
loaf or loaves of bread which do not weigh one pound each,
or any bread the loaf or loaves of which do not weigh as
much as the weight marked thereon, or any bread the loaf
or loaves of which do not have affixed thereon the label
marked as hereinbefore provided, contrary to the provisions of this ordinance, such person, firm or corporation
shall be fined not less than ten dollars nor more than one
hundred dollars for each offense.
"Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance
shall not apply to ..
what is commonly" known as
'stale bread' sold -as such, provided the seller shall at the
time of sale, expressly state to the buyer that the bread
so sold is stale bread."
The objections of aFederal character arise from alleged
violations of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The plaintiff in error avers
that the due process clause of that Amendment is violated
in that the ordinance is an unreasonable and arbitrary
exercise of the police power and constitutes an unlawful
interference with the freedom of contract included in the
protection secured to the individual under that Amendment. In the Supreme Court of Illinois error was also
assigned because of the violation of the clause -ofthe Four-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

teenth Amendment guaranteeing equal protection of the
laws. That insistence does not appear to be made here,
and the right of the legislature or municipal corporation
under legislative authority to regulate one trade and not
another is too well settled to require further consideration.
At the hearing the plaintiff in error introduced testimony
which tended to establish the following facts: There are
between 800 and 1,000 bakers in the City of Chicago, together making about fifty per cent. of the bread consumed
in that city. Bread is sold in Chicago in large quantities
at certain prices per loaf, 95% of the bread made by the
bakers, outside of the restaurant business, consisting of
loaves sold for five cents or multiples thereof, and 85%
of such bread being sold for five cents a loaf. The five-cent
loaf weighs about fourteen ounces when baked, and the
weight of the bread in the loaf varies and is adjusted in
accordance with the fluctuations in the price of raw material, labor and other elements of expense of production
and the different qualities of bread and as a result of
competition. There is a considerable demand in Chicago,
especially in the restaurant trade, for bread in weights
differing from those fixed by the ordinance. In some parts
of the city bread weighing seven pounds is commonly
sold. The moisture in the bread after it leaves the oven
causes very appreciable shrinkage in weight, the extent
of which depends upon the quality and size of the loaf, the
atmospheric condition, and the dryness and temperature
of the place where kept. It appears that in order to insure
bread of the standard weight of sixteen ounces it is necessary to scale the dough before baking at about twenty
ounces.
The record also shows that although the price of bread
sold by the loaf in Chicago has generally been five cents or
some multiple thereof, loaves of bread weighing approximately one pound have been sold for five, six and seven
cents at different times.

SCHMIDINGER v. CHICAGO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The right of state legislatures or municipalities acting
under state authority to regulate trades and callings in
the exercise of the police power is too well settled to require any extended discussion. In Gundling v. Chicago,
177 U. S. 183, the doctrine was stated by this court as
follows (p. 188):
"Regulations respecting the pursuit of a lawful trade or
business are of very frequent occurrence in the various
cities of the country, and what such regulations shall be
and to what particular trade, business or occupation
they shall apply, are questions for the State to determine,
and their determination comes within the proper exercise
of the police power by the State, and unless the regulations
are so utterly unreasonable and extravagant in their nature
and purpose that the property and personal rights of the
0itizen are unnecessarily, and in a manner wholly arbitrary, interfered with or destroyed without due process of
law, they do not extend beyond the power of the State to
pasg, and they form no subject for Federal interference."
See also in this connection Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366; McLean v. Arkansas, 21.1 U. S. 539, and other cases
in this court reviewed and commented upon in those cases.
The making and selling of bread, particularly in a large
city where thousands of people depend upon their supply
of this necessary of life by purchase from bakers, is obviously one of the trades and callings which may be. the
subject of police regulation. This general proposition is
conceded by counsel for plaintiff in error, but it is contended that the limitation of the right to sell bread which
this ordinance undertakes to make in fixing a standard
loaf of sixteen ounces and other half, three-quarter, double,
triple, quadruple, quintuple or sextuple loaves, is such an
unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of legislative power
as to render it unconstitutional and void. This court has
frequently affirmed that the local authorities entrusted
with the regulation of such matters and not the courts are

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

primarily the judges of the fiecessities of local situations
calling for such legislation, and the courts may only interfere with laws or ordinances passed in pursuance of the
police power where they are so arbitrary as to be palpably
and unmistakably in excess of any reasonable exercise of
the authority conferred. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197
U. S. 11; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Minnesota v.
Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 320; Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207,
223; McLean v. Arkansas, supra.
Furthermore, laws and ordinances of the character of
the dne here under consideration and tending to prevent
frauds and requiring honest.weights and measures in the
sale of articles of general consumption, have long been
considered lawful exertions of the police power. McLean
v. Arkansas, supra, 550; Freund on Police Power, §§ 274,
275. Laws prescribing standard sizes of loaves of bread
and prohibiting, with minor exceptions, the sale of other
sizes, have been sustained in the courts of Massachusetts
and Michigan. Commonwealth v. McArthur, 152 Massachusetts, 522; People v. Wagner, 86 Michigan, 594.
It is -contended, however, that there are special circumstances in this case that take it out of this rule. The
record shows, as we -have already said, that the loaf of
bread most largely sold in Chicago costs five cents and
when it reaches the consumer is generally fourteen ounces
in weight, and it is urged that to make a loaf of the standard size of one pound, as required by the ordinance, would
be extremely inconvenient at least, owing to changes and
evaporation after the loaf is baked, and that to insure a
loaf of full standard size it would be'necessary to use
twenty ounces of dough. But inconveniences of this kind
do not vitiate the exercise of legislative power. The local
legislature is presumed to know what will be of the most
benefit to the whole body of citizens. Evidently, the
council of the City of Chicago has acted with the belief
that a full pound loaf, with the variations provided, would

SCHMIDINGER v. CHICAGO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

furnish the best standard. It has not fixed the price at
which bread may be sold. It has only prescribed that the
standard weight must be found' in the loaves of the sizes
authorized. To the argument that to make exactly one
pound loaves is extremely difficult, if not impracticable,
the Supreme Court of Illinois has answered, and this,
construction is binding upon us, that the ordinance is
not intended to limit the weight of a loaf to a pound or
the fractional part or multiple of a pound, but that the
ordinance was passed with a view only to prevent. the sale
of loaves of bread which are short in weight. Thousands
of transactions in bread in the City of Chicago are with
people who buy in small quantities, perhaps a loaf at a
time, and, exercising the judgment which the law imposed
in it, the council has passed an ordinance to require such
people to be sold loaves of bread of full weight. We cannot say that the fixing of these standards in the exercise
of the legislative discretion of the council is such an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of. the police power as
to bring the case within the rare class in which this court
may declare such legislation void because of the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States securing due process of law from deprivation by state enactments.
It is further urged that this ordinance interferes with
the freedom of contract guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment, for it is said that there is a demand for loaves
of bread of sizes other than those fixed in the ordinance,
which demand exists among many people and also among
contractors whose business requires special sizes to be
made for them. This court -has had frequent occasion to
declare that there is no absolute freedom of contract. The
exercise of the police power fixirig weights and measures
and standard'sizes must. necessarily- limit the freedom of
contract which would otherwise exist. Such limitations
are constantly imposed upon the right to contract freely,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

because of restrictions upon that right deemed necessary
in the interest of the general welfare. So long as such
action has a reasonable relation to the exercise of the power
belonging to the local legislative body and is not so arbitrary or capricious as to be a deprivation of due process
of law, freedom of contract is not interfered with in a
constitutional sense. See in this connection Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S.
549, and the previous cases in this court reviewed in the
course of the opinion in that case.
We are unable to find that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Illinois, affirming the judgment against the plaintiff in error, deprived him of the constitutional rights
secured by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.

EL PASO & SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. EICHEL & WEIKEL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 252. Argued December 3, 1912.-Decided January 13, 1913.
This court cannot review a judgment of the State court under § 709,
Rev. Stat., on the ground of denial of a Federal right, privilege.or immunity unless the same was specially set up or claimed in the state
court.
Questions of the lex lo" contractus and of the lex loci solutionis are
questions of general law that frequently arise in litigation and do not,
unless specially so claimed, constitute the setting up of a Federal
right or privilege.
In this case the insistence of plaintiff in error that his rights under a
contract were to be determined according to the law of a different
State, did not amount to claiming thai full faith and :credit was

