OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. HARDWICK FARMERS ELEVATOR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 25.

Argued November 25, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

By the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, Congress
legislated concerning the deliveries of cars in interstate commerce,
and made it the duty of the carrier to provide and furnish transportation.
There can be no divided authority over interstate commerce, and
regulations of Congress on that subject are supreme.
As to those subjects upon which the States may act in the absence of
legislation by Congress, the power of the State ceases the moment
Congress exerts its paramount authority thereover.
Since the enactment of the Hepburn Act it is beyond the power of a
State to regulate the delivery of cars for interstate shipments, and
so held as to the Reciprocal Demurrage Law of Minnesota of 1907.
110 Minnesota, 25, reversed.

A. STATUTE passed by the legislature of the State of

Minnesota and known as the Minnesota Reciprocal Demurrage Law, became effective on July 1, 1907. Laws of
Minnesota, 1907, chapter 23.
The law, among other things, made it the duty of a railway company subject to its provisions, on demand by a
shipper, to furnish cars for transportation of freight, at
terminal points on its line of road in Minnesota within
forty-eight hours and at intermediate points within
seventy-two hours after such demand, Sundays and legal
holidays excepted. For each day's delay in furnishing
cars when so demanded-except when prevented by
strikes, public calamities, accident, or any cause not
within the power of the railroad to prevent-the defaulting company was made liable to pay to the shipper one

CHI., R. I. &c. RY. v. HARDWICK ELEVATOR CO. 427
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

dollar per car together with the damages sustained and a
reasonable attorney's fee.
Alleging that in respect of delays in the deliveries to it
of fourteen freight cars, pursuant to eight applications
made for such cars between September 19, 1907, and
October 22, 1907, the first section of the act in question
had been violated, the Hardwick Farmers Elevator Company, defendant in error here, commenced this action in
a district court of Minnesota to recover from the railway
company, plaintiff in error here, penalties aggregating
two hundred and eighteen dollars and an attorney's fee
of fifty dollars, together with the costs and disbursements
of the action. As a defense the railway company set up
that the cars in question were demanded for the purpose
of interstate traffic and that the delays complained of
were occasioned solely by an unusual and unprecedented
congestion of traffic and a consequent scarcity of cars
arising from their use in moving traffic and commerce
between the States, and that such delays therefore arose
from causes not within the control and power of the company. It was also claimed that if the statute in question
embraced interstate commerce and was applied to the
requisitions for cars referred to in the complaint it would
be repugnant to the commerce clause and to the due process and equal protection clauses of the Constitution of
the United States. The action was tried to a jury. The
trial judge refused to give instructions asked for by the
railway company embodying the constitutional objections
made in its answer. A verdict was returned for the plaintiff for the amount claimed including an attorney's fee;
and a judgment entered on the verdict was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State.. 110 Minnesota, 25.
Mr. M. V. Seymour, with whom Mr. Edward C. Stringer
and Mr. Edward S. Stringer were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

All of the consignments concerned in this suit are interstate shipments notwithstanding the fact that in some
cases place of origin and place of destination are both in
Minnesota. Railroad Commission v. C., St. P. M. & 0.
Ry. Co., 40 Minnesota, 267; Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617.
The history of the act and the practical construction
placed upon the so-called Reciprocal Demurrage Law by
the state authorities and the Interstate Commerce Commission show that the gravest doubt has been expressed
with respect to the validity of this measure, so far as it
may concern interstate commerce.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, before commencement of this suit, had directed railway companies
to disregard all laws of this character as applied to interstate commerce. See Tariff Circular No. 18 A, p. 108,
Feb. 13, 1911, effective March 31, 1911, citing Houston &
Texas Central R. R. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321. And see
Wilson Produce Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 14 I. C. C.
Rep. 170.
The authority vested in Congress by the commerce
clause of the Constitution covers everything related to the
delivery of freight, and transportation between the States.
Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, 426; Bowman v. Chi. & N.
W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465; McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202
U. S. 543, 559; and see Int. Com. Comm. v. Detroit, G. H.
& Mil. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 633.
If the individual States were permitted to legislate in
this field, endless confusion and discrimination would be
the result. Such legislAtion would operate as a direct
burden upon interstate commerce. Cases supra and
Wabash, St. L. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557;
Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Murphy, 196 U. S. 194,
204.

The duty of regulating terminal charges when related
to interstate transportation has been lodged with the

CHI., R. I. &c. RY. v. HARDWICK ELEVATOR CO. 429
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Interstate Commerce Coramission.
United States v.
Standard Oil Co., 148 Fed. Rep. 719, 722; Michie v. New
York, N. H. & HartfordR. R. Co., 151 Fed. Rep. 694.
The nature of the Act to Regulate Interstate Commerce
and the manifest purpose disclosed by it, especially by
the Hepburn Amendment, is to assume and exercise complete control over all terrinal charges in respect of interstate commerce.
State laws and decisions upon so-called reciprocal demurrage laws sustain these contentions. See Act of
North Dakota, Ch. 153, 1907; Ch. 671, Laws of 1909,
April 20, of California; Act of 1909 of Nebraska; § 2,
Act No. 193, Arkansas, 1907; St. Louis, I. M. & Sou.
Ry. Co. v. Hampton, 162 Fed. Rep. 693. But see Oliver
& Son v. Railway Co., 117 S. W. Rep. 238; S. C., 89
Arkansas, 466; St. L. & S. 1. R. Co. v. Allen, 181 Fed. Rep.
710; Darlington Lumber Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.,
216 Missouri, 658; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Beatty, 118
Pac. Rep. 367; St. L. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Oklahoma, 107
Pac. Rep. 929; Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158
U. S. 98; Pattersonv. Missouri PacificRy. Co., 77 Kansas,
236.
The North Carolina law penalizing railroad companies
fifty dollars for each day's refusal to receive freight
brought for shipment, was upheld, but by a divided court.
Reid & Beam v. Southern Railway Company, 150 Nor.
Car. 753. As to the rule in Virginia, see Atlantic Coast
Line v. Commonwealth, 102 Virginia, 599; Southern Railway Co. v. Commonwealth, 107 Virginia, 771.
In Texas see T. & B. Valley Ry. Co. v. Geppert, 135
S. W. Rep. 164.
In Pennsylvania, see Wilson Produce Co. v. Penn. R.
R. Co., 14 I. C. C. Rep. 170; Penn. R. R. Co. v. Coggins
Co., 38 Pa. Super. Ct. 129.
The Hepburn Act especially refers to the duty of common carriers to furnish cars and instrumentalities of com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

merce. The congressional legislation upon this subject is
broad, ample, uniform. A cunningly devised and insidious provision penalizing a railway company for not
furnishing cars to a Minnesota shipper, when under the
same circumstances no such penalty attaches to the failure
to furnish cars to the shipper of another State, can have
but one result: that is, preference. Otherwise, there would
be no reason for the enactment of the Minnesota statute
as applied to interstate commerce. If Minnesota can
impose a penalty of one dollar per day per car for failure
to furnish cars to be employed in interstate commerce,
adjoining States will soon have a penalty of ten dollars
or twenty dollars, or such amount as will insure preference
in the delivery of cars.
If a shipper objects to a carrier's demurrage rule, he
must make application to the Interstate Commerce Commission for relief. Procter & Gamble v. United States, 188
Fed. Rep. 221; Southern Pacific Co. v. Campbell, 189 Fed.
Rep. 696.
A person engaged in conducting an interstate express
business cannot be required by the state or municipal
authorities to take out a local license as a prerequisite of
conducting his interstate business within the State or
municipality. Barrett v. New York, 189 Fed. Rep. 268.
Demurrage for the detention of cars either in loading
or unloading, is a terminal charge required to be shown
by the schedule of rates and to be filed and published by
an interstate railroad company by the terms of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the so-called Hepburn
Law. Lehigh Valley R.. R. Co. v. United States, 188 Fed.
Rep. 879; and see ai ) Wilson Produce Co. v. Penn. R. R.
Co., 14 I. C. C. Rep. 170, 174; Peale, Peacock & Kern v.
C. R. R. of N. J., 18 1. C. C. Rep. 25, 33; Michie v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 151 Fed. Rep. 694; United States v.
Standard Oil Co., 148 Fed. Rep. 719; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170
U. S. 412; Bowman v. Chicago &c. Ry., 125 U. S. 465;

CHI., R. I. &c. RY. v. HARDWICK ELEVATOR CO. 431
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543; Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Illinois Central Ry., 215 U. S. 452; St. Louis &c.
Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 136; Union Pacific Railroad
Co. v. Updike Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215; Southern Railway
Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 437.
Mr. C. H. Christophersonfor defendant in error:
The act is constitutional, and the term "reciprocal demurrage" is perhaps not the happiest expression and, as
opposing counsel states, it may be a misnomer. A more
suitable expression than "Reciprocal Demurrage Law"
would be a "law to compel carriers to furnish cars." See
Lehigh Volley R. Co. v. United States, 188 Fed. Rep. 879.
While demurrage charges and reciprocal demurrage
charges are dissimilar in their legal status, still the latter
undoubtedly grew out of the former. Yazoo & Miss.
Valley Ry. Co. v. Keystone Lumber Co., 43 So. Rep. 605.
In twenty States reciprocal demurrage measures are
pending or have been enacted. Nearly all the organizations in the country representing large shippers have
asked for reciprocal demurrtge.
The act seeks to protE:tt the carrier as well as the
shipper. It can only be invoked by those who apply for
cars "in good faith" and 'it does not tolerate discrimination. Report of Attorney-General of Minnesota for 1906,
p. 247.
Such a statute is advocated by shippers, railroad commissioners, courts, legislatures, etc.
The validity of such a statute is sustained by text-book
writers, railroad commissioners, the Interstate Commerce
Commission, legislatures, attorneys general and courts.
Watkins on Shippers and Carriers, § 306; Calvert, Regulation of Commerce, Preface, p. 4.
A great majority of the courts entertain the view that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

such statutes are constitutional. See Houston & Texas
Central v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321.
Under the Minnesota statute exceptions are made
which remove it from the condemnation of the Mayes
Case, and the trial court can always protect the railroads
by defining the statutory phrases. St. Louis &c. Ry. Co.
v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 136, can be distinguished. And
see New Mexico v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 203
U. S. 38; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Illinois,
177 U. S. 514; Railway Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287;
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453;
Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Missouri,
K. & T. R. Co. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580.
For decisions of state courts in regard to regulation of
interstate commerce matters, see Southern Railway Co. v.
Virginia, 107 Virginia, 771; Oliver & Son v. Railway Co.,
117 S. W. Rep. 328; Patterson v. Railway Co., 77 Kansas,
236; Southern Ry. Co. V. Atlanta Sand Co., 68 S. E. Rep.
807; Martin v. Railway Co., 113 Pac. Rep. 16; Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Beatty, 118 Pac. Rep. 367.
St. L. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Oklahoma, 26 Oklahoma, 62,
does not conflict with'this case.
Congress has not legislated on the subject, nor has the
Interstate Commerce Commission been vested with power
in the premises. The Hepburn Act requirements are separate and apart from the purposes and objects of the
Minnesota act.
The Hepburn Act took effect January 29, 1906. It
was passed to remedy certain deficiencies found to exist
in the previous act; but, in so far as it relates to the case
at bar it is not broader than the original act.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has held- that
it had no authority to fix rules and regulations governing
reciprocal demurrage. Mason v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
12 I. C. C. Rep. 61; Richmond Elevator Co. v. Railway, 10
I. C. C. Rep. 629.

CHI., R. I. &c. RY. v. HARDWICK ELEVATOR CO. 433
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The cases cited by plaintiff in error can all be distinguished.
MR. CHIE)F JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The argument at bar has been primarily concerned with
the question of the validity of the Minnesota statute, considered as having been enacted in the exercise of a power
assumed to exist to legislate reasonably in the absence of
action by Congress on the subject of the delivery when
called for, of cars to be used in interstate traffic. Thus
counsel for the defendant in error urges the correctness of
the action of the Supreme Court of Minnesota in sustaining the statute upon the hypothesis that Congress had
not legislated on the subject and that the act was a reasonable exertion of the power of the State. On the contrary, on behalf of the Railroad Company it is insisted
that even upon the assumption that the State had power
to deal with the subject for which the statute provides
in the absence of legislation by Congress, the enactment
is nevertheless void, since it but expresses a policy which
by penalization, fines and forfeitures will substitute for a
free and unrestrained flow of commerce a service favoring
a particular locality and shippers within the confines of
one State, to the disadvantage of others. We are not, however, called upon to test the merits of these conflicting
contentions, since we are of opinion that by the act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, known as the Hepburn
Act, amendatory of the act to regulate commerce, Congress has legislated concerning the deliveries of cars in
interstate commerce by carriers subject to the act.
In the original act to regulate commerce the term
"transportation" was declared to embrace all instrumentalities of shipment or carriage. By the Hepburn Act
it was declared that the term transportation (italics ours)VOL. ccxxvi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

"shall include cars and other vehicles and all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage, irrespective
of ownership or of any contract, express or implied, for
thp use thereof and all services in connection with the
receipt, delivery, elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing, storage, and handling of
property transported; and it shall be the duty of every carrier
subject to the provisions of this Act to provide and furnish
guch transportationupon reasonable request therefor, and.
to establish through routes and just and reasonable rates
applicable thereto."
The purpose of Congress to specifically impose a duty
upon a carrier in respect to the furnishing of cars for interstate traffic is of course by these provisions clearly declared. That Congress was specially concerning itself
with that subject is further shown by a proviso inserted
to supplement § 1 of the original act imposing the duty
under certain circumstances to furnish switch connections
for interstate traffic, whereby it is specifically declared
that the common carrier making such connections "shall
furnish cars for the movement of such traffic to the best
of its ability without discrimination in favor of or against
any such shipper." Not only is there then a specific duty
imposed to furnish cars for interstate traffic upon reasonable request therefor, but other applicable sections of the
Act to Regulate Commerce give remedies for the violation
of that duty. Thus, by § 8 it is provided "That in case
any common carrier subject to the provisions of this
act . . . shall omit to do any act, matter or thing
in this act required to be done, such common carrier shall
be liable to the person or persons injured thereby for the
full amount of damage sustained in consequence of any
such violation of the provisions of this act, together with
a reasonable counsel or attorney's fee, to be fixed by the
court in every case of recovery, which attorney's fee shall
be taxed and collected as part of the costs in the case."

CHI., R. I. &c. RY. v. HARDWICK ELEVATOR CO. 435
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Further by § 9 an election is given to either make complaint to the Interstate Commerce Commission or to
bring, in a designated court, an action for the recovery
of damages, and by § 10 it is made a criminal offense for
an employ6 of a corporation carrier to "wilfully omit or
fail to do any act, matter, or thing in this act required to
be done."
As legislation concerning the delivery of cars for the
carriage of interstate traffic was clearly a matter of interstate commerce regulation, even if such subject was embraced within that class of powers concerning which the
State had a right to exert its authority in the absence of
legislation by Congress, it must follow in consequence of
the action of Congress to which we have referred that the
power of the State over the subject-matter ceased to exist
from the moment that Congress exerted its paramount
and all embracing authority over the subject. We say
this because the elementary and long settled doctrine is
that there can be no divided authority over interstate
commerce and that the regulations of Congress on that
subject are supreme. It results, therefore, that in a case
where from the particular nature of certain subjects the
State may exert authority until Congress acts under the
assumption that Congress by inaction has tacitly authorized it to do so, action by Congress destroys the possibility of such assumption, since such action, when exerted, covers the whole field and renders the State impotent to deal with a subject over which it had no inherent
but only permissive power. Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222
U. S. 424.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota must
therefore be reversed and the case remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

