EUBANK v. RICHMOND.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

tional instruments to confer the equipment and to select
and qualify the candidates for the designated services.
The purpose of the testator was worthy, and there is
nothing in reason or authority which requires us to pronounce it legally insufficient.
Decree affirmed.

EUBANK v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 48.

Argued November 12, 13, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

While the police power of the State extends not only to regulations promoting public health, morals and safety but also to those promoting
public convenience and general prosperity, it has its limits and must
stop when it encounters the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution.
A clash between the police power (of the State and constitutional limitations will not be lightly inferred, but the exact point of contact
cannot be determined by any general formula in advance. Hudson
Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349.
Governmental powers must be flexible and adaptive.
The party assailing the constitutionality of a state police statute must
clearly show that it offends constitutional guaranties in order to
justify the court in declaring it invalid.
A municipal ordinance requiring the authorities to establish building
lines on separate blocks back of the public streets and across *private
property on the request of less than all of the owners of the property
affected is not a valid exercise of police power, nor does it serve the
public safety, convenience or welfare.
Such an ordinance takes private property, not for public welfare but
for convenience of other owners of property, and deprives the person
whose property is taken of his property without due process of law
and is unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The ordinance of the city of Riclunond based on Chapter 349 of the
Laws of Virginia of 1908, requiring the municipal authorities to
establish building lines in any block on request of the owners of twothirds of he property is unconstitutional as an attempt to deprive
non-assenting owners of their property without due process of law.
110 Virginia, 749, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of an ordinance of the city of
Richmond, Virginia, fixing a building line, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. S. S. P. Patteson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. R. Pollardfor defendant in error:
Whether or not the power granted by the legislature
to cities and towns to establish building lines was lawfully
exercised by the council of the city of Richmond, is not
open for consideration in this court. Gundling v. Chicago,
177 U. S. 188; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79, 88;
Wilson v. Eureka City, 173 U. S. 32, 35.
The Virginia act of 1908, authorizing regulations concerning the building of houses, and, in their discretion,
in particular districts or along particular streets, to prescribe and establish building lines or to require property
owners in certain localities or districts to leave a certain
percentage of lots free from buildings, is constitutipnal and
valid. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561,
592; McQuillin on Municipal Ordinances, § 32; 29 Cyc.
859; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311; Dillon on Municipal
Corp. § 696; People v. D'Oench, 111 N. Y. 359; Welch
v. Swasey, 193 Massachusetts, 364; S. C., aff'd 214 U. S.
91; 2 Blackstone's Commentaries, p. 18; Rochester v.
West, 164 N. Y. 510; State v. Hurley, 73 Connecticut,
536; Laurel Hill Cemetery v. San Francisco,216 U. S.358,
365; Hudson County Water Co. V. McCarter, 209 U. S.
349, 355. See article of Professor Seligman in 25 Pol. Sci.
Quarterly, 217.
This court, in a larger sense than any other court of
the land, has taken judicial cognizance of the everyday
facts of modern complex, social and industrial life, and
his responded thereto with less apparent reluctance than
the courts of last resort of most of the States.

EUBANK v. RICHMOND.

.226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Primafacie every act of a legally constituted legislative
body is constitutional, and the person who assails an act
on that account, must clearly establish his contention.
Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 684.
The rule of the construction of a legislative act which
is apparently in restraint of private rights, must not be
confounded with the rule which governs in the determinatidn of the question of the constitutionality of a statute.
Bostock v. Sams, 95 Maryland, 400, does not sustain the
contention that the presumption should be'against the
constitutionality of this legislative act.
There is no question concerning the proper construction of the statute, but only whether the statute, not the
ordinance, is constitutional, for the ordinance in- this
court, as hereinbefore shown, must stand or fall with the
statute, it having been enacted in pursuance of express
authority conferred by the statute. Dillon on Municipal
Corp., § 600; State v. Clarke, 54 Missouri, 17, 36; Dist. of
Col. v. Waggaman, 4 Mackey (D. C.),. 328. •
Concerning a similar. delegation of.power see Danville v.
Hatcher, 101 Virginia, 532; Soon Hing'v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
710; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 102; Strasburger v. Commissioners, 5 Mackey (D. C.), 389.
Whil neither a state nor a municipal statute enacted
to accomplish purposes purely esthetic, which embarrasses
property rights, can be sustained as constitutional, Tiedeman, State and Federal Control, p. 755, there is nothing
in the record as hereinbefore set out to sustain the contention that, the General Assembly of Virginia enacted the
statute for esthetic considerations only. Quong Wing v.
Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59.
As above pointed out the presumption is in favor of the
constitutionality of the act. The failure of the statute
to make provision for compensation to the lot owner on
account of depriving him of the right to occupy his entire

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

lot with buildings does not invalidate the act, and such
a contention is without merit. Watertown v. Mayo, 109
Massachusetts, 315, 318.
In order to justify the rejection of the statute as unconstitutional it must be wholly, not partially, for esthetic
purposes. Varney & Green v. Williams, 155 California,
318; S. C., 23 L. R. A. (N. S.) (decided in 1910).
The legislature may limit the height of buildings in a
section of the city which is devoted to fine buildings and
works of art, for the purpose of protecting such buildings
and works of art from the ravages of fire. Cockran v.
Preston, 108 Maryland, 220.
While the State cannot compel the surrender of private
rights in property for purely esthetic purposes, still, if
the primary and substantive purposes of the legislature
are such asto justify the act, considerations of taste and
beauty may enter in as auxiliary. Haller Sign Works v.
Physical Culture School, 249 Illinois, 436.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
In error to review a judgment of the Hustings Court of
the city of Richmond affirming a judgment of the Police
Court of the city imposing a fine of $25.00 on plaintiff in
error for alleged violation of an ordinance of the city fixing
a building line. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 110 Virginia, 749.
Plaintiff in error attacks the validity of the ordinance
and the statute under which it was enacted on the ground
that they infringe the Constitution of the United States
in that they deprive plaintiff in error of his property without due process of law and deny him the equal protection
of the laws.
The statute authorized the councils of cities and towns,
among other things, "to make regulations concerning the

EUBANK v. RICHMOND.
226 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

building of houses in the city or town, and in their
discretion,
in particular districts, or along particular streets, to prescribe and establish building lines,
or to require property owners in certain localities or districts to leave a certain percentage of lots free from buildings, and to regulate the height of buildings." Acts of
1908, p. 623,4.
By virtue of this act the city council passed the following ordinance: "That whenever the owners of two-thirds
of the property abutting on any street shall, in writing,
request the committee on streets to establish a building
line on the side of the square on which their property
fronts, the said committee shall establish such line so
that the same shall not be less than five feet nor more
than thirty feet from the street line. . .
And no
permit for the eiection of any building upon such front. of
the square upon which such building line is so established
shall be issued except for the construction of houses within
the limits of such line." A fine of not less than twenty-five
nor more than five hundred ••dollars is prescribed for a
violation of the ordinance.
The facts are as follows: Plaintiff in error is the owner
of a lot thirty-three feet wide on the south side of Grace
street between Twenty-eighth and Twenty-ninth streets.
He applied for and received a permit on the nineteenth
of December, 1908, to build a detached brick building to
be used for a dwelling, according to certain plans and
specifications which had been approved by the building
inspector, dimensions of the building to be 26x59x28 feet
high.
On the ninth of January, 1909, the street committee
being in session, two-thirds of the property owners on
the side of the square where plaintiff in error's lot is situated, petitioned for the establishment of a building line,
and in accordance with the petition a resolution was
passed establishing a building line on the line of a majority

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

of the houses then erected and the building inspector
ordered to be notified. This was done, and the plaintiff
in error given notice that the line established was "about
fourteen (14) feet' from the true line of the street and on a
line with the majority of the houses." He was notified,
further that all portions of his house "including Octagon
Bay, must be set back to conform to" that line. Plaintiff in error appealed to the Board of Public Safety, which
sustained the building, inspector.
At the time the ordinance was passed the material for
the construction of the 'house had been assembled, but
no actual construction work had been done. The building
conformed to the line, with the exception of the octagon
bay window referred to above, which projected' about
-three feet over the line.

The Supreme Court of the State sustained the statute,
saying (p. 752) that it was neither "unreasonable nor
unusual" and that the court was "justified in concluding
that it was passed by the legislature in good faith, and
in the interest of the health, safety, comfort, or convenience of the public, and for the benefit of the property
owners generally who are affected by its provisions; and
that the enactment tends to accomplish all, or at least
some, of these objects." The court further said that the
validity of such legislation is generally' recognized and
.upheld as an exercise of the police: power.
Whether it is a valid exercise of the police power is the
question in the case, and that power we have defined,
as far as it is capable of being defined by general words,
a number of times. It is not susceptible of circumstantial precision. It extends, we have said, not only to regulations which promote the public health, morals, and
safety, but to those which promote the public convenience'
or the general prosperity. C., B. & Q.Ry. Co. v. Drainage
Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561. And further, "It is the
most essential of powers, at times the most insistent, and

EUBANK v. RICHMOND.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

always one of the least limitable of the powers of government." District of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138, 149.
But necessarily it has its limits and must stop when it
encounters the prohibitions of the Constitution. A clash
will not, however, be lightly inferred. Governmental
power must be flexible and adaptive. Exigencies arise,
or even conditio: .s less peremptory, which may call for or
suggest legislation, and it may be a struggle in judgment
to decide whether it must yield to the higher considerations expressed and determined by the provisions of the
Constitution. Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104.
The point where particular interests or principles balanoe
"cannot be determined by any general formula in advance." Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
355.
But in all the cases there is the constant admonition
both in their rule. and examples that when a statute is
assailed as offending against, the higher guaranties of the
Constitution it must clearly do so to justify, the courts
in declaring it invalid. This condition is urged by defendant in error, and attentive to it we approach the consideration of the ordinance.
It leaves, no discretion in the committee on streets as
to whether the street line shall or shall-not be established
in a given case. The action of the committee is determined, by two-thirds of the property owners. In other
words, part of the property owners fronting on the block
determine the extent of use that other owners shall make
of their lots, and against the restriction' they
are impotent.
This we emphasize. One set of owners determine not
only the extent of use but the kind of use which another
set of owners may make of their property. In what way
is the public safety, convenience or welfare served by
conferring such power? The statute and ordinance, while
conferring the power on some property holders to virtually
control and dispose of the proper rights of others, creates

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S..

no standard by which the power thus given is to be exercised; in other words, the property holders who desire
and have the authority to establish the line may do so
solely for their own interest or even capriciously.: Taste
(for even so arbitrary a thing as taste may control) or judgment may vary in localities, indeed in the same locality.
There may be one taste or judgment of comfort or convenience on one side of a street and a different one on the
other. There may be diversity in other blocks; and viewing them in succession, their building lines may be continuous or staggering (to adopt a word of the mechanical
arts) as the interests of certain of the property owners may
prompt against the interests of others. The only discretion, we have seen, which exists in the Street Comnittee
or in the Committee of Public Safety, is in the location
of the line, between .five and thirty feet. It is hard to
understand how public comfort or convenience, much
less public health, can be promoted by a line which'may
be so variously disposed.
We are testing the ordinance by its extreme possibilities
to show how in its tendency and instances it enables the
convenience or purpose.of one set of property owners to
control the property right of others, and property determined, as the case may be, for- business or residence-7even, it may be, the kind of business. or character of residence. One person having a two-thirds ownership of a
block may have that power against a number having a less
collective ownership. If it be said that in the instant case
there is no such condition presented, we answer that there
*is control of the property of plaintiff in error by other
owners of property exercised under the ordinance. This,
as we have said, is the vice of the ordinance, and makes it,
we think, an unreasonable exercise of the police power.
The case requires no further comment. We need not
consider the power of a city to establish a building line
or regulate the structure or height of buildings. The cases

BURNET v. DESMORNES.
226 U. S.

Counsel for Appellant.

which are cited are not apposite to the present case. The
ordinances or statutes which were passed on had more
general foundation and a more general purpose, whether
exercises of the police power or that of eminent domain.
Nor need we consider the cases which distinguish between
the esthetic and the material effect of regulations the
consideration of which occupies some space in the argument and in the reasoning of the cases.
Judgment reversed and case remandedfor further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

BURNET v. DESMORNES Y ALVAREZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 11.

Submitted October 30, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

Whether prescription goes only to the remedy or extinguishes the
right, it affects the jurisdiction no more than any other defense.
The judgment of a court that a right is established cannot be impeached
collaterally by proof that the judgment was wrong.
The provisions of Article 137 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico of 1889
and of §'199 of the act of March 1,. 1902, of Porto Rico, requiring
actions to claim filiation to be commenced within prescribed periods,
do not deprive the court of jurisdiction in case the action is not
brought until after the prescribed period. It is a defense that must
be pleaded.
This court will be slow to control the discretion of the Supreme Court
of Porto Rico as to a matter wholly within its power-such as
sending a ease back to the lower court for further opportunity to
cross-examine.
13 Porto Rico, 18, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Willis Sweet for appellant.
VOL. CCXXVI-10

