UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

affords no support for a conclusion that he committed
the burglary, the crime with which he was charged. The
permissible inference is not thus' to be limited. The evidence pointed to the appellant as one having control of
the car and engaged in the endeavor to secure the fruits
of the burglarious entry. Possession in these circumstances tended to show guilty participation in the burglary. This is but to accord to the evidence, if unexplained,
its natural probative force. Considine v. United States,
112 Fed. Rep. 342, 349, 350; Commonwealth v. McGorty,
114 Massachusetts, 299; Knickerbocker v. The People,
43 N. Y. 177, 181; Ne.ubrandt v. State, 53 Wisconsin, 89;
State v. Fitzgerald, 72 ,Vermont, 142.
. It is assigned as error that the Commissioner received
in evidence certain depositions taken in British Columbia
which were certified by the Consul-General of the United
States as depositions proposed to be used upon an application for the extradition of the appellant upon another
charge. We need not consider the sufficiency of this certificate, as the writ of habeas corpus does not operate as a
writ of error and mere errors are not the subject of review.
Benson v. McMahon, 127 U. S.457, 461, 462; Terlinden v.
Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 278. 'Irrespective of the depositions
objected to, there was legal evidence on which to base
the Commissioner's action.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 282.

Argued November 9, 10, 1911; reargued October 23, 24,
1912.-Decidel January 6, 1913.

On appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, this
court must accept the lower court's construction of the counts, and
its jurisdiction is limited to considering whether the decision of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

court below that the acts charged are not criminal is based upon an
erroneous construction of the statute alleged to have been violated.
In order to decide whether acts charged are within the condemnation
of a statute, the court must first ascertain what the statute does condemn and that involves its construction.
On appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907 this court must
assume that the counts of the indictment adequately allege whatever
the lower court treated them as alleging; and, where its decision
shows that it assumed that every element necessary to form a combination was present, this court has jurisdiction to determine
whether such a combination was illegal under the statute which de.fendants are charged with violating.
A conspiracy to run a corner in the available supply of a staple commodity which is normally a subject of interstate commerce, such as
cotton, and thereby to artificially enhance its price throughout the
country, is within the terms of ยง 1 of the Anti-trust Act of July 2,
1890.
Section 1 of the Anti-trust Act is not confined to voluntary restraints
but includes involuntary restraints, as where persons not engaged in
interstate commerce conspire to compel action by others or create
artificial conditions, which necessarily affect* and restrain such
commerce.
A combination otherwise illegal under the Anti-trust Act as suppressing competition, is not the less so because for a time it may tend to
stimulate competition-and so held as to a corner in cotton.
The Anti-trust Act does not apply to a combination affecting trade or
commerce that is purely intrastate, or where the effect on interstate
commerce is merely incidental and not direct; but although carried
on wholly within a State, if the necessary operation of a combination
is to directly impede and burden the due course of interstate commerce, it is within the prohibition of the statute; and so held as to a
corner in cotton to be run in New York City.
Persons purposely engaging in a conspiracy which necessarily and
directly produces the result which a prohibitory statute is designed
to prevent are, in legal contemplation, chargeable with intending to
produce that result; and so held that if the details of the conspiracy
are alleged in the indictment an allegation of specific intent to produce the natural results is not essential.
The character and effect of a conspiracy is not to be judged by dismembering it and viewing its separate parts, but only by looking at
it as a whole.
187 Fed. Rep. 664, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, and
whether a corner in cotton constitutes an illegal combination under the Sherman Anti-trust Act, are stated in the
opinion.
THE facts,

The Solicitor General for the United States:1
The seventh count of the indictment charged that the
defendants conspired to run a "corner" in cotton. ,
In construing the indictment the lower court held that
the corner charged was an illegal combination, saying:
"Corners are illegal. They are combinations contrary
to public policy and. all contracts and undertakings in
support thereof are void. . . . A corner is altogether wrong, both from a legal and an dconomical standpoint. . . . The combination described in these
counts is negatively illegal without any prohibitory statute and would be positively unlawful in any State having
a statute against corners."
Therefore, this court must assume that the indictment
sufficiently alleged the existence of an illegal corner, as
this court is bound by the construction which the lower
court places upon the language used in the indictment.
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; United States v.
Biggs, 211 U. S. 507.
Contracts of purchase oir sale for future delivery are
valid even though (1) the purchaser's object is pure speculation and he intends not to receive and pay for them but
he expects to resell therm before delivery; (2) the seller
has not the goods in his possession and has no means of
obtaining them except by subsequently purchasing them,
and (3) the parties at the time of delivery in fact settle
upon the "difference" in price without an actual delivery.
.

'Mr. Solicitor General Lehmann for the United States on the first
argument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

It is only when both parties at the time of the contract
intend to settle upon "differences" that the contract becomes illegal. Sawyer, Wallace & Co. v. Taggart, 14
Bush, 727; Bibb v. Allen, 149 U. S; 481, 492; Clews v.
Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461, 489-495; Board of Trade v.
Christie Grain & Stock-Co., 198 U. S. 236, 248; Forget v.
Ostigny, App. Cas. (1895) 318.
A corner is a combination for the purpose of buying up
for future delivery the greater portion of the available
supply of a given commodity and entering into contracts
for the future delivery of more than the available supply,
and holding the same back from sale and not assigning
or transferring the contracts of sale until the demand
shall so outrun the supply as to enable the operators of
the corner to advance the price abnormally. Black's
Law Dictionary, 271; 9 Cyc. 978; Booth v. Illinois, 184
U. S. 425, 430.
Corners have universally been held to be illegal because
affecting the natural course of trade and commerce and
tending to enhance prices. Arnot v. Pittston & Elmira
Coal Co., 68 N. Y. 558; Foss v. Cummings, 149 Illinois,
353 (affirmed 40 Ill. App. 523); Lamson v. Bryden, 160
Illinois, 613; Morris Run Coal Co. v. Barclay Coal Co.,
68 Pa. St. 173; Pacific Factor Co. v. Adler, 90 California,
110; Raymond v. Leavitt, 46 Michigan, 447; Sampson v.
Shaw, 101 Massachusetts, 145; Samuels v. Oliver, 130
Illinois, 73; Wells v. McGeoch, 71 Wisconsin, 196; Wright
v. Crabbs, 78 Indiana, 487.
Any conspiracy although not technically a "corner"
but having as its object the arbitrary increase or depression of prices is in restraint of trade. Central Salt Co. v.
Guthrie, 35 Oh. St. 666; Craft v. McConoughy, 79 Illinois,
346; India Bagging Association v. Kock, 14 La. Ann. 168;
King v. Norris, 2d Ld. Kenyon, 300; Leonard v. Poole,
114 N. Y. 371; People v. Goslin, 73 N. Y. Supp. 520;
People v. Milk Exchange, 145 N. Y. 267; People v. North

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

River Sugar Co., 54 Hun, 354; People v. Sheldon. 139 N. Y.
251.
The rule to be extracted from all those cases is that any
combination whose object is the enhancement of prices by
virtue of combined effort is in restraint of trade and
illegal.
The numerous cases in this court have held that combinations (a) to fix rates for railway transportation, (b) to
determine the prices to be bid for pipe in public competition, (c) to sell tiles at a fixed price to non-members of
the combination, (d) to combine railroads in one management through a holding company, (e) to bid the same
prices for fresh meats, (f) to boycott dealers in one State
who purchased from a factory in another State, (g) to
secure control of the petroleum trade by stock ownership,
(h) to acquire the tobacco industry, and (i) to control even
intrastate terminal facilities where the effect was to give
control over the access to the city from other States, are
in restraint of interstate trade, because their object or
necessary effect was (1) to suppress competition between
those engaged in interstate commerce, (2) to enhance the
prices of articles of such commerce, (3) to burden the free
transaction of such commerce by one engaged therein or
(4) to control some part of such commerce. Addyston
Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274; Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197;
Oklahoma v. Kansas Nat'ural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229;
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United States v. Joint
Traffic Ass'n, 171 U. S. 505; United States v. St. Louis
Terminal, 224 U. S. 383; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Ass'n; 166 U. S. 290.
A corner in cotton, which is a common object of interstate commerce and is produced in many States, is
VOL. ccxxvi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

clearly in restraint of trade because it interferes with the
free flow of such commerce. Montague & Co. v. Lowry,
193 U. S. 38; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375,
398, 399; Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S.
423, 434; United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U.- S.
383, 397, 405; Gibbs v. McNeeley, 118 Fed. Rep. 120, 126.
The temporary and feverish stimulation of competition
by the corner does not prevent it from being in restraint
of trade, as Montague & Co. v.. Lowry and United States
v.. St. Louis Terminal, each illustrates an increase of competition incident to a combination in restraint of trade.
In response to'the suggestion that the effect of a corner
on interstate commerce is only indirect and incidental,
we submit that the only cases wherein it has been held
that the contract or combination attacked was not in
violation of the Sherman Act because its effect on interstate commerce was only incidental or indirect were
United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1 (so ex.plained and limited in the Trans-Missouri, Addyston
Pipe, Northern Securities, Swift & Co., Danbury'Hatters,
Standard Oil, and American Tobacco cases as to be of
little value .as authority), Hopkins v. United States, 171
.U. S. 578 (as explained in the Addyston Pipe, Montague,
and Swift & Co. cases), Anderson v. United States, 171
U. S. 604, and CincinnatiPacket Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179.
Obviously those decisions that fixing- charges for local
commission merchants and keeping out of business for
five years in connection with the sale of property, were not
in violation of the Sherman Act because of their purely
indirect effect on interstate commerce are no precedents
for holding that a corner in cotton affects interstate commerce only indirectly.
The lower court determined the meaning of the language usedin the indictment, to wit, what acts are charged
against the defendants, and such interpretation is conclusive upon this court. United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

370;
United States v. Biggs, 211 U. S. 507. But under the
Criminal
Appeals Act this court has the right to
determine whether the facts so alleged in the indictment constitute, a violation of the Sherman Anti-trust Act. United
States v. Heinze, 218 U. S. 532, 540; S. C., 218 U. S. 550;
United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393.
Mr. George P. Merrick* with whom Mr. William E.
Church was on the brief, for defendant in error Patten:
The argument of the Government is not confined to the
allegations of the indictment. Black's Dictionary, 271;
Foss v. Cummings, 149 Illinois, 353; Samuels v. Oliver, 130
Illinois, 73; Wells v. McGeough, 71 Wisconsin, 196.
The only effect of the Government's resort to the statement of overt acts is to accentuate essential defects of
the indictment. 'That statement cannot, in law, and does
not in fact, aid the indictment. Pettibone v. United States,
148 U. S. 197; Smith v. United States, 157 Fed. Rep. 721;
United,States v. Patterson,55 Fed. Rep. 639; United Stat&s
v. Britton, 108 U. S. 199.
Whatever restraint upon interstate commerce might
result from acts charged, would be but indirect, remote and
incidental. The statute only' condemns acts having direct
and immediate effect. Addyston Pipe Co. v. United
States, 175 U. S. 211; Aikens V. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194;
Anderson v. 'United States, 171 U. S. 604; Bigelow v. Calumet & H. M. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 721; Cincinnati P. Co. v.
Bay, 200 U. S. 179; Continental W.. Co. v. Voight & Sons,
212 U. S. 227; Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618;
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Oklahoma v.
Kansas N. G. Co., 221 U. ,S. 229; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, .221 U. S. 1; Swift & Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375; United States v. E. C. Knight & Co., 156
U. S. 1; United States v. Joint T. Assn., 171 U. S. 509;

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

226 U. S.

United States v. Trans-Mo. Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. Union P. R. R. Co., 188 Fed. Rep. 102;
United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383; Washington & G. R. R. Co. v. Hickey, 166 U. S. 521.
This court has no jurisaiction to review the judgment
of the Circuit Court because that judgment was not
based upon a construction by it of the Anti-trust Act, but
upon repeated constructions thereof by this court. Even
if technically this court has jurisdiction, it will not exercise
it merely for the purpose of reaffirming propositions already settled by it. Davies v. Slidell, 154 U. S. 625;
Equitable Life Ass'n Soc'y v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308;
Leonard v. V. S. R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 416; United States v.
Biggs, 211 U. S. 507; United States. v. Bitty, 208 U. S.
393; United States v. Heinze, 218 U. S. 532; United States
v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; United States v. Mescall, 215 U. S.
26.
Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. Joseph P. Colton, Jr., and Mr. George Rublee were on the brief, for defendants in error, Scales et al.:
Under the Criminal Appeals Act the court may only
review the construction of the Sherman Act by the Circuit Court. United States v. Biggs, 211 U. S. 507; United
States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
In sustaining the demurrer to the seventh count the
Circuit Court did not wrongly construe the Sherman
Act. That count does not charge a direct interference
with interstate commerce.
Ware & Leland v. Mobile,
209 U. S. 405; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604;
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 65; United States v. Joint Traffic
Association, 171 U. S. 505; United States v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S. .1.

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The purchase of future contracts is not unlawful.
Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S.
236.
No violation of any law except the Anti-trust Act is
charged. Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 615; Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 454, 457.
In sustaining the demurrer to the third count the Circuit Court did not wrongly construe the Sherman Act.
Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 291; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 712.
The Northern Securities Case and the Tobacco Case can
be distinguished.
The Sherman Act is not an instrument by which a
district attorney can arbitiarily curb the amount of profit
which an individual can make in buying and selling commodities, or even in speculating on an exchange--merely
by an allegation (not susceptible of definite proof) which
he inserts in an indictment, that it will have certain effects
on interstate commerce.
The seventh count does not charge monopoly or combination with regard to the sale of cotton.
The ground of the illegality of corners is that they are
gaming contracts.
The prosecutor avoids the fundamental question
whether the conspiracy described would diiectly restrain
interstate commerce.
The restraint of trade charged is indirect by reason of
the intervention of voluntary acts of independent hunan
agents. See the "Squib" Case, reported as Scott v. Shepherd, 2 Blackstone, 892:
If the Government's contention that count seven sets
forth an offense under the Sherman Act, then every general strike of workmen is condemned by that statute.
Certainly no such result was contemplated by the framers
of the statute,, and no such doctrine was announced in
Loewe v. Lawlor, where 'the act complained of was an

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

immediate interference with a manufacturer's trade; where
defendants physically obstructed the liberty of the plaintiff
to trade in interstate commerce.
The corner count does not charge any combination to
withhold cotton from sale. The Circuit Court's construction of the indictment in that regard is conclusive. United
States v. Biggs, 211 U. S. 507; United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370.
A defective charge of conspiracy cannot be aided by averments of overt acts. Commonwealth v. Hunt, 4 Met. 111;
Commonwealth v. Shedd, 7 Cush. 514; Conrad v. United
States, 127 Fed. Rep. 798; McConkey v. United States, 171
Fed. Rep. 829; M'Kenna v. United States, 127 Fed. Rep.
88; Pettibonev. United States, 148 U. S.. 197; Smith v. United
States, 157.Fed. Rep. 721; United States v. Britton, 108 U. S.
199; United States v. MacAndrews, 149 Fed. Rep. 823;
United States v. Milner, 36 Fed. Rep. 890; United States v.
Patterson, 55 Fed. Rep. 605.
The court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment
of the Circuit Court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion 6f

the court.
This is a, criminal prosecution under the Anti-trust
Act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, c. 647, the indictment
being in eight counts. In the Circuit Court demurrers to
the third, fourth, seventh and eighth counts were sustained and those counts dismissed, 187 Fed. Rep. 664,
whereupon the Government sued out this writ of error
under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, 34
Stat. 1246, c. 2564. The case has been twice orally
argued.
At the second argument the Government expressly
abandoned the third and fourth counts and -challenged
only the ruling upon counts seven and eight. Thus, the

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

propriety of the ruling upon the first two need not be

considered.
In passing upon the demWrers the Circuit Court proceeded first to construe the counts, that is, to ascertain
with what acts the defendants are charged, and next to
consider whether those acts are denounced as criminal by

the Anti-trust Act, the conclusion being that they are not.
The limitations upon our jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals Act I are such that we must accept the Circuit Court's construction of the counts and consider only
whether its decision that the acts charged are not condemned as criminal by the Anti-trust Act is based upon
an erroneous construction of that statute.
At the outset we are confronted with the contention
that the decision is not based upon a construction of the
statute. But to this we canaot assent. The court could
not have decided, as it did, that the acts charged are not
within the condemnation of the statute without first ascertaining what it does condemn, which, of course, involved its construction. Indeed, it seems a solecism to
say that the decision that the acts charged are not within
the statute is not based upon a construction of it.
Each of the counts in question charges the defendants
and others with engaging in a conspiracy "in restraint of
and to restrain," by the method therein described, "trade
and commerce among the several States" in the supply of
cotton available during the year ending September 1,
1910, such supply consisting of all the cotton grown in the
The act is set forth in full in 211 U. S. at page 398, and rulings
thereunder are found in United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393, 399;
United ,States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 398; United States v. Biggs, 211
U' S. 507,.518; UnitedStates v. Mason, 213 U. S. 115, 122; United States
v. Meseall, 215 U. S. 26, 31; United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190,
195; United States v . Heinze, 218 U. S. 532, 540; UnitedStates v. Heinze,
No. 2, 218 U. S. 547, 550; United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601 600;

United Stat v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599, 602.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Southern States in that year and the cotton left over from
prior years. The counts are long, and the acts which the
Circuit Court treated as charged in them are indicated by
the following excerpt from its opinion, the foot notes being
ours:
"These counts are alike, with the exception of the statement of overt acts,1 and each may be, broadly speaking,
divided into tree parts, which may be thus summarized:
"(1) The charging part contains a general charge of
conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce, with the
usual formal and jurisdictional averments.
"(2) The second part contains a 'description of the
trade and commerce to be restrained.' Under this head it
is stated, in substance, that cotton is an article of necessity
raised in the Southern States, which moves in large volume
in interstate and foreign commerce, and that it is boughtand sold upon the New York Cotton Exchange to such an
extent as to practically regulate prices elsewhere in the
country., so that future sales by speculators upon such
exchange of more than the amount of cotton available at
the time of delivery would create an abnormal demand
and resultant excessive.prices in all cotton markets.2
1 One count contained a statement of overt acts, while the other
contained no such statement, a difference not here material.
I In order that the brief summary and analysis of the third part may
be better understood, the second part is here reproduced:
"DESCRIPTION

OF TRADE AND COMMERCE TO BE RESTRAINED.

"And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do further present that for many years past cotton has been grown, one crop
a year, in divers of the States of the United States, among others,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama,
Tennessee, Mississippi, Kentucky, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas,
Arkansas, Missouri and New Mexico; that such. cotton has been and
is an article of prime necessity to the people of the United States, and.
the growing and the spinning and manufacturing of the same into yarns
and fabrics have necessitated the- cultivation of many millions of acres
of land in the States last aforesaid and the'employment of many thou-

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"(3) The third part contains a 'description of the
method devised and adopted by the conspirators for resands of persons, in those States and in other States of the United States,
in connection with the planting, cultivating, picking, ginning, compressing, storing, selling, shipping, and transporting of such cotton;
that about sixty per cent. of the cotton so grown has been shipped to
and consumed in foreign countries in each crop year; that of the remaining forty per cent. of such cotton about one-half has been spun
into yarns and manufactured into cotton fabrics by spinners and manufacturers in said Southern States for the use of the people of the
United States and foreign countries, and the other half has been
shipped to Northern States of the United States, among others, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Yo:rk, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire,
Maine, Connecticut, Maryland, New Jersey, and Delaware, in pursuance of sales of the same to spinners and manufacturers in the lastmentioned States, and there spun. into yarns and manufactured into
fabrics for the use of the people of the United States and foreign countries; that the demand for such cotton in foreign countries and in said
Northern and Southern States has been steady and continuous throughout all portions of each crop year; that in the ordinary course of business
said spinners and manufacturers have bought little or no cotton beyond
that required by them for their immediate needs; that such cotton has
been extensively bought and sold upon the Cotton Exchange in said
city of New York for future delivery in the United States during
current crop year, so much so that cotton bought and sold elsewhere
in the United States than on that exchange has customarily been
bought and sold at prices corresponding to the prices prevailing upon
said exchange; that although, as the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their
oath aforesaid, charge the fact to be, the rules of said Cotton Exchange
at New York City have required that all sellers and purchasers of
cotton upon that exchange for future delivery should contemplate
the
actual delivery and receipt of cotton sold and purchased by them
there, it has been possible for more cotton to be sold at a given time or
at given times upon said exchange for future delivery at a given time
or given times during a current crop year by speculators, that is to say,
persons not having any cotton in their possession, than would be in
existence at such future time or times and available to such speculators
for acquisition and delivery to the purchasers thereof; that under such
circumstances it has been necessary for such sellers of cotton upon
said exchange for such future delivery to make settlements with purchasers in cash or its equivalent, at the prices prevailing upon said

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

straining the trade: and commerce.' It is alleged, at the
outset, that the conspirators were to restrain trade. and
commerce by doing 'what is commonly called running a
corner in cotton.' Averments then follow showing how
the corner was to be brought about -and its effect, which
may be thus analyzed:
"(1) The conspirators were to make purchases from
speculators upon the New York Cotton Exchange of
quantities of cotton for future delivery greatly in excess of
the amount available, for delivery when deliveries should
become due.'
exchange at the time or times such settlements have been made, as to
whatever cotton such sellers were unable to acquire and deliver to such
purchasers when such delivery was due; that the artificial condition
produced by such excessive purchases, when made, has invariably
created such an abnormal demand for cotton on the part of such sellers
that very excessive prices therefor have prevailed upon said exchange,
and upon all other exchanges and in all cotton markets, until after such
settlements have been made, so that bona fide purchasers of cotton for
consumption in spinning and manufacturing have been compelled for
a time to pay the same excessive prices in order to obtain cotton for
their needs; that the cotton crop for the crop year beginning September 1, 1909, and ending September 1, 1910, approximated ten million
and five hundred-thousand bales; that about two hundred and sixty-five
thousand bales of cotton were left over and available at the beginning
of said crop year of the crops of prior crop years; that the foregoing
allegations of this paragraph of this count of this indictment apply to
the cotton of said crop year and to that of prior crop years; and that
each of said conspirators, when so conspiring as in this count of this
indictment set forth, well knew all the premises in this count aforesaid."
1 The language of the charge is: "They were to make purchases from
day to day upon said Cotton Exchange at New York City, from speculators, of quantities of cotton for future delivery at different times
during said crop year greatly in excess of the amount of cotton which
would be in existence and available for delivery to them by the sellers
thereof when such deliveries were due, reference being had to the

usages and requirements of said trade and commerce which are in this
count above set forth."

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"(2) By these means an abnormal demand was to be
created on the part of such sellers who would pay excessive
prices to obtain cotton for delivery upon their contracts.
"(3) The excessive prices prevailing upon the New
York Exchange would cause similar prices to exist upon
other cotton markets.
"(4) 'As a necessary and unavoidable result of their
acts, said conspirators were to compel' cotton manufacturers throughout the country to pay said excessive prices
to obtain cotton for their needs or else curtail their operations.
"(5) And also, as 'a necessary and unavoidable result'
of said acts, an unlawful obstruction would be put upon
interstate trade and commerce.'
"The offence charged, then, is a conspiracy in restraint
.
"
of trade through the operation of a 'corner,'
of
a
specific
there
was
no
allegation
Although ruling that
intent to obstruct interstate trade or commerce and that
the raising of prices in markets other than the Cotton
Exchange in. New York was "in itself no part of the
scheme," the court assumed that the conspirators intended
"the necessary and unavoidable consequences of their
acts," and observed that "prices of cotton are so correlated that it may be said that the direct result of the acts
of the conspirators was to be the raising of the price of

cotton throughout the country."
Upon the second argument the defendants contended,
and counsel for the Government expressly conceded, that
"running a corner" consists, broadly speaking, in acquiring control of all or the dominant portion of a commodity with the purpose of artificially enhancing the
price, "one of the important features of which," to use the
Of these allegations the court said in its opinion: "We must also
assume that the allegations of the results to follow the conspiracy are
more than the conclusions or economic theories of the' pleader and
amount to allegations of fact."

OCTOBER TERM, .1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

language of the Government's brief, "is the purchase for
future delivery, coupled -with a withholding from sale for
a limited time;" and as this definition is in substantial accord with that given by lexicographers and juridical writers,
we accept it for present purposes, although observing that
not improbably in actual usage the expression includes
modified modes of attaining substantially the same end.
Whilst thus agreeing upon what constitutes running a
corner, the parties widely differ as to whether what is so
styled in this instance contained the, elements necessary
to make it operative. The point of difference is the
presence or absence of an adequate allegation that the
purchasing for future delivery was to be coupled with a
withholding from sale, without which, it is conceded by
both parties, the market could not be cornered. But the
solution of the point turns upon the right construction of
the counts, and that, as has been indicated, is not within
our province on this writ of error. We must assume that
the counts adequately allege whatever the Circuit Court
treated them as alleging. Its opinion given at the time,
although not containing any express ruling upon the
point of difference, shows that the counts were treated as
alleging an operative scheme, one by which the market
could be cornered. The court spoke of it as "contrary to
public policy," as "arbitrarily controlling the price of a
commodity," and as "positively unlawful in any State
having a statute against corners." Evidently, it was assumed that every element of running a corner was present.
We accordingly indulge that assumption, but leave the
parties free to present the question to the District Court
for its decision in the course of such further proceedings
as may be had in that court.
We come, then, to the question, whether a conspiracy
to run a corner in the available supply of a staple commodity, such as cotton, normally a subject of trade and
commerce among the States, and thereby to enhance

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

artificially its price throughout the country and to compel
all who have occasion to obtain it to pay the enhanced
price or else to leave their needs unsatisfied, is within the
terms of ยง 1 of the Anti-trust Act, which makes it a criminal offense to "engage in" a "conspiracy in restraint of
trade or commerce among the several States." The Circuit Court, as we have seen, answered the question in the
negative; and 'this, although accepting as an allegation of
fact, rather than as a mere economic theory of the pleader,
the statement in the counts that interstate trade and
commerce would necessarily be obstructed by the operation of the conspiracy. The reasons assigned for the
ruling, and now pressed upon our attention, are (1) that
the conspiracy does not belong to the class in which the
members are engaged in interstate trade or commerce
.and agree to suppress competition among themselves,
(2) that running a corner, iastead of restraining competition, tends, temporarily at least, to stimulate it, and
(3) that the obstruction of interstate trade and commerce
resulting from the operation of the conspiracy, even although a necessary result, would be so indirect as not
t6 be a restraint in the sense of the statute.
Upon careful reflection we are constrained to hold that
the reasons given do not sustain the ruling and that the
answer to the question must be in the affirmative.
Section 1 ol the act, upon which the counts are founded,
is not confined to vohmtary restraints, as where persons
engaged in interstate trade or commerce agree to suppress
competition among themselves, but includes as well involuntary restraints, as Where persons not so engaged
conspire to compel action by others, or to create artificial
conditions, which necessarily impede or burden the due
course of such trade or cormnerce or restrict the common
liberty to engage therein. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274,
293, 301. As was said of this section in StandardOil Co.
v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 59:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.-

"The context manifests that the statute was drawn in
the light of the existing practical conception of the law
of restraint of trade, because it groups as within that
class, not only contracts which were in restraint of trade
in the subjective sense, but all contracts or acts which
theoretically were attempts to monopolize, yet which in
practice had come to be considered as in restraint of
trade in a broad sense."
It well may be that running a corner tends for a time
to stimulate competition; but this does not prevent it
from being a forbidden restraint, for it also operates to
thwart the usual operation of the laws of supply and demand, to withdraw the commodity from the normal current of trade, to enhance the price artificially, to hamper
users and consumers in satisfying their needs, and to
produce practically the same evils as does the suppression
of competition.

Of course, the statute does not apply where the trade or
commerce affected is purely intrastate. Neither does it
apply, as this court often has held, where the trade or
commerce affected is interstate, unless the effect thereon is
direct, not merely indirect. But no difficulty is encountered in applying these tests in the present case -when its
salient features are kept in view.
It was a conspiracy to run a corner in the Tharket. The
commodity to be cornered. was cotton, a product of the
Southern States, largely used afdcfconsumed in the Northern States. It was a subject of interstate trade and commerce, and through that channel it was obtained from
time to time by the many manufacturers of cotton fabrics
in the Northern States. The corner was to be conducted
on the Cotton Exchange in New York City, but by.means
which would enable the conspirators to obtain control. of
the available supply and to enhance the price to all buyers
in every market of the country, This control and the
enhancement of the price were-features of the conspiracy

UNITED STATES v. PATTEN.
226 U. S.

Opinion o the Court.

upon the attainment of which it is conceded its success
depended. Upon the corner becoming effective, there
could be no trading.in the commodity save at the will of
the conspirators and at such price as their interests might
prompt them to exact. And so, the conspiracy was to
reach and to bring within its dominating influence the
entire cotton trade of the country.
Bearing in mind that such was the nature, object and
scope of the conspiracy, we regard it as altogether plain
that by its necessary operation it would directly and materially impede and burden the due course of trade and
commerce among the States and therefore inflict upon the
public the injuries which the Anti-trust Act is designed
to prevent. See Swift & Co. v. United States, 196-U. S.
375, 396-400; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106. And that there is no
allegation of a specific intent to restrain such trade or
commerce does not make against this conclusion, for, as
is shown by prior decisions of this court, the conspirators
must be held to'have intended the necessary and direct
consequences of their acts and cannot be heard to say
the contrary. In other words, by purposely engaging in a
conspiracy which necessarily and directly produces the
result which the statute is designed to prevent, they are,
in legal contemplation, chargeable with intending that
result. Addyston Pipe & S9eel Co. v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, 243; United State~s v. Reading Co., 226 U. S.
324, 370.
The defendants place some reliance upon Ware & Leland
v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405, as showing that the operation of the conspiracy did not involve interstate trade or
commerce, but we think the: case does not go so far and
is not in point. It presented only the question of the
effect upon interstate trade or commerce of the taxing
by a State of the business of a broker who was dealing

.544

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

in contracts for the future -delivery of cotton, where there
was no obligation to ship from one State to another; while
here we are concerned with a conspiracy which was to
reach and bring within its dominating influence the entire
cotton trade of the country and which was to be executed,
in Part only, through contracts for future delivery. It
hardly needs statement that the character and effect of a
conspiracy is not to be judged by dismembering it and
viewing its separate parts, but only by looking at it as a
whole. Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, 45-46;
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375,'386-387.
As we are of opinion that the statute does embrace the
conspiracy which the Circuit Court treated as charged in
counts seven and eight, as construed by it, its judgment
upon those counts is reversed and the case is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed in part.
MR. JusncE LURTON, dissenting.

The majority seem to base a judgment: of reversal upon
the assumption that the court below interpreted the
counts in question as charging all the elements essential
to a technical "corner." To this view of the opinion of
the court below I do not assent. As I interpret that
opinion the court held the count bad because it did not
charge a "corner." Thus interpreted there was no error
in quashing-the count. I am authorized to say that the
Chief Justice concurs in this dissent.
MR.

JusTIcE HOLMES also dissents.

