UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 61
226 U. S.

Sylabus.

tion that they had a Yight to have reviewed and have had
reviewed in this court; it was clearly defined; the official
was not called on to state reasons or to discuss-his only
duty was to hear, and beyond offering the printed brief
the plaintiff's representatives showed no desire to be
heard. This is not a case in which even by manner or
indirection the plaintiffs were prevented from offering
material evidence. The facts and the question were as
plain then as now. The conclusion reached was .right,
and in the circumstances disclosed we are of opinion that
the plaintiffs had no cause to complain.
.Decrees affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.
No. 446. Argued April 19, 22, 23, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
The purchase' by the Union Pacific Railroad Company of forty-six
per cent of the stock of the Southern Pacific Company, with the resulting control of the latter's railway system by the former, is an
illegal combination in restraint of interstate trade within the purview 'of the Sherman Anti-trust Act of i890 and must be dissolved.
The Sherman Anti-trust Act of July .2,1890, 26 Stat. 209, c. 647, applies
to interstate railroads which arc among the principal instrumentalies of interstate commerce.
The Sherman Act is intended to reach and prevent'all combinations
which restrain freedom of intersta4 trade, and should be given a
.reasonable construction to this end.
The opinions in Standard Oil Co. v. United States and United States
v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. I and 106, contain no sugges'See also p'470, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

tion that the decisions of the court in the Trans-Missouriand Joint
Traffice Cases were not correet in holding the combinations involved
to be. illegal while applying the rule that the statute should be
reasonably construed.
The- Sherman Law prohibits the creation of a single dominating coitrol in one corporation whereby natural and existing competition in
interstate trade is suppressed; such prohibition extends to the con" trol of competing interstate railroads effected by a holding company'
as in. the Northern Securities Case and to the purchase by one of two
competing- railroad companies of a controlling portion, even if not,
as in this case, a majority of the stock of the other.
The Sherman Law, in its terms, embraces every contract or combination in form of trust or otherwise or conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade.
Congress is supreme over interstate commerce, and a combination
which contravenes the Sherman Law is illegal although it may be
permissible under, and within, corporate powers conferred by, the
laws of the State. where made.
Courts should construe the Sherman Law with a view to preserve
free action 'of competition in inter'state trade, which was the purpose
of Congress in enacting the statute.
Competition is the striving for something which another is actively
seeking and wishes to gain.
Competition between two transcontinental railway systems such as
the Uniop Padific and Southern Pacific includes not only making of
rates but the character of service rendered and' accommodation
afforded; and the inducement to maintain points of advantage in
these respects is greater when the systems are independent than
when the corporation owning one of the systems also dominates and
controls the other.
.The Union Pacific and Southern Pacific are competing systems of interstate railways and their consolidation by the control of the latter
by the former through a dominating stock interest'does, as a mat"teI-of fact, abridge free competition, and is an illegal restraint of
interstate trade under the Sherman Law.
In this case held, that while. there was a great deal of non-competitive
business, a sufficiently large amount of competitive business was
affected to, clearly' bring the combination made within the purview
of the Sherman Law.
In this. case also held, that the necessity. of the Union Pacific to obtain
an entrance to' San Francisco and other. California points over the
lines of the Southern Pacific was not such as to justify the combina'tion complained o0in this case in view of the provisions for a contin-

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R; R. CO. 63
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

uous railroad to the Pacific Coast and for interchange of traffic without discrimination contained in the acts of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat.
489, 495, § 12, c. 120, and of July 2, 1.864, 13 Stat. 356,. 362, § 15,.
c. 216.
Doubtless courts could restrain one railroad constructed under the
acts of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864, from making discriminations,
contrary to the provisions of those acts in regard to interchange of
traffic, against another railroad also constructed under those acts.
The obligation to keep faith with the Government in regard to managemeat of railroads constructed under acts of Congress continues notwithstanding changed forms of ownership and organization, as does
also continue the legislative power of Congress concerning such
railroads.
Although a railroad corporation may. lawfully acquire that portion
of another railroad which connects, but does not compete,'with any
part of its own system, it may not acquire the entire system a substantial portion of which .does compete with its lines.
The effect of such a purchase and its legality under the Sherman Law
may be judged by what was actually accomplished, and the natural and probable consequences of that which was done.
In determining the validity of a combination the court may look to
the intent and purpose of those conducting the transaction and to
the objects had in view.
While in small corporationp a majority of stock may be necessary for
control, in largp corporations, where the stock is distributed among
rhany stockholders, a compact united ownership of less than half
may be ample to control and amount to a dominant interest sufficient to effect a combination in restraint of trade within a reasonable
construction of the Shermaff Law.
In applying the general rules as to relief under the Sherman Law as
declared in StundardOil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.1, 78, the court
must deal with each case as it finds it; and where the combination
has been effected by 'purchase by one corporation of a dominant
amount of stock of its competitor the decree should provide an
injunction against the right to vote stock so acquired, or payment of
dividends thereon except to a receiver, and any plan for' disposition
of the stock should be .such as to effectually dissolve the unlawful
coinbination.
Whether the decree can provide for the purchase by the Union Pacific
of such portions of the Southern :Pacific as are only connecting and
are not competitive and which effect a continuous line to San Francisco, inot now determined; but leave granted to the District Court to
consider any pIan proposed to effect such results.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

Unless plans for dissolution are presented to, and affirmed by, the District Cburt within a reasonable period, in this case three months, that
court should proceed to dissolve the combination by receiver and sale.
The decree below, dismissing the bill generally, being affirmed by this
court as to all matters other than the purchase of Southern Pacific
stock, is reversedin part and the District Court retains its jurisdicti6n over the cause to see that the decree outlined by this court in
this opinion is made effectual. '-(See also p. 470, post.)
188 Fed. Rep. 102, reversed in part.

which involve the validity under the Sherman Anti-trust Act of 1890 of the purchase by the Union
Pacific Railroad Company of a dominant interest of the
stock of the Southern Pacific Company, and whether the
same was a combination in restraint of interstate commerce within the purview of the act, are stated in the
opinion.
THE facts,

Mr. Cordenio A. Severance, The Attorney General and
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, for the United States, appellant:
The maintenance of free competition among railways
has become the settled policy of. the Nation.
The Interstate Commerce Act, in its provisions against
contracts, agreements, or combinations between common
carriers for pooling, enforces the -competitive principle.
The Sherman Law, as construed by the courts, is directed against all attempts to suppress competition amOng
interstate carriers or to monopolize interstate commerce.
National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115; Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; United States
v.,.Standard Oil Cb., 173 Fed. Rep. 177; United States
v. Joint Traffic Ass'n, 171 U. S. 505, United States v.
Trans-MissouriFreight Ass'n, 166 'U. S. 290.
This policy has found expression in the constitutions
andlaws of thirty-seven States and two Territories.
The courts have recognized and enforced the policy,
both under statutory and constitutional provisions, and
also in the absence of such provisions,. Central R. R. Co.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 65
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

v. Collins, 40 Georgia, 582; Clarke v. Central R. & B. Co.,
50 Fed. Rep. .338; Commonwealtk v. South Penn Road, 1
Pa. Co. Ct. Rep. 214; Continental Securities Co. v. Interborough R. T. Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 945; Currierv. Ry. Co.,
48 N. H. 322; East St. Louis Connecting Ry. v. Jarvis, 92
Fed. Rep. 735; East Line and Red River Co. v. Texas, 75
Texas, 434; Edwards v. Southern Ry. Co., 66 S. Car. 277;
Gulf, Col. & S. Fe R. R. Co. v. Texas, 72 Texas, 404;
Hamilton v. Savannah, &c. Ry., 49 Fed. Rep. 412; Langdon v. Branch, 37 Fed, .Rep. 449; Louisville & Nash. R. R.
Co. v. Kentucky, 97 Kentucky, 675; S. C., 161 U. S. 677;
Morrill v. Railway Co., 55 N. H. 531; Pearsall v. Great
Northern Ry., 161 U. S. 646; Penn. R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 7 Atl. Rep. 368, 374; State v. Vanderbilt, 37 Oh. St.
590; Stockton v. Central R. R. of N. J., 50 N. J. Eq. 52;
Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. So. Pac. Ry., 41 La. Ann. 970;
Yazoo &c. Ry. Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 83 Mississippi, 746.
It is im'material that one of two competing roads may
be organized under the laws of another State or situated
beyond tl~e borders of the State having the prohibition.
Currierv. Ry. Co., 48 N. BH. 322; Investigation into Union
Pacific.and Southern Pacific, 12 I. C. C. Rep. 347; Morrill
v. Railway Co., 55 N. H. 531;. Union Pacific v. Mason
City & Ft. Doidge Ry. Co., 199 U. S. 160; United States v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 18.8 Fed. Rep. 121.
Prior to the acquisition of the stock of the Southern
Pacific Company by the Union Pacific the lines of those
two systems were competitive, and such acquisition,
having eliminated such competition, was therefore in restraint of trade and in violation of the Anti-trust Act.
East St. Louis Connecting Ry. v. Jarvis 92 Fed. Rep. 735;
East Line and Red River Cc. v. Texas, 75 Texas, 434; East
Line and Red River Co. v. Rushing, 69 Texas, 306; Gulf,
Col. & S. Fe R. R.. Co. v. Texas, 72 Texas, 404; Harriman
v. Northern Securities Co., ]L97 U. S. 244; Kimball v. A., T.
& S. F. Ry. Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 888; Louis. & Nash. R. R.
VOL.. ccxxvi--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

Co. v. Kentucky, 97 Kentucky, 675; S.C., 161 U. S. 677;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197;
Pearsallv. Great NorthernRy., 161 U. S. 646; Penna. R. R.
Co. v. Commonwealth, 7,Atl. Rep. 368, 374; Standard Oil
Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; State v. MontanaRy. Co.,
21 Montana, 221; State v. Vanderbilt, 37 Oh. St- 590; Stockton v. Central R. R. of N. J., 50 N. J. Eq. 52; Tex. & Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Southern Pacific Ry., 41 La. Ann. 910; United
States v. Am. Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United States v.
Joint Traffic Ass'n, 171 U. S.505; Undted States v. TransMissouri Freight Ass'n, 166 U. S. 302; United States v.
Trans-Missouri Freight Ass'n, 58 Fed. Rep. 64; United
States v. Union Pac. R. R. Co. et al., 188 Fed. Rep. 110.
The clause in the Pacific Railroad Act authorizing the
Central Pacific and the Union Pacific to consolidate their
lines gave the Union Pacific no right to buy the Southern
Pacific. Louis. & Nash. R, R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.
677; Pearsall v. Great Northern Ry., 161 U. S. 646; Un.
Pac. v. Mason City & Ft. Dodge Ry. Co., 199 U. S.160.
The acquisition-of the controlling interest in the Southern Pacific system by the Union Pacific tended to suppress
competition, and therefore was in restraint of trade; also
tended to monopoly, and is in violation of the Sherman
Act. Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S.244.;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.197;
Penna, R: R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 7 Atl. Rep. 368, 374;
Stockton v. Central R. R. of N. J., 50 N. J. Eq. 52; United
States v. Am. Tobacco Co., 221 U. S.' 106.
. The ownership by the Union Pacific of less than a
majority of the stock in the Southern Pacific, Santa Fe,
Northern Pacific, Great Northern, and San Pedro lines
tended to suppress competition and create a monopoly

and is inhibited by the Sherman Act. CentralR. R. Co. v.
Collins, 40 Georgia, 582; Gibbs v. Consolidated Gas Co.,
130 U. S. 408; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. Si 274; Louis. &
Nash. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.677; Northern

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 67
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.. 197; Pearsallv.
Great Northern Ry., 161 U. S. 646; Penna.R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 7 Atl. Rep. 368, 374; People v. Chicago Gas
Trust Co., 130 Illinois, 268; Salt Co. v. Guthrie, 35 Oh. St.

666; Stockton v. Central R. R. of N. J., 50 N. J. Eq. 52;
United States v. Standard Oil Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 179;
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United
States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Ass'n, 166 U. S. 290.
The fact that the Union Pacific has, since the commencement of this suit, sold the balance of its stock in the
Great Northern and Northern Pacific and in the Santa Fe
is no reason why an injuinction should not be granted.

United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Ass'n, 166 U. S.
290.

The control of the San Pedro road under the circumstances of this case tended to suppress competition and is
void, although that line was not completed at the time of
the acquisition of the stock, therein. Commonwealth v.
Beech Creek R. R. Co., 1 Pa. Co. Ct. Rep. 223; Farrington
v. Stucky, 165 Fed. Rep. 325; Hamilton v. Savannah,
Florida & W. Ry., 49 Fed. Rep. 412; Hartford & New
Haven R. R. Co. v. N. Y. & New Haven R. R. Co., 3 Robertson (N. Y. Superior Court), 411; Inter. Com. Comm.

v. Phila.& Reading R. R. Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 969; Langdon
v. Branch, 37 Fed. Rep. 449; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 7 Atl. Rep. 368, 374; State v. Hartford & New
Haven R. R. Co., 29 Connecticut, 538; Thomsen v. Union

Castle Mail Steamship Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 251; United
States v. Patterson, 59 Fed. Rep. 280; United States v.

Standard Oil Co., 173 Fed. ]Rep. 177; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1.
- The combination of steamship lines between American

and foreign ports for the purpose of suppressing competition is within the inhibitions of the Sherman Act. Thomsen v. Union Castle Mail S. S. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 251.
The Government's brief contains a synopsis of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

226 U. S.

constitutional and statutory provisions of the several
States and Territories on the subject of parallel and competing lines.
Mr. N. H. Loomis and Mr. P. F. Dunne for appellees:
The object which the Union Pacific had in view in acquiring an interest in the Southern Pacific, was not to
suppress competition or to obtain a monopoly, but to
secure a permanent relationship with the Southern Pacific which would insure for it a perpetual through line
to San Francisco, as contemplated by Congress, and give
to it as well, an entrance into all the traffic producing
centers of California.
As to the conception which Congress and the public
had, of a single, indivisible line of railroad extending from
the Missouri River, with continuous rails to the Pacific
Ocean, see act of July 1, 1862. Not only did Congress
provide for the permanent physical continuity of the
proposed railroads, but gave power to any two or more
of them to consolidate and thus place themselves under a
single management. §§ 10, 12, 16, act of July 1, 1862, 12
Stat. 497; § 16, act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 362. See
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S.449.
The hope and expectation of a single, indivisible line of
railroad from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean
could not be fully realized as long as the ownership was
vested in separate corporations and the operation in
different managements.
It is clear from the testimony that the officials of the
Union Pacific regarded the Southern Pacific not as a competitive, but as a connecting line.
The testimony of the witnesses and the surrounding
circumstances demonstrate that the object and intent of
purchasing the stock of the Southern Pacific, was to
protect the integrity of the through line from the Missouri
River to the Pacific coast and. to procure for the Union

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 69
226 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Pacific a permanent entrance into, interior California
points', it was not to obtain a competing line or to stifle
competition.
This intent was shown by betterments. As to deducing intent from actions of the parties see United States v.
American Tobacco Company, 221 U. S. 106.
The Southern Pacific was not bound to agree to joint
tariffs under any law in force when the stock purchase was
made.
There was no law in 1901 by which that' company could
be forced to grant other than local rates between Ogden
and San Francisco on traffic tendered to it by the Union
Pacific; nor did the Pacific Railroad Actof July.2, 1864,
which required the Union Pacific and the Central Pacific,'
as well as the other roads included therein, to be operated
and used for all purposes of communication and travel so'
far as the public and Government are concerned as one
continuous line extend to requiring joint tariffs. L. R.
&c. R. R. Co. v. E.- T. Va. & G., 2 I. C..C. Rep. 456, and
3 I. C. C. Rep. 1, 6.
This court has held that the fixing of rates is a legislative power which cannot be exercised by the courts. The
Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1, 28; Central Stock Yards .v.
Louisville &c. Ry. Co., 19 U. S. 568, 571'Oregon Short
Line & U. N. Ry. Co. v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 51 Fed.
Rep. 465, 474; Little Rock & M. R. Co. v. St. Louis S. W.
Ry. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775.
The want of power to compel railroads to enter into
such agreements led to the adoption of the Hepburn Act,
§§ 15, 34 Stat. 590, and the Interstate Commerce Commission was authorized to establish through routes, fix rates
and to determine the division of the through rate between
connecting carriers; but as to the law prior thereto, see
Southern Pacific v. Int. Coin. Comm., 200 U. S. 536, 553;
Chicago & N. W. Ry. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 915.
The want of legal power on the part of the Union

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

.

226 U. S.

Pacific -to compel the Southern Pacific to recognize the
usual incidents of a through route and the discretion
possessed by' the Southern Pacific to do as its own welfare
might dictate with respect to through rates, gave to that
company additional advantages, and made it possible
for the Southern Pacific to more effectively control the
situation.
The so-called Portland route to San Francisco is not a
practicable one. Union Pacific officials had frequently
considered the opening of the Portland gateway for San
Francisco traffic, but had always concluded that'it would
be an unprofitable move and therefore it was not done.
One serious objection was the length of the line. Portland is substantially the same distance from Omaha
as SanFrancisco is, and the rate to San Francisco through
Portland would have to be the same as the rate via the
short, direct line through Ogden; and the rate to Portland was the same as the rate 'to San Francisco. The
Union Pacific would receive no greater revenue for,hauling
freight through Portland to San Francisco than it would
for the same freight delivered at Portland.
As a matter of fact the Portland route to San Francisco
has never been used, although it has been open, physically,
since 1884.
The most conclusive point, showing that the Portland
route to San Francisco is and always has been, an inpracticable one, is the fact that the Northern rail lines
terminating at Seattle, Tacoma and Portland have never
been able to carry any substantial amount of transcon,tinental traffic to or from San Francisco.
The Government's argument i that the Portland route
to San Francisco could have been used by the Union
Pacific, in view of the successful operation of the Sunset
line between New York and' San Francisco via New
Orleans by the Southern Pacific. The conditions :surrounding the operation of the Sunset route are so dissim-

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
226 U. S.

71

Argument for Appellees.

ilar, however, that it cannot be regarded as a parallel case.'
In the first place it is operated under a single management from New York to San Francisco and California busijiess is given preferred attention. The freight is carried
by boat from New York to New Orleans without stop,
the California freight quickly transferred to cars waiting
upon the wharves and transported in trainload lots to
Los Angeles and San Francisco. It is a service which
cannot be duplicated by any other brokeni water and rail
line:
The traffic upon which complainant mainly relies to
establish competitive relations between the Union Pacific
and the Southern Pacific in 1901, was traffic between the
Atlantic seaboard and the middle west on the one hand
and California points on the other. As to all this traffic
the Union Pacific and Southern Pacific were not competitors, but connections, and in a sense, partners.
A railroad is not a competitor of its connections on
business handled by them jointly under a through tariff.
Southern Pacific v. Interstate Commerce Commission, '200
U. S. 536.
In the Standard Oil Case, 221 U. S. 1, 80, this court
recognized the legality of combining various pipe lines, in
order to make a continuous line, and declared that an
agreement or combination soto do would not be repugnant
to the Sherman Act.
Some of the reasons why Union Pacific was not a competitor of Southern Pacific's Sunset route are that it was
a connection of the Southern Pacific, handling through
business on a joint tariff, to which the Southern Pacific
had voluntarily agreed.' In entering upon this relationship and agreeing to the joint tariff, the Union Pacific
knew that the Southern Pacific possessed another line via
New Orleaus and that it would endeavor to route traffic
that way and get the long haul whenever circumstances
permitted it. But notwithstanding that fact the Union

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

226 U. S.

Pacific was willing to continue the relationship. As a
matter of fact it had no choice about the matter; it was
compelled to submit to these conditions. The Southern
Pacific was not only a partner but a dominant partner-a
partner with which the Union Pacific was required to
associate or go out of business. With no rails of. its own
into California and no other railroad but the Southern
Pacific to handle its California traffic, it was impossible
for it to occupy the position of an independent, hostile
competitor.
The same principle is also controlling when we consider
that as between the Union Pacific and the Southern Pacific, San Francisco is a local non-competitive point on the
Southern Pacific, situated eight hundred miles distant
from the western terminus of the Union Pacific.
In the next place, the Government's argument assumes
that two parts of the same railroad can compete with
each other; that is to say, that that portion of the Southern
Pacific Railroad extending from San Francisco to Ogden
can compete with that portion thereof extending from
San Francisco to New York.
This assumption cannot be correct, as it is obvious that
a railroad company cannot compete with itself.
Furthermore, the Union Pacific was a constituent member of the Ogden route before the purchase, and it continued as such thereafter. If the Ogden route, including
the Union Pacific, competed with the Sunset route before
the purchase, it still'competes with it; if it did not compete with It before the purchase, it does not compete with
it now. Competitive conditions between the two routes
have not been changed by placing the, Union Pacific and
the Southern Pacific under a common management.
As the Southern Pacific controlled the routing of California business, and the Union Pacific-could obtain the
busi-ess through the friendly interposition of that company only, it cannot be maintained that the Union Pacific

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 73
226 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

was a competitor of the company it' was, dependent upon
to get the business.
If the Southern Pacific was a competitor of the Union
Pacific on California businetss, because of the 'Sunset'route,
and the Union Pacific cannot own the stock of the Southern Pacific, then it will be impossible for any of*the large
railroads of the country to extendtheir lines by purchase
or consolidation. Every railroad with more than one
gateway is in tlie same predicament. If the Government
were devising a scheme to prevent the consolidation of all
railroads, regardless of whelher they were parallel or connecting lines, a -better one could not have beenconcocted
than the theory adopted in this case.
Another reason why the Union Pacific should not be
considered-s a competitor of the Southern Pacific on
transcontinental business to and from California points is
that it is but one link in the all-rail through line from the
Atlantic seaboard to San Francisco, while 'the Southern
Pacific has a continuous line from New York to San
Francisco, under a single management. The Union
Pacific is dependent not only on the Southern Pacific on
the west, but on its eastern connections as well, to fix a
through rate or to maintain a through service; in itself it
could do nothing without 'the voluntary cooperation
of the lines extending east from Omaha ,or Kansas
City.
If one line is the competitor of another merely because
both of th6m happen to be links in systems of through
routes which compete with each other, practically every
railroad in the United States is a competitor of every
other railroad in the United States, and under those conditions not one line could purchase or consolidate with
another line because of its being a competitor.
Complainant's testimony as to the existence of separate
soliciting agencies and of the consolidation of certain of
those' agencies subsequent to 1901 does not prove that the

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

226 U. S.

Southern Pacific and Union Pacific were in competition
with each other.
All the large railroad systems in the United States have
several gateways, representing different routes, through
which their traffic may be handled; for instance, the New
York Central, Pennsylvania and Baltimore & Ohio railroads have among others, their St. Louis and Chicago
gateways; the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul, its Omaha,
Kansas City and St. Paul gateways; the Missouri Pacific,
its Pueblo and El Paso gateways; the Southern Railway,
its Memphis and New Orleans gateways; the Louisville
& Nashville, its St. Louis, Memphis and New Orleans
gateways.
It is the effort of soliciting agents to secure business
through these different gateways, as varying circumstances
require them to solicit in favor of the one or the other,
which induces the belief that there is competition between
the routes represented by them, even though the agents
may be working in the interests of the same carrier. A
brief consideration of the proposition will disclose its
fallacy.
. Complainant's witnesses who expressed the opinion
that
the Union Pacific and Southern Pacific were competing
upon California business did so entirely upon the assumption that the rivalry of soliciting agents was the competition of railroads. The testimony shows, however, how
fallacious such testimony is and demonstrates that the
strife for business may merely be the competition which is
constantly going on between agents in the service of the
same principal.
As the work of soliciting agents against each other may
be in pursuance of a common employment and the results
of their labors for the benefit of the same railroad or combination of connecting railroads, testimony as to the rivalry
of soliciting agents cannot be used to show the existence
of competition between the routes which they represent.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
226 U. S.

75

Argument for Appellees.

The fact that two railroads have separate soliciting
agents does not necessarily prove that the railroads they
represent are competitors.
The Government itself asserts that the Union Pacific
and Southern Pacific are not competing at the present
time and yet it appears that there are separate soliciting
agencies representing those companies at New York and
San Francisco and other points.
The other alleged competitive routes of minor importance did not make the Union Pacific and the Southern
Pacific competitors in any direct and substantial
sense.
In order to bring the competition within the inhibition
of the Sherman Act, it must be direct and substantial.
Competition which is indirect and remote is not competition within the meaning of the statute; traffic unsubstantial in amount is not included within the terms of the law.
When the Government seeks to set aside transactions as
in restraint of trade and commerce, the burden rests upon
it not only to prove the restraint of commerce, but the
restraint of a substantial volume of commerce. It must
affirmatively show that the competition was of some
practical importance and that the restraint of commerce
involved was unreasonable.
The Sherman Act was not intended to apply to combinations whose effect upon interstate commerce was
indirect or incidental only, or which might remotely affect
that commerce. United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171
U. S. 505, 568.
This court puts contracts which only indirectly and
incidentally restrain interstate commerce upon the same
basis with respect to validity as legislation of the States,
of which there are numerous examples, which incidentally
and indirectly affect interstate commerce and yet are
valid because it is not a direct regulation of such commerce. Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, 615, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

226 U. S.

Addyston Pipe and Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
211, 229.
This court held in one of the most important and farreaching decisions ever announced by it, that the She,'man
Act does not prohibit every contract, combination, etc.,
in restraint of trade, but only those which unreasonably restrain trade and commerce. Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. Am. Tobacco
Co., 221 U. S. 106; CincinnatiPacket Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S.
179; Phillips v. Cement Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 594; Kimball
v. Atchison &c. Ry. Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 888; State v. Cent.
of Ga. Ry., 109 Georgia, 716.
Treating all of the traffic over the various routes of
minor importance as competitive and considering it in
the aggregate, it is a mere bagatelle when compared with
the entire traffic of the Union Pacific and the Southern
Pacific. It amounts to only 0.88 per cent of the tonnage
of the Southern Pacific and to only 3.10 per cent. of the
tonnage of the Union Pacific, vhile the revenue of the
Southern Pacific from this traffic aggregates only 1.25 per
cent of its total revenue, an amount which it is not conceivable that the Union Pacific would have cared to
invest millions in Southern Pacific stock to suppress. See
Rogers v. Nashville &c. Ry. Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 299, and
cases supra.
The purchase of the stock of the Northern Pacific and
the Santa Fe by defendants, and the settlement of right
of way controversies with the Clark interests, which
resulted in the joint construction and ownership of the
San Pedro road, were not acts performed with the object
of suppressing competition or of acquiring a monopoly,
nor did they have that effect.
A review of the entire record demonstrates that a monopoly has not been created, that there has been no suppression of competition, and that there was no conspiracy
to effectuate either purpose. The record shows, on the

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 77
226 U. S.

Argumexat for Appellees.

other hand, that the interest which the Union Pacific acquired in the Southern Pacific has been of direct and substantial benefit to trade an)d commerce.
The Union Pacific ownership of Southern Pacific stock
was not a control, and did not import, as a matter of law,
the power in any view of the case to restrict competition.
The Union Pacific merely became a minority stockholder,
having by its first purchase acquired only about 37 2

per cent of the stock and never acquired a majority.
While the Union Pacific may have been able to. keep
control with less than a majority of stock there was always
a possibility that it could not do so. Stock control condemned by this court has been of an actual majority.
Pearsall v. Great Northern Ry., 161 U. S. 671; Northern
Securities Case, 120 Fed. Rep.- 726; S. C., 193 U. S. 106;
Noyes on Intercorporate 'Relations, § 294; and see Pullman Co. v. Mo. Pac. R. R., 115 U. S. 578.
The acquisition and ownership by the Union Pacific of

the Huntington stock by out and 9ut sale to it by a stock,
holder in the market, is not, as such, within the power. of
Congress to regulate, under the commerce clause of the
Constitution.

United States v. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.

The acquisition and ownership of property by a corporation or citizen of a State is not interstate commerce.
The Union Pacific is a Utah corporation and had power
to purchase stock of the Southern Pacific. Nat. Bank v.
Matthews, 98 U. S. 628; St. Louis R. R. v. Terre Haute
R. R., 145 U. S. 407; Paul v- Virginia, 8 Wall. 168.
A state corporation is subject to regulation by Congress
only to the extent and by the measure of its engagement
in interstate commerce. Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463, 499. See Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436, 442;
Louisville & Nashville Case, 161 U. S. 677; Mobile &c. R.
R. Co. v. Mi~sissippi, 210 U. S. 187,'202.
The authority of the several States to permit railroads
within their respective ter~ritory to consolidate on terms

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

226 U. S.

prescribed by each is inconsistent with the assertion of 4.
power of Congress to the same effect, as it could on4]y
prescribe a uniform rule.
The purchase by the Union Pacific of the Huntington
stock by out and out sale is not within the purview of the
Sherman Law. An out and out sale is quite distinguishable
from a collateral stipulation or covenant running with the
sale.
The combination or conspiracy prohibited by thq
Sherman Law is essentially a process terminable in future.
It is not like a sale completed when made. Mitchell v.
Reynolds, 1 P. Wims. 181. For some of these collateral
agreements to sales see Diamond Match Co. v. Roeber, 106
N. Y. 473; Nordenfeldt v. Maxim, App. Cas., 1904, 535;
Bancroft v. Embossing Co., 72 N. H. 407; Packet Co. v.
Bay, 200 1;. S. 179.
Something more than the acquisition of a competing
property is necessary to bring the purchaser and seller
within the Shdrman Law. Shawnee Compress Co. Case,
209 U. S. 434; Chemical Co. v. Provident Co., 64 Fed. Rep.
950; The Greene Case, 52 Fed. Rep. 115; Roller Co. v.
Cushman, 143 Massachusetts, 355, 364; Oakdale Co. v.
Garst, 28 AtI. Rep. 973. See also Harrimanv. Menzies,
115 California, 19; Collins v. Locke, L. R., 4 App. Cas.
674; Skrainka v; Scharring-Hausen, 8 Mo. App. 522;
Leslie v. Lorillard, 110 N. Y. 519; Cohen v. Berlin, 56
N. Y. Supp. 558; Kellog v. Larkin, 3 Pinney (Wis.), 123;
Dolph v. Troy Co., 28 Fed. Rep. 554; Mathews v. Associated Press, 32 N. E. Rep. 981; Vinegar Co. v. Voehrbach,
148 N. Y. 58; Macauley v.. Tierney, 19 R. I. 255; Bohn v.
Mfg. Co., 54 Minnesota, 233; Cote v. Murphy, 159 Pa. St.
420; Ins. Co. v. Bd. of Underwriters, 67 Fed. Rep. 317;
Nat'l Ass'n v. Cumming, 170 N. Y. 315; Vogelen v. Ganter,
167 Massachusetts, 92, opinion of Holmes, J.
A competitor may be driven out by lawful competition,
Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, L. R., 23 Q. B. D. 612;

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC It. R. CO. 79
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 459;
Bonsack v. Smith, 70 Fed. Rep. 388, and if so he may also
lawfully be bought out by voluntary contract.
Mere size or aggreg'tion by purchase does not necessarily amount to violations of the Sherman Law.
The same stockholders may lawfully own a controlling
interest in each of two competing corporations. Bigelow
v. Calumet Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 704, 727.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The case was begun in the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Utah to enforce the provisions of the
so-called Sherman Anti-trust Act of 1890, 26 Stat. 209,
c. 647, against certain alleged conspiracies and combinations in restraint of interstate commerce. The case in its
principal aspect grew out of the purchase by the Union
Pacific Railroad Company in the. month of February,
1901- of certain shares of the capital stock of the Southern
Pacific Company from the devisees under the will of the
late Collis P. Huntington, who had formerly owned the
stock. Other shares of Southern Pacific stock were acquired at the same time, the holding of the Union Pacific
amounting to 750,000 shares or about 37/1 % (subsequently increased to 46%) of the outstanding stock of the
Southern Pacific Company. The stock is held for the
Union Pacific Company by one of its proprietary companies, The Oregon Short Line Railroad Company The
Government contends that the domination over and control of the Southern Pacific Company given to the'Union
Pacific Company by this purchase of stock brings the
transaction within the terms of the Anti-trust Act. A
large amount of testimony was taken and the case heard
before four Circuit Judges of the Eighth Circuit, resulting
in a decree dismissing the bill. 188 Fed. Rep. 102.
Prior- to the stock purchase in 1901 the Union Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

system may briefly be described as a line of railroad from
the Missouri River to the Pacific coast, namely, from
Omaha, Nebraska, or perhaps more strictly from Council
Bluffs, Iowa, and from Kansas City, Missouri, to Ogden,
Utah, and Portland, Oregon, with various branches and
connections, and a line of steamships from Portland to
San Francisco, California, and from Portland to the
Orient; and a line of steamships from San Francisco to the
Orient (the Occidental & Oriental Steamship Company),
in which the Union Pacific and the Southern Pacific each
owned a half interest. The main line from Council Bluffs
to Ogden, a little over 1,000 miles in length, with the
branch from Kansas City, through Denver, Colorado, to
Cheyenne, Wyoming, on the main line, was owned and
operated by the Union Pacific; the line from Granger)
Wyoming, on the main line of the Union Pacific, to Huntington, Oregon, was owned and operated by The Oregon
Short Line Railroad Company, the capitalstock of which
was owned by the Union Pacific; and the line from Huntington to Portland was owned and operated by the Oregon
Railroad & Navigation Company, the stock ownership of
which was in the Oregon Short Line. The boat line from
Portland "to San Francisco and to the Orient, Thq Portland & Asiatic Steamship Company, was organized early
in 1901, its stock being owned by the Oregon Railroad &
Navigation Company.
The Southern Pacific Company, a holding company of
the State of Kentucky, also engaged in operating certain
lines of railroad under lease, controlled a line of railroad
extending from New Orleans through Louisiana, Texas,
New Mexico, Arizona, California and Oregon to Portland,
reaching Los Angeles and San Francisco, with several
branch lines and connections extending into tributary
territory. A line of boats running between New York and
New Orleans was also owned and operated by the Southern
Pacific, and later the same ships entered the port of GalI

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 81
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

veston, where also the Southern Pacific reached tidewater,
and it had branches extending to various points in northern
Texas connecting with other lines of road. The Southern
Pacific also operated, under lease, the railroad of The
Central Pacific Railway Company, all the stock of which
is owned by the Southern Pacific. The lines of the Central
Pacific consisted of the road from San Francisco to Ogden,
about 800 miles in length and connecting at the latter
place with the Union Pacific and The Denver & Rio
Grande Railroad Company's line. It also had various
branches in and about California aggregating in mileage
4bout 500 miles. The Southern Pacific also owned a
majority of the stock of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, which operated a line of steamships plying to ports
in the Orient and running between San Francisco and
Panama which, with the Panama Railroad and its boats,
constituted the so-called Panama Route.
The contention of the Government is that, prior to the
stock purchase, the Union Pacific and Southern Pacific
were competing systems of railroad engaged in interstate
commerce, and acted independently as to a large amount
of such carrying trade, and that since the acquisition of
the stock in question the dominating power of the Union
Pacific has eliminated competition between these two
systems, and that such domination makes the combination
one in restraint of trade within the meaning of the first
section of the act of Congress of July 2, 1890, and the
transaction an attempt to monopolize interstate trade
within the provisions of the second section of the act.
In view of the recent consideration of the history and
meaning of the act (Standard Oil and Tobacco Cases, 221
U. S. 1 and 106, respectively) it would be superfluous to
enter upon any general consideration of its origin and
scope. In certain aspects the law has been thoroughly
considered and its construction authoritatively settled,
and in determining the present controversy we need but
VOL. CCXXVI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

briefly restate some of the conclusions reached. The act
applies to interstate railroads as carriers conducting interstate commerce, and one of the principal instrumentalities
thereof. United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association, 166 U. S. 290; United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. The act is intended to reach combinations and conspiracies which restrain freedom of action in
interstate trade and commerce and unduly suppress or
restrict the play of competition in the conduct thereof.
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, supra. In that
case an agreement between competing interstate railroads
for the purpose of fixing and maintaining rates was
condemned.
"It is," said the court (p. 571), "the combination of
these large and powerful corporations, covering vast sections of territory and influencing trade throughout the
whole extent thereof, and acting as one body in all the
matters over which the combination extends, that constitutes the alleged evil, and in regard to which, so far as
the combination operates upon and restrains interstate
commerce, Congress has power to legislate and to prohibit."
In the Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.
197, this court dealt with a combination differing in character from that considered in the Trans-Missouri and
Joint Traffic Cases, and it was there held that the transfer
to a holding company of the stock of two competing interstate railroads, thereby effectually destroying the power
which had theretofore existed to compete in interstate
commerce, was a restraint upon such commerce, and
Mr. Justice Harlan,- announcing the affirmance of the
decree of the Circuit Court said (p. 337):
"In all the prior cases in this court the Anti-Trust Act
has been construed as forbidding any combination which
by its necessary operation destroys or restricts free competition among those engaged in interstate commerce; in

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
226 U. S.

83

Opinion of the Court.

other words, that to destroy or restrict free competition
in interstate commerce was to restrain such commerce.
Now, can this court say that such a rule is prohibited by
the Constitution or is not one that Congress could appropriately prescribe when exerting its power under the commerce clause of the Constitution? Whether the free
operation of the normal laws of competition is a wise and
wholesome rule for trade and' commerce is an economic
question which this court need not consider or determine."
Mr. Justice Brewer, who delivered a concurring opinion,
while expressing the view that the former cases were
rightly decided, said that they went too far in giving the
reasons for the judgments, and declared his view that
Congress only intended to reach and destroy those contracts which were in direct restraint of trade, unreasonable
and against public policy. He was nevertheless emphatic
in condemning the combination effected by the Northern
Securities Company and the transfer of stocks to it, which
policy, he declared, might be extended until a single corporation with stocks owned by three or four parties would
be iA practical control of both roads, or, viewing the
possibilities of combination, the control of the whole
transportation system of the country, and, in concluding
his concurring opinion, said (p. 363):
"It must also be remembered that under present. conditions a single railroad is, if not a legal, largely'a practical,
monopoly, and the arrangement by which the control of
these two competing roads was merged in a single corporation broadens and extends such monopoly. I cannot look
upon it as other than an unreasonable combination in
restraint of interstate commerce-ne in conflict with
state law and within the letter and spirit of the statute and
the power of Congress."
Of the Sherman Act and kindred statutes, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice McKenna, said in National Cotton
Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115, 129:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. Si

"According to them, competition not combination,
should be the law of trade. If there is evil in this it is accepted as less than that which may result from the unifi.cation of interest, and the power such unification gives.
And that legislatures may so ordain this court has decided.
United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; United States
v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197;
Swift & *Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375."
In the recent discussion of the history and meaning of
the act i the Standard Oil and Tobacco "Cases this court
declared that the statute should be given a reasonable construction, with a view to reaching those undue restraints
of interstate trade which are intended to be prohibited and
punished, and in those cases it is clearly stated that the
decisions in the former cases had been made upon an
application of that rule and there was no suggestion that
they had not been correctly decided. In the Tobacco Case,
after referring to the previous decision in the Standard Oil
Case and the decisions in the Trans-Missouri and Joint
Traffic Cases, the doctrine was tersely summarized by the
Chief Justice, speaking for the court, as follows (p. 179):
"Applying the rule of reason to the construction of the
statute, it was held in the Standard Oil Case that as the
words 'restraint of trade' at common law and in the law
of this country at the time of the adoption of the Antitrust Act only embraced acts or contracts or agreements or
combinations which operated to the prejudice of the
public interests by unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing the due course of trade or which,. either
because of their inherent nature or effect or because of the
evident purpose of the acts, etc., injuriously restrained
trade, that the words as used in the statute were designed
to have and did h'ave but a like significance. It was therefore pointed out that the statute did not forbid. or restrain

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO 85
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the power to make normal and usual contracts to further
trade by resorting to all normal methods, whether by
agreement or otherwise, to accomplish such purpose. In'
other words, it was held, not that acts which the statute
prohibited could be removed from the control of its prohibitions by a finding that they were reasonable, but that
the duty to interpret which inevitably arose from the
general character of the term restraint of trade required
that the words restraint of trade should be given a meaning which would not destroy the individual right to contract and render difficult if not impossible any movement
of trade in the channels of interstate commerce,--the free
movement of which it was the purpose of the statute to
protect."
We take it therefore that it may be regarded as settled,
applying the statute as construed in the decisions of this
court, that a combination which places railroads engaged
in interstate commerce in such relation as to create a single
dominating control in one corporation, whereby natural
and existing competition in interstate commerce is unduly
restricted or suppressed, is within the condemnation of
the act. While the law may not be able to enforce competition, it can reach combinations which render competition impracticable'. SwEft & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375.
Nor do we think it can make any difference that instead
of resorting to a holding company, as was done in the
Northern Securities Case, the controlling interest in the
stock of one corporation is transferred to the other. The
domination and control, and the power to suppress competition, are acquired in the one case no less than in the
other, and the resulting mischief, at which the statute was
aimed, is equally effective whichever form is adopted. The
statute in its terms embraces every contract or ,-ombination, in form of trust or otherwise,i or conspire.cy in restraint of trade or commerce. This court has ,repeatedly

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

held this general phraseology embraces all forms of combination, old and new. "In view of the many new forms
of contracts and combinations," said the Chief Justice in
the Standard Oil Case (p. 59), "which were being evolved
from existing economic conditions, it was deemed essential
by an all-embracing enumeration to make sure that no
form of contract or combination by which an undue restraint of interstate or foreign commerce was brought
about could save such restraint from condemnation." A
more effectual form of combination to'secure the control
of a competing railroad than for one road to acquire a
dominating stock interest in the other, could hardly be
conceived. If it is true, as contended by the Government,
that a stock interest sufficient for the purpose was obtained in the Southern Pacific Company, with a view to
securing the control of that company and thus destroying or restricting competition with the Union Pacific in
interstate trade, the transaction was in our opinion within
the terms of the statute.
That the purchase was legal in the State where made
and within corporate powers conferred by state authority
constitutes no defense, if it contravenes the provisions of
the Anti-trust Act, enacted by Congress in the exercise of
supreme authority over interstate commerce. Northern
Securities Co, v. United States, supra, 334; Standard Oil.
Co. v. 'United States, supra, 68; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., supra, 183.
It is said, however, and this was the view of the majority
of the Circuit Judges, that these railroads were not competing, but were engaged in a partnership in interstate
carriage as connecting railroads, and it was furt;her said
that the Southern Pacific, because of its control ol the line
from Ogden to San Francisco and other California points,
was the dominating partner. A large amount of the testimony in this voluminous record was given by railroad men
of wide experience, business men and shippers, who, with

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 87
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

practical unanimity, expressed the view that prior to the
stock purchase in question the Union Pacific and Southern
Pacific systems were in competition, sharp, well-defined
and vigorous, for interstate trade. To compete is to strive
for something which another is actively seeking and wishes
to gain. The Southern Pacific through its agents, advertisements and literature had undertaken to obtain
transportation for its "Sunset" or southerly route across
the continent, while the Union Pacific had endeavored
in the same territory to have freight shipped by way of
its own and connecting lines, thus securing for itself about
1,000 miles of the haul to the coast.
To preserve from undue restraint the free action of competition in interstate commerce was the purpose which
controlled 'Congress in enacting this statute, and the
courts should construe the law with a view to effecting
the object of its enactment.
Competition between two such systems consists not
only in making rates, which, so far- as the shipper was
concerned, the proof shows, were by agreement, fixed at
the same figure whichever route was used and then apportioned among the connecting carriers upon a basis
satisfactory to themselves, but includes the character of
the service rendered, the accommodation of the shipper
in handling and caring for freight and the prompt recognition and adjustment of the shipper's claims. Advantages
in these respects were the subjects of representation and
the basis of solicitation by many actfve, opposing agencies.
The maintenance of these by the rival companies promoted their business and increased their revenues. The
inducement to maintain these points of advantage-low
rates, superiority of service and accommodation--did not
remain the same in the hands of a single dominating and
common ownership as it was when they were the subjects
of active promotion by competing owners whose success
depended upon their accomplishment.

•OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

The consolidation of two great competing systems of
railroad engaged in interstate comnerce by a transfer to
one of a dominating stock interest in the other creates a
combination which restrains interstate commerce within
the meaning of. the statute, because, in destroying or
'greatly abridging the free operation of competition theretofore existing, it tends to higher rates. United States v.
Joint Traffic Association, supra, 577. It directly tends to
less activity in furnishing the public with prompt and
efficient service in carrying and handling freight and in
carrying passengers, and in attention to and prompt adjustment-of the demands of patrons for~losses, and in these
respects puts'interstate commerce. under restraint. Nor
does it make any difference that rates for the time being
may not be raised and much money be spent in improvements after the combination is effected. It is the scope of
such combinations and their power to suppress or stifle
competition- or create monopoly which determines the
applicability of the act. Pearsall y. Great Northern Railway Co., 161 U. S. 646, 676; United States v. Joint Traffic
Association, supra.
It is urged that this competitive traffic was infinitesinjal
when compared with the gross amount of the business
transacted by both roads, and so small as only to amount
to that incidental restraint of trade which ought not to
be held to be within the law; but we think the testimony
amply .shows that, while these roads did a great deal of
business' for which they did not compete and that the
competitive business was a comparatively small part of
the sum total of all traffic, state and interstate, carried
over them, nevertheless such competing traffic was large
in volume, amounting to many millions of dollars. Before
the transfer of the stock this traffic was the subject of.
active competition between these systems, but by reason
of the power arising from such, transfer it has since been
placed under a common control. It *was by no means -a

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 89
226 U. S.

OpiniorL

of the Court.

negligible part, but a large and valuable part, of interstate
commerce which was thus directly affected.
The fact that the Southern Pacific had a road of its own
from the Gulf to the Pacific Coast did not prevent competition for this traffic. The Union Pacific and its connections were engaged in the same carrying trade, and as a
matter of fact were competing for that trade, by all the
usual means of competition resorted to by rival railroad
systems. As this court sald, speaking by Mr. Justice
Holmes, in Swift & Co. v. United States, supra, 398:
"Commerce among the States is not a technical legal'conception, but a practical one, drawn frdm the course of
business." That commerce, as conducted from the East to
the Pacific Coast, was in a substantial part the subject
matter of rivalry and competition between these two
systems. Since the stock transfer the companies have
common officers and the rival soliciting agencies have been
for the most part abandoned.
It is contended that the Union Pacific was but a connecting road and really had no line to San Francisco, but
was dependent upon the Southern Pacific for such terms
as it could make over the old Central Pacific line from
Ogden to San Francisco. The facts disclose, as we have
already said, that the Union Pacific had a line to Portland
by way of the Oregon Short Line and the Oregon Railroad
& Navigation Company, and thence to San Francisco by
steamboat connection. It may be admitted that this was
a much longer route than by way of the Ogden connection,
and that as a practical matter nearly all of the freight intended for San Francisco and nearby points went over the
Ogden route, nevertheless the Portland route was a.factor
in rate making to the coast, and the testimony shows that
the Union Pacific and the Southern Pacific up to the time
of the sale of the stock had been working for many. years
under a satisfactory arrangement as to rates. It is going
too far to say that .the Union Pacific was entirely at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

mercy of the Southern Pacific in making rates for freight
by way of the Ogden connection because the latter company controlled the old Central Pacific line to San Francisco. It certainly would-have been very detrimental to.
the Southern Pacific to have declined an arrangement for
the carriage of freight received from the Union Pacific and
its connections for transportation to California by way of
the Ogden route. The traffic manager of the Southern
Pacific testified that the division of the through rate from
Omaha to San Francisco has been the same since 1870;
that he thought it unfair to the Southern Pacific, but that
it was tho best that could be obtained at the time. One of
the ,reasons for the Central Pacific leasing its lines to the
Southern Pacific, as set forth in the lease, was that the
Union Pacific had secured control of the Oregon Short
Line and thereby obtained an outlet to the Pacific, other
than over the Central Pacific, "and'thus in that respect
placed itself in opposition to the, interests of the Central
Pacific,-" and that it was "not only to the best interests of,
but absolutely necessary that, the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, in order to maintain itself against these diversions (of the Union Pacific and others), should be operated
in connection with a friendly through line to the waters of
the Atlantic."
Nor do we think it can be justly said that because of
the connection with the Rio Grande road at Ogden the
Southern Pacific 'was in position to discriminate at will
against the Union Pacific in such wise as to greatly impair the -latter road's carrying trade upon eastbound
freight. In this connection it is said that since the consolidation, notwithstanding the former published rates
are maintained, the favoring attitude of the Southern
Pacific to the Union Pacific practically destroyed the
carrying trade from Ogden to the East for the Rio Grande
system and necessitated the construction by the latter
road of a new connection for California points, and that

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 91
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such would have been the fate of the Union Pacific upon
disagreement as to. rates with the Southern Pacific. In
reference to this point we think it is pertinent to consider
the acts of Congress known as the PacificRailroad. Acts.
These acts required the two roads, the Central Pacific and
Union Pacific, to be "operated and used for all purposes
of communication, travel, and transportation, so far as
the public and government are concerned, as one connected, continuous line" (1-2 Stat. 489, 495, act of July 1,
1862, c. 120, § 12), and. in. such operation and use "to
afford and secure to each equal advantages and facilities
as to rates, time, and transportation, ,without any discrimination of any kind in favor of the road or business of
any or either of said companies' or adverse to the road or
business of any or either of the others . . ." (13 Stat.
356, 362, act of July 2, 1864, c. 216, § 15). . They also authorized the cons'olidation of the roads. These acts, it is
said, are only intended to secure the permanent physical
connection of the roads and to provide for equal accommodations upon the basis of independent carriage, and
dutline no method by whiich the two roads can be compelled to make a joint through rate, and that at the time
of the stock transfer there was no such provision in the
Interstate Commerce Acts. Therefore, it is said that the
Union Pacific, no less than the Rio Grande, would have
been practically at the mercy of the Southern Pacific in
the favorable or unfavorable treatment , which might have
been accorded to it in the matter of through business to
be transported. eastwardly. The purpose of Congress to
secure one permanent road to the coast so far as physical
continuity is concerned is apparent, but we do not think
the acts stop with that requirement. It is provided that
facilities as to rates, time and transportation shall be
withoutany discrimination of any kind in favor of either
of said companies or adverse to the road or business of
any or either of the others,. and the purpose of Congress

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

to secure a continuous line of road, operating from the
Missouri River to the Pacific Coast as one road, is further
emphasized in the act of Congress of June 20, 1874, c. 331,
18 Stat. 111, making it an offense for any Qfficer or agent
of the companies, authorized to construct the roads or engaged in the operation thereof, to refuse to operate and
use the same for all purposes of communication, travel
and transportation, so far as the public and Government
are concerned, as one continuous line, and making it 6a
misdemeanor to refuse, in such operation and use, to
afford and secure to each of said roads equal advantages
and facilities as to rates, ,time and transportation, without
any discrimination of any kind in favor of or adverse to
any or either of said companies. Such practices of systematic and preconcerted discrimination as are said to
have destroyed the Rio Grande's carrying trade as -a connection for the East for business at Ogden would have
violated the statute as discriminations adverse to the
Union Pacific and be equally violative of the letter and
spirit of the acts of Congress. Certainly such discriminations could b1e restrained by the courts (Union Pacific
Railway Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island & PacificRailway Co.,
163 U. S. 564, 603, 604), and might possibly have resulted'
in a forfeiture of all rights under the acts of Congress.
The obligation to keep faith with the Government continued, as did the legislative power of Congress concerning these roads, notwithstanding changed forms of ownersttp and organization. Union Pacific Railroad,Company
v. Mason City &c. Railroad Co., 199 U. S. 160.
It is further contended that the real purpose in acquiring the stock was not to obtain the control of the Southern
Pacific as a system, but to secure the California connection via Ogden and to avoid the situation which has been
termed the "bottling up" of the Union. Pacific at that
point. That prcess, wehaveundertaken to show, might
'have bepn detriniental to the, Southern Pacific business'

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 93
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in California, as it is apparent that much of it would not
*have gone over the "Sunset" route of the Southern
Pacific. It may be conceded, as is undoubtedly the fact,
that the connection at Ogden was a valuable one, the one
practically 'and largely, if not exclusively, used in the
transportation of freight to and from the State of California, but this case is not to be decided upon the theory
that only so much of the Southern Pacific system as operates between Ogden and San Francisco has been acquired. Conceding for this purpose that it might have
been legitimate, had it been practicable, to acquire the
California connection at Ogden over the old Central
Pacific line; we must consider what was in fact done, and
that was the purchase of the controlling interest in the
entire Southern Pacific system, consisting of ocean and
river lines with a mileage of about 3,500 miles and railroad
lines aggregating over 8,000 miles,. together forming a
transportation system from New York and other Atlantic
ports to San Francisco and Portland and other Pacific
Coast points, with various branches and connections,
besides a steamship line from San Francisco to Panama
and from San Francisco to the Orient and a half interest
in another line between the two latter points. The purchase may be judged by what it in fact accomplished,
and the natural and probable consequences of that which
was done. Because it would have been lawful to gain, by
purchase or otherwise, an entrance into California .over
the old Central Pacific, does hot render it legal to acquire'
the entire syst'em, largely engaged in interstate commerce
,in competition with the purchasing road.
In determining the validity of this combination we have
a right to look also to the intent and purpose of those who
conducted the transactions from which it arose and to the
,pobjects had in view. SWift &Co. v. United States, supra"
396; United States V. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383,
395. It appears that at the time the Union Pacific was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

about to raise the means to effect the Southern Pacific
stock purchase it authorized the issuance of $100,000,000
of bonds "for the purpose of meeting present and future
financial requirements of the Company," provisionbeing
made for the use of the proceeds from $40,000,000 of this
amount in the purchase of the Southern Pacific stock, with
no designation whatever as to the purpose to which the
balance, $60,000,000, should be applied. It is said that
the remaining $60,000,000 were intended to be used in the
acquisition of a part interest in the railroad system of the
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway Company, in view
of the imminent probability of the purchase of that system by the Northern Pacific Railway Company and the
Great Northern Railway Company. As a matter of fact,
the Northern Pacific and Great Northern having each
secured a half interest in the Burlington, the Union Pacific
did acquire a large amount of the Northern Pacific stock
with this $60,000,000. The failure to secure control of
the Northern Pacific by acquiring a majority of its common stock resulted in the formation of the Northern
Securities Company, terminating in the litigation of the
Northern Securities Case and the judgment of this court
reported in 193 U. S. 197. When that combination
was declared illegal the Union Pacific interests undertook to compel a return of the Northern Pacific stock
which they had turned over to the Northern Securities
Company and opposed a distribution among the stockholders of the latter company of the stock of'the Northern Pacific Company and the Great Northern Company.
whichhad been put into the combination, That attempt
was dealt with in Harriman v. Northern Securities Company, 197 U. S. 244, and of the effect of the return of
the Northern Pacific stock to the Union Pacific interests
instead of the distribution of the stock and assets of the
Northern Securities Company among its stockholders
this court said (p. 297):

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 95
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It is clear enough that the delivery to :complainants of
a majority of the total Northern Pacific stock and a ratable distribution of the remaining assets to the other
Securities stockholders would not only be in itself inequitable, but would directly contravene the object of the
Sherman Law and the purposes of the Government suit.
"The Northern Pacific system, taken in connection
with the Burlington system, is competitive with the
Union Pacific system, and it seems obvious to us, the entire record considered, that the decree sought ,by complainants would tend to smother that competition."
In view of the testimony we think the evident purpose
of issuing the $100,000,000 of bonds was to acquire a fund
to be used for the acquisition of the stock of the Southern
Pacific, a great competitive system, and also of the stocks
of other competing roads.
After acquiring the Southern Pacific stock, Mr. Harriman, who dominated in the affairs of the Union Pacific,
become President and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Southern Pacific Company, with the same
ample power which he had in like positions in the-Union
Pacific Company and the companies owned and controlled
by it. These facts cannot be lost sight of in determining
the object and scope of the transaction in question, which
resulted, as we have said, in that unified control which has
in its power the suppression of competition.
But it is said that no such control was in fact obtained;
that at no time did the Union Pacific acquire a majority of
the stock of the Southern Pacific, and that at first it acquired but thirty-seven and a fraction per cent. which was
afterwards somewhat increased and diminished until
about 46% of the stock is now held. In any event, this
stock did prove sufficirnt to obtain the control of the
Southern Pacific. "It may be true that in small corporations the holding of less-than a, majority of the stock would,
not amount to control, -but the testimony in this case is

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

ample to show that, distributed as the stock is among
many stockholders, a compact, united ownership of 46%
is ample to control the operations of the corporation. This
is frankly admitted in the testimony of Mr. Harriman, the
prime mover -in the purchase of the Southern Pacific. It
was purchased, he declared, for the purpose of getting a.
dominating interest in' the Southern Pacific Company,
and, he added, the Union Pacific did thus acquire such
interest.
Reaching the conclusion that the.Union Pacific thus
obtained the control of a competing railroad system and
thereby effected a combination in restraint of trade within
.the meaning of the Sherman Act, the question remains,
What should be the relief in-such circumstaces? The
remedies provided in the statute, generally speaking, were
said by this court in the Standard Oil Case, supra, to be
two-fold in character (p. 78):
"1st. To forbid.the doing in the future of acts like those
which We have found to have been done in the past which
would be violative' of the statute. 2nd. The exertion of
such measure of relief as will effectually dissolve, the com-.
bination found to exist in violation of the statute, and
thus neutralize the extension and continually operating
force which, the possession of; the power unlawfully obtained has brought and will continue to bring about."
In. applying this general rule of relief we must deal with
each case as we find- it, and in. the present one the object
to be attained is to restrain the operation of and effectually
terminate the combination created by the transfer of the
stock ,to the Union Pacific Company. "Ij that view the
decree to'be entered in the District Court shall provide
an injunction against the right to)vote this stock while in
the ownership or control of the Union Pacific Company, or
-any corporation owned by it, .or while held by any corporation or person for the Union Pacific Company, and
forbid any transfer or disposition thereof in such wise as

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 97
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

'to continue its control, ard shall provide an injunction
against the payment of dividends upon such stock while
thus held, except to a receiver to be appointed by the
District Court to collect and hold such dividends until
disposed of by the decree of the court.
ks the court below dismissed the Goveirnment's bill, it
was unnecessary there to consider the disposition of the
shares of stock acquired by the Union Pacific Company,
which acquisition, we hold, constituted an unlawful combination in violation .of the Anti-trust Act. In order to
effectually conclude the operating force of the combination such disposition shall be made subject to the approval
and decree of the District, Court, and any plan for the
disposition of this • stock aust be such as to effectually
dissolve the unlawful:c6rabination thus created. The
court shall proceed, upon the presentation of any plan, to
hear the Government and defendants and may bring in
any additional parties whose presence may be necessary
to a final disposition of the stock-in conformity to the
views herein expressed.
As to the suggestion made at the oral argume.t by the
Attorney General, in response to a query from the court
as to the nature- of the decre , that one might-be entered
which, while destroying the unlawful combination in so
far as the, Union Pacific .secured control of the competing
line of road extending from New Orleans and Galveston to
San Francisco and Portland, would permit the.. Union
Pacific. to retain the Central Pacific connection from Ogden to San Francisco and thereby to control that line to
the coast, thus effecting such a continuity of the Union
Pacific aid Central Pacific from the Missouri River to
-San Francisco as was contemplated by the acts of Congress under which they were constructed, it should be said
that nothing herein shall, be considered as preventing .the
Government, or any party in interest, if so desiring, from
presenting to the District Court a plan for accomplishing

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.'
Opinion of -the Court.

226 U. S.

this result, or as preventing it from adopting and giving
effect to any such plan so presented.
Any plan or plans shall be presented to the District
Court within three months from the receipt of the mandate of this court, failing which, or, upon the rejection by
the court of plans submitted within such time, the court
shall proceed by receivership, and sale, if necessary, to
dispose of such stock in such wise as to dissolve such unlawful combmiation.
The'Governmqnt has appealed from the decree which
is a general one dismissing the bill. So far as concerns
the attefmpt to acquire the Northern Pacific stock and the
stock of The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company, afterwards abandoned, and a certain interest in the
'San. Pedro, Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad Company,
and other features of the case which were dealt with and
disposed of by the decree and opinion of the court below,
it is sufficient, without going into these matters in detail,
to say that as to' them we find no reason • to disturb the
action of the court below, but for the reasons stated the
decree should be reversed and one entered in conformity
to the views herbin expressed, so far as concerns the acquisition of the Southern Pacific'stock.
Reversed in part, the District Court to retain its jurisdiction to see that the decree above outlined is made effectual.
-

MR. JusICE VAN DEVANTER took no part in the hearing or determination of this case.
For opinion on motion to amend the mandate see
p. 470, post.

