OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

102

Syllabus.

226 U. S.

ment and review the action of the court below concerning
the title to land as to which the court below expressed
opinions which as the law of the case will hereafter be
binding upon it and upon other courts of the State of
Louisiana, is without merit. We say this because the
contention is but illustrative of the misconception which
the argument involves which we have already pointed
out. The rule which excludes the right to review questions arising in a cause depending in a state court until a
final judgment is rendered by such court involves as a
necessary correlative the power and the duty in this court
when a final judgment in form is rendered and the cause
is brought here for review to consider and pass upon all
the Federal controversies in the cause irrespective of how
far it may be that by the state law such questions were
concluded during the litigation and before a final judgment
susceptible of review here was rendered. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 20.7, 214.
Of course, for the purpose of disposing of the motion to
dismiss upon the ground of the want of finality of the
judgment we have taken it for granted for the sake of
the argument that the case otherwise involved Federal
questions within our power to review.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

DEMING v. CARLISLE PACKING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 511.

Submitted November 4, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

Even though the record may present in form a Federal question the
writ of error will be dismissed if it plainly appear that the Federal
question is so unsubstantial and devoid of merit as to be frivolous.
In this case the only Federal question was based on the refusal c f

DEMING v. CARLISLE PACKING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the state court to remove the cause as to the non-resident defendants
on the ground of fraudulent j6nder of the resident defendant and
is frivolous as shown by the fact, that the trial court refused to nonsuit as to the resident defendant and there was a verdict against all.
Where the case is fiot removable before trial, plaintiff has the right to
have the issues of fact and law raised determined.in the state court
having jurisdiction, and the power of the state court to so determine cannot be destroyed by defendants' claim that if the evidence
had been rightly weighed thedecision would have-been different.
Where the state court has jurisdiction, the Federal court cannot deny
the state court the right to exercise it.
The unsubstantial and frivolous character of the only Federal question
presented in this case embraces the conclusion that the writ was
prosecuted for delay.
The power which this court can exercise under one of its own rules depends upon the. statute on which the rule is based.
Under Rule 23, which is based on § 1010, Rev. Stat., this court has
the same power to award damages for delay where the writ of error'is
dismissed as where there is judgment of affirmance; and in this case
five per cent. damages are imposed in addition to costs.
Writ of error to review, 62 Washington, 455, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction 'of this court

of writs of error to state courts, and the power of this
courtto award damages for delay where the writ of error
is dismissed, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Dorr,.Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. S. M. Bruce
and Mr. Hiram E. Hadley, t'or defendant in error, in support of the motion.

Mr. James A. Kerr and Mr. E. S. McCord, for plaintiff
in error, in opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Carlisle Packing Company, a corporation of the
State of Washington, sued in a court of that State Deming
and the two corporations who with him are the plaintiffs
in error on this record. Deraing was a citizen and resident
of the State of Washington and the corporations were

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

alleged to be citizens of States other than Washington.
The defendants were sued jointly for a violation by them
of a contract alleged to have been jointly made for the
purchase of salmon. There was a joint answer by the
defendants putting at issue the material allegations of the
complaint. There was a jury trial. When the Carlisle
Company rested, motions for nonsuit were separately
made on behalf of each of the defendants and overruled.
After the defendants had offered their proof and the
case was ripe for submission, the counsel for the two
corporate defendants presented a petition and bond for
the removal of the cause to the proper Federal court and
asked that the bond be approved and further proceedings
be stayed. The asserted right to remove proceeded upon
the assumption, that Deming had been fraudulently
joined as a defendant for the purpose of preventing the
two non-resident defendants from removing the case.
This was supported by the contention that the proof as
offered left no doubt that Deming had made the contract
declared on merely as the agent of the two corporations
and was therefore not personally bound. In denying the
-petition to remove, the trial judge directed attention to
the fact that the motion made at the close of the plaintiff,
proof for a nonsuit in favor of Deming had been denied
because the court was of opinion that there was evidence
to go to the jury on the question of the liability of that
defendant and further observed that the situation in ths
respect had not been altered by the testimony introduced
for the defendants. The cause was submitted to the jury
upon instructions which, among other things, left it open
to find against less than all of the defendants if the jury
believed that the contract had not been made with all.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff against all the defendants, and a judgment entered thereon was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 62 Washington, 455.
The appellate court, among other things, decided that-no

DEMING v. CARLISLE PACKING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

error had been committed in overruling the motions for
nonsuit and in denying the petition to remove, and in
substance held that the plaintiff had the right to join
Deming as a party defendant.
The prosecution of this writ of error is based upon the
assumption that a Federal question was involved in the
refusal to grant the petition for removal. In view, however, of the well settled and indeed now elementary doctrine that although a record. may present in form a Federal
question, a motion to dismiss will be allowed where it
plainly appears that the Federal question is of such an
unsubstantial character as to cause it to be devoid of all
merit and therefore frivolous we think it is our duty to
grant a motion to dismiss which has been here made. We
reach this conclusion because the case was not a removable one when it was called for trial. Not being removable
before trial, the plaintiff had the right to have the issues
of fact and law raised determined in the state court which
had jurisdiction over the cause. This power could not be
destroyed by the mere act of the defendants, or one of
them, in asking a removal based upon the assumption
that if the evidence in the case was properly-weighed and
the legal principles applicable were correctly applied there
would result a condition from which a right to remove
would arise. On its face the assertion of such a right involved two propositions, whose unsubstantial character
is made manifest by their mere statement: a. that the
state court had jurisdiction over the cause, but had no
right to exercise that, jurisdiction; b. that a Federal court
could endow itself with jurisdiction over a cause to which
its authority did not extend by disregarding the pleadings
and wrongfully assuming the right to revise the decision
of the state court on matters of an absolutely non-federal,
character which that court had the right to decide. Nor
is there force in the suggestion that the right to remove
under the circumstances stated finds support in the ruling

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. R

in Powers v. Chesapeake & -Ohio Ry. Co., 169 U. S. 92,
since in that case a separable controversy on the face of
the record arose at the opening of the trial consequent on
the discontinuance by the plaintiff of his action as against
the resident'defendant whose joinder had up to that time
made the action non-removable. The difference between
that case, and the one here presented is apparent and at
the time the petition for removal was presented and this
writ of error was sued out had been pointed out in decisions
of this court. Whitcomb v. Smithson, 175 U. S. 635;
Alabama Southern Ry. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, 217;
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308.
Dismissing the writ of error, as we shall therefore do
for the reasons stated, it remains to consider whether we
should grant a prayer for damages for delay which has
been made. That the unsubstantial and frivolous character of the only Federal question relied upon of necessity
embraces the conclusion that the writ was prosecuted for
delay is in our opinion indubitable. Does the power to
award damages for delay exist where a writ of error is
dismissed because of the unsubstantial and frivolous
character of the asserted Federal right and the conclusive
inference that the writ was prosecuted for mere delay
which arises fromsustaining such ground for dismissal?
is then the question. That the comprehensive text of
rule 23, embracing as it does "all cases" where a writ of
error shall appear to have been sued out for mere delay,
brings this case within its-purview is obvious. But as the
power which the rule, expresses depends upon Rev. Stat.,
§ 1010, we must consider the subject in the light of the,
statute. The power conferred is to impose damages for
delay in cases "where, upon a writ of error, judgment is
"
affirmed in the Supreme Court.
It has been decided that where there was no power on a
motion to dismiss to consider whether a case was prosecuted for delay only that a prayer for dismissal on such

DEMING v. CARLISLE PACKING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Cotort.

ground could not be allowed and damages could not be
awarded. Amory v. Amory, 91 U. S. 356. But the mere
statement of the doctrine demonstrates that it rested
upon the obvious proposition that a decree would not be
made to embrace subjects which the court was not empowered to consider in determining whether the 'relief
asked for should be awarded. This doctrine has no application here since by a line of cases announced subsequent
to the decision in Amory v. Amory, it has come to.be settled that on a motion to disniss it is the duty of the court
to consider whether an asserted Federal question is devoid
of merit and unsubstantial either because concluded by
previous authority or because of its absolutely frivolous
nature, and if it is found to be of such character to allow
a motion to dismiss. This being true as the conclusion
that a writ of error has been prosecuted for delay is the
inevitable result of a finding that it has been prosecuted
upon a Federal ground which is unsubstantial and frivolous, it follows that the question of delay is involved in
and requires to be considered in passing upon a motion
to dismiss because of the: frivolous character of the Federal question. The decisions of this court also leave it no
longer open to discussion that where it is found that a
Federal question upon which a writ of error is based is
unsubstantial and frivolous t;he duty to affirm results.
We have then this situation, the finding that a particular ground-that is, the frivolity of the Federal qluestion-exists indifferently justifies either a judgment of
affirmance or an order of dismissal. Chanute City v.
Trader, 132 U. S. 210; Richardson v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., 169 U. S. 128; Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333, 338;
New Orleans Water Works Company v. Louisiana; 185
U. S. 336, 345; Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Brown,
187 U. S. 308.' The want of substantial difference between
the two, as well as the rule which should determine the
practice to be followed in awarding, in such a case, one or

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

the other, either affirmance or dismissal, was pointed out
in the Equitable Case. Thus, the court said (187 U. S. 314):
"From the analysis just made, it results that although
a Federal question was raised below in a formal manner,
that ' question, when examined with reference to the averments of fact upon which it was made to depend, is one
which has been so explicitly decided by this court as to
foreclose further argument on the subject and hence to
cause the Federal question relied upon to be devoid of
any substantial foundation or merit. . . . It is likewise also apparent from the analysis previously made
that even if the formal raising of a Federal qdestion was
alone considered on the motion to dismiss, and therefore
the unsubstantial nature of the Federal question for the
purposes of the motion to dismiss were to be put out of
view, the judgment below would have to be affirmed.
This' follows, since it is plain that as the substantiality
of. the claim of Federal right is the matter upon which
the merits depend, and that' claim being without any
substantial foundation, the motion to affirm would have
to be granted under the rule announced in Chanute v.
Trader, Richardson v. Louisville & N. R. Co.. and Blythe v.
Hinckley, supra. This being the case, it is obvious that
on this record either the motion to dismiss must be allowed or the motion to affirm granted, and that the all6wance of
othe one or tlie granting of the other as a practical
question will have the like effect, to finally dispose of this
controversy. . . . As this is a case governed by the
principles controlling writs of error to state courts, it.
follows that the Federal question upon which 'the jurisdiction depends is. also the identical question upon which
the merits depend, and therefore the unsubstantiality
of the Federal question for the purpose of the motion to
dismiss and its unsubstantiality for the purpose of the motion to affirm are one and the same thing, that is, the two
questions are therefore absolutely coterminous. Hence,

DEMING v. CARLISLE PACKING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinidn of the Court.

in reason, the denial of onfe of the motions necessarily involves the denial of the other, and hence also one of the
motions cannot be allowed except upon a ground which
also would justify the allowance of the other."
Stating that in such a case the determination whether a
judgment of affirmance would be awarded or an order of
dismissal be allowed involved nothing whatever of substance,
but mere form of statement, as the two were the
equivalent
one of the other, it was observed that
the
better practice, Where the question was not inherently Federal, was to adopt the form of allowing a motion to dismiss,
the. court, on the subjpot of the inherently Federal question, referring to Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 493.

The enquiry then narrows itself to thi§: Does the power
to award the damages for delay which the statute confers
in cases of affirmance give the authority to exert the power
where, in form, there is no judgment of affirmance but
only an order of dismissal? To say that the duty to impose the statutory damage in such a case did not exist
would require us to hold that things which were one and
the same must be held to be different, and that the statute
did not extend to and-include that which in substance it
embraced, because, by adhering blindly to mere form of
words, the statute- might be treated as not extending to
an authority embraced -within its spirit and purpose. No
more cogent demonstration -of the truth of this view Could
be given than by pointing out that if the proposition were'
not true it would follow that in no case could this court,
without operating injustice, grant a motion to dismiss
because of the frivolous and unsubstantial nature of the
alleged Federal ground. This would be the case since if
greater right would be conferred by affirming on- such
ground, the duty would arise to follow that practice instead of the practice of dismissing. Indeed, the subject
is further aptly illustrated by directing attention to the
fact that it is not questioned that the power here obtains

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

to direct the imposition of the penalty if the result of our
conclusion that the Federal ground was frivolous be followed by an affirmance instead of an order of dismissal.
Because of the absolute coincidence between a dismissal
on account of the frivolous and unsubstantial character
of the Federal question relied upon and an affirmance
upon the same ground, we are of opinion that the statutory
authority to impose the penalty obtains in either case.
.In stating the reasoning which has led us to this conclusion we have not been unmindful of, although we have not
reviewed, a line of cases concerning the nature and extent
of the power to impose costs in the Case of a dismissal for"
want of jurisdiction. See Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164
U. S. 319, 323, and cases cited. We have not deemed it
necessary to do so because nothing in the reasoning of
those cases tends to affect the substantial identity which
exists between a decree of dismissal and one .of affirmance
where the ground upon which one is placed equally justi-'
fies either form of decree.
In consequence of the conclusion which we have reached
as above stated we direct the imposition of a penalty, in
addition to interest, of' five per cent. on the amount of the
judgment recovered below and the taxation of costs as
upon an affirmance.
Writ of error dismissed with damages; etc.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF PRINCETON,
-ILLINOIS v. LITTLEFIELD, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 572. 'Submitted November 4, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
The settled rule is that the concurrent action of two courts below upon
questions of fact will not be disturbed except in case of manifest error.

