OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Respondent.

226 U. S.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION.
No. 10, Original.

Submitted December 16, 1912.-Debided January 6,
1913.

Unless the repeal be express or the implication to that end be irresistible, a general law does not repeal a special statutory provision
affording a remedy for specific cases. Petri v. Creelman Lumber Co.,
199 U. S. 487.
The special provisions of the Expedition Act of February 11, 1903, 32
Stat. 823, c. 544, requiring in a particular class of cases the organization of a court constituted in a particular manner, were not repealed
by the Judicial Code of 1911.
The new District Court created by the Judicial Code of 1911 is the
successor of the formerly existing Circuit Court and as such is vested
with the duty of hearing and disposing of cases under the Expedition
Act of 1903, § 291.
Section 291 of the Judicial Code of 1911 expressly confers powers of
the Circuit Court upon the now existing District Courts.
Under the Expedition Act of 1903 a court composed as required by that
act may be organized at the request of the United States to consider
the plan to carry out the decree of this court holding a combination
unlawful under the Sherman Anti-trust Act.
In this case the district judge having refused to organize a court under
the Expedition Act to determine the form of decree to be entered
under the mandate of this court, this court issues its writ of prohibition directed to the district judge against entering a decree.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Expedition Act of 1903 and the question of whether certain
provisions of the Judicial Code of 1911 conflict therewith,
are stated in the opinion.

The Attorney General and Mr. Edward C. Crow, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry S. Priest for the respondent.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITp delivered the opinion of the

court.
The matter before us concerns the execution of the
decree in United States v. Terminal Railroad Association
of St. Louis, 224 U. S. 383. That case, which involved
violations of the Sherman Anti-trust Act, was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri, was there decided by four
circuit judges in consequence of the filing by the Attorney
General of the United States of the certificate provided
for by the act of February 11, 1903 commonly known as
the Expedition Act, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823. While the case
was here pending, the Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, 36
Stat. 1087, c. 231, was adopted, and hence our mandate
was directed to the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Missouri, the successor of the
Circuit Court.
Upon the filing of the mandate in that court, the judge
of the District Court being disqualified, District Judge
Trieber, of the District Court of Arkansas, was assigned
to sit in the cause. Disagreement between the parties
having arisen as to what plan of reorganization should be
adopted to carry out the raandate of this court, and the
court below having expressed its intention to adopt by a
final decree a plan to which the Government did not assent, objection was made by the United States to proceeding further, upon the ground thus stated by the court
below in its opinion
t .
as a certificate under the Expedition Act
was filed when the action was originally instituted, the
decree on the mandate could not be entered by a single
judge, but only by at least three circuit judges, in conformity with the Expedition Act above referred to."
The suggestion having been overruled by a formal order
and fruitless effort having been made to induce action

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

by the senior circuit judge who was also the senior circuit
judge who had participated in the original decision of the
cause, the interposition of this court by the proceeding
before us was invoked. The judge below evidently only
desirous of being informed as to his duty, after leave to
file the application for prohibition was here granted, has
submitted the issue on the opinion of the court below and
upon printed argument for both parties, as if on a return
to a rule to show cause why the writ should not issue.
In refusing to apply the Expedition Act the court below,
"assuming without deciding that the Judicial Code does
not repeal the Expedition Act," based its refusal upon the
ground that the proceeding to enforce the mandate of this
court was not within the intendment of the Expedition
Act because not a matter requiring the hearing contemplated by that act. This view was maintained by conclusions as to the general nature of the duty to give effect
to a decree already rendered and by considerations based
upon the opinion that the decree of this court was so
specific as to leave no room for discussion and therefore
to afford no occasion for organizing a tribunal constituted
in accordance with the requirements of the Expedition
Act. In the printed argument, however, upon which
th 3 matter has been here submitted, the action of the
court is sought to be sustained upon a much broader
ground, viz., that as by the Judicial Code the Circuit
Courts were abolished, it has become no longer possible to
organize a court in accordance with the Expedition Act,
because that act by implication has been repealed by the
Judicial Code. Thus, after commenting upon the provisions of the Judicial Code, it is said:
"The Judicial Code (Sec. 1, Chap. I) provides for a
District Judge for each District Court.
"There is no provision for the exercise of any judicial
authority by any circuit judge, except by special appointment, pursuant to the provision of Sec. 18, Chap. I, of

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of theCourt. ,

the Code. He then derives his power from such appointment and from no other source. As Circuit Judges they
have no authority in the enforcement of the jurisdiction
of the District Courts.
"After devolving upon the District Courts the jurisdir:
tion formerly possessed by the abolished Circuit Courts,
the Code (Chap. VI) creates a Circuit Court of Appeals,
and provides (Sec. 117):
"'There shall be in each circuit a Circuit Court of Appeals which shall consist of three judges, . . . which
shall be a court of record with appellate jurisdic.ion as
hereinafter limited and established.'
"It must be conceded, in view of this legislation, if
this suit was now instituted, it could only be heard by a
District Judge unless some Circuit Judge should be appointed under the provisions of Sec. 18, Chap. I, to discharge the functions of a District Judge and the case be
brought before him in that capacity."
But the contention is faulty, because although the
premise upon which it rests be conceded, the deduction
drawn from it is unwarranted. It is of course undoubted
that Chap. XIII of the Judicial Code, while not interfering
with the tenure of office of the circuit judges, abolished
the Circuit Courts. It is also undoubted that by that
act the District Courts provided for were made the successors of both the Circuit and District Courts which had
theretofore existed and were in a general sense endowed
with the jurisdiction and power theretofore vested in such
prior courts. It is moreover .beyond question that the
statute, while contemplating as a general rule the holding
of District Courts by district judges and as a general' rule
for holding Circuit Courts of Appeal by circuit judges,
nevertheless expressly directs when the occasion requires
(§ 18) the assignment by the senior judge, or the circuit
justice, or the Chief Justice, of a circuit judge to hold a
-District Court and endows a judge so assigned with all

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

the authority of a district judge (§ 19), giving power in
case of such designation to hold separately at the same time
a District Court in such district, and to discharge all the
judicial duties of the district judge therein (§ 14). The
statute therefore clearly gives to the circuit judges the
rights and powers of judges of the new District Courts,
and calls such powers into play when assigned according
to law.
The question, therefore, reduces itself to this: Were the
special provisions of the Expedition Act requiring in a
particular class of cases the organization of a court constituted in a particular manner repealed by the Judicial
Code? This is the only question, because if that act was
not repealed by the Code, then its provisions amount to
an assignment by operation of law of the circuit judges
to sit as judges of the District Court for the purpose of
discharging the duties imposed by the act. When the
issue is thus narrowed solution is readily reached by the
application of the elementary rule that a special and particular statutory provision affording a remedy for particular and specific cases is not repealed by a general law
unless the repeal be express or the implication to that end
be irresistible. Petri v. Creelman Lumber Co., 199 U. S.
487, 497. That the new District Court created by the
Judicial Code was vested with the duty of hearing and disposing of the cases provided for in the Expedition Act as
the successor of the formerly existing Circuit Court, as
we have already stated, is undoubted. The mere fact
that the Expedition Act in terms refers to the organization of a Circuit Court would be, as a general rule, under
the circumstances, of no importance, and becomes absolutely without significance in view of the express provision of Chap. XIII, § 291, of the Judicial Code, saying:
"Wherever, in any law not embraced within this Act, any
reference is made to, or any power or duty is conferred or
imposed upon, the circuit courts, such reference shall,

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the taking effect of this Act, be deemed and held
to refer to, and to confer such power and impose such duty
upon, the district courts."
The Expedition Act being therefore still in force and its
provisions being applicable to the District Courts which
the Judicial Code created, we think the court below erred
in concluding that the United States was not entitled to a
District Court organized in the mode pointed out in the
Expedition Act unless it be, as stated by the lower court
in its opinion, the subject in hand was of such a character
as not to be within the scope of the Expedition Act. Coming to consider that question without going into any
elaboration, we are of opinion that error was committed
in so holding. While it is true that the mandate of this
court gave certain specific directions as to the scope and
character of the decree to be entered, it afforded an opportunity to the defendants to submit a plan in order to
carry out the decree and gave to the United States an
opportunity to be heard in opposition to that plan, and
left to the court a serious and important duty to be discharged in any event and especially in case of controversy
on the subject. These considerations, we think, brought
the subject within the scope of the Expedition Act and
justified the request of the United States that the case be
considered and a decree entered by a court composed as
provided in that act.
Writ of prohibition to issue.

