OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

court. The plaintiff inteivened therein, claiming that he
was entitled to be paid before the bondholders by virtue
of the North Carolina statute, which provided that
"judgments for corporate torts" should take priority over
older mortgages.
It was urged, among other things, by the bondholders
that the suit in the state court was really for breach of
contract, and that entering the judgment as for a tort did
not change the nature of the action so as to entitle the
plaintiff to the benefits of the North Carolina statute.
It was that question alone, as to the character of the
suit and judgment, which was before this court. What was
said in the opinion must be limited, under well-known
-iules, -to the facts and issues involved in the particular
-recurd imder investigation. The Fis7zer Case Tould -not
have decided the primary question as to the right of the
taxpayer to sue, for that issue had been finally settled by
the state court. It raised no Federal question and was
not in issue on the hearing in this court. Neither did the
Fisher Case overrule the principle, announced in National
Bank v. GrandLodge, 98 U. S. 123, 124, that a third person
cannot sue for the breach of a contract to which he is a
stranger unless he is in privity with the parties and is
therein given a direct interest. The judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.
VEVE v. SANCHEZ.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 42.

Argued November 7, 1912.-Decided-December 2, 1912.

While a tract may.be so well known by name that it can be described
and conveyed without- other designation, ordinarily designation by
name will yield to the more definite by metes and bounds; and in
this case the latter rule should apply.

VEVE v. SANCHEZ.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The construction of the description in a mortgage should not depend
on the amount of land owned by the mortgagor but on the specific
boundaries.
The general rule in determining what is included in a conveyance is
that general calls for quantity must yield to the more certain and
locative lines .of the adjoining owners which are, or can be made,
certain.
Nothing in this case warrants a departure from this long established
and necessary rule of title.
In ejectment the plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title
and cannot prove by parol that a part of the land conveyed was not
included in the grant; a contrary rule would make every grantee
liable to have what had been conveyed to him taken away by word
of mouth.
The rule, prohibiting written contracts from being varied by parol is
not confined to the 'common law, but was in force in Porto Rico in
1885.and since then.
The statement .in a conveyance t6at the grantor is the owner of the
property described estops the grantor from denying his right to
convey, and if not the owner at the time his subsequent acquisition
inures to the benefit of the venlee.
4 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 329, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the rights of a mortgagee under
a mortgage of land in Porto Rico, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Hartzell,with whom Mr. Manuel RodriguezSerra was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Jose R.

F.

Savage, with whom Mr. Hector H.

Scoville was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE LA-R delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1885 Jose Avalo Sanchez mortgaged to Dona Maria
Diaz y Siaca a sugar plantation in Porto Rico known as

Bello Sitio, described as containing 400 cuerdas, and
bounded on the north, south, east and west by the colindantes, or adjoining land owners, whose names were given.
Suit to foreclose was instituted in 1889 and at the end of

three years the mortgagee obtained a decree which, how-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

ever, instead of ending the controversy, was the beginning
of litigation in the Spanish courts which is said to have
been the most protracted and bitter in the history of the
Island of Porto Rico.
The record of the various proceedings is involved and
complicated, but it appears that Mrs. Diaz purchased,
at the foreclosure sale, and apparently in accordance with
Spanish custom, (4 Wall. 261), was put in possession on
October 30, 1891. But before she received the judicial
deed, attachments were levied on Bello Sitio, on a lot
afterward called Sauri, "in the center of the same" and
on certain personalty, as the property of Sanchez. About
the same time a concurso of creditors, in the nature of
bankruptcy proceeding, was begun against him. The
trustee apparently went through the form of taking possession of all property of Sanchez, including Bello Sitio,
though without actually evicting Mrs. Diaz. Sanchez
himself later instituted proceedings to cancel the mortgage
and judicial deed under which Mrs. Diaz claimed title.
He failed in this suit, but the other branches of the litigation continued for 16 years and, after the death of Mrs.
Diaz, finally terminated in 1907, when the Supreme Court
of the Island held that the attachment should be released,
the bankruptcy proceedings dismissed, and all the property returned to Sanchez, except Bello Sitio, which was to
remain at the disposal, of the heirs of Mrs. Diaz.
Both parties seem to have considered this a decision in
their favor-the plaintiff claiming that it adjudged to him
everything that was not Bello Sitio, and the defendants
that it restored to them all that was included in the mortgage.
In the meantime Sanchez (in 1906) filed a bill in the
United States court for Porto Rico; in which, as appears
from statements in the opinion of the court, he attacked
all of the proceedings in the Spanish tribunals as fraudulent, and asked that the mortgage foreclosure be set

VEVE v. SANCHEZ.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

aside and himself declared to be the owner of Bello Sitio.
Whether any issue was therein presented, or legally involved, as to the boundaries of the land, cannot, in the
absence of a copy of the pleadings, be determined. On
demurrer this bill was dismissed for laches and want of
equity'
Sanchez then brought the present suit for the recovery
of 134 cuerdas of land, (lying within the exterior limits of
Bello Sitio), and $60,000 as damages for improvements
destroyed, crops removed, and mesne profits, from 1891
to 1907, during which'time, he alleges, that the defendants
and their ancestor, Mrs. Diaz, had usurped the premises,
by means of false and fraudulent claims instituted in the
Porto Rican courts. On demurrer the court held that the
suit should be treated solely as an action in ejectment.
The defendants plead res adjudicata,title by prescription
and title under the mortgage foreclosure. We need only
consider the question presented by the claim in the answer
"that the 400 cuerdas, known as the Hacienda Bello Sitio,
includes the several parcels of land described in the
plaintiff's complaint."
On the first hearing there was a mistrial. On the second,
plaintiff offered evidence to show that between 1878 and
1880, he purchased three small lots forming a part of the
tract mentioned in the complaint; that on January 5,
1880, he bought Bello Sitio from Monserrate Garcia, at
the same time occupying, as lessee, the lot called Sauri.
He admitted that "the land for which he is now suing was
in the middle of what was formerly Bello Sitio," but
claimed that Mrs. Diaz knew, or ought to have known,
that the mortgage, dated May 28, 1885, did not convey
Sauri, because he did not then own that place, and did not
purchase it until June 15, 1885, three weeks later. There
was evidence that, in 1892, during the bankruptcy, a
survey was made with a view to marking the lines between
Bello Sitio and the land now sued for; that the agent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Mrs. Diaz was present and assented to the correctness of
the survey. But if his admissions at that time could have
bound the principal, or if he had authority to establish a
new line by parol, the agreement was never executed by
any change in possession, the complaint itself alleging that
Mrs. Diaz and her heirs had been in possession since 1891.
Plaintiff also relied on the records in the Spanish courts,
which .showed that from the time Mrs. Diaz took posses.:ion in 1891, he, his creditors and the trustee in bankruptcy, had persistently claimed that Sauri, and the' other
land now sued for, formed no part of Bello Sitio, and was
not included in the mortgage. On the other hand, the
defendants insisted that a single, not a divided tract, was
conveyed by the mortgage, which, as translated, described
the land as being "a sugar cane plantation known as Bello
Sitio
composed of 400 cuerdas of land, equivalent to 157 hectares, 21 areas and 59 centiares with its
buildings . . . and other appurtenances used in its
cultivation. Said land being bounded on the north by
the property of Isabel Siaca and by lands of the plantation
'Convento' belonging to Pilar Becerril y Torres; on the
east by land of Nicolas Telemaco and by lands of Benigno
and Sebastian de Santiago; on the south by the property
called 'Ausubal' belonging to the Succession of Alejandrina Becerril y Torres, with lands belonging to Concepcion Lopez and by the property belonging to the Successors of Alberto Western and the Luquillo-Fajardo road;
and on the west by lands belonging to Enrique Garcia and
those of Nicolas Perez and of Gervasio Rivera."
A plat of Bello Sitio, made in 1907, showed that it contained exactly 415 cuerdas, and the defendants contended
that if the 134 sued for were excluded, only 279 wouild be
left, although the mortgage purported to'convey 400
cuerdas. The plaintiff denied that the plat made in 1907
correctly represented the land which he had conveyed in
1885, insisting that, excluding Sauri, he bought 400 cuerdas

VEVE v. SANCHEZ.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from Monserrate Garcia, and had conveyed that quantity
to Mrs. Diaz. He claimed that if there was any present
deficiency, it was due to encroachments by the adjoining
land owners. He did not, however, establish what, if any,
change had been made, while the surveyor testified that he
followed the boundaries of Bello Sitio as indicated by
ditches, fences, trees, stakes, and the documents of the
adjoining land owners, all of' whom were present when the
survey was made and assented to its correctness. The
land owners were also examined. Some of them had
known the property from the date of the mortgage, and
others, who were younger, for a shorter time. But all
testified that they knew of no change in the lines.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff. A motion for
a new trial was overruled. The case is here on assignments,
which relate to rulings in admitting and excluding testimony, in charging and refusing to charge the jury, and in
failing to direct a verdict for the defendants.
The plaintiff's testimony established that he was in
possession of Bello Sitio as owner, and of Sauri as lessee
when he made the mortgage on May 28, 1885. Three
weeks later, he purchased Sauri and established a title on
which he was entitled to recover, unless it, and the other
three lots sued for, were included in the mortgage which
described the property by name (Bello Sitio), by quantity
(400 cuerdas) and by colindancias or adjoiners, on the
north, east, south and west.
A tract may be so well known by name, that it can be
described and conveyed without other designation. And
there are cases where, in the sale of a ranch, or of an island,
or of a well known plantation, the limits described by
name have prevailed, when there was a discrepancy between it and other descriptjive terms set out in the same
deed. Lodge V. Lee, 6 Cranch, 237.
Ordinarily, however, designation by name will yield to
the more definite description by metes and bounds. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

this case there was nothing to show that "Bello Sitio"
was understood to mean or describe a Hacienda of clearly
defined limits; and there was no basis for a charge as to
the conditions on which such designation could prevail
over the other calls in the mortgage. No instruction on
that subject was given, but the court did charge the )jury
as to the effect of a description by quantity, telling them
that they might, consider the terms of the mortgage and
all documents referred to in it, the condition of the property and circumstances surrounding the transaction, and
if they found that, at the time the mortgage was signed,
the plaintiff did not own 400 cuerdas, and afterwards
acquired sufficient to make up what Mrs. Diaz believed
and had reason to believe was included in the mortgage,
then the law will hold that such land is included and they
must find for the defendants so as to make up the full
quantity of land. Conversely, they were instructed that
"if when Sanchez made the mortgage he was in possession
of a tract bought from Monserrate Garcia that contained 400 cuerdas, then they must find, under the
language of the descriptive clause of the mortgage,
that he did not convey to her any of the tracts he now
sues for."
This makes the construction of the mortgage dependnot upon its language, but upon the quantity of land the
mortgagor owned at the date of its execution, and required
the jury to make designation by cuerdas prevail over description by specific boundaries. This is contrary to the
rule that calls for quantity must yield to the more certain
and locative lines of the adjoining owners. Such lines are
certain, or they can be made certain, and may be platted
so as to show the exact course and distance. They are
treated as a sort of natural monument, and must prevail
over the more general and less distinct designation by
quantity. BartlettLand Co. v. Saunders, 103 U. S.316;
Whiting v. Dewey, 15 Pick. 428, 434; Cox v. McGowan, 116

VEVE v. SANCHEZ.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

No. Car. 131, 135; Reed v. Proprietors, 8 How. 274, 289;
Leonard v. Forbing, 109 Loudsiana, 220.
2. It' was argued that this rule was not applicable to
Porto Rican deeds, made at a time when loose and indefinite methods of describing laud were used. Doolan
v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618, 632. But we find nothing in this
case to warrant a departure from a rule long established
and necessary to the protection of titles. The mortgage
adopted a common method of bounding land. If there
had been any error in describing what had been conveyed
it became manifest when _Mrs. Diaz took possession in
1891. If there was a mutual mistake, proceedings could
have been brought to refoini the mortgage and on such
trial most ,of the evidence upon which plaintiff now relies
might have been relevant. But in this action of ejectment
he must recover on the strength of his own title and cannot
prevail against those who hold under an instrument signed
by him and which, in unambiguous terms, conveyed-not
two separate tracts but a single body of land with definitely described continuous exterior boundaries. To permit a grantor, on the claim that an ambiguity existed, to
prove by parpl that a lot in the center of such a tract had
not been conveyed would make every grantee liable to
have what had been conveyed in writing taken away by
word of mouth.
3. The rule prohibiting written contracts from being
varied by parol is not confined to the common law, but
was of force in Porto Rico when this mortgage was made,
and its enforcement in construing the descriptive clause
according to accepted rules governing boundaries preserves
the rights of the parties here. Sanchez was in possession
of Sauri, as lessee, when the mortgage was made. That
possession was itself a prima facie indication of title. He
conveyed 400 cuerdas bounded by the adjoining land
lines. There is a claim, not established proof, that these
lines had been changed. The slight excess of fifteen
voL. ccxxvi-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

cuerdas, shown by a later and accurate survey, is not inconsistent with defendants' right to 400 cuerdas, but confirmatory of, their contention (Civil Code, Porto Rico
1471), while if plaintiff recovers the defendants will be left
in possession of only 279 cuerdas, when the mortgage conveyed their ancestor 400.
4. Following the descriptive clause in the mortgage
was
In
land.
of
the
the
owner
was
that
Sinchez
statement
a
addition to this recital, which, according to Van Renssellaer v. Kearney, 11 How. 297, 322-326, would be equivalent to a covenant of warranty and ownership, it was
claimed that, under the laws of Porto Rico (Civil Code,
1474) a warranty was implied in all conveyances of real
estate. Apparently, in accordance with this view, the
judicial deed, made in pursuance of the foreclosure sale,
contained a provision that "the debtor, Jose Avalo Sanchez, remains bound under the present sale to guarantee the title in accordance with law." These facts estopped Sanchez from denying that he had the right to
disp6se of all the property which the mortgage purported
to convey. For, having received the money on the faith
of the statement that he was the owner of the property,
he was bound to repay that sum; or, failing that, to perfect the title on which the money had been advanced. So
that when he acquired what is now called Sauri, but which
had been originally included in the land conveyed by the
mortgage, the title enured to the benefit of his vendee.
Amonett v. Amis, 16 La. Ann. 225; Lee v. Ferguson, 5 La.
Ann. 533; Stokes v. Shaclkelford, 12 La. Ann. 172; New
Orleans v. Riddle, 113 Louisiana, 1051; Partidav. Tv., L.
51; Ib. T. XIII, L. .50; Van Renssellaer v. Kearney, 11
How. 297, 322-326; Bush v. Cooper's Admr., 18 How. 82,
85; Moore v. Crawford, 130 U. S. 122.
The judgment is reversed and the case remandedfor further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

