OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

HANNUM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 30. Argued December 9, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.
The assimilating clause of § 13 of the Navy Personnel Act of 1899 applies only to officers on the active list and does not repeal the prior
laws respecting the pay of officers compulsorily retired under § 1454,
Rev. Stat., for incapacity not resulting from any incident of the
service.
A statute will not be so construed under an assimilation clause as to
destroy legislation which Congress incorporated into the act after
having it called to its attention.
The Personnel Act emphasizes the plain intent of Congress not to destroy the then existing standards of retirement for Navy officers,
but to retain and add to those standards as distinguished from the
standards of retirement fixed for the Army.
43 Ct. CI. 320, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George A. King for appellant.
Mr. Frederick DeC. Faust, with whom Mr. Assistant
Attorney General John Q. Thompson was on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By an order dated October 22, 1900, the President approved the finding of a retiring board and directed that
"Lieut. William G. Hannum, U. S. Navy . . . be
retired from active service and placed on the retired list
on furlough pay, in conformity with the provisions of

section 1454 of. the Revised Statutes."

Thereafter Lieu-

HANNUM v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tenant Hannum was paid the compensation fixed by § 1593
of the Revised Statutes, viz: "One half of the pay to
which they" (officers placed on the retired list on furlough
pay), "would have been entitled if on leave of absence
on the active list."
Upon the contention that in virtue of the opening clause
of § 13 of the Personnel Act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat.
1004, 1007, c. 413, providing: that officers of the line of the
Navy shall receive the same pay and allowances as officers
of coiresponding rank in the Army, this action was brought
to recover the difference between the sums actually paid
to Lieutenant Hannum and. the pay fixed by Rev. Stat.,
§ 1274, of an officer of corresponding rank in the Army
when placed on the retired list, viz. 75 per cent. of the
pay of the rank upon which retired.
The Court of Claims held that the assimilating clause
of § 13 of the Personnel Act applied only to officers on the
active list of the Navy, and did not repeal the prior law
respecting the pay of that particular class of officers compulsorily retired under § 1454, Revised Statutes, for incapacity not resulting from any incident of the service.
In other words, the court decided that growing out of the
differences between the distinct classifications made for
the retirement of Navy officers and the pay allowed to
such retired officers depending upon the causes for retirement and the differences in this respect existing between
statutory regulations as to the retirement of Army officers,
that the provision of the Personnel Act had not repealed
the specific provisions as to the retirement of Navy officers
and the retired pay to which such officers were entitled.
Applying the construction which it thus gave to the statute
the court denied the relief claimed, except for the sum of
$31.42, balance of pay due for a short period of active service after retirement, and the Government has acquiesced
in such allowance. 43 Ct. Cl. 320.
We think the court was right in the view which it took

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

of the so-called Personnel Act. The provisions of §§ 8, 9
and 11 of the act not only created a new class of retired
officers of the Navy, but § 9 contains an express reference
to "the provisions of law now in force," relating to retirements in the Navy. As said by counsel for the Government:
"By those laws the pay of all officers retired for age or
incapacity resulting from long and faithful service, or
wounds or injuries received in the line of duty, or from
sickness -and exposure therein, receive seventy-five per
centum of the sea pay of their raik at the time of retirement, while all other officers on the retired list receive
one-half the sea pay of the rank held by them at the time
of retirement (Rev. Stat., § 1588), except officers retired
on furlough pay for incapacity not of service origin, who
receive only one-half the pay to which they would have
been entitled if on leave of absence on the active list
(sections 1454 and 1593)."
It thus being plain that the attention of Congress when
it adopted the Personnel Act was specially drawn to the
existing statutory regulations relating to the retirement of
Naval officers and to the causes for which retirement
should be allowed, and the amount of the retired pay of
such officers and that provision was made as to these subjects varying radically from the system of Army retirement by providing different proportions of pay for different causes of Navy retirement, it is not open in reason to
hold that Congress intended by the provision in question
of the Personnel Act to destroy the legislation which it
sedulously incorporated and made a part of that act. In
other words, as the Personnel Act itself emphasizes the
plain intention of Congress not only not to destroy the
standards of retirement fixed for Navy officers, but on the
contrary to retain and add to those standards, as distinguished from the standards of retirement. fixed for the
Army, we think the claim here made was properly dis-

ANDERSON v. SMITH.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

allowed. Nothing could more aptly illustrate the necessity
for this conclusion than by directing attention to the result
which would inevitably follow from taking another view.
Thus it may not be doubted that the express object of the
Personnel Act was to give a right of retirement for long and
distinguished services, for wounds contracted in the course
of the service as distinguished from the ordinary right to
retire. And yet if the construction of the statute now
urged were to be upheld it would follow that an assimilatioh was made by the Personnel Act not only between the
pay of officers on the active list of the Navy and those of
the Army, but also between officers of the Navy themselves by putting on a parity as to retirement and retired
pay all officers of the Navy, irrespective of the meritorious
or non-meritorious character of their services and despite
the clear distinction in that regard expressly provided for
by the terms of the Personnel Act.
Affirmed.

ANDERSON, ADMIN]ISTRATRIX, v. SMITH.
ERROR TO TH

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 91.

Argued December 17, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

The evidence in this case not shewing that the injury suffered by the
servant was caused by failure of the master to provide a safe place
or proper appliances, the trial court rightly took the case from the
jury, and directed a verdict for defendant.
35 App. D. C. 93, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leonard J. Mather, with whom Mr. John Doyle
Carmody, was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

