OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, UPON THE APPLICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, AT
THE REQUEST OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, v. UNION STOCK YARD
& TRANSIT COMPANY OF CHICAGO.
CHICAGO JUNCTION RAILWAY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.

Nos. 621, 622. Argued October 24, 1912.-Decided December 9, 1912.
In view of continuity of operation, manner of compensation for, and
performance of, services in connection with interstate transportation,
the Union Stock Yard & Transit Company and the Chicago Junction Railway Company are subject to the terms of the Act to Regulate Commerce and must conform to its requirements in regard to
filing tariff and also desist from unlawful discriminations to shippers.
The Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the Elkins and Hepburn
Acts, extends to all terminal facilities and instrumentalities.
Service that is performed wholly in one State is still subject to the Act
to Regulate Commerce if it is a part of interstate commerce.
The duties of a common carrier in the transportation of live stock begin
with their delivery to be loaded and end only after unloading and
delivery, or offer of delivery, to the consignee. Covington Stock
Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128.
The character of the service rendered in regard to carriage of interstate
freight and not the manner in which the goods are billed determines whether the commerce is interstate or not; and so held that
although neither the Stock Yard Company nor the Junction Railway
Company issues through bills of lading, still, as the goods handled
are in transit from one State to another, both corporations are engaged in interstate commerce.
Where two corporations, the controlling stock of bothof which is owned
by one holding company, operate jointly, one handling only the
stock yard business and the other the business of transferring and
switching cars containing freight in interstate transit, both are to be
deemed railroads within the terms of the-Act to Regulate Commerce
and are subject to its requirements.

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

287

Argument for the United States.

While the Act to Regulate Commerce excludes transportation wholly
within a State, a corporation owning a railroad and doing other
business in connection with freight in interstate carriage cannot, by
leasing the railroad to another company for a share of the profits,
exempt itself from the operation of the law.
A contract by an interstate carrier by railroad to pay a part of the cost
of the plant of one of its shippers who agrees only to handle goods
moved by it, held in this case to be an illegal discrimination and rebate under the Act to Regulate Commerce.
A shipper receiving a bonus from the carrier for erecting a plant on the
line of the carrier has an undue advantage over a shipper not receiving any bonus or a smaller bonus.
It is the object of the Interstate Commerce Act and the Elkins Act to
prevent favoritism by any means or device whatsoever and- to prohibit all practices running counter to the purpose of placing all
shippers upon equal terms.
192 Fed. Rep. 330, affirmed in part and reversed in pat.

TE facts, which involve the application of §I 2, 6 and
20, of the Interstate Commerce Act, and of § 1 of the
Elkins Act, to the Union Stock Yard & Transit Company
of Chicago and the Chicago Junction Railway Company,

are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins and Mr. William
E. Lamb, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for
the United States, appellant in No. 621 and appellee in
No. 622:

The Stock Yard Company and the Junction Company
are common carriers engaged in the transportation of
property wholly by railroad from one State to another.

Both companies are engaged in the transportation
of
property wholly by railroad from one State to another.
Property is in interstate commerce .from its delivery
to the carrier for shipment into another State until it is
there delivered to the consignee. Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S.
517; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Henderson v. New
York, 92 U. S. 271; Wabaeh R. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

557; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.412; Heyman v. Southern
Ry. Co., 203 U. S. 270.
The commerce act specifically defines "railroad" and
"transportation" to include all property and every instrumentality used, and every step taken in such interstate commerce. Section 1, act of June 29, 1906.
Both companies are engaged in transportation. Their
activities are within both the judicial and legislative
definitions.
It is immaterial if the distance be short or cars only be
hauled. 'M,.P. Ry. v. Gwinn Co., 55 Kansas, 525.
Cars are the subject ofcarriage. R. R. Co. v. R. R. Co.,
109 I[llipois' 135; United States v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 157
.,Fed. Rep. 619.
A towboat may be engaged in interstate commerce.
Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69.
Such transportation is wholly by railroad and from one
State to another. Int. Com. Comm. v. C., N. 0. & T. P
Ry. Co., 162 U. S. 184; Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v.
Int. Com. Comm., 219.U. S. 498; United States v. Colo. &
N. W. R. Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 321; Leonard v. Kansas City
&c. Ry. Co., 13 i. C. C,.Rep. 573; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 179 Fed. Rep. 614; Denver & R. G. R. Co.
v. Int. Com. Comm., 195 Fed. Rep. 968.
Both the Stock Yard Company and the Junction Company are common carriers.
Definition of common carriers. Niagara v. Cordes, 21
How. 7, 22; Redfield'on Carriers &c., 1; Dwight v. Brewster,
1 Pick. 50; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. R. R. Co., 107 Illinois,
450; Gordon v-. Hutchinson, 1 W. - S.285.
Carriers of live stock are common Carriers. Myrick v.
Mich. Cent. R. Co., 107 U. S. 106; 5 Enc. Law (2d bd.), 428.
Under their charters and by reason of their -activities,
both corporations come within these definitions.
Each was organized as a railroad company. They cannot deny their charters. Randolph v. Post, 93 U. S.502;

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Improvement Co. v. Slack, 101) U. S. 648; Union Trust Co.
v. Randall, 20 Kansas, 515.
Under the Illinois constitution they are common
carriers. Art. 11, § 12.
The Junction Company was conceded to be a common
carrier.
The properties of both companies are railroads and they
are engaged in transportation within definitions of Hepburn Act.
They hold themselves out to the general public to perform these services for hire. Union Stock Yards Co. v.
United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 406.
The courts have held stock-yards to be common carriers
engaged in interstate commerce. United States v. Union
Stock Yards, 161 Fed. Rep. 919; aff'd, 169 Fed. Rep. 404;
United States v. Sioux City Stock Yards, 162 Fed. Rep.
556; Belt Ry. Co. v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 542;
United States v. Illinois Terminal.Ry. Co., 168 Fed. Rep.
546; McNamara v. Wash. Terminal Co., 37 App. D. C.
384. See also Covington Stock Yard Company v. Keith,
139 U. S. 128; Walker v. Keenan, 73 Fed. Rep. 755.
The Stock Yard Company and Junction Company are
in reality partners and are but one system in the eyes of
the law. Meehan v. Valent'ine, 145 U. S. 623; Southern
Pac. Terminal Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 219 U. S. 498;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197;
United States v. Milwaukee Refrig. Transit Co., 142 Fed.
Rep. 247; 145 Fed. Rep. 1007; and Kendall v. Klapperthal,
52 Atl. Rep. 92.
The payment under the Pfmlzer contract would constitute a rebate, concession, and unlawful discrimination.
Act to Regulate Commerce, §§ 2, 3; Elkins Act, § 1; Int.
Com. Comm. v. Reichmann:, 145 Fed. Rep. 235; Thomas
v. United States, 156 Fed. Rep. 897; United States v.
Milwaukee Refrig. TransitCo., 142 Fed. Rep. 247; 145' Fed.
Rep. 1007; C. & A. Ry. Co. 'i. United States, 156 Fed. Rep.
VOL. CCXXVI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees and Appellant.

226 U. S.

558; United States v. D., L. & W. R. Co., 152 Fed. Rep.
269; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep.
250; Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; and N. Y., N.
H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 398;
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 71.
Such payment would, therefore, be unlawful on the
part of the Stock Yard Company and the Investment
Company, and the receipt thereof would be unlawful on
the part of the Pfxlzers. See cases cited supra.
The Commerce Court had jurisdiction of the bill. Sections 2 and 3, Elkins Law; §§ 2, 3 and 6, Act to Regulate
Commerce.
The decree in appeal 621 must be reversed and that in
appeal 622 affirmed.
Mr. Ralph M. Shaw for appellees in No. 621 and appellant in No. 622:
The Act to Regulate Commerce does not apply to all
carriers or to all commerce.
For the purposes of this case, before a corporation is
subject to the provisions of the act it must simultaneously
be not only a common carrier, but one wholly by railroad,
and also one engaged in the transportation of passengers
or property from one State or Territory to another.
A common carrier by railroad wholly within one State
can so transact its business as not to subject itself to the
provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce. Cincinnati
&c. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 184, 191.
"The Junction Co." is not a common carrier subject to
the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce, because
it is not engaged in the transportation of passengers or
property from one State to another. It lies wholly within
one State; it does not issue bills of lading; it does not deal
either with the consignor or the consignee with respect
to either inbound or outbound freight; it does not receive
as compensation for its services any proportion of a

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

291

Argument for Appellees and Appellant.

through rate, otherwise known as a "conventional division of rates."
When it hauls with its own motive power any freight on
its own tracks it receives a flat switching charge therefor
irrespective of the origin or destination or character of the
freight.
When foreign carriers use its rails, they pay to it a fixed
trackage sum per car irrespective of the origin, destination
or character of the freight or of the revenue derived therefrom. Int. Com. Comm. v. C., K. & S. R. Co., 81 Fed. Rep.
783; Int. Com. Comm. v. B. Z. & C. Ry. Co., 77 Fed. Rep.
942; Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 605.
The relation of the Junction Company to freight cars
loaded with interstate commerce, which it hauls with its
own motive power from receiving tracks in Illinois to unloading platforms in Illinois, is analogous to and identical
with the relationship of a tugboat to an incoming steamer.
A tugboat is not a common carrier. The Steamer Webb,
14 Wall. 406, 414; The Margaret, 94 U. S. 494; The L. P.
Dayton, 120 U. S. 337; The PropellorBurlington, 137 U. S.
386; The J. P. Donaldson, 167 U. S. 599, 603.
The "Stock Yard Co." is not subject to the provisions
of § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce because it is not
a common carrier; nor engaged in the transportation of
property or passengers from any point in one State to any
point either in. or -without a State. Kentucky & Ind.

Bridge Co. v.-L. & N. R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567; Cattle
Raisers' Assn.. v. Ft. W. & D. C. R. Co., 7 I. C. C. Rep. 513,
536.
When an act of Congress has been construed by the
- -ortsand thereafter the act is amended or reenacted, and

the amendments do not affect in any way whatsoever the
provisions so construed, thereafter the courts will assumethat Congress has approved and adopted the judicial
interpretation placed upon its language; also when a
statute has-been officially interpreted by the body charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees and Appellant.

226 U. S.

with its execution, and thereafter the act is "amended, and
the amendments of Congress do not in any respect change
the particulars so interpreted, the courts will assume that
Congress has approved and adopted such interpretation
irrespective of what the courts might have originally determined to be the correct interpretation. United States
v. Mooney, 116 U. S. 104, 106; Kepner v. United States,
195 U. S. 100, 124; The Abbottsford, 98 U. S. 444; Diaz v.
United States, 223 U. S. 442, 454; Standard Oil v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1, 59; N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Int.
Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 401; Copper Queen Mining Co.
v. Arizona Board, 206 U. S. 474, 479; United States v.
Falk, 204 U. S. 143, 152; United States v. Hermanos, 209
U. S. 337.
The "Investment Company" is not subject to the provisions of § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, because it
is not a common carrier, nor engaged in the transportation
of property or passengers from any point in one State to
any point, either within or without the State.
Irrespective of what the decision of the court may be
either as to the "Stock Yard Company," or as to "The
Junction Company," the mere fact that "The Investment
Company" owns shares of stock of the two companies does
not destroy its identity or merge it into the identity of
either of the other two companies. United States v. Del.
& Hud. Co., 213 U. S.366; Coal Belt Electric Ry. Co. v.
Peabody Coal Co., 230 Illinois, 164.
The United States Comnnerce Court not only had jurisdiction to determine whether the assailed contract was
or was not unlawful, but it was its duty to determine such
question. Elkins Act, §§ 2, 3.
When the jurisdiction of a-court of equity is invoked in
good faith, the court will decide all of the questions presented by the case, even though it decides the jurisdictional question against the person invoking the jurisdiction. Siler v. L. & N. R. R. Co.,.213 U. S.175; Michigan

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

293

Argument for Appellees, Louis Pfwlzer & Sons.

R. R. Tax Cases, 138 Fed. Rep. 223; Burton v. United,
States, 196 U. S. 283; Wililiamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425; Hopkins v. Grimshaw, 165 U. S. 342; Ober v.
Gallagher, 93 U. S. 199; United States v. Union Pac. Ry.
Co., 160 U. S. 1; 2 Current Law, 623.
The Pfelzer contract is not illegal. It is made for the
purpose of maintaining a desirable customer at the live
stock market at the Stock Yards.
It is not made by a common carrier or on behalf of a
common carrier with a shipper, nor is it based upon the
transportation of any property whatsoever.
It has nothing to do with the rates charged or paid for
the transportation of any -property. Willoughby v. Chicago Junction Railways Co., 50 N. J. Eq. 656.
The Interstate Commerce Act should be interpreted in

pari materia with the Anti-trust Act. It should be held
that a contract, not made by a common carrier subject to
the Act to Regulate Commerce, is not prohibited by law
if its main purpose and chief effect is to promote the lawful business of the parties making it. Hopkins v. United
States, 171 U. S. 578; Bigelow v. Calumet & Hecla Mining
Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 704, 71.2; Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1; American Tobacco Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 106.
Mr. Willard M. McEwen and Mr. Joseph Weissenbach,
filed a brief for appellees, Louis Pfmlzer & Sons:
The making of donations to assist enterprises to aid
the business of a corporation is a legitimate object of
contract and is not against public policy. Ellerman v.
Chicago Junction Rys. Co., 49 N. J. Eq. 217; Willoughby v.
Chicago Junction Rys. &c. Co., 50 N. J. Eq. 656; Richelieu
Hotel Co. v. Milw. Encampment Co., 140 Illinois, 248,
263-264; B. S. Green Co. v.. Blodgett, 159- Illinois, 169, 174;
Central Lumber Co. v. Keilter, 201 Illinois, 503; Northern
Pac. R. Co. v. Spokane, 56 Fed. Rep. 915; S. C., 64 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees, Louis PfaeIzer & Sons.

226 U. S.

Rep. 506, and cases cited; McGeorge v. Big Stone Gap
Imp. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 262; Vandall v. S. S. F. Dock Co.,
40 California, 83; People v. Eel River &c. R. R. Co., 98
California, 665; Temple St. Ry. v. Hellman, 103 California,
634; Texas & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Robards, 60 Texas, 545;
Whetstone v. Ottawa University, 13 Kansas, 320; Town
Co. v. Russell, 46 Kansas, 382; Hasson v. Venango Bridge
Co., 1 Pa. Dist. Rep. 521; Leslie v. Lorillard, 110'N. Y.
519; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Literary Society,
91 Kentucky, 395.
. Discrimination backed by a sound reason (as distinguished from, motive) in a matter where an individual
has no right to demand the privilege as a public service
undertaken to be furnished by a carrier' as such to all
alike and which deprives him of nothing which he is entitled to, or subjects him to no disadvantage in the public
service rendered to him, is not forbidden by the law.
Memphis Frt. Bureatir:v. Ft. Smith. Ry. Co., 13 I. C. C.
Rep. 1; Int. Com. Comm. v. L. & N. R. Co., 73.Fed. Rep.
409; Central Yellow Pine Assn. -v.V. S. & P. Ry. Co.,
10 I. C. C. Rep.,193; United States v. Wells-Fargo, 161
Fed. Rep. 606; Int. Com. Comm. v. Alabama Ry. Co.,
74 Fed. Rep. 715; Cole v. Rowen, 13 L. R. A. 848; Donovan
v. Pa.Ry. Co., 199 U. S. 278; Gamble v. C. & N. W., 168
Fed. Rep. 164; United States v. Oregon R. & Nay. Co.,
159 Fed. Rep. 982; Central Stock Yds. Co. v. L. & N. R.
Co., 24 I. C. C. Rep. 339; 118 Fed. Rep. 113; 55 C. C. A.
63; 192 U. S. 568; Hart V. Choctaw, Ok. & G. Ry.,118 Fed.
Rep. 169; Missouri P. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 404;
N. P. Ry. v. Railroad Comm., 28 L. R. A. (N. S.) 1021;
Int. Com. Comm. v. Alabama Midland R. Co., 168 U. S.
144; L. & N. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 684.
What a donation is depends both upon its effect as
to all concerned and the intention of the parties as to
application. These are the elements of the discrimination and are questions of fact to be proved by the. pe'ti-

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

295

Opinion o the Court.

tioner. Int. Com. Comm. v. L. & N. R. Co., 73 Fed. Rep.
409; Int. Com. Comm. v. Alabama Midland R. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 170; Root v. L. I. R. Co., 114 N. Y. 300; 4 L. R.
A. 33; Texas v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Baltimore R. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 37; S. C., 145
U. S. 263.
The presumption is in favor of fairness and legality.
Int. Corn. Comm. v. C. G. W. R. Co., 209 U. S. 108.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals from a decree entered by the Commerce Court in an action begun by the United States on
the applization of the Attorney General at the request
of the Interstate Commerce Commissiom against the
Union Stock Yard and Transit Company of Chicago an
Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Stock Yard
Company"), the Chicago Junction Railway Company,
an Illinois corporation (hereinafter called the "Junction
Company"), and the Chicago Junction Railways and
Union Stock Yards Company, a New Jersey corporation
(hereinafter called the "Investment Company"), and
David Pf.Tlzer, Abe Pfoelzer and Jones L. PfTelzer, a
copartnership doing business under the firm name and
style of Louis Pfoelzer & Sons. The bill sought to enjoin
violations of §§ 2, 6 and 21) of the Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended 24 Stat. 379, c. 104; 34 Stat. 584; 36
Stat. 539, c. 309 and of § 1 of the Elkins Law as amended
34 Stat. 584, c. 3591. Its prayer was that an injunction
should issue to restrain the Stock Yard Company and the
Junction Company from further engaging, in interstate
commerce until they had :filed tariffs as required by § 6
of the act and to restrain the performance of a certain
contract with the Pfalzers, and that the Stock Yard
Company and the -Junction Company be required to file
the statements and reports provided by § 20 of the act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

The Commerce Court held that neither the Stock Yard
Company nor the. Investment Company was a common
carrier, and that it had no jurisdiction to determine whether
the contract would amount to an unlawful discrimination or advantage, or rebate, and dismissed the bill as to
the Stock Yard Company and the Investment Company
and as to the Pfwelzers. As to the Junction Company,
it held that it was a common carrier subject to the Interstate Commerce Act and obliged to file its tariffs as required by the statute. It further held that, since there
was no allegation in the bill that the Interstate Commerce
Commission had by general or special order required the
Stock Yard Company or the Junction Company to file
statements and reports under § 20, it could not issue mandamus to make such statements and reports. 192 Fed.
Rep. 330.
The Government appealed from the dismissal of the
bill as to the Stock Yard Company, the Investment Company and the Pfaelzers, which is case No. 621. It, however,
makes no contention against the holding of the Commerce Court as to the construction of § 20. The Junction
Company appealed from the decision of the Commerce
Court as to it, which appeal is case No. 622.
The correctness of the decision and decree of the
Commerce Court is submitted upon facts which are practically undisputed. The Stock Yard Company was incorporated under a special act of the legislature of Illinois, February 13, 1865; Laws 1865, v. 2, p. 678, which
authorized it to locate, construct and maintain near the
southerly limits of the City of Chicago:
" .
All the necessary yards, inclosures, buildings, structures, and railway lines, tracks, switches, and
turn-outs, aqueducts, for the reception, safe-keeping,
feeding, and watering, and for the weighing, delivery, and
transfer of cattle and live stock of every description, and
also dead and undressed animals that may be at or pass-

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

ing through or near the city of Chicago, and for the accommodation of the business of a general union stock yard
for cattle and live stock, including the erection and establishment of one or more hotel buildings, and the right
to use the same; .
to make advances of money
upon such cattle and live stock, for freight or other purposes, as may become- expedient. . . .'
The charter further provided:
"That said company shall construct a railway, with
one or more tracks, as may be expedient, from the grounds
which may be selected for its said yards, so as to connect,
outside of the city of Chicago, the same with the tracks of
all the railroads which terminate in Chicago, the lines of
which enter the city on the south between the lake shore
and the southwest corner of said city, . .
and to
make connections with such suitable sidetracks, switches,
and connections as to enable all of the trains running
upon said railroads easily and conveniently to approach
the grounds selected for said yards, and may make such
arrangements or contracts with such railroad companies,
or either of them, for the use of any part or portion of
the track or tracks of such company or companies which
now is or hereafter may be constructed, for the purposes
aforesaid, as, may be agreed upon between the parties;
and to transport and allow to be transported thereon between said railroads and cattle yards,
all cattle and live stock and persons accompanying the
same to and from said -yards, and may also transport
and allow to be transported between, the railroads entering said city, . . . freight and property of every
kind as well as stock and cattle.
After its creation it acquired real estate, constructed
and operated stock yards, with a stock market, built a
hotel for the accommodation of its patrons, and constructed in the stock yards district about 300 miles of
railroad track consisting of main lines connecting with the
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

trunk lines entering Chicago and a large number of
switches to the various industries which had been established adjacent to such tracks.
Prior to December 15, 1897, the Stock Yard Company
carried on the stock yards and railroad business, and, although it had regular charges for the services it performed, it filed no tariffs with the Interstate Commerce
Commission and concurred in none. On December 15,
1897, the Stock Yard Company leased all of its railroad
tracks and equipment for a term of fifty years to a corporation known as the Chicago and Indiana State Line
Company (hereinafter called the "State Line Company"),
retaining for itself the loading and unloading platforms and
facilities used in connection with its stock yards business.
This lease covered all its railroad and railroad tracks,
switches, etc.; roundhouse, repair shops, machine shops,
coal chutes, etc., then in existence or theretofore used by
the Stock Yard Company in connection with its railroad;
and all and singular the equipment and the telegraph
lines, instruments and appurtenances owned or possessed
by the Stock Yard Company and used by it in conducting
its railroad business. By the terms of the lease the State
Line Company was given the right in the future to maintain and operate upon the lands of the Stock Yard Company additional side tracks and switch tracks and other
appurtenances necessary to reach industrial plants.
Afterwards the State Line Company consolidated with
the Chicago, Hammond & Western Railroad Company,
and the consolidated company became known as the
Chicago Junction Railway Company (defendant herein)
and, in addition to the railroad leased from the Stock Yard
Company, operated a belt line around the City of Chicago.
In November, 1907, the Junction Company sold the belt
line to the East Chicago Belt Railroad Company, retaining the tracks which had been leased by the Stock Yard
Company. The equipment operated by the Junction

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

299

Opinion of the Court.

Company, consisting of locomotives and rolling stock, is
owned by the Stock Yard Company, but the Junction
Company employs its own engineers and crews.
The tracks of the Junction Company are frequently used
by the trunk lines to connect the eastern and western systems and to deliver shipments originating without the
State to the platforms of the Stock Yard Company, for
which service they pay the Junction Company a trackage
charge of a fixed sum per car. Large numbers of carload
lots of dead freight from pdints without the State are
placed on the receiving tracks of the Junction Company
bearing transfer cards showing the destination of the cars,
and the Junction Company delivers the cars either to the
consignee, if situated on its tracks, or to the receiving
track of the forwarding carrier. It is paid by the trunk
lines a fixed charge for this service, which the latter absorb. The Junction Company upon the order of the trunk
lines places cars for loading by shippers in the stock yards
district and after they are loaded hauls them to the receiving tracks of the trunk lines, and it receives from the
trunk lines a fixed amount for this service, which is absorbed by the latter. Less than carload lot freight is
delivered at the freight depot, known as the Union Freight
Station and placed in cars by the Junction Company
which transports them to the receiving tracks of trunk
lines, and for this service the trunk lines pay the Junction
Company five cents per hundred weight. Sometimes such
freight is hauled from the industries in the stock yards
district to the Union Freight Station by the Junction
Company and distributed in the cars. The Junction Company receipts for the less than carload lot freight in the
name of the trunk lines, such receipts being exchangeable
for bills of lading at the office of the trunk lines, and all
charges paid to the Junction Company are receipted for
in the name of the trunk lines and remitted to them. The
Junction Company has an arrangement with the Balti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

more & Ohio Railroad Company whereby it performs a like
service for such company as to the less than carload lot
freight brought by it to the Union Freight Station and
destined to points beyond the State. Shipments of horses
are transported by the trunk lines to the loading platforms
of the Stock Yard Company and there picked up by the
Junction Company and hauled to the unloading chutes for
horses, and the Junction Company receives, besides the
trackage charge, a certain amount per car for this service.
A large part of the service thils performed by the Junction
Company is in connection with interstate shipments. The
Junction Company does not issue any bills of lading with
respect to any kind of freight.
After leasing its railroad property to the Junction Company, the Stock Yard Company continued to operate its
stock yard facilities for loading and unloading cattle and
other live stock bound for and coming from points outside
the State, and to feed and water live stock in transit over
the lines of trunk line carriers, and also to feed, bed and
water live stock shipped to consignees doing business in
the stock yards district.
The employ6s of trunk lines bringing live stock to the
stock yards turn over the waybills accompanying such
shipments, with what are called "live stock stubs" attached, to the employfs of the Stock Yard Company, who
use the waybills in unloading and counting the stock, and
the waybills and stubs are then sent to the auditor of the
Stock Yard Company (being also the auditor of the Junction Company) who retains the stubs and forwards the
waybills to the local agents of the trunk lines. The Stock
Yard Company advances the charges on such shipments
to the trunk lines and collects from the consignees, usually
commission men doing business at the stock yards, the
moneys it has so advanced for their accommodation.
The Junction Company publishes tariffs showing the
charges which it exacts for its services, such tariffs being

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

301

Opinion of the Court.

in general circulation in Chicago, especially about the
stock yards district, but they were not filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Prior to 1907, the
Junction Company, while owning railroad facilities in
Indiana, had filed tariffs with the Interstate Commerce
Commission, but upon the sale of such properties cancelled
the tariffs. It was. the belief of the Government and of
the Junction Company that all tariffs and concurrences
had been cancelled, but it is shown by a stipulation which
the parties have filed that since the issues were made up
it has been discovered that one particular concurrence
through inadvertence was not cancelled.
The Investment Company -is a holding company and
owns over ninety per cent. of the shares of the Stock Yard
Company and practically all of the shares of the Junction
Company.
As to the contract with the Pfelzers: They were members of a copartnership (since incorporated) engaged in
the slaughtering business, their plant being located in the
vicinity of the tracks operated by the Junction Company
and the cattle pens of the Stock Yard Company. They
purchased cattle from time to time outside the City of
Chicago and in States other than Illinois and shipped them
to the partnership at, the stock yards, where they were
handled as hereinbefore stated for delivery to the consignee. The freight charges on such business averaged
for the five years prior to the filing of the Pfmlzers' answer
about $2,800 annually. The amount of freight consigned
to the Pftelzers tends to increase the business of the Stock
Yard Company and the Junction Company and therefore
the revenue of each.
In 1906 the Depaxtment of Agriculture required the
Pftelzers to make changes in their plant; in 1908 it directed
them to erect a new plant, and in 1909 they were notified
that the Government would deny to them further inspection of the products of their plant. They then proposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

to locate in Kansas City, Missouri, but upon negotiation
with the Stock Yard Company made the contract under
consideration here. This contract provided that upon the
erection by the Pfelzers of a modern slaughtering, packing and canning plant adjacent to the stock yards in
Chicago, costing a certain sum and having a required
capacity, the Stock Yard Company would pay them
$50,000, and the Pfmlzers agreed that all live stock slaughtered or canned by them within a radius of 200 miles
would either be purchased at such stock yards or pass
through and use them, the customary yardage, tolls and
charges to be paid thereon, or that the Pfalzers would pay
full tolls and charges on live stock the same as if it had
been sent to the stock yards for sale and had there been
bought by them; and that for fifteen years they would
conduct all their slaughtering, packing and canning business at such plant and not interest themselves directly or
indirectly in any other plant or in any other stock yards.
The Investment Company guaranteed the performance
of the contract by the Stock Yard Company.
. It is stated in the answer of the Stock Yard Company
and stands admitted in the case that there are other competitive stock yards in the United States which have
built up their business in competition with it by offering
and giving inducements, either in the shape of land or
money, to packing houses and other industries to locate
at or near their yards.
From this statement it is apparent that the Stock Yard
Company was organized for the purpose of maintaining
a stock yard, with the usual facilities of such yards as to
loading and unloading and caring for freight, and it was
authorized to and did own and operate a railroad system,
transporting cars to and from trunk lines in the course of
their transportation from beyond the State and to points
outside of the State. This service, so far as the railroad

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

303

Opinion of the Court.

and its operation is concerned, is now performed by the
Junction Company. The Stock Yard Company still continues to perform the customary stock yard operations,
but by means of the lease to the Junction Company it has
divested itself of the operation of the railroad system
which it was authorized by its charter to construct and
operate and which for many years before the lease it did
in fact operate. The Stock. Yard Company, under the
lease, still gets, however, two-thirds of the profits received
by the Junction Company for performing the service in
connection with the railroad transportation. This joint
service now takes the place of the single service formerly
rendered by the Stock Yard Company. The stock of both
these companies is held in common ownership by the Investment Company, and it appears that the Investment
Company guarantees the contracts, or at least some of
them, of the Stock Yard Company.
In view of this continuity of operation, the manner of
compensation and the performance of services in connection with interstate transportation by railroads such as
are described, are the Stock Yard Company and the
Junction Company subject to the terms of the Act to
Regulate Commerce and bound to conform to its requirements?
The Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the
Hepburn Act, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, § 1, applies to common carriers engaged in the transportation of persons or
property from State to State wholly by railroad, and the
term railroad is defined to include "all switches, spurs,
tracks, and terminal facilities of every kind used or necessary in the transportation of the persons or property
designated herein, and also all freight depots, yards, and
grounds used or necessary in the transportation or delivery of any of said property"; and transportation is
defined to include "cars and other vehicles and all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

irrespective of Ownership or of any contract, express or
implied, for the use thereof and all services in connection with the receipt, delivery, elevation, and transfer
in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing, storage, and
handling of property transported."
That the service is performed wholly in one State can
make no difference if it is a part of interstate carriage.
"The transportation of live stock," said this court in
Covington Stock-Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, 136,
in treating of the duties of common carriers, irrespective
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, "begins with their
delivery to the carrier to be loaded upon its cars, and ends
only after the stock is unloaded and delivered, or offered
to be delivered, to the consignee."
In this connection
see Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Southern Pacific Terminal
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498.
The fact that the performance of the service is distributed among different corporations having common ownership in a holding company which controls an interstate system was held in Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, supra, to make no difference, where the service to be performed was a part of the
carriage of freight by railroad in interstate commerce.
Nor does it make any difference that neither the Junction Company nor the Stock Yard Company issues
through bills of lading. It is the character of the service
rendered, not the manner in which goods are billed, which
determines the interstate character of the service. Southern
Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
supra; Ohio R. R. Comm. v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101.
Together, these companies, as to freight which is being
carried in interstate commerce, engage in transportation
within the meaning of the act and perform services as a
railroad when they take the freight delivered at the stock
yards, load it upon cars and transport it for a substantial
distance upon its journey in interstate commerce, under

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.
226 U. S.

305

Opinion cf the Court.

a through rate and bill furnished by the trunk line carrier,
or receive it while it is still in progress in interstate commerce upon a through rate: which includes the terminal
services rendered by the two companies, and complete
its delivery to the consignee. They are common carriers
because they are made such by the terms of their charters,
hold themselves out as such and constantly act in that
capacity, and because they are so treated by the great
railroad systems which use them. In Union Stock Yards
Co. v. United States, 169 Fed. Rep. 404, Mr. Justice Van
Devanter (while a Circuit Judge), speaking for the Court
of Appeals, said (406):
"Its [the Stock Yards Company's] operations
include the maintenance and use of railroad tracks and
locomotives, the employment of a corps of operatives in
that connection, and the carriage for hire over its tracks
of all live stock destined to or from the sheds or pens,
which, in effect, are the depot of the railroad companies
for the delivery and receipt of shipments of live stock at
South Omaha. The carriage of these shipments from the
transfer track to the sheds or pens and vice versa is no
less a part of their transit between their points of .origin
and destination than is their carriage over any other portion of the route. True, there is a temporary stoppage
of the loaded cars at the transfer track, but that is merely
incidental, and does not break the continuity of the transit
any more than does the usual transfer of such cars from
one carrier to another at a ,-onnecting point. And it is of
little significance that the stock-yards company does not
hold itself out as ready or willing generally to carry live
stock for the public, for all the railroad companies at
South Omaha do so hold themselves out, and it stands
ready and willing to conduct, and actually does conduct,
for hire a pait of the transportation of every live stock
shipment which they accept for carriage to or from that
point, including such shipments as are interstate."
VOL. ccxxvi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

We think that these companies, because of the character
of the service rendered by them, their joint operation and
division of profits and their common ownership by a holding company, are to be deemed a railroad within the terms
of the act of Congress to regulate commerce, and the
services which they perform are included in the definition
of transportation as defined in that act. It is the manifest
purpose of the act to include interstate railroad carriers,
and by its terms the act excludes transportation wholly
within a State. In view of this purpose and so construing
the act as to give it force and effect, we think the Stock
Yard Company did not exempt itself from the operation
of the law by leasing its railroad and equipment to the
Junction Company, for it still receives two-thirds of the
profits of that company and both companies are under a
common stock ownership with its consequent control.
We therefore think the Commerce Court was right in
holding that the Junction Company should file its rates
with the Interstate Commerce Commission and that it
should also have held the Stock Yard Company subject to
the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Acts.

As to the Pfelzer contract, both parties concede the
authority of the Commerce Court to pass upon this subject and no objection was made as to the manner and form
in which the jurisdiction of that court was invoked.
There being no objection taken to the method of proceeding, we think, if this contract is within the prohibitions of
the act, that the Commerce Court had the right to'entertain the bill and to enjoin the performance of the contract.
Sections 2 and 3 of the Elkins Act. It is contended that
this contract is violative of certain features of the Act to
Regulate Commerce and of the Elkins Act. Section 2 of
the former and § 1 of the latter provide:
"SEc. 2. That -ifany common carrier subject to the
provisions of this act shall, directly or indirectly, by any

special rate, rebate, drawback, or other device, charge,

UNITED STATES v. UNION STOCK YARD.

307

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

demand, collect, or receive :from any person or persons a
greater or less compensation for any service rendered, or
to be rendered, in the transportation of passengers or
property, subject to the provisions of this act, than it
charges, demands, collects, or receives from any other
person or persons for doing for him or them a like and
contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like
kind of traffic under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed
guilty of unjust discrimination, which is hereby prohibited
and declared to be unlawful."
"SEc. 1

.

.

.

It shall be unlawful for any person,

persons, or corporation to offer, grant, or give or to solicit,
accept, or receive any rebate, concession, or discrimination
in respect of the trdhsportation of any property in interstate or foreign commerce by any common carrier subject
to said Act to regulate commerce and the Acts amendatory
thereto whereby any such property shall by any device
whatever be transported at a less rate than that named in
the tariffs published and filed by such carrier, as is required by said Act to regulate commerce and the Acts
amendatory thereto, or whereby any other advantage is
given or discrimination is practiced.

.

.

This court has had frequent occasion to comment upon
the purpose of Congress in the passage of these laws to
require equal treatment of all shippers and to prohibit
unjust discrimination in favor of any of them. New York,
New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 200 U. S.361; Armour Packing Co. v. T]nited
States, 209 U. S.56; Louisviile & Nashville R R. v. Mottley,
219 U. S. 467; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225
U. s.155.
By §2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce the carrier is
guilty of unjust discrimination, which is prohibited and
declared unlawful, if by any rebate or other device it
charges one person less for any service rendered in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

transportation of property than it does another for a like
service. The Elkins Act makes it an offense for any
person or corporation to give or receive any rebate, concession or discrimination in respect to the transportation
of property in interstate commerce whereby any such
property shall be transported at a rate less than that
named in the published tariff or whereby any other
advantage is given or discrimination is practiced. By
the very terms of the contract it is evident that the interest of the Stock Yard Company and also of the Junction
Company is in the profit to be made in receiving and
delivering, handling and caring for and transporting live
stock, shipments of which, to the extent stated, are made
in interstate commerce. The contract provides that if
the PfTelzers construct a packing plant adjacent to the
stock yards of the Stock Yard Company they shall receive
$50,000, and it obligates them to maintain and operate
the plant for a period of fifteen years and buy and use in
their slaughtering business such live stock only as moves
through such stock yards, and if not so bought to pay the
regular charges thereon as if the same had moved into
the stock yards and had been there purchased by them.
In other words, this plant in effect may pay for the services of the Stock Yard Company, up to the sum of $50,000,
with the bonus given to the PfTlzers for the location of
their plant in juxtaposition to the stock yards. The only
interest which the Stock Yard Company has in PfTlzer
& Sons' interstate business is compensation for its services
in handling their freight and its share of the profits
realized by the Junction Company in rendering its service.
Any other company with which it has made no contract
would be compelled to pay the full charge for the services
rendered without any rebate or concession. Another
company might have a contract for a larger or smaller
bonus, and thereby receive different treatment. Certainly
as to the company which receives no such bonus there has

FLORIDA v. CROOM.
226 U. S.

Sylbbus.

been an undue advantage given to and an unlawful discrimination practiced in. favor of Pfelzer & Sons. If
these companies had filed their tariffs, as we now hold
they should have filed them., they would have been subject to the restrictions of the Elkins Act as to departures
from published rates-and we must consider the case in
that light-and this preferential treatment, as we have
said, would have been in violation of that act. It is the
object of the Interstate Commerce Law and the Elkins
Act to prevent favoritism by any means or device whatsoever and to prohibit practices which run counter to the
purpose of the act to place all shippers upon equal terms.
We think the Commerce Court should have enjoined the
carrying out of this contract.
It follows that in case No. 6.01 the judgment of the Commerce Court should be. reversed and the case remanded
for the entry of a decree in conformity to this opinion.
In No.622 the judgment of the Commerce Court should
be affirmed.

STATE OF FLORIDA ON THE RELATION OF
WAILES v. CROOM, COMPTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.
No. 646.

Submitted December 2, 112.-Decided December 16, 1912.

Where it appears, although by evidence outside the record, that before
the writ of error to the state court was sued out, the public officer
against whom a writ of mandamus is prayed had died, and his successor had qualified, the writ will be dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

