RIOS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

RIOS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE UNITED STATES

APPEALS FOR THE NINTH

COURT OF

CIRCUIT.

No. 52. Argued March 29, 1960.Decided June 27, 1960.
1. Evidence seized in an unreasonable search by state officers must
be excluded from a federal criminal trial upon the timely objection
of a defendant who has standing to complain. Elkins v. United
States, ante, p. 206. P. 255.
2. Without probable cause for arrest and without a warrant for
search or arrest, state police officers followed a taxicab in which
petitioner was riding and approached it when it stopped at a traffic
light. The record is unclear as to the sequence of the events which
followed; but the cab door was opened, petitioner dropped a recognizable package of narcotics to the floor of the vehicle, and one
officer grabbed the petitioner as he alighted from the cab and
another officer retrieved the nackage. In a state prosecution for
unlawful possession of narcotics, the evidence was suppressEd on
the ground that it had been unlawfully seized, and petitioner -was
acquitted. Later, in a federal prosecution under 21 U. S. C. § 174
for unlawful receipt and concealment of narcotics, the Federal District Court denied a timely motion to suppress and admitted the
package of narcotics in evidence, and petitioner was convicted. The
Court of Appeals affirmed. Held: The case is remanded to
the District Court for determination as to- the lawfulness of the
state officers' conduct, in accordance with the basic principles governing the validity of searches and seizures by federal officers under
the Fourth Amendment, and for other procedings consistent with
this opinion. Pp. 255-262.
(a) On the record, it cannot be said that there existed probable
cause for an arrest when the officers decided to alight from their car
and approach the taxicab in which. petitioner was riding. P. 261.
(b) Therefore, if the arrest occurred when the officers took their
positions at the doors of the taxicab, nothing that happened thereafter could make the arrest lawful or justify a search as its incident.
Pp. 261-262.

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

(c) If the petitioner voluntarily.revealed the package of narcotics
to the officers' view, a lawful arrest could then have been supported
by- reasonable cause to believe that a felony was being committed in
their presence. P. 262.

(d) The validity of the search turns upon the narrow question
of when the arrest occurred, and the answer to that question depends
upon. an evaluation of the conflicting testimony of those who'were
present at the time. P. 262.
256 F. 2d.173, judgment vacated and cause remanded.

Harvey M. Grossman argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was Clore Warne.
Assistant Attorney General Wilkey argued the cause
for the United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Ran~kin, Beatrice Rosenberg and Eugene L.
Grimm.
A. L. Wirin filed a brief for the American Civil Liberties
Union et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the -opinion of the
Court.
An indictment filed-inthe United States District Court
for the Southern District of Califorinia charged the petitioner with -unlawfulreceipt and concealment of narcotics
in violation of 21 U. S. C. § 174. Before trial the'.petitioner made a motion to suppress for use as evidence a
package of heroin which, so a California court had found,
Los Angeles police officers had obtained from the petitioner in an unconstitutional searcth and seizure. After
a hearing the District Court denied the motion to suppress, finding that federiarFagents had not participated in
the search, and finding also that the California officers had
-obtained,the evidence in a lawful manner.' The package
of narcotics was admitted in.evidenceover the petitioner's
renewed objection at his subsequent- trial. He was
convicted and sentenced to twenty years in prison.

RIOS v. UNITED STATES.
253

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction, accepting
the District Court's finding that the seizure had. been lawful, and holding that in any event illegally seized evidence
"may nevertheless be received in a federal prosecution,
if the seizure was made without the participation of
federal officials." 256 F. 2d 173, at 176. Certiorari was
granted in an order which limited the questions for
consideration to two, 359 U. S. 965:
"1. Independently of the state court's determination, was the evidence used against petitioner in the
federal prosecution obtained in violation of his rights
under the Constitution of the United States?
"2. If the evidence was unlawfully obtained, was
such evidence admissible in the federal prosecution
of petitioner because it was obtained by state officers
without federal participation ?"
In Elkins v. United States, decided today, ante, p. 206,
the Court has answered the second question by holding
that evidence seized in an unreasonable search by state
officers is to be excluded from a federal criminal trial upon
the timely objection of a defendant who has standing to
complain. The only question that remains in this case,
therefore, is whether the Los Angeles officers obtained the
package of heroin "during a search which, if conducted
by federal officers, would have violated the defendant's
immunity from unreasonablE searches and seizures under
the Fourth Amendment." Ante, p. 223. As in most
cases involving a claimed. unconstitutional search and
seizure, resolution of the question requires a particularized evaluation of the conduct of the officers involved.
See Go-Bart Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 344, 357.
At about ten o'clock on the night of February 18, 1957,
two Los Angeles police officers, dressed in plain clothes
and riding in an unmarked car, observed a taxicab stand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

ing in a parking lot -next to an apartment house at the
corner of First and Flower Streets in Los Angeles. The
neighborhood had a reputation for "narcotics activity."
The officers sa~v the petitioner look up and down the
street, walk across the lot, and get into the cab. Neither
officer had ever before seen the petitioner, and neither
of them had any idea of his identity. Except for the
reputation of the neighborhood, neither officer had received information of any kind to suggest that someone
might be engaged in criminal activity at that time and
place. They were not searching for a participant in any
previous crime. They were in possession of no arrest or
search warrants.
The taxicab drove away, and the officers followed it in
their, car for a distance of about two miles through the
city. At the intersection of First and State Streets the
cab stopped for a traffic light. Tho two officers alighted
from their car and approached on foot to opposite sides
of the cab. One of the officers identified himself as a
policeman. In the next minute there occurred a rapid
succession of events. The cab door was opened; the
petitioner dropped a recognizable package of narcotics to
the floor of the vehicle; one of the officers grabbed the
petitioner as he alighted from the cab; the other officer
retrieved the package; and the first officer drew his
revolver.'
The precise chronology of all that happened is not clear
in the record. In their original arrest report the police
stated that the petitioner dropped the package only after
one of the officers had opened the cab door. In testifying
later, this officer said that he saw the defendant drop the
package before the door of the cab was opened. The taxi
I The petitioner later. broke free from the policeman's grasp and
ran into an alley. There the officer apprehended him after shooting
him in the back.

RIOS v. UNITED STATES.
253

257

Opinion of the Court.

driver gave a substantially different version of what
occurred. He stated that one of the officers drew his
revolver and "took hold of the defendant's arm while he
was still in the cab." 2
2

"Q.Will you just tell us in your. own words, Mr. Smith, what

happened immediately after the time you saw.Officer Beckmann?
"A. Well, he appeared alongside my taxicab on the right-hand side
opposite the front window on the right holding a -flashlight in his
right hand, I believe, and his billfold in his left.
"The Court: Then what happened?
"The Witness: Then I believe he turned toward the defendant who
was riding in the back of the. cab.and I think hemotioned with his
billfold toward the defendant-and he opened the door. Now somewhere along in here I think Beckmann disposed of his flashlight. I
didn't notice exactly what happened there.
"By Mrs. Bulgrin:
"Q. What did the defendant do? What was happening as far as
the defendant was concerned?
"A. Well, he appeared to be becoming quite agitated.
"Q. While he was inside the cab?
"A. 'While he was inside the cab, yes.
"Q. When the door opened did he get out?
"A. Well, there are other events before he got out.
"The Court: What were they?
"The Witness: Well, I am trying to get these in the right order.
It is difficult because things happened quickly. ...
"The Witness': -Officer Beckmann opened the door and I asked him
who he was, that is, he opened the rear door of the taxicab and he
said, 'We are police officers.' I just wanted to satisfy my own mind
about that. I didn't know whether he was a policeman or a hijacker
positively, but I thought that he was a policeman but I wanted to be
sure. So he. said, 'We are police officers.'
"I thought probably it was just a routine examination. I work
the night shift, have for some time, and I have been stopped by
the police and they have checked the occupants of my cab. There
have been quite a few holdups of taxi drivers and I just thought it
was a routine thing.
"But the defendant was getting quite agitated and I noticed at
this time that Ofllcer Beckmann had his revolver drawn, which seemed
to me somewhat extraordinary just to stop and queftion an occupant.
of a cab, and said something tb the effect that you are scaring him,

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

A state criminal prosecution was instituted against the
petitioner, charging him with possession of narcotics, a
felony under California law. Cal. Health and Safety
Code, § 11500.. At a preliminary hearing the two Los
Angeles officers testified as to the circumstances surround•ing the arrest and seizure. When the case came on for
trial in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, the
petitioner moved to suppress as evidence the package of
heroin which the police had seized. On the basis of the
transcript of the preliminary hearing, and after brief
argument by counsel, the court granted the motion and

entered a judgment of acquittal.'
what is the big idea, something like that. I don't remember my
exact words.
"As I recall then Officer Beckmann took the defendant by the

arm"By Mrs Bulgrin:
"Q. That was after the defendant got out of the cab, is that
correct ?
'A. It was my impression that Officer Beckmann took hold of the
dftc.dant's arm while he was still in the cab....
' The Court:' How could you tell the defendant was agitated?
"The Witness Well, it is a rough impression but I was sufficiently
impressediwith the fact at the time to protest to Officer Beckmann
that he was frightening him, and as far as I knew there was no good
cause to be frightening him with a drawn revolver. Maybe it was me
who was agitated."
On cross-examination the taxi driver testified as follows:
"Well, I would say that the most prominent thing in my eyesight
at the time was Lhis revolver, which looked the size of a cannon ...
"At the time he opened the door, I can't say just at what point in
the order of these events he drew his revolver, but at some time before
or after the door was opened, while Rios was still sitting in the cab,
he drew his revolver."
3 California follows the so-called exclusionary rule. People v. Cahan, 44 Cal. 2d 434, 282 P. 2d 905. The basis for tqe trial court's
suppression of the evidence is revealed in the following excerpt from
the judge's brief oral opinion:
"As I see it. I.can't possibly see how this arrest could have'originally

RIOS v. UNITED STATES.
253

Opinion of.the Court.

Thereafter, one of the Los Angeles officers who had
arrested the petitioner discussed the case with his superiors and suggested giving the evidence to United States
authorities. He then .got in touch with federal narcotics
agents and told them about the petitioner's case. This
led to the federal prosecution we now review.'
been attempted under the information the officer very frankly tells us
that he had. I don't think any reasonable man would think a felony
had been committed because a man comes out of ' building, looks
up the street, and the other way oW. the sireet, then looks up First
Street, then walks to an automobile ina parking lot, gets in a taxicab
and drives away. What in the ivorld there is in Oat, together with
the fact it happens to be First and Hope or First and Flower-I
forget which it is-and also that somebody else was arrested in a
taxicab, when there are so many hundreds of taxicabs in this community, about three months before, just to state it shows the absurdity of it, insofar as I see, and your motion to suppress the evidence
will be granted-...
"I find him not guilty as charged. They will get you sometime,
Rios; they didn't get you this tfme but they will sometime."
4 'IQ. What occasioned the presentation of this case to'the Federal
grand jury after the ruling in the Superior Court across the street,
Mr.'Beckmann, in this particular case?
"A. After the ruling in the Superior Court, approximately a. week
or two weeks later, I conferred with my divisional commander, Captain Clavis, about the case, and at that time I showed him the arrest
reports and discussed the case with him.
"He then called Captain Madden of the Narcotics Division of the
Los Angeles Police Department. I then went over and talked to
Captain Madden of the Los Angeles Police Department. Captain
Madden then looked at the arrest report, and I discussed the case
with him going to the Federal Narcotics to present the case.
"Q. Whose idea was that? Was that yours or Captain Madden's?
""A. Mine.
"Q. In other words, did you institute .the discussion with Captain
Madden?
"A. Yes. Captain Madden then called Federal Narcotics and I
went over to Federal Narcotics and talked to Mr. Goven. At that
time I showed. him a copy of my arrest report and discussed'the case
with him."

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

In holding that the package of heroin which had been
seized by the ktate officers was admissible as evidence in
the federal trial, the District Court placed prime reliance
upon the silver platter doctrine, there having been no
participation by federal agents in the search and seizure.
But the court also expressed-the opinion, based upon the
transcript of the state court proceedings and additional
testimony of the two Los Angeles police officers at the
hearing on the motion to suppress, that the officers had
obtained the evidence lawfully. The court was of the
view that the seizure was permissible as an incident to a
legal arrest, or, alternatively, that the petitioner had
abandoned the narcotics when he dropped them to the
floor of the taxicab. At the time this opinion was
expressed, however, the district judge had not yet heard
the taxicab driver's version of the circumstances surrounding the arrest and seizure. The driver did not testify until the trial itself. • After he had testified, the package of. heroin was offered in evidence. The petitioner's
counsel objected, and the court overruled the objection
witlout comment. See Gouled v. United States, 255.
U. S. 298, 312-313; Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313,
316-317; Jones v. United States, 362 U. S. 257, 264. For
all that appears, this ruling may then have been based
solely upon the silver platter doctrine. Moreover, the
Court of Appeals gave no consideration to the question
of the legality of the state search and seizure, relying as
it did upon -the silver platter doctrine and rejecting the
petitioner's contention that the state court's determination of illegality precluded the federal trial court from
making an independent inq!uiry into the matter.
With the case in such a posture, we have concluded that
the interests of justice will best be served by remanding
the case to the District Court. There, free from the
entanglement of other. issues that have now become irrel-

RIOS v. UNITED STATES.
253

Opinion of the Court.

evant, the lawfulness of the policemen's conduct can be
determined in accord with the basic principles governing
the validity of searches and seizures by federal officers
under the Fourth Amendment.
Under these principles the inquiry in the present case
will be narrowly oriented. The seizure can survive constitutional inhibition only upon a showing that the surrounding facts brought it within one of the exceptions to
the rule that a search must rest upon a search warrant.
Jones v. Uiiited States, 357 U. S. 493, 499; United States
v. Jeffers, 342 U. S. 48, 51. Here justification is primarily
sought upon the claim that the search was an incident to.
a lawful arrest. Yet upon no possible yiew of the circumstances revealed in the testimony of the Los Angeles
officers could it be said that there existed probable cause
for an arrest at the time the officers decided to alight from
their car and approach the taxi in which the petitioner
was riding. Compare Brinegar v. United States, 338
U. S. 160; Carrollv. United States, 267 U. S. 132; Henry
v. United States, 361 U. S. 98. This the Government
concedes.5
If, therefore, the arrest occurred when the officers took
their positions at the doors of the taxicab, then nothing
At the time of the arrest the California statute governing arrest
without warrant provided as follows:
"A peace officer may make an arrest in obedience to a warrant
delivered to him, or may, without a warrant, arrest a person:
"1. For a public offense committed or attempted in his presence.
"2. When a person arrested has committed a felony, although not
in his presence.
"3.When a felony has in fact been committed, and he has reasonable cause for believing the person arrested to have committed it.
"4.On a charge made, upon a reasonable cause, of the commission
of a felony by the party arrested.
"5.At night, when there is reasonable cause to believe that he
has committed a felony." Cal. Penal Code (1956 ed.), § 836 (later
amended, Stat. 1957, c. 2147, § 2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

that happened thereafter could make that arrest lawful,
or justify a search as its incident. UnitedStates v. DiRe,
332 U. S. 581; Johnson v. United States, 333 U. S. 10;
Miller v. United States, 357 U. S. 301; Henry v. United
States, 361 U. S. 98. But the Government argues that
the policemen approached the standing taxi only for the
purpose of routine interrogation, and that they had no
intent to detain the petitioner beyond the momentary
•requirements of such a mission. If the petitioner thereafter voluntarily revealed the package of narcotics to the
officers' view; a lawful arrest could then have been supported by their reasonable cause to believe that a felony
was being committed in their presence.' The validity of
the search thus turns upon the narrow question of when
the arrest occurred, and the answer to that question
depends upon an evaluation of the conflicting testimony
of those who were there that night.
The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
Vacated and remanded.
[For opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, joined by
MR. JUSTICE CLARK, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
JUSTICE WHITTAKER, see' ante, p. 233.]

and MR.

[For memorandum of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, joined by
MR. JUSTICE CLARK

and MR.

JUSTICE WHITTAKER, see

ante, p. 251.]
6A

passenger who lets d package drop to the floor of the taxicab
in which he is riding can hardly be said to have "abandoned" it. An
occupied taxicab is not to be compared to an open field, Hester v.
United States, 265 U. S. 57. or a vacated hotel room, Abel v,United
States, 362 U. S. 217.

