OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Final Decree.

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA
No. 10, Original.

364 U. S.

ET AL.

Decided May 31,,1960.-Final Decree Entered
December 12, 1960.

This Court having stated its conclusions in its opinions announced
on May 31, 1960, as to the respective rights of the United States
and the States of Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, Alabama and
Florida, under the Submerged Lands Act, in the lands, minerals
and other natural resources underlying the waters of the Gulf of
Mexico off the coasts of such States, and having considered the
positions of the respective parties as to the terms of a decree, now
enters its final decree in the case.
Opinions reported: 363 U. S. 1, 121.

FINAL DECREE.
This cause having come on to be heard on the motion
of the plaintiff for judgment and to dismiss the cross-bill
of the State of Alabama, and having been argued by
counsel, and this Court having stated its conclusions in
its opinions announced on May 31, 1960, 363 U. S. 1,121,
and having considered the positions of the respective
parties as to the terms of this decree, it is ordered,
adjudged and decreed as follows:
1. As against the respective defendant States, the
United States is entitled to all the lands, minerals and
other natural resources underlying the Gulf of Mexico
more than three geographic miles seaward from the coast
lines of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, and more
than three leagues seaward from the cogst lines of Texas
and Florida, and extending seaward to the edge of the
Continental Shelf. None of the States of Louisiana,
Texas, Mississippi, Alabama or Florida is entitled to any
interest in such lands, minerals or resources, and each of
said States, their privies, assigns, lessees and other persons claiming under any of them are hereby enjoined from

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
502

Final Decree.

interfering with the rights of the United States in such
lands, minerals and resources. As used in this decree,
the term "coast line" means the line of ordinary low water
along that portion of the coast which is in direct contact
with the open sea and the line marking the seaward limit
of inland waters.
2. As against the United States, the defendant States
are respectively entitled to all the lands, minerals and
other natural resources underlying the Gulf of Mexico,
extending seaward from their coast lines for a distance of
three leagues in the case of Texas and Florida and three
geographic miles in the case of Louisiana, Mississippi and
Alabama, and the United States is not entitled, as against
any of such States, to any interest in such lands, minerals
or resources, with the exceptions provided by ยง 5 of the
Submerged Lands Act, 43 U. S. C. ยง 1313.
3. Whenever the location of the coast line of any of the
defendant States shall be agreed upon or determined, such
State shall thereupon promptly render to the United
States a true, full, accurate and appropriate account of
any and all sums of money derived by such State since
June 5, 1950, either by sale, leasing, licensing, exploitation
or otherwise from or on account of any of the lands or
resources described in paragraph 1 hereof which lie opposite to such coast line so agreed upon or determined, and,
after said account has been rendered and filed with and
approved by the Court, shall promptly pay to the United
States a sum equal to such amounts shown by said account
as so derived by said State; provided, however, that as to
the State of Louisiana the allocation, withdrawal and payment of any funds now impounded under the Interim
Agreement between the United' States and the State of
Louisiana, dated October 12, 1956, shall, subject to the
terms hereof, be made in accordance with the appropriate
provisions of said Agreement.
567741 0-61-37

.504

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Final Decree.

364 U. S.

4. The cross-bill of the State of Alabama is dismissed.
5. All motions to take depositions and present evidence
are denied without prejudice to their renewal in such
further proceedings as may be had in connection with
matters left open by this decree.
6. The motion of the State of Texas for severance is
dismissed.
7. The motion of the State of Louisiana to transfer the
case to a district court is denied.
8. Jurisdiction is reserved by this Court to entertain
such furthqr proceedings, enter such orders and issue such
writs as may from time to time be deemed necessary or
advisable to give proper force and effect to this decree.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE
part in the formulation of this decree.

CLARK

took no

