UNITED STATES

v.

BURNS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Mr. Justice

CLIFFORD, with whom

concurred

the

CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting:
The Court of Claims having found that the claim in this
case was never submitted to the commission appointed by
the direction of the President to examine such claims, I am
unable to concur in the conclusion of the court that the case
is controlled by the decision of the court in the case of United
Stales v. Adams, in 7th Wallace, and for the reason that the
claim was never so presented.
DAVIS and FIELD, JJ., absent.

U-NITED STATES

v. BuRt S.

1. The army regulation No. 1002, which declares that " no officer or agent in
the military service shall purchase from any other person in the military service
or make any contract with any such person to furnish supplies or services, or
make any purchase or contract in which such person shall be admitted to any
share or part, or to any benefit to arise therefrom," does not apply to contracts on behalf of the United States, which require for their validity
the approval of the Secretary of War. The secretary, though the head
of the War Department, is not in the military service in the sense of
the regulation, but is a civil officer.
2. In February, 1858, a contract was made on behalf of the United States
with Sibley, an officer in the army of the United States, for the mann
facture. and use of what is known as the Sibley tent, of which tent
Sibley had secured a patent, by which contract the government was
authorized to make and procure as many of the tents as it might require
by paying the sum of five dollars for each tent, the contract to continue
until the 1st of January, 1859, and longer unless the United States were
notified to the contrary. In April, 1858, Sibley executed to Burns, another officer in the army of the United States, an assignment of " the
one-half interest in all the benefits and net profits arising from and belonging to the invention," from and after February 22d, 1856. Soon
after the commencement of the rebellion Sibley resigned his commission
in the army of the United States and joined the Confederates. Burns
remained true in his allegiance to the government of the United States
and served in the army of the Union. After the resignation and defection of Sibley one-half of the royalty on each tent made or procured
by the government was paid to Burns, under the contract with Sibley,
until December 26th, 1861, when further payments to him were forbid-

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES

V. BURNS.

Statement of the case.
den by order of the Secretary of War, although the government continued to manufacture and use the tents as previously: Held, 1st, that
the assignment of Sibley passed to Burns one-half interest in the contract of Sibley with the government, and the right to a moiety of the
royalty stipulated ; 2d, that the order of the Secretary of War, in December, 1861, did not terminate the contract; 3d, that the WVar Department, by its previous payments to Burns of one-half of the royalty
stipulated, severed his claim from that of Sibley under the contract;
4th, that the act of March 3d, 1863, in barring Sibley, by reason of his
disloyalty, of any action upon the contract with the government in the
Court of Claims, does not affect the rights of Burns to his moiety under
that contract or his right of action for the same in the Court of Claims.
The act severs their claims.
3. The Court of Claims, in deciding upon the rights of claimants, is not
bound by any special rules of pleading.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims, in which court the petitioner claimed against the United States the amount due
on a contract authorizing them to make and use a certain
tent known as the Sibley tent.
The facts found by the Court below were thus:
1st. On the 22d of April, 1856, letters-patent were issued
to Kajor H. H. Sibley for an improved tent, since known as
the Sibley tent.
2d. On the 6th of February, 1858, General Thomas, assistant quartermaster-general at Philadelphia, in a letter addressed to W. E. Jones, "agent for the Sibley patent tent,"
stated that he had received information from the quartermaster-general that the tent might be adopted into the service, provided a satisfactory arrangement could be made for
the use of the patent, or for the tents, at a reasonable rate,
and proposed that the department should pay him the sum of
$5 for each tent made for the use of the army, as long as the
agreement might be confirmed by the War Department,and asking
a reply to the proposition. To this letter Mr. Jones replied
that he was willing to enter into a temporary arrangement
of that nature, and to authorize the assistant quartermaster
to make as many of the tents as the government might require, by paying him $5 for each tent; the arrangement to
hold good until the 1st of January, 1859, and longer, unlevs
notified to the contrary by him.

UNITED STATES V.

BURNS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

On the 18th of February, 1858, the terms proposed in the
letter of Mr. Jones were approved by the Secretary of War,
and a contract was made accordingly, between the United
States and Jones, as the agent of the Sibley tent patent, by
which the United States were authorized to make and procure as many of the tents as the government might require
by paying $5 for each tent, and this arrangement was to
bold good until the 1st of January, 1859, and longer, unless
the United States were notified to the contrary. And the
tent was adopted as one of the tents of the army by the
army regulations.
On the 16th of April, 1858, Sibley assigned to Major W.
W. Burns, another officer in the army of the United States,
"the one-half interest in all the benefits and net profits
arising from and belonging to the invention of a certain
improved conical tent, known as the Sibley tent, from and
after the 22d of February, 1856, forever."
Soon after hostilities commenced between the United
States and the Coufederates, M[ajor Sibley resigned his commission in the army of the United States and joined the
Confbderates. M\ajor Burns remained true to his allegiance
and served in the army of the Union.
On the 22d or August, 1861, General Meigs, quartermaster-general, instructed General Thomas, assistant quartermaster-general at Philadelphia, under whose directions Sibley tents were made and contracted for for the United States,
that the case of the claim of Major Burns to the royalty
of the Sibley tent having been examined by the department, it was considered that he was entitled to one-half of
the royalty as originally fixed between the government and
Lajor Sibley, the inventor. It was accordingly directed
that General Thomas should pay Mqjor Burns $2.50 on each
such tent manufactured by the government, and that the
other half of the original royalty, fbrmerly paid to Sibley,
would for the future be withheld, as well as all that might
be due him; for that iu consequence of the defection of that
officer, it was considered that all his right and title thereto
had reverted to the government.

Dec. 1870.J

UNITED

STATES

v.

BURNS.

Statement of the case.

Burns was accordingly, for some time afterwards, paid
$2.50 on each tent under the contract.
On the 26th of October, 1861, Major Meigs, quartermaster-general, in a communication to the Secretary of War,
submitted the question whether the contract in respect to
the royalty allowed Burns was or was not in violation of
paragraph 1002 of Revised Regulations for the Army. The
paragrapl is in these words:
"No officer or agent in the military service shall purchase
from any other person in the military service, or make any contract with any such person to furnish supplies or services, or
make any purchase or contract in which such person shall be
admitted to any share or part, or to any benefit to arise therefrom."
Upon this communication, the government at this time
having made 38,158 tents, Mr. Cameron, the Secretary of
War, on the 26th December, 1861, indorsed as follows:
",No further payments will be made to Major W. W. Burns
on account of royalty on the Sibley tent."
This order was communicated to officers of the War Department, though not communicated to the petitioner or the
patentee, Major Sibley, but from its date no payments on
account of the royalty were made. The last payment on
account of the royalty was on the 3d of September, 1861.
Notwithstanding the order, however, the government continued to make and use the tents. The petition of Burns
asked for payment from the government of one-half' the
royalty, or $2.50, for those tents which it had made and not
paid him for.
On the 3d March, 1863, Congress passed an act amending
the act establishing the Court of Claims, the twelfth section
of which amendatory act provides:
. "That in order to authorize the said court to render a judgment in favor of any claimant, ifa citizen of the United States,
it shall be set forth in the petition that the claimant . . . has
at all times borne true allegiance to the government of the

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. BURNS.
Argument for the United States.

United States, and . . . has not in any way voluntarily aided,
abetted, or given encouragement to rebellion against the said
government, which allegation may be traversed by the government; and if on the trial such issue shall be decided against the
claimant his petition shall be dismissed."*
The original act establishing the Court of Claims gives
the court jurisdiction"To hear and determine all claims founded upon by law of
Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department,
or upon any contract, express or implied, with the government
of the United States, that may be suggested to it by a petition
filed therein, &."t
The Court of Claims entered a judgment in favor of the
petitioner for one-half of the royalty, or $2.50 on each of
40,497 tents (the number which, as a fact, it found had been
made), amounting to the sum of $101,242.50.
From this judgment the United States appealed.
Mr. B
. Bristow, Solicitor-Geeral, and 3ir. C. RI. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States:
We do not ourselves make, as a point, the question sub-

mitted on the 26th of October, 1861, by Quartermaster
Meigs to the Secretary of War; though of course the court
is free to consider it as one which has occurred to others.
The judgment, however, was perhaps erroneous on other
grounds.
The contract gave the War Department a right to determine the contract. The department did determine it when
Secretary Cameron indorsed on the note of Quartermaster
Meigs that "no further payments will be made to Major
*W. W. Burns on account of royalty on the Sibley tent."
Stoppage of payment was the most effective form of notice
to Burns. It was, perhaps, previously (on the 1st January,
1859), determined by the efflux of the time for which it was
to run; Sibley not having notified to the government a con* 12 Star. at Large, 767.

t 10 Id. 612.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. BURNS.

Opinion of the court.

trary wish on his part. The contract being determined, if
not on the 1st January, 1859, certainly on the 26th December, 1861, no suit lies in the Court of Claims. The government may have acted tortiously in making tents under the
patent when it had no right by contract to do so. But for
relief against such action, Congress is the body to address.
Sibley assigned to Burns no interest in the patent by the
agreement of April 15th, 1858. The assignment was made
after Sibley's contract with the United States. It could give
Burns no right as against the United States; or anything
but a right to call Sibley to account with him for moneys
which Sibley might receive under the contract. Burns's
right was thus but an equitable right, on which no suit lies
in the Court of Claims.*
By Sibley's becoming a rebel, perhaps his whole right
under the patent became forfeit. If not, certainly by being
a public enemy his partnership with Burns was dissolved,
and his own right under, the patent suspended. What rights
then has Burns, who was no party to the contract, and who
claims but under Sibley?
Jllessrs. Carpenter, IHughes, Denver, and Peck, contra
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the facts found by the Court of Claims, we are of
opinion that the contract entered into on behalf of the United
States with Major Sibley, by which the government was
authorized to make and procure as many of the Sibley tents
as it might require, by paying the sum of five dollars for
each tent, was a valid contract, and not within the prohibitions of the army regulation, number 1002. That regulation
does not apply to contracts on behalf of the'United States,
which require for their validity the approval of the Secretary
of War. Though contracts of that character are usually
negotiated by subordinate officers or agents of the government, they are in fact and in law the acts of the secretary,
Bonner v. United States, 9 Wallace, 156.

UNITED STATES v.

BuRNs.

[SLIP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

whose sanction is essential to bind the United States. The
secretary, though the head of the War Department, is not
in the military service in the sense of the regulation, but, on
the contrary, is a civil officer with civil duties to perform,
as much so as the head of any other of the executive departments.
It would be carrying the regulation to an absurd extent
to hold it was intended to preclude the War Department
from availing itself, by purchase or any other contract, of
any property which an officer in the military service might
acquire, if its possession or use were deemed important to
the government. If an officer in the military service, not
specially employed to make experiments with a view to suggest improvements, devises a new and valuable improvement
in arms, tents, or any other kind of war material, he is entitled to the benefit of it, and to letters-patent for the impr'ovement from the. United States, equally with any other citizen
not engaged in such service; and the government cannot,
after the patent is issued, make use of the improvement any
more than a private individual, without license of the inventor or making compensation to him.
In the present case there is no question of the right of Sibley to the improved conical tent. He received a patent for
the improvement in April, 1856, and, by the contract with
him, the United States recognized his right to it, and to compensation fbr its use.
The contfact was nothing more, in fact, than a license
from him to the government to manutcture or procure the
tent, and use it, upon payment of a stipulated sum. By its
terms the license extended until the 1st of January, 1859,
and longer unless the United States were notified to the contrary. The power of determining this license thus remained
with the patentee after that period, but the United States
could also at any time have determined their liability by
ceasing to make the tents. It does not appear that either
party ever desired the termination of the license. Neither
Sibley, nor Burns, who had become, as hereafter stated,
equally interested with Sibley in the contract, ever expressed

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES v. BURNS.
Opinion of the court.

any intention to withdraw the license; and the United States
continued to make and use the tents until the whole number
were obtained, for which the present claim is asserted. The
order of the secretary in December, 1861, declaring that no
further payments should be made to Burns on account or
the royalty on the tent, was not intended, in our judgment,
either as a repudiation of the liability of the United States
to him for the tents previously procured, amounting to over
thirty-eight thousand, or of their liability to him for any
tents that might be subsequently made, but only to leave the
rights of Burns, connected as they were with a patent issued
to one who had resigned his commission in the National army
and entered the Confederate service, to be determined by
the proper judicial tribunals. If the secretary had intended
to terminate the contract something more would have been
required on his part, whilst the United States continued to
manufacture and use the tents, than a mere direction to withhold the payments stipulated for such manufacture and use.
Burns, as we have said, had become equally interested
with Sibley in the contract with the United States. In
April, 1858, Sibley had executed to him an assignment of
"the one-half interest in all the benefits and net profits arising from and belonging to the invention," from and after
the 22d of February, 1856, a period anterior to the issue of
the patent. Whether this assignment be held to have transferred a legal title to one-half of the patent itself is not, in
our judgment, iniportant. It passed a half interest in the
contract of Sibley with the government, and the right to a
moiety of the royalty stipulated by that contract.
The War Department recognized this half interest of
Burns, and, until the order of the secretary in December,
1861, paid a moiety of the royalty to him. It thus severed
his claim under the contract from that of Sibley. But independent of this fact the rights of Burns in the contract and
the compensation stipulated could not be forfeited nor impaired by the disloyalty of his associate. He was true in his
allegiance to the government and served in the army of the
Union. His claim could, therefore, be presented and con-

HOLLADAY V.

KENNARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sidered in the Court of Claims by the act of March 3d, 1863.
His associate, Sibley, is at the same time barred by that act
of any action there, either joint or several, by reason of his
disloyalty. The act does thus, in fact, sever their claims,
allowing the claim of one to be prosecuted and barring that
of the other. The technical rule of pleading in an action in
a common law court, by which a contract with two must be
prosecuted in their joint names, if both are living, has no
application to a case thus situated. And the Court of
Claims, in deciding upon the rights of claimants, is not
bound by any special rules of pleading.
We see no error in the ruling of that court, and therefore
its judgment is
AFRMED.

HOLLADAY V. KENNARD.
1. During the late civil war the defendant was proprietor of a stage and
express line upon the overland route to California. The stage was attacked by Indians and robbed of its contents, amongst which was a
safe containing money of the plaintiff below. The judge charged the
jury, in determining what was the duty of the express agent at that
time, to inquire what a cool, self-possessed, prudent, careful man would
have done with his own property under the same circumstanues; that
it was the defendant's duty to provide such a man for this hazardous
business. Held, that the charge was not erroneous; that it only required
of the defendant what might be called ordinary care and diligence under
the special circumstances of the case.
2. What is ordinary negligence depends on the character of the employment. Where skill and capacity are required to accomplish an undertaking, it would be negligence not to employ persons having those
qualifications.
3. When goods in the hands of a common carrier are threatened to be destroyed or seized by a public enemy, he is bound to use due diligence to
prevent such destruction or seizure.
4. It is not necessary that he should be guilty of fraud or collusion with the
enemy, or wilful negligence, to make him liable; ordinary negligence
is sufficient.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
This was an action of trespass on the case against ono

