Dec. 1870.]

WARD V. STATE OF MARYLAND.

163

Statement of the case.

WARD V. STATE OF MARYLAND.

1. A motion to advance cannot, under the act of June 80th, 1870, be made,
except in behalf of a State, or by a party claiming under its laws.
2. Under the 80th rule of court a motion to advance is discretionary with
the court. An'advance under that rule refused; it appearing that the
party asking the advance was notin jail.

ON motion to advance this cause, one in error to the
Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland.
An act of Congress, passed June 30th, 1870, and quoted
also in the preceding case, enacts:
"That in all suits and actions . . . now pending, or which
may hereafter be brought, in any of the courts of the United
States, whether original suits in courts of the United States or
brought into said courts by appeal or writ of error, . . . wherein
a State is a party, or where the execution of the revenue laws
of any State may be enjoined or stayed by judicial order or process, it shall be the duty of any court in which such case may
be pending, on sufficient reason shown, to give such cause the
preference and priority over all other civil causes pending in
such court between private parties.
"And the State, or the party claiming under the laws of the State,
the execution of whose revenue laws is enjoined or suspended,
shall have a right to have such cause heard at any time after
such cause is docketed in such court in preference to any other
civil cause pending in such court between private parties."
And the 30th rule of this court prescribes:
"All cases on the calendar, except cases advanced as hereinafter provided, SHALL be heard when reached in the regular call
of the docket, and in the order in which they are cntered."
"Criminal cases may be advanced, by leave of the court, on
motion of either party."
With this enactment and this rule in force one Ward had
been convicted, in one of the inferior State courts of Maryland, on an indictment for trading without having a license,
as required by the laws of that State, and the judgment was

164

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HUCOBERGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

affirmed in the Court of Appeals. It appeared that Wrard
was not in jail. The case being now here on writ of error
this motion was made to advance the hearing of it.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Motion to advance the cause filed by the plaintiff in error.
Indictment. The parties agreed that the defendant on the
day and at the place named in the indictment did sell the
articles of merchandise therein named without obtaining a
license, as required by the laws of the State.. Plea not
guilty. Issue tried by court. Finding for the State. He
moves the court to advance the cause.
Clearly the motion is not within the act of Congress of
the thirtieth of June, 1870, as the motion is not filed by the
State, nor by a party claiming under the laws of the State.*
Probably it is made under the thirtieth rule of the court,
which provides that criminal cases may be advanced by leave
of the court on motion of either party. Under that rule the
motion is addressed to the discretion of the court, and inasmuch as it appears that the defendant is not in jail, the
court fails to see any reason for granting the motion.
MOTION DENIED.

INSURANOE

COMPANY V. HUCHBERGERS.

Judgment affirmed under Rule 23d, with ten per cent. damages in addition
to interest; the court believing that the writ of error bad been brought
for delay.

to the Northern District of Illinois.
L. & M. Huchberger brought suit against the Merchants'
Insurance Company of Providence, R. I., declaring upon a
contract to insure them for one year from September 14th,
1866, against loss by fire on their goods "contained in the
brick building No. 173 Lake Street, Chicago." The narr
ERROR

* 16 Stat. at Large, 176.

