Dec. 1870.]

PEOPLE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD.
Statement of the case.

PEOPLE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD.
Two States made an agreement as to where the boundary line between them
was, and Congress by statute gave its assent to the agreement. After
this one of the States sued a corporation of the other for taking possession of land and water which the State suing alleged were in its territory. The corporation asserted, in defence, that under the agreement
the land and water were within the jurisdiction of the other State; and
the highest tribunal of the State in which the suit was brought decided
that it was so.
Held, that this was but an adjudication upon the meaning of the agreement, and not one upon the construction of the statute; and accordingly
that error would not lie under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.

THis was a motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of New York; the case
being thus:
In 1833 an agreement was made between New York and
New Jersey, relative to the boundary line between the two
States, to which Congress gave its assent by an act approved
June 28th, 1834. The subject of the agreement was "all
the waters of the bay of New York, . . . and all the waters
of the Hudson River lying west of Manhattan Island, and
to the south of the mouth of Spuyten Duyvel Creek, and of
the lands covered by the said waters to the low water-mark
on the westerly or New Jersey side thereof." In this condition of things suit was brought in one of the courts of New
York by the People of the State of New York against the
Central Railroad Company for a nuisance committed by
taking possession without license from the State of about
800 acres of land and water, and erecting docks, wharves,
piers, and other improvements within the alleged jurisdiction of New York, under this agreement.
The railroad company asserted that, under the agreement,
the land and water were within the jurisdiction of the State
of New Jersey, by whose authority they committed the acts
complained of, and the highest tribunal of the State of New
York decided in favor of the claim of the railroad company

PEOPLE V.

CENTRAL RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in behalf of the State of New Jersey. To that judgment the
writ of error which it was now sought to have dismissed
was taken.
In support of the motion to dismiss, Mr. F. T. _F'dinghuysen insisted that in this decision of the court in New
York there was not drawn in question the construction of
any statute of the United States, and that the decision was
not against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially
set up and claimed under any such statute. The controversy related wholly to the extent of the jurisdiction of New
York over the land and water in the rivers and bay of New
York, and presented nothing but a question of construction
of the agreement.
On the other hand it was argued, by JJIessrs. J. C. D1imick
and A. J. Parker, against the motion, that the decision was
against the rights of New York, as defined by the agreement, and that this court had jurisdiction because of the act
giving the assent of Congress to it.
The CHIEF JUSTICE: We think that the statement of
the case shows that the question arose under the agreement
and not under any act of Congress. The assent of Congress
did not make the act giving it a statute of the United States,
in the sense of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act. The
construction of the act was in no way drawn in question,
nor has any title or right been set up under it and denied
by the State court. It had no effect beyond giving the consent of Congress to the compact between the two States.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
DIsMISSED.

