THE PROTECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

dollars without the qualifying words, specie or gold, and
that the legal tender statutes had, therefore, the same effect
in both cases.
I adhere to that opinion, and dissent from the one just
delivered by the court.

THE PROTECTOR.
1. The beginning and termination of the late rebellion in reference to acts
of limitation, is to be determined by some public act of the political
department.
2. The war did not begin or close at the same time in all the States.
3. Its commencement in certain States will be referred to the first proclamation, of blockade embracing them, and made on the 19th April, 1861;
and as to other States to the second proclamation of blockade embracing
them, and made on the 27th April, 1861.
4. Its termination as to certain States will be referred to the proclamation
of the 2d April, 1866, declaring that the war had closed in those States,
and as to Texas to the proclamation of the 20th August, 1866, declaring
it bad closed in that State also.
5. Alabama was one of the States named in the first proclamation of blockade, and the first proclamation as to the termination of the war.
6. Accordingly an appeal from a decree by the Circuit Court of Alabama
of the 6th April, 1861, which was flied in the clerk's office on the 17th
May, 1871, was dismissed; it being held on the principles above stated,
that more than five years had elapsed between the date of the decree and
the filing of the appeal, allowing the suspension of the time produced
by the war.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
This was a motion by Mr. P. Phillips to dismiss an appeal
from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States in
the Southern District of Alabama. A motion to dismiss an
appeal from the same decree, for the reason that it was not
brought within one year from the passage of the act of
March 2d, 1867,* had been made and denied at the Decentber Term, 1869.t The appeal was subsequently dismissed
on another ground.T The ground of this present motion
*14

Stat. at Large, 545.

-t 9 Wallace, 689.

$ 11 :Id. 82.

Dec. 1871.]

Tim PROTECTOR.

Opinion of the court.

was that more than five years, excluding the time of the
rebellion, elapsed after the rendering of the decree, before
the appeal was brought.
By the act of 1789, it is provided that writs of error shall
not be brought but within five years from the rendering or
passing the judgment or decree complained of. By the act
of 1803, appeals from decrees were allowed, subject to the
same rules, regulations, and restrictions as writs of error.*
As a writ of error is not broughtt until it is filed in the
court where the judgment was rendered, so an appeal, as
this court considers, is not brought until it is rendered or
filed in the same way.
The decree in this case was rendered on the 5th of April,
1861, and the present appeal was allowed on the 6th of May,
1871, and filed in the clerk's office of the proper court, or
brought, on the 17th of May, 1871.
In Ranger v. Abbottl it was held that the statute of limitations did not run, during the rebellion, against citizens of
States adhering to the national government having demands
against citizens of the insurgent States. And the question
of course was whether, making allowance for the suspension
of time produced by the rebellion, the appeal was or was
not in season.
Mr. -Phillipscontended that it was not; Mr. F. S. Blount,
contra, urging that it was.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question, in the present case is, when did the rebellion begin and end? In other words, what space of time
must be considered as excepted from the operation of the
statute of limitations by the war of the rebellion ?
Acts of hostility by the insurgents occurred at periods so
various, and of such different degrees of importance, and in
parts of the country so remote from each other, both at the
commencement and the close of the late civil war, that it
4

t Brooks v. Norris, 11 Howard, 204.
2 Stat. at Large, 244.
6 Wallace, 532; The Protector, 9 Id. 659.

[Sup. Ct.

TiiE PROTECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

would be difficult, if not impossible, to say on what precise
day it began or terminated. It is necessary, therefore, to
refer to some public act of the political departments of the
government to fix the dates; and, for obvious reasons, those
of the executive department, which may be, and, in fact,
was, at the commencement of hostilities, obliged to act
during the recess of Congress, must be taken.
The proclamation of intended blockade by the President
may therefore be assumed as marking the first of these
dates, and the proclamation that the war had closed, as
marking the second. But the war did not begin or close at
the same time in all the States. There were two proclamations of intended blockade: the first of the 19th of April,
1861,* embracing the States of South Carolina, Georgia,
Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas; the
second, of the 27th of April, 1861,t embracing the States of
Virginia and North Carolina; and there were two proclamations declaring that the war had closed; one issued on
the 2d of April, 1866,1 embracing the States of Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana, and Arkansas, and
the other issued on the 20th of August, 1866,ยง embracing
the State of Texas.
In the absence of more certain criteria, of equally general
application, we must take the dates of these proclamations
as ascertaining the commencement and the close of the war
in the States mentioned in them. Applying this rule to the
case before us, we find that the war began in Alabama on
the 19th of April, 1861, and ended on the 2d of April, 1866.
More than five years, therefore, had elapsed from the close
of the war till the 17th of May, 1871, when this appeal was
brought. The motion to dismiss, therefore, must be
GRANTED.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 1258.

t

14 Stat. at Large, 811.

j lb. 1259.
lb. 814.

