THE SPRAY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

THE, SPRAY.
1. In appeals involving mere question of fact, where the District and Circuit Courts have taken the same view, this court, affirming the decree,
contents itself with an announcement of its conclusions, without extended comment on the testimony.
2. A vessel racing in order to enter a harbor before another and preoccupy
a loading-place condemned for a collision resulting.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of California, in a case of collision ; the facts being thus:
On the morning of the 4th of March, 1868, the schooners
Lane and Spray were proceeding along the coast of California, the Lane bound for Mendocino harbor and the Spray
for Little River, a very small harbor, or as it was called in
the evidence, a "hole in the coast," about three miles further
to the southward. Resort is had by vessels to this place
only for the purpose of getting lumber, and the wharfage
is so bad that but one vessel can load at a time; considerable
detentions as regards vessels not reaching the wharf being
the consequence. The Lane was considerably in advance
of the Spray. The master of the Lane did not enter Mendocino harbor, as he intended, because of a signal on shore
placed there to warn vessels that it would be dangerous to
enter the harbor at that time, and accordingly he ran down
the coast with the intention of going into Little River.
Having accomplished about two-thirds of the distance between the harbors, and finding he was too far in-shore to
weather the ledge of rocks which forms the northerly side
of the entrance to Little River harbor, he jibed his mainsail
and stood oft-shore. In doing this his main sheet parted,
and thereupon he lowered his mainsail, hoisted his foresail,
and stood off under his foresail until lie could repair the
damage. As soon as this was effected he lowered his foresail, wore his vessel around, and stood directly in for the
harbor, under mainsail and jib. At this time he was distant
from the shore about one and a half miles, and directly off
the entrance to the harbor, and the Spray was distant from

Dec. 1870.]

THE SPRAY.

Opinion of the court.

the Lane at least five miles, and running three or four times
as fast. The master of the Spray, who, it appeared, mistook
the Lane for a vessel called the Ellen Adelia, and which he
knew was going, as he was himself, after lumber, did not
change her course on account of the Lane, and in passing
the outer edge of the ledge of rocks, if not over the reef
itself, the Spray, owing to the ground-swell made by the
breakers, collided with the Lane, striking the vessel with her
stem, about midships. The course of the vessels and their
position with reference to each other will be better understood by stating that, after the Lane headed in to the harbor,
she sailed on the side of a right-angled triangle, the Spray
upon its hypothenuse, and they met where these joined.
The District Court, considering that the collision was
caused by an attempt on the part of the Spray to cross the
track and get ahead of the Lane, when the latter was too
far in advance of her to do so, condemned the Spray, and
the Circuit Court affirmed the decree. From that decree
this appeal came.
.Mr. T. T. Grittenden, for the appellant; Mr. C. E. Whitehead, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been twice adjudged against the appellant.
The question presented by the record is purely one of fact,
and it is not only clear that the lower courts have done the
appellants no wrong, but that the weight and effect of the
evidence does not admit of controversy. In such a state of
case we do not feel called upon, in order to vindicate our
judgment, to make any extended comment on the testimony, nor would it serve any useful purpose to do so. We
shall, therefore, content ourselves with stating the conclusions we have reached concerning the case.
It is proved that the Lane was in the channel, pursuing
the usual course of vessels entering the harbor, while the
.Spray took an unusual course to effect her object. In doing
this her master jeoparded his own boat, and through the
ground-swell caused by the breakers, the Spray was thrown

[Sup. Ct

TnE SPRAY.
Opinion of the court.

into the Lane, and produced the injury. But her master
had no right, in his eagerness to get ahead of the Lane, to
run his boat into breakers, which rendered her unmanageable. It is conceded that the Lane, being in advance, had
the prior right to enter the harbor, but it is urged that her
conduct in standing off-shore and lowering heri mailnsail justified the master of' the Spray in adopting the conclusion
that she did not entertain the purpose of entering the harbor. It may be true, that while the boat was in this condition, a watchful seaman would have been deceived as to
her intention, but this cannot be said after she wore round
and headed directly for the harbor. This change of course
was a notification of the actual purpose of the Lane, and was
effected time enough for the master of the Spray, if observant, to have avoided the collision. Instead, however, of
going further out into the open sea, as he should have done
after this change of course, he continued in the same track
he was pursuing, regardless of his own safety or the rights
of others. It is a little singular that he should have been in
such a hurry to reach the harbor if in good faith he believed
the Lane was bound further down the coast. But the theory
that he thought the schooner ahead was not going into the
Little River is an afterthought. It is clear from the evidence that he supposed this vessel was the Ellen Adelia, and
that he knew she was bound for the same port as himself.
And it is equally clear that he wanted to get there in advance of her, if he could, so as to obtain the first load. It
seems that the principal objects of the boats engaged in the
Little River trade is to obtain lumber, and that they are
often detained there a considerable length of time for want
of proper facilities for loading. Indeed, so limited are these
facilities that only one vessel can be loaded at a time, and
necessarily the one which arrives first is served first. With
knowledge of this condition of things, and for the purpose
of securing the prior right, the master of the Spray ventured
upon dangerous ground in order to cut across the schooner,
and must suffer the consequences of his own recklessness.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

