Dec. 1870.]

GERMAIN V. M ASON.

Statement of the case.

Now, whether the agent in charge of the line, on this
occasion, was such a man as should have been employed
could only be judged of by what he did, or what he neglected to do; and it was fairly left to the jury to say whether
his conduct was such as a proper and competent man would
have pursued; or whether it was wanting in that respect;
and the court took the pains to warn the jury that the result
is not always a true criterion whether a man pursued a prudent course or not. They must judge fairly in reference to
all the circumstances.
We do not mean to be understood as laying down any
difirent rule from that which was laid down by this court
in the late case of .RailroadCompany v. Reeves,* namely, that
ordinary diligence is all that is required of the carrier to
avoid or remedy the eiects of an overpowering cause. We
think that when this case, with all its circumstances, is fairly
considered, this was all that the judge who tried the cause
exacted of the defendant, and that the question of negligence
was fairly left to the jury.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GERMAIN V. MASON.
1. Though several defendants may be affected by a judgment or decree,
there may be such a separate judgment or decree against one of them
that be can appeal or bring a writ of error without joining the other
defendants.
2. A judgment in personam against one defendant for a sum of money,
which at the same time establishes the debt as a paramount lien on real
estate as to other defendants, may be brought to this court by the party
against whom the personal judgment is rendered, without joining the
others.
MOTION by Mr. Nathaniel Wilson to dismiss a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of Montana, Territory; the case as it
seemed, from a not very clear record, being thus:
J. Mason and L. B. Duke brought suit in the court below
10 Wallace, 176.

GERMAI-

V. MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

against Jules Germain to recover a balance due for work
and materials furnished in building a house, and to enforce
a mechanic's lien against the house and the lot on which it
was built for the debt. One C. L. Dahler, A. J. Davis, and
eighteen other persons, who the petition stated "had or
claimed to have some interest, claim, or lien on the incumbered premises," were made defendants, but the petition
alleged that their interest, claim, or lien, if any, had accrued
subsequently to that of the plaintifi; and it prayed "for
judgment against the said Jides Germain in the sum of $6651,"
and that it be adjudged that the defendants, C. L. Dahler,
A. J. Davis, and the eighteen others named, and all persons
claiming under them subsequently to the commencement of
the action, be barred and foreclosed of all right, claim, lien,
&c., in, on, or to the incumbered premises, "and that the
premises be decreed to be sold," &c. The court decided that
the lien of the plaintiffs was. paramount to that of all other
persons, and gave judgment against Germain in personam
for the debt, with an order that if it could not otherwise
be made out of him, the real estate on which the lien was
claimed should be sold, and out of the proceeds of the sale
the debt of the plaintiffs should be first paid. To this judgment Germain alone sued out a writ of error. Tle writ purported to be taken"Because in the records and proceedings, as also in the rendition of the judgment of a plea between J. Mason and L. B.
Duke, plaintiffs, and Jules Germain et al., defendants, a manifest
error hath happened, to the great damage of the said Jules Germain, one of said defendants as aforesaid, as by his complaint appears."
The bond recited that "Jules Germain, one of the defendants in the above cause, had prosecuted a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the United States to reverse the judgment," and the obligors undertook "on the part of the appellant" that he would pay the costs, &c.
Mr. Wilson, in support of his motion, argued that as the writ
of error described the defendant in the original suit as Jules

Dec. 1870.]

e

.GERMUAIN
V. MASON..
Opinion of the court.

Germain et al., the case fell within the ruling in Deneale v.
Stump's Executors,* and similar subsequent cases, and that
the writ should be dismissed.
Mr. 1M. Blair, eontra- The money judgment is against
Germain alone. He singly can appeal.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered fie opinion of the court.
The cases relied on for the dismissal of the -writ are all
reviewed in Mussina v. Cavazos,t and it is there said that
they rest upon the principle that all the parties to the
original judgment must, when it is a joint judgment, be
brought before this court, and that this is not done by a
writ which does not give thei.r names.
In the case before us the wa-it is sued ont :by Germain
alone, who is the only, party metitioned as damaged by the
alleged error of the court, and who alone gives the appeal
bond. I, therefore, Germai.n can bring the w-rit without
joining other parties as plaintiffs in error, the writ is not
defective.
We have examined the record-a very confused one-but
from it we gather enough to satisfy us that the judgment of
which Germain complains is such a separate judgment
against him as authorizes him.to ask a review of it here
without joining his co-defendants in the court -below, who
have not thought proper to disturb the judgment.1
The lien creditors, co-defendants -with Germdiin, have not
sought to reverse the judgment; hut Germain, ,who has a
separate, distict, personal judgment against him for money,
in which the other defendants have no interest, .has a right,
we think, to prosecute a -writ of-error in his own name without joining them.
MOTION
OVERRULED.

* 8 Peters, 526.

:

Masterson v. Herndon, 10 Wallace, 416.

t .6 Wallace, 355.

