Dec. 1870.]

SCOTT V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

The present case being a proceeding in equity brought
here by writ of error, and not by appeal, the writ must be
DISMISSED.
SWAYNE and BRADLEY, JJ., dissented.

SCOTT V. UNITED STATES.
There were three points along a river course, the highest A., the next B.,
the last C. Held, that a contract to transport goods from B. to 0. and
to and from all points between them, when the transportation was to
be by water, was not a contract to transport from A. to 0., although
such transportation necessarily involved (as a greater includes a less) a
transportation between B. and C.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

Messrs. A. I. Garland, N. P. Clipman, and .B. L. Stanton,
for the appellant; Mr. B. i. -Bristow, Solicitor-General, and
.Mr. C R. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the judgment of the Court of
Claims. The facts of the case, so far as it is necessary to
consider them, are as follows:
On the 13th of February, 1866, Henry T. Noble, assistant
quartermaster in the volunteer military service of the United
States, entered into a contract with the appellant, Scott,
whereby the quartermaster "agrees to furnish all the transportation the United States may require from Little Rock,
Arkansas, to Fort Smith, Arkansas, and to and from all
points between Little Rock, Arkansas, and Fort Smith, Arkansas, when the same is to be furnished by river." Transportation was called for by the United States between Little
Rock and Fort Smith, furnished by Scott, and duly paid for

SCOTT V. 'UNITED STATES.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by the government. Upon that subject there is no controversy between the parties. But the United States also
shipped troops and stores from St. Louis to Fort Smith and
Fort Gibson. The vessels, on their way, touched at Little
Rock, but did not discharge there. While they were at
Little Rock, Scott, in a written communication to the quartermaster, claimed the right, under his contract, to transport
the troops and stores in question from that point to Fort
Smith, and had boats ready to perfbrm that service. None
of the lading was delivered to him. Iad he transported it,
the freight, according to his contract, would have amounted
to $17,605.66. The Court of Claims held that the transportation thus claimed was not within the contract, and dismissed his petition. Hlence this appeal.
We think the decision of the Court of Claims was correct.
The soundness of this view of the subject is too clear to require or admit of much discussion. The contract was for
transportation between Little Rock and Fort Smith. Transportation from Little Rock to Fort Smith was not the same
thing by any means as transportation from St. Louis to Fort
Smith or Fort Gibson. Transportation from St. Louis to
those places necessarily involved transportation by Little
Rock, and thence over a common river route to the higher
points of destination, but the voyages were wholly distinct
and independent of each other. The greater includes the
less, but that does not make them identical. In their totality
they are as diffirent as if the partial sameness did not exist.
In the transportation between St. Louis and the other points
named the part performed above Little Rock was but an ingredient in the mass. There is nothing which requires us
to disintegrate it and give to Scott one part more than another. Such elongated transportation is neither within the
letter nor the meaning of his contract.
In cases like this it is the duty of the court to assume the
standpoint occupied by the parties when the contract was
made-to let in the light of the surrounding circumstancesto see as the parties saw, and to think as they must have

Dec. 1870.]

SCOTT V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

thought, in assenting to the stipulations by which they are
bound. This process is always effective. When the terms
employed are doubtful or obscure there is no surer guide to
their intent and meaning. It must have been known to
both Scott and the quartermaster that such transportation
would be required as that under consideration. It is incredible that they intended to subject the United States to
the delay, inconvenience, and expense of the unlivery and
reloading of every cargo which came up the river to Little
Rock only to feed Scott's contract and meet its demands.
He claims a monopoly, without regard to circumstances, of
all the government transportation upon the water-way where
his contract was to be fulfilled. Fort Gibson is above Fort
Smith. As respects all lading to be shipped beyond Fort
Smith the same unloading and reloading would be necessary
there which had before occurred at Little Rock. A proposition, from which flow consequences so unreasonable, must
itself be regarded as of that character. Where parties intend to contract by parol, and there is a misunderstanding
as to the terms, neither is bound, because their minds have
not met.* Where there is a written contract, and a like
misunderstanding is developed, a court of equity will refuse
to execute it.t If a contract be unreasonable and unconscionable, but not void for fraud, a court of law will give to
the party who sues for its breach damages, not according to
its letter, but only such as he is equitably entitled to.t But
it is unnecessary to invoke the aid of anything outside of
the contract itself. Its interpretation presents no question
for our consideration. That the proper construction has
been given to it, we think is equally clear.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* Mildeberger v. Baldwin & Forbes, 2 Hall, 176.

j- Coles v. Browne, 10 Paige, 534; Calverley v. Williams, 1 Vesey
Jr., 211.
1 James v. Morgan, 1 Levinz, 111; Thornborow v. Whitacre, 2 Lord
Raymond, 1164; Baxter v. Wales, 12 Massachusetts, 365.

