Dec. 1870.-]

COOLEY V.

O'CONNOR.

Statement of the case.

that the jurisdiction exists, and as it does not in this case,
the writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.
1. A certificate signed by only two of the direct tax commissioners appointed
under the act of Congress of June 7th, 1862, that land charged with the
tax, had been sold to the United States, is admissible in evidence in an
action brought to try title to the land.
2. It is error to rule such a certificate void.
3. In trespass to real property brought to try the title, a freehold or a mere
possessory right in the defendant may be given in evidence under the
general issue.
4. The act of Congress contemplates a certificate of sale, though the United
States becomes the purchaser.
5. Whether the advertisement of sale was such as the law required is a
mixed question of law and fact, and it must be submitted to the jury.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina; in which court Mrs. O'Connor brought suit against
Cooley and others, for trespass on a lot of ground which she
alleged to be hers, and to try title to th same. The case was
thus:

On the 5th August, 1861, Congress passed an act to provide increased revenue from imports to pay the interest on
the public debt, &c., apportioning the taxes authorized among
the several States.
South Carolina being in insurrection at the time, and not
paying her quota under the act, Congress on the 7th of June,
1862, passed another act, which provided by its first section
that :
"When in any State, or in any portion of any State, by reason
of insurrection or rebellion, the civil authority of the government of the United States is obstructed, so that the provisions
of the act of August 5th, 1861, for assessing, levying, and collecting the direct taxes therein mentioned cannot be peaceablyexecuted, the said direct taxes, by said act apportioned among

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the several States and Territories respectively, shall be apportioned and charged in each State wherein the civil authority is
thus obstructed, upon all the lands and lots of ground therein
respectively situated, except such as are exempt by any law of
the State or United States, as the said lands were enumerated
and valued under the last assessment and valuation thereof.
made under the authority of said State or Territory previous to
the first day of January, 1861," &c.*
The act then directed the appointment of three commissioners, for each of the States in insurrection, to execute its
provisions; and it required this board to advertise for sale
the parcels or lots, the taxes upon which were not paid within
sixty days after the amount of the tax had been fixed, in a
newspaper in the town, parish, district, or county where the
property was situated, and also by posting notices in at least
three public places in the town, parish, district, or county.
In this advertisement or notice of sale, they were required
by its 14th section to state "the amount or quota of said direct tax assessed against each tract or parcel of land . . .
together with a description of the tract to be sold." The act
required them further, in case the tax charged by the first
section upon the lands, and apportioned to each lot, was
not paid, to sell at public sale, those lots on which the tax
remained unpaid after giving the already mentioned notice. It then provided that purchasers at such sales, after
paying the purchase-money, should be entitled to receive
from the commissioners their certificate of sale; and it enacted that the "certificate shall be received in all courts and
places as prihn facie evidence of the regularity and validity
of said sale, and of the title of the said purchaser or purchasers under the same."
On the 3d of March, 1865,t Congress passed another act
declaring:
"That a majority of a board of tax commissioners shall have
full authority to transact all business, and to perform all duties
required by law to be performed by such board, and no proceed,* 12 Star. at Large, 422.

f- 1-3 Stat. at Large, 502.

Dec. 1870.]

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.
Statement of the case.

ing of any board of tax commissioners shall be void or invalid
in consequence of the absence of any one of said commissioners."
Under the act of the 7th June, 1862, three commissioners
were appointed for South Carolina, who, after having made
assessments, exposed the delinquent property to public sale,
and on the 13th day of March, 1863, all of them having been
present on that day, sold the lot now in dispute to the United
States. A certificate of such sale was afterwards made out,
signed by two of the commissioners, dated March 18th, 1865
(the act of the 3d of March, 1865, just above set out, being
now in force), and given to the purchasers. It set forth that
at a sale made under the act of Congress above noted, held
pursuant to notice at Beaufort, in the State of South Carolina, on the 13th of March, 1863, the tract or parcel of land,
the title to which was now in controversy, was sold to the
United States for the sum of $125, the receipt of which it
acknowledged. The defendants were mere tenants of the
United States.
Whether this tax sale was valid and effective to divest the
ownership of Mrs. O'Connor, and to vest the property in the
United States, was the single subject of contest in the court
below.
The declaration in the act was the ordinary one in trespass, quare clausum fregil; with an indorsement that "the
action was brought to try title as well as for damages." The
locus in quo was described as " in the town of Beaufort, and
county aforesaid, containing eighty feet front, more or less,
and in depth running from north to south, down to lowwater mark, three hundred feet, more or less; butting and
bounded north on Bay Street, south on the river, and east
on the lands of the plaintiff; west on lands of the plaintiff"
Plea, "Not guilty." The defence set up was, that the defendants entered and held the property as tenants of the
United States, and that the United States had become owners
by virtue of the tax sale already mentioned.
On the trial the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
show that for many years before the rebellion, she had owned

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the lot described in the declaration, and owned it when the
rebellion broke out; that in November, 1861, in consequence
of the Federal fleet having arrived off Beaufort, and of her
being informed of an order from the commander of the rebel
forces, she with nearly all the other inhabitants of Beaufort,
except colored persons, left the place; that after leaving
Beaufort she resided in Columbia until it was burnt in 1865;
that she never saw any advertisement nor received any notice, nor in any way became aware that any tax had ever
been placed on her property by the government of the
United States, until the close of the rebellion in 1865, when
she discovered that her house and lot had been sold, and was
in the possession of strangers.
The United States gave evidence tending to prove that
when the three commisssioners appointed for South Carolina, entered upon their duties at Beaufbrt, they searched
for records of the titles to lands there, through the town and
parish, and also for the records of the assessment and valuation of the lots as the same were enumerated and valued
under the last assessment and valuation thereof, made under
the Statb of South Carolina previous to the 1st of January,
1861; that they could not find either the records (of titles)
or the records of the State assessment and valuation, the
same having been either destroyed, concealed, or lost; that
the town and parish of Beaufort were at the time occupied
by United States soldiers and a few colored people; that
none or but few of the owners of the lands were present,
having left the town prior to the entrance of the United
States troops. But that they did find an old assessment-roll
of the town of Beaufort and parish of St. Helena, and the
comptroller-general's report of the State for the years 1857
or 1858. The old assessment-rolls and the comptroller-'general's report for the State, in defhult of better evidence, were
used as evidence in making up the judgment of the comnlissioners, although they were very indefinite, giving the names
of the taxpayers and describing the property or land simply
as so many "acres," without locating the same, and the
lots in the town of Beaufort were described only as " town

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.

Dec.1870.]

Statement of the case.

lots," without any other description. The commissioners
then proceeded to obtain all the evidence in their power as
to the assessment and valuation of the lots of land both in
the town of Beaufort and in. the parish of St. Helena, and
to value and assess the same in their own judgment upon
such evidence. They found an old plat of the town of Beaufort of the date of 1799, by which it appeared that the town
had been laid off into lots and blocks. But they found that
many of the streets described were not opened, and also that
additions had been made to some parts of the town, and
that these parts were not on the plat. The commissioners
finally all resolved that said plat should be used as a basis
of description for their assessment-rolls, and ordered a survey of the additions to the town to be made, and thus made
a new plat of the town of Beaufort. In the plat thus made
by the commissioners the blocks throughout the town were
designated by numbers, and the lots in each block by letters
of the alphabet.
The commissioners then proceeded to value the property,
using said plat as a basis for description, according to their
bestjudgment, and the best evidence they could obtain.
The defendants gave evidence tending to show that the
commissioners had made such advertisement and given such
notices, so far as mode, time, and number of advertisement
were concerned, as the act of Congress required. But it appeared that in these the description of the lot in controversy
was thus made:
"The following is a description of said lands forfeited as aforesaid, together with the amount of the quota of said tax and
penalty charged upon each of said tracts or lots of land respectively:
TowN LOTS AND LANDS IN THE PARISH OF ST. HELENA.
Amount.
Penalty.
Blocks.
Quota of Tax.

Lots.

E

61

$56 00

$28 00

$84 00,

The tax sale certificate already mentioned on page 393,
having been offered by the defendants in evidence, the plain-

OOLEY

V. O'CONNOR.

[Sup. C.

Argument against the validity of the sale.

tiffs objected to it on the ground that it had not been specially pleaded. The court, however, overruled the objection,
and admitted the certificate. Being thus in proof, the court
ruled it defective and void, because signed but by two commissioners.
The court also instructed the jury, as a mailer of pure law
and expressly taking the consideration of the matter from them,
that the advertisement was "not such a notice as the law
required." Having read the 14th section to the jury, and
referring to the advertisement, the court proceeded:
"It does not give notice, either directly or by implication;

that is, inevitable notice, so as to make the owner aware that
his particular property had been assessed, and was up fbr sale.
If it had said that the whole town of Beaufort was up for sale,
and by blocks and squares, a person was advertised that his
house was in that block or square, somewhere described by a
particular figure and letter, then it would be his duty to make
inquiry. But neither directly or indirectly, by necessary implication, is this notice such as the law requires."
The court added:
"A notice published within military lines, is as it were a notice only in a fortified camp. That notice, in point of fact, could
not be well supposed to reach the citizen."
The jury found for the plaintiff, and judgment being given
accordingly, the United States brought the case here.
Messrs. W. TV.Boyce and .B. P. O'Connor, in support of the
ruling below:
1st. The proceedings of the commissioners are not according to the course of common law, but a special jurisdiction
and authority conferred by statute. It should appear, therefore, upon the face of the proceedings, that all has been done
which the law required should be done. The certificate is
thus fatally defective.*
2d. In an action of trespass to try title, the defendant
Young v. Lorain, 11 Illinois, 636, 637; Thatcher v.Powell, 6 Wheaton,
119.

Dec. 1870.]

COOLEY V.

O'CONNOR.

Argument against the validity of the sale.

-annot justify under plea of the general issue. In such
action any matter done by virtue of a warrant should be
specially pleaded. A mere license to enter and occupy a
close cannot be given in evidence under the general issue
in an action of trespass to try title.
3d. The act of Congress does not contemplate any certificate of purchase when the United States become purchasers. Practically, then, no injury was done to the defendants below by refusing to receive the certificate, as they
could have recovered if their own evidence had not shown
that the sale was void, by reason of failure in the tax commissioners to pursue the requirements of the law in the sale.
4th. That the so-called "description," even if it had been
seen a hundred times, could, as a matter of fact, have given
no notice to Mrs. O'Connor that it was her property which
was to be sold, no one can deny. The commissioners get an
old plot of the town, which designated streets, numbers of
lots, and names of owners, and, without seeking information
from any source, they proceed to survey and map out the
town anew after their own fashion, and by the new plot, incomprehensible to every one but themselves, advertise and
sell every lot in Beaufort. This notice would have been
no notice to Mrs. O'Connor if she had been on the spot.
And if there can be a notice less than none, this was so
under Dean v. Nelson,* where it was held "that notice to
parties within Confederate lines was not obtained by publication within Union lines." A "description," which the 14th
section of the act expressly requires, means something more
than "lot E, block 61," on a plot that no one but the
commissioners ever saw. Description is the delineating
a thing by a mention of its properties; in describing land,
its length, breadth, and situation should be indicated. The
property had metes and bounds, and is described by them in
the declaration in this case. The worthlessness of the notice
was so gross, so palpable in our case, that the court assumed
it to be a question of law, as perhaps what amounts to a " d eBeription" truly is.
* 10 Wallace, 158.

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicilor-General,and Mr. C. H_.Hill,
Assistant Altorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRO.G delivered the opinion of the court.
When the certificate of sale was given in evideEce by the
defendants below, the Circuit Court ruled it to be void,
because it was signed by only two commissioners, and this
decision of the court is now assigned for error. It is obvious
that the ruling was hurtful to the defendants. Had the certificate beet, admitted it would, by force of the statute, have
amounted to primafacie evidence as well of the regularity and
validity of the sale as of the title of the purchasers. It would,
therefore, have cast upon the plaintiff the burden of showing affirmatively that the sale was irregular and invalid, and
that the title was not in the United States. And we think it
was erroneously excluded. It is true that when an authority
is given jointly to several persons they must generally act
jointly, or their acts are invalid. This is a general rule for
private agencies, though it is not universal in its application.
But the rule is otherwise when the authority is of a public
nature, as it was in this case. The commissioners were public
agents, clothed with public authority. They were created
a board to perform a governmental function, and it is a familiar principle that an authority given to several for public
purposes may be executed by a majority of their number.*
In one of the cases cited in the notet it was held that two of
three trustees of a school district might issue a warrant for
the collection of a tax, and that the presence of the third
trustee at the issuing thereof would be presumed until the
contrary was shown. The authorities cited are enough to
show that the certificate of sale was not void or inoperative
because signed by only two of the commissioners.
Commonwealth ex rel. Hall v. Canal Commissioners, 9 Watts, 471;
Jewett v. Alton, 7 New Hampshire, 253; Caldwell v. Harrison, 11 Judges
Alabama, 755; Williams v. School District, 21 Pickering, 82; Doe v. Godwin, 1 Dowling & Ryland, 259; The King v. Beeston, 3 Term, 692; McCoy
v. Curtice, 9 Wendell, 19.
t McCoy v. Curtice, 9 Wendell, 19.

Dec. 1870.]

COOLEY V. O'CONNOR.
Opinion of the court.

In addition to this there is also the act of Congress of
March 3d, 1865,* in force when this certificate was given,
under which, certainly, the validity of the certificate of sale
is beyond doubt.
It has been argued, however, on behalf of the defendant
in error, that inasmuch as the plea was only that of the general issue, the defendants were not at liberty to set up that
the United States were the owners, and that they entered as
tenants or licensees of the United States. It is doubtless
true that a license from the plaintiff, or a justification under
an incorporeal right, or an excuse of the trespass founded
on fault of the plaintiff, or an entry by authority of law, with
or without process, must be pleaded specially to an action
of trespass. The reason is that these defences all admit the
trespass and the possession of the plaintiff. But in trespass
to real property, a freehold, or mere possessory right in the
defendant, may be given in evidence under the general
issue, though it is often advisable to plead liberum tenernentum.t And there is a double reason for this when, as in
this case, the action is brought by a plaintiff out of possession
professedly to try the title. The action has then the nature
of an ejectment, the plaintiff, if recovering at all, recovering
possession as well as damages.
It has been further argued that the act of 1862 does not
contemplate a certificate of sale in cases where the United
States becomes the purchaser, but we are clearly of opinion
that it does as fully as in any other.
The second assignment of error is, that the court instructed the jury the advertisement of sale was not such a
notice as the law requires. The act of Congress required
the board of commissioners to advertise for sale the parcels
or lots, the taxes upon which were not paid within sixty
days after the amount of the tax had been fixed, in a newspaper published in the town, parish, district, or county where
the property was situated, and also by posting notices in at
Quoted, supra, at the foot of p. 392.
t Proprietors of Monumoi Beach v. Rogers, 1 Massachusetts, 160; 1
Chitty's Pleading, 437 and 440.

400

BARTH V.

CLISE,

SHERIFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

least three public places in the town, parish, district, or
county. The evidence given at the trial tended to prove
that such advertisement had been made, and that such
notices had been posted; nor was this contested. But the
court held, and so instructed the jury, that the notice was
not such as the law required. The reasons assig-ned for this
ruling were that the advertisement did not state that the
whole town of Beaufort was to be sold, and that, being a
notice published within military lines, it was like a notice
only in a fortified camp, and could not, in fact, be supposed
to reach a citizen. We think, however, that neither of these
reaso~ns, nor any other not referred to, justified the court in
ruling, as a legal conclusion, that the notice given in this
case was not such as the law required. Whether the demands of the statute respecting notice of sale had been complied with was a mixed question of law and of fact, and it
should have been submitted to the jury. Undoubtedly the
advertisement must have been such as to inform persons
who read it what property was intended to be exposed for
sale. Any description that gave such information was sufficient. Whether the advertisement gave it or not depended
not alone upon its contents. It was necessary to compare
the description with the property described, and that was
the province of the jury.
JUDGMENT REVERSED

and a venire de novo awarded.

BARTH V. OLISE, SHERIFF.

1. When a sheriff, in obedience to a writ of hiabeas copus, makes a proper

return and brings his prisoner before the court which issued the writ,
the safe-keeping of the prisoner while he is before it is entirely under
the control and direction of the court to which the return is made.
The sheriff is accordingly not responsible for escape of the prisoner
while thus in the custody of the court, and before a remand or other
order placing new duties on him.

