Dec.

1870.1

INSURANCE COMPANIES V. BOYKIN.

438

Syllabus.

duty upon importation from one State to another, under the
name of a tax. I therefore dissent from any expression in
the opinion of the court which, in any way, implies that such
a burden, whether in the shape of a tax or a penalty, if
made equally upon residents and non-residents, would be
constitutional.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to the court below to conform its judgment

TO

THE OPINION OF THIS COURT.

INSURANCE COMPANIES V. BOYKIN.
1. After a loss covered by a policy of insurance, an affidavit by the insured
of the time, amount, and circumstances of the loss, accompanying proof
that a loss had occurred, was made while he was insane. Held,
(i) That insanity was a sufficient excuse for failure to comply with
the condition of the policy requiring such an affidavit.
(ii) That if the affidavit contained the necessary information as to the
time, amount, and circumstances of the loss, it was sufficient,
though the insured was insane when it was made.
2. A policy for $10,000 was signed by four companies, each of whom agreed
to become liable for one-fourth of the loss to that extent. Held,
(i) That one action could be brought against them all by their consent; the declaration charging the separate promises and praying for separate judgment.
(ii) That a verdict finding that the defendants did assume in manner
and form as in the declaration alleged, and assessing the whole
damages at $10,000, was a good verdict in such action.
(iii) That the judgment rendered in such verdict should have been
against each defendant for one-fourth of the damages, and
against them jointly for the costs, and that a joint judgment
against them all on the whole sum was erroneous and should be
reversed.
(iv) That this court, instead of awarding a venire facias de novo, must,
under the 24th section of the Judiciary Act, as well as by the
common law powers of a court of error, render the judgment
which the Circuit Court ought to have rendered on that verdict,
VOL. XIL

28

434

INSURANCE COMPANIES v. BoYKIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

3. Such a judgment was accordingly certified to the Circuit Court, to be
there enforced by execution.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina, the case being this:
Boykin caused his house to be insured against fire by one
single policy in four different insurance companies to the
extent of $10,000, "each company," as the policy declared,
"acting fbr itself, and not one for the other or others." The
policy contained a provision, that in case of loss the assured
should "render a particular account of such loss, signed and
sworn to by him, and when and where the fire originated,"
&c. Boykin did accordingly send an affidavit, in which,
after giving the particulars of the loss, he proceeded further
to state that he believed the buildings had been set on fire
by an incendiary; that he had heard of repeated threats of
a person whom he named that he would burn the premises,
and that it was in consequence of these threats that he had
procured the insurance which he was then seeking to recover. When this affidavit was laid before the insurance
companies they refused to pay, and gave notice to Boykin
that they considered the policy void.
Boykin then sued all four companies in one action. The
declaration being demurred to, the demurrer was sustained.
On the back of this declaration there was this statement,
signed by the counsel of all four insurance companies:

"This action, by consent of the undersigned, was brought
jointly instead of severally."
Aln amended declaration was then filed containing two
counts, both being special upon the policy, setting forth
very distinctly the promises of the defendants as several and
not joint, and averring performance on the plaintiff's part of
all things on his part to be performed.
In the course of the trial the bill of exceptions showed the
plaintiff offered in evidence certain affidavits, being marked
"Exhibit 4." The defendants objected to them. The objection was overruled, and the affidavits read. But they

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANIES

v. BOYKIN.

485

Opinion of the court.

were not given in the record nor described otherwise than
as something "marked Exhibit 4."
Testimony was also given to show that when Boykin made
the affidavit above referred to, of the fact and manner of the
fire, he was insane. Based on these facts the defendant asked
six instructions, the substance of which was that they had a
right to proof of loss by an intelligent being, and that if the
plaintiff was insane no such proof had been given, and if he
were sane then his affidavit showed such fraud as should defeat recovery; the last proposition, however, not being put
in the form of a separate point. The court refused the instructions asked for, and charged the jury in its own way,
presenting its views fully and elaborately, upon the law and
the facts of the case.
To this charge the defendants excepted generally; not
specifying any particular part of the charge, nor any particular proposition of it.
The verdict was, "that the said defendants did promise
and assume, as the said plaintiff bath alleged, and they assess
the damages of the said plaintiff at $10,000, with interest
from the 20th of March, 1867," the date when the loss was
payable. A joint judgment being given accordingly, the
four companies brought the case here; assigning for error
as to this particular that the action had been sustained, and
judgment given against all the companies jointly.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson, for the plaintiffs in error;
Mr. W. W. Boyce, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The exception as to the introduction of testimony relates to four affidavits, which are referred to in the bill of
exceptions as "Exhibit 4." There is no such exhibit in the
record, nor anything else which can be identified as either of
these affidavits. We cannot, therefore, determine whether
their admission damaged the defence or not, and the assignment of error based on this exception must be overruled.
2. The assignment which alleges error in the chaige of

INSURANCE COMPANIES V. BOYKIN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the judge is equally unfortunate. The charge is a very full
and elaborate discussion of the law and the facts of the case,
and no particular part of the charge, nor any special proposition of law found in it, is excepted to. We have repeatedly held that a general exception to the whole of such a
charge is insufficient.
3. The exception to the refusal of the court to charge as
requested may, with a little liberality, be held sufficient.
Based on the facts of the case the defendants at the trial
asked instructions, the substance of which is condensed in
the proposition that they had a right to proof of loss by an
intelligent being, and if plaintiff was insane no such proof
had been given, and if he were sane then his affidavit showed
such fraud as should defeat recovery. The last of these
propositions is not denied, but was not asked as an independent instruction. But the first is too repugnant to justice and humanity to merit serious consideration. There are
two obvious answers to it. First, the affidavit, whether of
an insane man or not, is sufficient in the information which
it conveys of the time, the nature, and amount of the loss.
Second, if he was so insane as to be incapable of making an
V intelligent statement, this would of itself excuse that condition of the policy. It is argued that plaintiff having averred
in his declaration that he did give them this information
under oath, he cannot now be permitted to show an excuse
by his insanity for not doing it. But as already seen his
affidavit does literally prove the allegation, and if it contains
something more which was the result of insanity, that does
not vitiate what is well and truly stated in the affidavit. We
are of opinion that all these prayers for instruction were
properly rejected.
The remaining assignment of error is that the action was
sustained and judgment given against all the defendant
companies jointly.
We need not stop to inquire whether the action in this
form should have been sustained if objection had been made
at the proper stage of the suit, for by an express written
agreement found in the record, defendants, by their counsel,

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANIES V. BOYKIN.
Opinion of the court.

consented that the action should be brought jointly instead
of severally. As their liability depended on the same evidence and was founded on the same policy, and as their
defence rested on the same issues, to be supported by the
same testimony, it was manifestly for their interest to have
but one trial, and no reason is apparent to us why this could
not be done by consent. But the terms of this consent did
not authorize the court to render a joint judgment, by which
each company would be bound for the whole loss. This
was not their contract, and it may be doubted if their counsel
could have bound them by such an agreement if they had
intended it. The judgment of the court, therefore, which
is against the defendants jointly and not severally for the
full amount of the policy, with interest, is erroneous and
must he reversed.
But this error does not extend to the verdict. The
amended declaration sets forth very distinctly the promises
of the defendants as several and not joint, and the verdict
of the jury is, "that the said defendants did promise and
assume, as the said plaintiff bath alleged, and they assess
the damages of the said plaintiff at ten thousand dollars,
with interest from the 20th of March, 1867." The verdict
of the jury, therefore, finds the amount of plaintiff's damages or loss, and that each of the defendants had promised
and assumed to pay one-fourth thereof, which is manifestly a good verdict, responsive to the issues and to the
contract of the defendants. The Circuit Court ought to
have rendered a judgment that plaintiff recover of each of
said defendants, severally, a sum which would have been
the one-fourth part of the $10,000, and interest from the
time mentioned in the verdict, and a joint judgment against
all the defendants for costs. While we are bound, therefore, to reverse the judgment of that court the foregoing
statement indicates very clearly the judgment which this
court must render under the twenty-fourth section of the
Judiciary Act. That section enacts that where a judgment
or decree shall be reversed in a Circuit Court, such court
shall proceed to render such judgment or pass such decree

438

INSURANcE COMPANIES

v. BorKIx.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

as the District Court should have rendered or passed; and
the Supreme Court shall do the same in reversals therein,
except when the reversal is in favor of the plaintiff or petitioner in the original suit, and the damages to be assessed,
or matter to be decreed, are uncertain; in which case they
shall remand the cause for final decision. As the case before us does not come within the exception above mentioned,
it is our duty to render the judgment which we have shown
that the Circuit Court should have rendered. The process,
the pleadings, the trial, and the verdict are without error,
and it surely cannot be necessary to set aside this verdict
and award a new trial because the judgment which was rendered on that verdict was erroneous. And this was also the
rule by which courts of error were governed at the common
law. Indeed, it was for a long time denied that a court of
error could award a venire facias de noro. In the case of
Philips v. Bury, reported at great length in Skinner,* which
was an action in the ]King's Bench and writ of error to the
Peers, who reversed the judgment below, the case was carried back and forward several times between the Peers and
the King's Bench on the question of which court should
render the judgment on the verdict, and it was finally settled
that the House of Lords should give the judgment which the
King's Bench ought to have given, Eyre, 0. J., saying that
wherejudgment is upon a verdict, if they reverse a judgment
they ought to give the same judgment that ought to have
been given at first, and that judgment ought to be sent to the
court below. So in Slocomb's CGse, Cro. Car.,t on a general
verdict where judgment was reversed in the King's Bench,
it was, in the language of the reporter, " agreed by all the
court, if the declaration and verdict be good, then judgment
ought to be given for plaintiff; whereof'Jones at first doubted,
but at last agreed thereto, for we are to give such judgment
as they ought to have given there." In 1 Salkeld,t it is said:
"If judgment be below for plaintiff and error is brought
447.
. Page 442.
Page 401; see also Butcher v. Porter, 1 Shower, 400.

*Page

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANIES V. BoyiNi.
Opinion of the court.

and that judgment reversed, yet if the record will warrant
it the court ought to give a new judgment for the plaintiff,"
which is precisely the case before us. And in Mellor v.
Moore,* on the authority of these and other cases, the court
of Exchequer Chamber held that when a judgment is reversed on demui'rer in favor of plaintiff, the case is sent
down and a writ of inquiry goes, but when it is upon a verdict they should give the same judgment that ought to have
been given at first, and that judgment ought to be sent below. In Gildarl v. Gladstone,t on a case from the Common
Pleas having been reversed on a special verdict, Lord Ellenborough said: "The court are bound, ex officio, to give a
perfect judgment upon the record before them."
The provisions of our statute of 1789, already cited, show
that the lawyers who framed it were familiar with the doubts
which seemed at that time to beset the courts in England as
to the precise judgment to be rendered in a court of errors
on reversing a judgment, and they in plain language prescribed the rule which has since become the settled law of
the English courts on the same subject.
The judgment will be REVERSED and a judgment certified
to the Circuit Court for plaintiff against each of the defendants for the one-fourth of amount of the plaintiff's damages,
including interest, as ascertained by the verdict, and for a
joint judgment against them all for the costs in that court.
Mr. Justice STRONG concurred in the judgment of reversal, but thought there should be a venire de noro. He
stated his opinion to be that the verdict did not warrant the
entry of such judgments as had just been directed.

*1 IBosanquet & Puller, 80.

t 12 :East, 668.

