Dec. 1870.]

STURGES

v. THE

COLLECTOR.

Statement of the case.

STURGES V. THE COLLECTOR.
Under the 6th section of the act of March 3d, 1865, which enacts that "there
shall be hereafter collected and paid on all goods, wares, and merchandise, of the growth or produce of countries east of the Cape of Good
Hope (except raw cotton and raw silk as reeled from the cocoon, or-not
further advanced than tram, thrown, or organzine), when imported from
places west of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centaum ad valorem, in addition to the duties imposed on any such article when imported directly from the place or places of their growth or production,"
a duty of ten per cent. is chargeable on such goods, &c., when imported
from places west of the Cape, though the same goods be freed from duty,
when imported from the place of their growth or production, east.

to the Circuit Court for the District of New York.
This was an action brought in the court below against the
collector of the port of New York, to recover a sum exacted
as a ten per cent. ad valorem duty upon a quantity of indigo,
the product of a country east of the Cape of Good Hope,
and which had been imported into New York, on the 7th of
July, 1865, from England.
Whether the right to lay the duty did or did not exist,
depended on the construction of the 6th section of an act of
Congress of March 3d, 1865,* relating to the importations
of goods from places west of the Cape of Good Hope, in cases
where the goods were the products of places east of it. It
was not denied, apparently, that if the indigo had been imported directly from the place of its growth, the duty would
not have been payable. The difficulty was under the act
just mentioned and in regard to an importation not direct,
but from England, a place west.
This act of March 3d, 1865, already referred to, as in force
when this particular cargo was imported, had been preceded
by other acts on the same subject, and by some judicial construction on one of them. That history was thus:
By section 14 of the act of July 14th, 1862, entitled an
ERROR

* 13 Stat. at Large, 493.

See the act iqfra, p. 22.

STURGES V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

act "increasing temporarily the duties on imports and for
other purposes,"* it was enacted, that:
"There shall be levied, collected, and paid on ALL goods, wares,
and merchandise, of the growth or produce of countries beyond
the Cape of Good Hope, when imported from places this side of
the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per cent. ad valorem, AND
in addition to the duties imposed on any such articles when imported directly from the place or places of their growth or production."
In the official edition of the statutes the word " and "just
above printed in large capitals, was printed in italics; a form
of printing which indicated that the compiler of the edition
supposed it an accidental insertion, and superfluous. An
act subsequent to that above-quoted act, namely, of March
3d, 1863,t enacted that the above-quoted section should be
so modified as
"To allow cotton, and raw silk as reeled from the cocoon, of
the growth or produce of countries beyond the Cape of Good
Hope, to be exempt from any additionalduty when imported from
places this side of the Cape of Good Hope, for two years from
and after the passage of this act."
These two articles were exempt from duty at the time of
the passage of the above-quoted act of 1862.
Soon after the passage of the act of 1862, but before the
act of 1863, modifying it, one Hadden, imported into New
York from England, a quantity of raw silk, the product of
Persia, and which it was admitted but for the act of 1862
would have been free from duty. A duty of ten per cent.
being exacted and paid under protest, Iladden brought suit
in the Circuit Court for New York, a'ainst the collector, to
recover what he had paid; his idea in bringing suit to recover the duty paid on the silks, being that:
1st. That the expression in the act of 1862, "AND IN ADDITION to the duties imposed on such articles when imported
* 12 Stat. at Large, 557.

t 1b. 742.

Dec. 1870.]

STURGES V. THE COLLECTOR.
Statement of the case.

directly from the place or places of their growth or importation," laid the ten per cent. only in cases where the product was already subject to some prior duty, large or small.
2d. That by the words "this side of the Cape," goods imported into the Atlantic ports were within the terms and
chargeable with duty, while goods imported into the Pacific
ports were not within them, and not chargeable, and so that
the clause of the Constitution, which requires all duties to
be uniform throughout the United States, was contravened;
and the enactment itself, of course, void.
The Circuit Court, admitting that previous sections of the
act did undoubtedly lend some countenance to the importer's argument that the duty was laid only where a prior duty
existed, and that the 14th section itself was obscure, still
considered, on the whole statute, that the silks were meant
to be charged with the ten per cent. ad valorem., and that as
the expression "this side of the Cape," was only another
form of saying "places west of the Cape," that judgment
was to be given for the United States. It was so given accordingly. That judgment was affirmed in this court on
error;* the Supreme Court adverting to the act of 1863,
modifying that of 1862, as showing that the understanding
of Congress was that the ten per cent. was imposed as an additional duty, though in fact raw silk, as already stated, was
at the time exempt.
In June, 1864, seven months after the decision just mentioned of Hadden's case, on the circuit, Congress repealed
section 14th of the act of 1862,t and by an act like the former
one, entitled "an act to increase duties on imports," &c.,
enacted:
"That on and after the day and year this act shall take effect,
there shall be levied, collected, and paid on all goods, wares, and
merchandise of the growth or produce of countries east of the
Cape of Good Hope (except raw cotton), when imported from
places west of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centum
ad valoren, in addition to the duties imposed on any such articles
Hadden v. The Collector, 5 Wallace, 107.

t 13 Stat. at Large, 216.

STURGES V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the importer.

when imported directly from the place or places of their growth
or production."
The reader will observe that the words "this side" of the
Cape of Good Hope, in the act of 1862, are changed in the
new act to " west" of the Cape, and that the word "and"
disappears.
This enactment was in substance (with an extension of the
exemption from duty to raw silk in certain condition), reenacted in section 6th of an act of March 3d, 1865,* under
the provisions of which the defendant levied and collected
the duties upon the plaintiff's importations. That section
enacted:
"That there shall be hereafter collected and paid on all goods,
wares, and merchandise of the growth or produce of countries
[east] of the Cape of Good Hope (except raw cotton and raw
silk as reeled from the cocoon, or not further advanced than
tram, thrown, or organzine), when imported from places west
of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per centurm ad valorem,
in addition to the duties imposed on any such article when imported directly from the place or places of their growth or production."
In the present suit, the court below gave judgment for the
collector, and the importer brought the case here.
-Mr. George Tieknor Curtis, and Mr. A. B. Culver, for the
plaintiff in error:
1. The difficulty which existed, as to the proper construction of the 14th section of the act of 1862, was remedied by
Congr'ess in June, 1864, by an enactment, as a substitute for
the 14th section of the act of 1862, leaving out in the latter
act the word "and," substituting the word "east" for "beyond," the words " west of" in place of the words " this side,"
and repealing in terms the act of July 14th, 1862. This repeal and substitution took place seven months after the de*

13 Stat. at Large, 493.

Dec. 1870.]

STURGES V.

THE COLLECTOR.

Argument for the United States.

cision on the circuit, in the case of .Haddnv. Te Collector,
Congress being at the time aware of the construction which
had been put upon the 14th section of the act of 1862, by
the courts. Why after this decision in favor of the government, did it thus legislate upon the subject, repeal the act of
1862, enact a new section, and use different language in the
latter act, unless for the purpose of showing that the court
had misunderstood its former intentions, and of placing them
beyond doubt?
2. Laws imposing duties are never construed beyond the
natural import of the language used, and duties are never
imposed upon the citizen upon doubtful interpretations.* If
he who could, and ought to have explained himself clearly
and fully has not done it, it is the worse for him. This is a
maxim of the Roman law.
Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General, Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. Bill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra:
The interpretation put upon the act of July 14th. 1862, in
the Circuit Court in Hadden v. The Collector, became a part
of the statute itself, and if Congress, in subsequent statutes,
used the same or substantially the same language, the legal
presumption is that it intended that the language should
bear the judicial construction previously given to it.t iNow
there is no essential difference in the language of the acts.
The omission in the act of 1864, of the conjunction "and"
before the words "in addition to," in the act of 1862, does*
not indicate an intention to limit the application of this seetion to articles previously dutiable.
This act of 1862, was substantially re-enacted in the act
of 1865, which was in force when these goods were imported,
the only difference being that the exception is extended to
raw silk.
The object of these duties "in addition," was, of course,
to increase the revenue. In distributing the additional burAdams v. Bancroft, 3 Sumner, 387.
t Kirkpatrick v. Gibson, 2 Brockenbrough, 888; Commonwealth v. Hartnett, 3 Gray, 450.

STURGES V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

den thus caused, it would seem proper that those favored
articles, which had heretofore been admitted free of duty,
should bear some portion of it. If, besides this, it was the
purpose of Congress, as it doubtless was, to discriminate
against the products of countries east of the Cape of Good
Hope, when imported from places west of the Cape, no good
reason can be assigned why such discrimination should not
apply to articles otherwise exempt from duty as well as to
dutiable articles.
Laws imposing duties and taxes arc not to be construed
strictly against the government, but liberally, so as to effectuate the purpose of the legislature.*

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion, affirming
the judgment.
MAoneys paid for import duties, when illegally levied, may
be recovered back by the owner, importer, or consignee in
an action of assumpsit against the collector by whom the
same were exacted, if the payment was made under written
protest, as required by law, and the party making the payment Ihiled to obtain redress by appeal seasonably taken to
the Secretary of the Treasury.t
Forty-one chests of indigo, the product of India, were, on
the seventh of July, 1865, imported by the plaintiffs from
London, England, into the port of New York, and the agreed
statement shows that the late collector of that port levied
.and exacted as duties thereon ten per centum ad valorern;
that the plaintiffs paid the same under written protest, and
that the decision of the collector levying the duties, on appeal duly taken to reverse the same, was affirmed by the
Treasury Department.
They protested that the assessment was illegal upon the
ground that the goods were entitled to be admitted to entry
free of duty, and having failed to obtain redress from the
Secretary of the Treasury for what they regarded as an illeCliquot's Champagne, 3 Wallace, 114, 145; United States v. Hodson, 10
Id. 395.
t 13 Stat. at Large, 215.

Dec. 1870.]

STURGES v. THE COLLECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

gal exaction, they brought an action of assumpsit against
the executors of the late collector to recover back the amount
so exacted and paid for the duties.
Process having been issued and served, the defendants
appeared and the parties went to trial, but they ultimately
submitted the case to the decision of the court upon an agreed
statement of facts. Before the case was finally submitted,
however, the parties were heard, and the court subsequently
rendered judgment for the defendants, and the plaintiffs sued
out a writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
Whether the goods imported in this case were dutiable or
not depends upon the construction to be given to the sixth
section of the act of the third of March, 1865, which provides that there shall be hereafter collected and paid on all
goods, wares, and merchandise, of the growth or produce of
countries east of the Cape of Good Hope (except raw cotton
and raw silk as reeled from the cocoon, or not ftirther advanced than tram, thrown, or organzine), when imported
from places west of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten
per centum ad valorern, in addition to the duties imposed on
any such article when imported directly from the place or
places of their growth or production.*
Strike out the last clause, commencing with the words
"in addition," and the body of the section would be as clear
as any enactment can be that all goods, wares, and merchandise (save the two excepted articles), imported from places
west of the Cape of Good Hope, if grown or produced in any
country east of the Cape of Good Hope, are by that provision subject to a duty of ten per centum ad valorem.
Argument upon that subject is unnecessary, as the proposition is as plain as anything in legislation can be, but if that
clause had been omitted goods imported from London, the
growth or production of India, would not have been subject
to any higher rate of duty than goods of like kind imported
directly here from India, the place of their growth or production, unless the goods were, by antecedent laws, sub* 13 Stat. at Large, 493.

STURGES V.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

jected to a rate of duty higher than that imposed in the section under consideration, which would have defeated wholly
or partially both purposes which Congress had in view in
enacting the new provision.
.Congress desired to raise more revenue from importations
consisting of articles grown or produced in countries east of
the Cape of Good Hope, and at the same time to preserve
and continue the discrimination established by existing laws
in favor of importations made directly from the countries
where the articles imported were grown or produced.
Had the last clause of the section been omitted the new
provision, in any view of the subject, would not have augmented the revenue to any considerable extent, and if construed as repealing the prior laws upon the same subject its
effect would have been very largely the other way, and it
would have operated as a discrimination against the direct
trade and in favor of the importation of such articles from
countries west of the Cape of Good Hope, or in other words,
it would have reversed the policy of the government by
encouraging the indirect instead of the direct trade in the
articles of commerce grown or produced in those distant
countries. Evidently, therefore, the clause providing that
the duty levied by the section was in addition to the duty
imposed on any such article when imported directly from
the place or places of their growth or production was an
indispensable provision to carry into effect the purposes intended to be accomplished by the enactment.
All articles of the growth or product of countries east of
the Cape of Good Hope, except the two named as exempted,
when imported from places west of the Cape are declared to
be subject to the rate of duty therein prescribed, and to prevent any misconception as to the intention of Congress and
to close the door against any suggestion that the new pro:
vision repealed or modified the prior law, it was provided
that the new duty was in addition to the duties previously
"imposed on any such article" when imported directly from
the place or places of their growth or production. Ten per
centum ad valoremn is imposed on all such goods, wares, and

Dec. 1870.]

STURGES

v. THE

COLLECT01.

Opinion of the court.

merchandise, except the two articles named as exempted,
whether they were or were not subject to duty as articles
of direct trade under any antecedent law, if they fell within
the conditions specified in the sixth section of the act imposing the duty.
I Certain articles of the growth or production of countries

east of the Cape of Good :Hope were subject to duty, even
when imported here directly from the place of their growth
or production, while other articles, when so imported, were
entitled to be admitted to entry free of duty. Articles of the
kind described in the section, not dutiable as articles of the
direct trade under any antecedent law, were to pay only the
ten per centum -ad valorem specified in the section, but all
articles previously dutiable as articles of the direct trade,
save the two exempted in the body of the section, were to
be subject, in case they were imported here as articles of the
indirect trade, to a duty of ten per centum ad valorem in addition to the duty imposed under any prior law, in case the
articles were imported here directly from the place or places
of their growth or production. Construed in that way, both
of the purposes which Congress had in view were accomplished, as the provision had the effect to augment the revenue, and at the same time to preserve and continue the discrimination created by antecedent laws in favor of the direct
trade, which is in accordance with the policy of our external
revenue system as exhibited in all our laws upon the subject.
Raw cotton and raw silk as reeled from the cocoon, or not
further advanced than tram, thrown or organzine, were exempted from the new duty, or any other, by an exceplion
inserted in the body of the section, and it is a reasonable
conclusion that if Congress had intended to exempt any
other articles of the growth or production of those countries,
the articles would have been enumerated and included in
that exception. Expressio unius est exelusio allerius.
Such an exception as that inserted in the body of the section was indispensable to exempt any such article from the
new duty, as the introductory words of the section include,
in express terms, all goods, wares, and merchandise, of the

STURGES V.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

described character, when imported from places west of the
Cape of Good Hope. Unless it can be assumed that the
words " all goods, wares, and merchandise " are not used in
their ordinary sense, it must be understood that they include
all such articles of importation not specifically exempted, as
the exception proves the rule, and shows to a demonstration
that all such articles, except those two are subject to the
prescribed duty, and that the last clause was not superadded
to exempt any other articles from the operation of the introductory words of the section, but to prevent the entire provision from being misunderstood and misapplied, so as to
defeat one or both of the purposes which Congress had in
view in passing the law. Confirmation of this view is derived from the antecedent legislation of Congress upon the
same subject.
Duties on imports were temporarily increased by the act of
the fourteenth of July, 1862, the fourteenth section of which
levied " on all goods, wares, and merchandise of the growth
or produce of countries beyond the Cape of Good Hope aduty
of ten per cent. ad valorem, and in addition to the duties
imposed on any such articles when imported directly from
the place or places of their growth or production."
Attention need only be called to the last clause of that
enactment, as it is not controverted that the legal effect of
the body of the section, under which the duties in this case
were levied and collected, is substantially the same as the
corresponding portion of that provision, but the suggestion
is that the last clause in the last act is materially different
from that of the former, as it does not contain the word
"and" before the words "ii addition," as employed in the
prior act. Drop the word "and" before the words "in
addition," as employed in the former law, and the language
of the respective clauses is the same without the variation
of a single letter.*
Congress having subsequently repealed that provision,
found it ne essary at a later period to re-enact it, and in re* 12 Stat. at Large, 557; 13 Id. 493.

Dec. 1870.]

STURGES V.

THE COLLECTOR.

Opinion of the court.

producing the provision the word "and" before the words
"in addition," as employed in the prior law, was dropped
evidently because it was a redundant word wholly unnecessary to give expression to the meaning and intention of the
law-makers. When the act was transcribed for official publication the word "and" was italicized by the compiler of
the acts of Congress as expressive of his opinion that it was
a redundant word, as it plainly appears to be to every one
acquainted with the revenue laws and the subject-matter to
which the particular provision relates.*
Importations of raw silk, soon after the passage of that
act, were made from Liverpool, England, into the port of
New York, and it was agreed in the statement of the case
that the articles imported were the products oi Persia and
China. Ten per cent. duty was exacted, and the merchant
paid the same under protest and brought assumpsit against
the collector to recover back the amount paid. He was defeated in the Circuit Court and he removed the cause into
this court, where the judgment of the Circuit Court was
affirmed by the unanimous opinion of this court. In disposing of the case the court say that the latter clause does
not qualify the general language, "on all goods, wares, and
merchandise," employed in the body of the section, so as to
exclude from it the articles exempted from duty under prior
acts of Congress. Instead of that, the court proceeds to say
that it only proxiides that the duty laid by the body of the
section "shall be in addition to existing duties on such
articles when imported directly from their places of growth
or production;" that such articles as already pay a duty
when imported directly from those places shall pay a further
duty, as therein prescribed, if imported from countries west
of the Cape, the object being to increase the duty upon the
articles when not imported directly from their places of
growth or production.t
Based as that opinion is upon the proposition that the
* 13 Stat. at Large, 216; Ib. 493.
t Hadden v. The Collector, 5 Wallace, 112.

s0

STURGES v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

latter clause of the section does not qualify the first clause
imposing the new duty, it is decisive of the question before
the court, as it is clear that the word "and" before the
words "in addition" was not regarded as of any importance
or as contributing in any degree to that conclusion. On the
contrary, the court decided on that occasion, what undoubtedly is correct, that the words "any such articles," in the
last clause of the section, "do not mean all the articles embraced in the first clause, but only such of them as were
already subject to duty," to which we add, leaving all the
rest sulject to the new duty imposed by the first clause or
the body of the section.
Support to that conclusion was also drawn, in that opinion,
from the second section of the act of the third of March,
1863, modifying the fourteenth section of the prior act, and
providing that cotton and raw silk, as reeled from the cocoon, of the growth or produce of countries beyond the Cape
of Good Hope, should be exempted from any additional duty
when imported from places this side of the Cape for two
years from and after the passage of the act.*
Unaided by one or two remarks of the circuit judge in
disposing of that controversy in the Circuit Court, the defence here would be entirely without support, but it is a
sufficient answer to those remarks to say that the decision
of the case when removed here by writ of error was not
placed upon that ground; that the ground assumed in this
court was that the last clause of the section, when properly
construed, did not qnalify the body of the section in respect
to the articles not previously dutiable; that it merely provided that the new duty was an additional one in respect to
articles subject to duty under prior laws, leaving all other
articles embraced in the first clause or the body of the seetion subject to the new duty therein prescribed; and the
court as now constituted, is clearly of the same opinion.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

12 Stat. at Large, 557; lb. 742.

