Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. DUBOIS.
Syllabus.

but it has been fully proved, and it is clear that the collision
would not have occurred if it had not been made.
Whether the steamer was or was not also in fault is not
a question in this case, as that question was conclusively settled in the Circuit Court, but it may not be improper to remark that if she was so it was because she did not put her.
heln hard-a-port before she passed the tug, and the moment
those in charge of her navigation noticed that the bark had
shut in her red light and began to display her green light,
showing that she had starboarded her helm and was turning to the left.
Errors committed by one of two vessels approaching each
other from opposite directions do not excuse the other from
adopting every proper precaution required by the special
circumstances of the case to prevent a collision, as the act
of Congress provides that in obeying and construing the prescribed rules of navigation due regard must be had to the
special circumstances rendering a departure from them necessary in order to avoid immediate danger.*
Viewed in the light of that exceptional rule, the better
opinion, perhaps, is that the entire decree of the Circuit
Court was correct.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. DUBOIS.
1. Construction of Dubois's patent, of September 23d, 1862, "for building
piers for bridges, and setting the same."
Held, to be for a device or
instrument used in a process, and not for the process itself.
2. It is not a bar to an action for an infringement of a patent, that before
making his application to the Patent Office, the patentee had explained
his invention orally to several persons, without making a drawing,
model, or written specification thereof, and that subsequently, though

prior to his applicati6n for a patent, the defendant had devised and
perfected the same thing, and described it in the presence of the patentee, without his making claim to it.
3. Silence of a party works no estoppel, unless it has misled another party
to his hurt.
* 13 Stat. at Large, 61.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

DUBOIS.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. The novelty of a patented invention cannot be assailed by any other evidence than that of which the phdntiff has received notice. Hence the
state of the art, at the time of the alleged invention, though proper to
be considered by the court in construing the patent, in the absence of
notice, has no legitimate bearing upon the question whether the patentee
was the first inventor.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
Dubois brought suit against the Philadelphia, Wilnington
and Baltimore Railroad Company, for damages for an infringement of a patent granted to him September 23d, 1862,
for "a new and useful improvement in the mode of building
piers for bridges and other structures and setting the same."
The alleged improvement was asserted to have been used
by the company in building their railroad bridge across the
Susquehanna at lavre de Grace.
In his specification, Dubois, the patentee, after reference
to diagrams accompanying his schedule, thus described his
inventions, referring to the diagrams by corresponding letters; here with the diagrams themselves omitted, as occupying space, and not indispensably necessary to a comprehension of the invention.
"In the building and setting of piers for bridges and other
structures in beds of rivers or streams, it has been found necessary, in most instances, to erect stationary coffer-dams at the
points where the piers are to be located. This operation requires a water-tight chamber to be constructed up from the bed
of the river, and then emptied of its water by a pumping process, before the building of the pier can be proceeded with. The
expense and inconvenience of this operation, as well as that of
all other modes of building and setting piers in rivers, greatly
enhances the cost of building bridges.
C"With my invention much of the inconvenience and expense
thus incurred will be obviated, and a much firmer structure obtained.
"To enable others skilled in the art to perform with my invention, I will proceed to describe its construction and operation :
"To construct piers for a bridge across a river or stream from

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. DUBOIS.

49

Statement of the case.

a solid foundation, by first driving long temporary piles into the
bed of the stream, outside of a given space. These piles are
left extending up above the surface of the water. Then either
drive down between and near about the long piles other short
piles or firmly imbed rock or other substantial material into the
earth or river bed, and, if desirable, slip down over the piles one
or more broad and heavy stones or timbers, and imbed the same
firmly into the soil, so that they rest down upon the foundation,
and form a flat surface. Next construct a strong timber or other
suitable character of platform, and bolt to its upper side one
section of a hollow rectangular or other desirable form of box
or tube, which is used to incase and strengthen the pier; the
said tube being composed of boiler-plate metal, or other suitable
material, and its lower section having a bolting flange on its
lower edge, running inward at right angles to its sides, so as to
bolt horizontally to the platform. This platform and section of
the tube are caulked and pitched, or cemented, so as to be watertight at bottom and on all sides, except at top, where it is fully
open. The first and several other sections of the tube should
be strengthened laterally and longitudinally from sides and ends
by means of strong rods.
" The structure should now be filled to slide down over the
sustaining and guide piles by cutting vertical holes, corresponding with the shape of the piles, through the platform. The
structure, when thus fitted to the piles and let down to the surface of the water, floats, by reason of its buoyancy. The uipper
ends of the piles are now framed together with ties, so as to
stand firm. The preparatory steps for building and setting the
pier having thus been consummated, and additional sections
provided, so as to be brought into use as required, the stone.
mason commences to lay the solid pier within the floating coffer,
dam, using for the purpose common stone, or other material
deemed suitable. As soon as a sufficient height of mason-work
has been set in the first section to cause the structure to descend
nearly level with the surface of the water, another section is
bolted, or otherwise firmly fastened upon the top edge of the
first, so as to give the proper buoyancy and safety for continuing the work. This done, the mason proceeds further with his
work and builds up the pier until it again becomes necessary
to increase the buoyancy, when he bolts on other sections of
boiler tubing, and proceeds with the building of the pier untiL
VOL. xII.
4

RAILROAD

COMPANY v. DUBOIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the platform and pier rest down and become 'set' upon the
foundation. He now finishes the pier above the water without
using any more sections of tubing, and may, if he deems best,
use fine-cut stone, or other finished material, or he may, if desirable, continue the tubing to the top of the pier, so as to obtain
additional strength.
"When the pier is completed, the piles are sawed off just above
the top of the platform, and their stumps, in connection with
the weight of the pier, serve to prevent lateral movement of the
platform and pier on its foundation.
"1Ametal sectional boiler-plate tube has been described as the
casing for the pier, because such tube possesses great strength
at small expense, and will serve to bind and support the inasonry of the pier. It however is obvious that a floating watertight coffer-dam, operating on the principle described, might be
made of wood, or other material than boiler-plate metal, and
when the pier is finished, the floating coffer-dam may be removed
from around it, leaving the pier wholly uncovered from base to
top. The removed structure may be used in erecting other piers,
if desirable.
"I have given a minute description of means for carrying out
my invention, but I do not wish to be confined to those means,
but desire to be protected in the principle of operation embodied
in a floating coffer-dam, substantially as described for building
and setting piers for bridges and other structures.
"cHavingdescribed one mode of carrying out my invention,
what I claim and desire to secure by letters-patent is:
"1st. Building and setting piers by means of a floating cofferdam, substantially as set forth.
"2d. The use of the tube which constitutes the dam for incasing and strengthening the pier, substantially as set forth.
"3d The guide-piles (A A) in combination with a floating
•coffer-dam, substantially, as and for the purpose set forth."
The defendant pleaded three pleas:
1st. The general issue.
.2d. That the letters-patent were obtained by fraud and
imposition on the Patent Office.
3d. Want of originality.
Issue was joined on the first plea, and on replications to
the second and third.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. DUBOlS.

51

Statement of the case.

At the trial it became a material question for what invention the patent was granted, and especially wlhat the first
claim of the patentee was intended to cover.* Was it a device, a structure, or an instrument designed for use in a process, or was it a process itself? The defendants contended
that the patent, so fitr as it covered the first claim, was for
a process of building and setting piers, which process consisted of driving temporary piles in the bed of a stream outside of a given space, then preparing a suitable foundation
for a pier, then making a strong timber, or other suitable
character of platform, and bolting upon its upper surface a
section of a hollow rectangular or other desirable form of
box, to be made of boiler-plate metal, or other suitable material, strengthened laterally and longitudinally from sides
and ends by means of strong rods, and fitted to slide down
over the guide piles first driven, by cutting vertical holes
through the platforms, then laying the masonry of the pier
in this box, made water-tight, adding sections from time to
time as the increasing weight of the masonry required, and
as the box with its contents sunk, until the platform and
pier, incased by the different sections of the box, rested and
became set upon the foundation prepared, when the guidepiles nre sawed off just above the top of the timber or other
platform so that their stumps in connection with the weight
of the pier may serve to prevent lateral movement of the
platform and pier on the foundation. Holding such opinions
of the nature of the invention the defendants asked the
court thus to construe the patent, and to instruct the jury
that the words "substantially as described" in the specification (when speaking of the Iprinciple of operation" which
* One portion of the company's evidence had tended to show that -while
it used a platform, it was not one perforated with holes, for the insertion of
guide-piles; that while it had used an iron tube of boiler-metal plate, it
was not a hollow tube with a bolting-flange on its lower edge, so as to be
bolted horizontally to the platform; that it had used no caulk, pitch, or
cement; that its tube had an iron bottom, part of the tube itself ; that while
using the buoyancy of water it had not used it in combination with the plaintiff's apparatus; that one pier had been guided by screws alone; that another
had been partly lowered by fall and block, and guided by furring.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. DuBois.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the patentee desired to have protected), and the words "substantially as set forth" in the first claim, refer to that process, and hence, that unless the defendants used that process
as detailed, as well the platform, composing in part the floating coffer-dani fitted to slide down the guide-piles referred
to, by cuttin'g vertical holes through it, and sawing off the
stumps of the piles just above the top of the platform, when
the pier is completed, as also the other parts of the process
claimed in the first claim, the plaintiff could not recover for
an infringement of that claim. This instruction the court
refused to give, construing the claim to be, not for a process,
but for a device, or instrument to be employed in a process,
the instrument being a floating coffer-dain constructed as
described in the specification, in which the masonry of the
pier might be laid and sunk to the foundation by its own
gravity.
In construing the second and third claims, the court thus
charged :*

"The second claim of the plaintiff's patent is for the use of the
tube or material of which the dam is made, for incasing and
strengthening the pier; that is, it shall be so constructed that it
can be used for the casing and strengthening the pier, no matter
whether it be first placed in position entire, or be built in sections as the masonry progresses.
" The third claim of the plaintiff's patent is for a combination
of a floating coffer-dam, as claimed in the first claim, with guidepiles, which are driven into the bottom of the river, around the
site of the proposed pier, and reach above the surface of the
water, and pass through holes in the platform, and have their
tops framed together with tics; when the pier is building, they
are to sustain and keep upright the tube with its pier inside,
and to guide it down to its foundation prepared- at the bottom
of the river; when the pier is finished they are then to be cut
off just above the top of the platform, and their stumps left to
prevent any lateral movement of the platform and pier on its
foundation."
The company had introduced some evidence tending to show that one
of its caissons was constructed on shore, and then floated to its place, and set
on its foundation before any masonry was put in.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD CoMPANY v. DuBois.

53

Statement of the case.

In the course of the trial, and iu support of the plea that
the letters-patent were obtained by fraud and imposition, the
testimony of one George A. Parker, the engineer of the
railroad company, defendant in the case, by whom the bridge
was designed and built, and of a certain Crossman, in the
service of the company, and standing in some intimate subordinate relation to Parker, was given by the defendant, the
object of which was to show that the plaintiff had fraudulently obtained his patent for what was in fact the invention
of Parker. It tended to show that prior to 1861, Parker, a
civil engineer since 1838, and who, as already stated, had
built the bridge, in the layinig of whose piers the alleged infringement consisted, had conceived the plan on which the
piers in this bridge were laid, going to different places to look
at large bridges, and making many experiments and investigations; all with a view to building the piers for this particular bridge. That in the spring of 1861, when work on
the bridge had been begun, and estimates for iron in the
piers had been received, Crossman informed Mr. Parker
that "a man named Dubois, who had some notions about
bridge building, wanted to see him." That Parker being
willing to see him, some delay intervening, a time was fixed
for an interview, and the man, this Dubois, introduced; that
Dubois had previously told Crossmai that he wanted to talk
with Parker about the foundations of the Susquehanna
bridge; that he himself, when thus speaking with Crossman
about the foundations, described the cribwork for Ibundation, but never described sectional caissons; and that when
afterwards introduced to Parker, he "described" a simple
wooden structure, a crib made of raft timbers, put together
in the ordinary way, in form a parallelogram, to be built
partly on shore and partly on the river. How he was to
sink it, or how guide it to the bottom, Parker, the witness,
did not remember: it was to be filled with rough stones,
and was to sink as it was filled; that on this Parker asked
Dubois if he was aware that his masonry would be torn
away by the floods, to which Dubois replied that he would

throw out ballast on the outside and bring it to the top of

RAILRtOAD COMPANY

v.

DUBOIS.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

the pier. Parker then said, "Now, I will tell you my plan,"
and proceeded to describe it accordingly, when Dubois remarked, "I like your plan, all except the iron." Parker
then replied that the iron was the only new thing about it,
the especially valuable thing. Dubois then objected to the
expense of iron, when Parker made a calculation showing
that it would be cheap; Dubois then said, "Your plan is the
best," and asked whether Parker could not give him something to do for the bridge, as he had a lumber-yard and sawmill at Hlavre de Grace. Parker promised to apply to him
if there was any occasion, and they parted. In September
Dubois got his patent. Afterwards meeting Dubois, Dubois
said to him, " I understand you claim to be the inventor
of this way of putting down the piers." To which Parker
replied, "Don't speak to me again during your natural life.
If you have any business with me or the company, do it
through your lawyer." This was in the autumn of 1862.
On the other hand, Dubois himself being examined, testified that in June, 1862, when he asked Crossman to procure
for him an interview with M r. Parker, he described confidentially to Crossman his plan of building piers; that this plan
was essentially the same as that adopted in the Susquehanna
bridge; that being introduced some days afterwards to
Parker, whom Crossman in the meantime liad seen, in order
ostensibly to get Parker's leave to introduce Dubois to him,
Parker described to him, as his own, the same plan that he,
Dubois, had described a few days befbre to Crossman, except
that the same use was not made of the boiler-iron. Dubois
in giving his testimony proceeded: "Witness did not then
state to Parker that the plan was his own, because from circumstances he felt sure that Crossman had disclosed it.
Witness at once applied for and obtained a patent. Crossman being charged with having disclosed the plan to Parker
denied it, and then said perhaps he did, and would think it
over. At a subsequent interview he denied it."
Upon this part of the case the defendant's counsel-by one
of his prayers for instructions, the eighth-asked the court
to charge:

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. DUBOIS.

55

Statement of the ease.

"That if the jury should find that the plaintiff, in the spring
of 1861, explained his invention to the witnesses who testified
upon the subject, by verbal statements only, but without redueing the same to practice by making a drawing, model, or written
specification thereof; and that, prior to the application of tho
plaintiff for a patent, Parker, the engineer of the defendants,
superintending the construction of their bridge across the Susquehanna, had devised and perfected the plan afterwards pursued for building and setting the piers of the said bridge, and
was actually engaged in preparing for the work of actual construction when, as testified by the said Parker, the plaintiff
called on him and heard the plan described without making any
claim thereto, but afterwards applied for and obtained the patent
on which the present action is founded, then the plaintiff was
not entitled to recover."
One of the pleas, having been as it will be remembered,
want of originality, the defendants had given to the plaintiff
this notice:
"Take notice, that at the trial of the above cause, evidence
will be offered to show that you were not the original and first
inventor in the improvement in the mode of building piers for
bridges, for which letters-patent of the United States were
issued to you on the 23d September, 1862, but that a prior
knowledge of the improvement aforesaid was had by the parties whose names and residences are given in a schedule hereto
annexed,* and that the'same had been used in the construetion of the bridge of the defendants, across the Susquehanna
River, between Havre de Grace and Perryville; and that the
said 'improvement had been described in 'Mahan's Civil Engineering' anterior to your supposed invention; and further, as
special matter, testimony will be offered-to show that you surreptitiously and unjustly obtained your said patent for that
which was in fact invented by George A. Parker, engineer of
said bridge, who was using reasonable diligence in adapting and
perfecting the same."
The notice was given in professed pursuance of the 15th
section of the Patent Act of 1836, which enacts that a defend* The names and residences of Parker, Crossman, and several other witnesses, were given in this schedule.

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. DUBOIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the Case.

ant may plead the general issue and after notice give evidence
that the patentee was not the original and first inventor; or
that the thing patented had been described ini some public
work anterior to the supposed discovery, or that the patentee
had surreptitiously or unjustly obtained the patent for that
which was ini fact invented or discovered by another who was
using reasonable diligence in adapting and perfecting the
same, "iin either of which cases" the act declares that "judgment shall be rendered for the defendant." It proceeds:
"That whenever the defendant relies in his defence on the
fact of a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing
patente he shall state, in his notice of special matters, the
names and places of residence of those whom he intends to prove to
have possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where the same
had been used."
Testimony having been given tending to show want of
originality, the defendant in his last prayer asked the court
to instruct the jury:
"That, upon the issues joined, the question was open before
them, whether the plaintiff was or was not the first and original
inventor of the improvement described in the patent of the 23d
September, 1862, offered in evidence; and that in considering
the said question, the jury may and ought to consider the evidence in the cause in relation to the state of the art of building
and setting piers known at the time of the alleged invention of
the plaintiff described in said patent."
The court refused to give this instruction, but instructed
the jury thus:
"In reference to the question, whether the plaintiff is the
original and first inventor of the three claims made by him in
his said patent, the jury have a right to take into consideration
the knowledge which they may find to have been possessed,
prior to the date of plaintiff's patent, by the several witnesses
whose names are given in the notice of dcibnee in this case, and
who have been examined; and also the description of such constructions in -Mahan's Civil Engineering,' and the patent of
Parker, dated 6th September, 1864; and also all description of
his invention made by plaintiff to any one prior to the date of

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

v. DuBois.

57

Argument against the patentee.

his said patent, in the year 1861 or '62; and also to the conversation (whatever the jury may find that to have been) between
the plaintiff and the engineer of defendants in 1862, prior to the
date of plaintiff's application for a patent."
It also charged (in its 6th instruction) that if thejury found
that the defendant had infringed and that the plaintiff was the
true inventor, they could, in ascertaining the actual damages
the plaintiff had sustained, &c., take into consideration the
state of the art at the time of the plaintiff's invention, its
utility over old modes, and the saving which had accrued to
the defendant.
The defendants now brought the case here, on error, for
refusal to give the instructions asked, and on account of the
instructions given.
Messrs. W. Sehley and T. Donaldson,for the plaintiffin error:
1. The first claim is for the specified means of effecting the
result of placing a pier in a stream in a condition of preparedness for the reception of the bridge. Those means
embrace a floating coffer-dam, constructed, used and guided,
as described in the specification; and also embrace the specified devices and contrivances for constructing, using and
guiding, the said coffer-dam, up to the point of the completeness of the pier.
The language of the claim is for "building and selling
piers." It is not for the coffer-dam, nor for the use of the
coffer-dam separately, but for the use of the coffer-dam, described in the specification, constructed as therein mentioned,
gradually lowered by the weight of the masonry, and guided,
in its descent, by guide-piles, in the manner mentioned in
the specification, all co-operating to produce the result to be
accomplished, namely: building and setting a finished pier
in a river or stream.
In the -first paragraph of the specification, the patentee
claims to have ,invented "a new and useful improvement in
building piers fir bridges and other structures, and setting
the same." His first claim is for this improvement, and was
iutend.d to cover the whole.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. DuBois.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the patentee.

In another part of the specification, after mentioning certain preparatory steps, he proceeds to show how the platform
was to be constructed, the first section of the hollow tube to
be bolted thereon, &c., "for the buildinog and setting the
pier;" and then follows a description of the whole process
of building and lowering the pier ini its gradual guided doscent until, in his own language, " the pier rests down and
becomes ' set' upon the foundation."
The first claim is for aprocess. A process may, undoubtedly, be the basis of a patent, where no part of the means
employed, separately considered, is new, or claimed as new.
The combination of co-operating constituent elements, so
combined and operating as to produce a new useful result,
or a known result in a new and useful way, is patentable.
In such a case, the patent stands upon the combination or
process.*
In the construction given, as to this first claim, it is limited
to so much of the process as is necessary to building the pier.
It ignores the idea of a process for building and selling. It
does not regard the guide-piles, as embraced by the first claim,
nor the holes in the platform, as part of the means employed
in the mode of accomplishing what he claims as his invention in this first claim.
In view of the evidence introduced by the defendant,t it
was very material that the jury should have been properly
instructed as to this first claim.
2. The second claim of the plaintiff is "for the use of the
tube, which constitutes the dam for incasing and strengthening the pier, substantially as set forth."
The words " substantially as set forth" require that we
should recur to the specification to see what sort of a tube
is there described. And it seems to be plain that he claims
a sectional caisson. His direction is,-to bolt to the upper
side of the platform "one section of a hollow rectangular
Prouty v. Draper, 1 Story, 568; Prouty v. Ruggles, 16 Peters, 336,
341 ; Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brockefibrough, 298, 304; McCormick v. Talcott,
20 Howard, 405; Vance v.Campbell, 1 Black, 427.
1- See it supra, p. 51, in note.

Dee. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. Duois.

59

Opinion of the court.

box or tube." He speaks, again, of "the first and several
other sections," and of "additional" sections.
But the court construes this claim as embracing the use
of the tube, "whether it be first placed in position entire,
or be built in sections as the masonry progresses." In this
ruling the court, we think, was in error.
3. The eighth prayer of the defendant ought to have been
granted. By the second plea, fraud and imposition, in the
obtaining of the patent, were directly charged, and issue
was jollied on a replication to this plea. Strong evidence
was given tending to show the alleged fraud. If found it
would have been destructive of the patent.
On another ground the -instruction should have been given.
The testimony of Mr. Parker shows, and Dubois himself
admits that, in the conversation between them, Dubois did
not disclose the fact, if such was the fact, nor even pretend,
that he was the inventor of the mode of building and setting bridges, which Parker, as the engineer of defendant, intended to fbllow, in constructing and setting the piers. It is
a strong case for the application of the doctrine of estoppel
in pais. His silence was a justification to Mr. Parker in
pursuing the course which he had explained to Dubois he

intended to pursue.*
The last prayer was framed on the theory that the evidence in relation to the state of the art of building and setting piers, known at the date of plaintiff's patent, was proper
to be considered by the jury upon the question whether the
plaintiff was the first and original inventor of what he claimed
as new.t The court, in its sixth instruction, limited the
consideration of the state of the art to the question of damages alone.
Messrs. W. -H.Armstrong and S. Linn, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below, refusing to give the first instruction
Doe v. Oliver, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 417 and notes.
- See Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. DUBOIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

asked for by the defendants, construed the first claim in the
plaintiff's patent to be, not for a process, but for a device,
or instrument to be employed in a process, the instrument
being a floating coffer-dam constructed as described in the
specification, in which the masonry of the pier might be laid
and sunk to the foundation by its own gravity. In this it is
now insisted the court erred. We are of opinion, however,
that the construction given to this claim was correct, and
that the defendants were not entitled to an affirmative response to their prayer. Undoubtedly a patentee may claim
and obtain a patent for an entire combination, or process,
and also for such parts of the combination or process as are
new and useful, or he may claim and obtain a patent for
both. That this patentee did not intend by his first claim
to appropriate the process of building and setting piers which
he had previously described in his specification is made evident by several considerations. The words by which the
claim is immediately preceded tend strongly to show this.
The patentee had described the common method of building
and setting piers, by a stationary coffer-dam built up from
the bottom, out of which the water was pumped. The inconvenience and expense of this he proposed to obviate.
He then added, " to enable others to perform with my invention, I will proceed to describe its construction and operation."
Did he mean construction of a process? Following this was
a description of a floating caisson, or cofler-dam, with all the
details of its construction, and also of guide-piles, with a
mode for their use in directing the coffer-dam in its descent
with the pier to the foundation. IHe then added, "I have
given a uinute description of means for carrying out my
invention, but I do not wish to be confined to those means
[by which he plainly meant process], but desire to be protected in the principle of operation embodied in a floating
coffer-dam, substantially as described, for building and setting piers for bridges and other structures." This can hardly
mean anything else than a claim fbr the principle of operati-ig in building and setting piers through the instrumentality
of a floating coffer-dam, substantially such as he had previ-

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. DuBois.

61

Opinion of the court.

ously described. The language is awkward, but it is reasonably intelligible. It was not the principle of operating by
what was embodied in a process, such as had been described,
that he desired to be protected in, but that embodied, or
wholly contained, in a coffer-dam. This he had described
as all improved substitute for a stationary dam. If it was
not the method or process that he sought protection for, it
is incredible that be would have described it as embodied
(that is, collected into a whole) in one of the devices used
in the process. Now, reading the first claim in connection
with this language of the specification that immediately
precedes it, we cannot doubt that the claim is for the instrument, or device, denominated a floating coffer-dam, substantially such as described in the specification, to be used
in building and setting piers. It is clear the invention was
regarded by the patentee as a different thing from the mode
of using it. "Having," said he, "described one mode of
carrying out my invention, what I claim and desire to secure by letters-patent is, 1st, building and setting piers by
means of a floating coffer-dam, substantially as set forth;
2d, the use of the tube which constitutes the dam for incasing and strengthening the pier, substantially as set forth;
3d, the guide-piles A A, in combination with a floating
coffer-dam, substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
If his intention was to claim the process, or a process substantially such as described in the specification, it was easy
to say so, and it was worse than useless to mention only one
of the means or instruments by which the process was conducted. Looking, also, at the third claim, which is plainly
for a combination of devices, a combination of a floating
coffer-dam with guide-piles, substantially as described, and
for the purposes described, to wV'it, building and setting piers,
it is evident'the first claim was for the caisson, or coffer-dam.
Why claim such a combination if the first claim was for a
process of which the guide-piles and the floating dam were
essential component parts?
At the argument much importance was attached, on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, to the fact that the language

RAILROAD COMPANY v. DuBois.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the claim is, "building and selling" piers by means ef a
floating coffer-dam, and it was urged that, in the construction given to it by the court, the idea of "setting" the pier
is ignored. But the setting of a pier by means of a floating
dam is inseparable from the construction of a pier. It is a
part of the process of building. The building consists in
laying the masonry of the pier within the dam, causing it
to descend by its own gravity towards the bottom until it
reaches the foundation. This descent is the setting. The
floating coffer is, therefore, an instrument not only for building, but for setting piers. Hence, if the claim was, as we
think, for the floating dam alone, when used for the purpose
designated, and not for its use in combination with the other
devices, and with the process described in the specification
(what the inventor called "one mode of carrying out his invention"), it was well described as a means for building and
setting piers.
The plaintiffs in error also complain that the court construed the second claim of the patent to be for the use of the
tube, or material of which the dam is made, for incasing and
strengthening the pier, no matter whether it be first placed
in position entire or be built in sections as the masonry progresses. It is argued the claim embraced only an iron sectional tube or caisson. It is very manifest, however, that
the construction given to it was right. The specification expressly describes the tube as "composed of boiler-plate metal
or other suitable material," and, again, it states " that a
floating water-tight coffer-dam, operating on the principle
described, might be made of wood or other material than
boiler-plate metal." It is equally plain that a tube composed
of sections was not exclusively meant. The claim refers to
the specification, and that explains both its construction and
its possible use in strengthening the piers. By reference to
it it will be seen that the tube is not necessarily constituted
of several sections. Its formation is described to be, constructing a strong timber or other suitable character of platform, and bolting to its upper side one section of a hollow
rectangular, or other desirable form of box or tube, which

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

v. DuBois.

63

Opinion of the court.

is used to incase or strengthen the pier, the tube being composed of boiler-plate metal or other suitable material. This
platform and section of the tube are then caulked and pitched,
or cemented, so as to be water-tight at bottom and on all
sides, except at top, ard strengthened, laterally and longitudinally, by means of strong rods. It is then complete and
ready for all the uses for which it is designed. Sections are
added only when required by the depth of the water, and
when the tube has sunk in consequence of the masonry laid
in it nearly to a level of the water surface, though, if desired,
they may be continued to the top of the pier. There is
nothing that would justify our holding that the claim demands a tube composed of more than one section. It is the
use of the tube, whether longer or shorter, no matter what
its shape or material, or of how many parts consisting, that
the claim sought to cover.
What has been said is sufficient to show that, in our opiuion, the Circuit Court did not misinterpret the first, the second, or the third claim of the patentee.
The next assignment of error, not disposed of by the observations we have already made, is, that the court refused
to charge the jury as requested in the defendants' eighth
prayer.* The theory of this prayer was twofold. The defendants had pleaded that the letters-patent of the plaintiff
were obtained by fraud and imposition on the Patent Office,
and the prayer assumed that his not claiming the invention
when Parker described his plan for building and setting the
piers of the bridge established the fraud pleaded. The
prayer also assumed that the plaintiff's silence, when Parker's plans were revealed, coupled with the facts that Parker
was, at the time, preparing for the work of actual construction, that he subsequently proceeded with his plan, and that
the plaintiff's patent was afterwards applied for and obtained,
amounted to an estoppel in pais. It is impossible, however,
to discover how the plaintiff's silence on the occasion mentioned tended at all to show a fraud upon the Patent Office,
See it, supra, at top of p. 55.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

DUBOIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

much less that it constituted a fraud in law, so as to justify
the court in ruling that he could not maintain his action.
And the defendants, when sued for an infringement, were
not at liberty to set up as a defence that the patent had been
fraudulently obtained, no fraud appearing upon its face.*
Nor was there any case presented by the prayer that
amounted to an estoppel. No principle is better settled than
that a party is not estopped by his silence unless it has misled another to his hurt.t There was no evidence of any such
misleading stated in the prayer or found in the case. The
patent was granted September 23, 1862. It nowhere appears that before that day the defendants had expended one
dollar in building their piers. Moreover, thepoint does not
negative knowledge by Parker of the plaintiff's invention
before the conversation of which it speaks took place; and
there is some reason found in the evidence for believing that
the plaintiff's plans had been revealed to Parker by Crossman, to whom the plaintiff had partially explained them, before that conversation. The court could not, therefore, have
given the instruction asked, even if the plaintiff was under
obligation to disclose his invention to M r. Parker, which we
are not prepared to assert.
The only remaining assignment of error is, that the court
declined instructing the jury as requested, that in considering the question whether the plaintiff was or was not the
first and original inventor of the improvement described in
his patent, they might and ought to consider the evidence
in the cause in relation to the state of the art of building
and setting piers known at the time of the alleged invention
of the plaintiff. Upon this subject the court did charge
the jury that they had a right to take into consideration
the knowledge which they might find to have been possessed, prior to the date of the plaintiff's patent, by the
several witnesses whose names were given in the notice of
defence, and who had been examined; and also the description of such constructions in Mahan's Civil Engineering, and
*Rubber

Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wallace, 788.

t Hill v. Epley, 7 Casey, 334.

Dec,.1870.]

RAILROAD. COMPANY V. HARRIS.

65

Syllabus.

the patent of George A. Parker, and also all description of
his invention made by the plaintiff to any one prior to the date
of his patent in 1861 or '62, and also the conversation (whatever they might find it to have been) between the plaintiff
and the engineer of the defendants in 1862, prior to the
date of the plaintiff's application for a patent. This was all
the defendants had a right to ask. They bad given notice
of nothing more. They had not apprised the plaintiff that
the novelty of his invention would be assailed by any other
evidence than such as they had particularized in their notice
of defence. While, therefore, evidence in regard to the state
of the art was proper to be considered by the court in construing the patent and determining what invention was
claimed, it had no legitimate bearing upon the question
whether the patentee was the first inventor.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.
1. Where a Maryland railroad corporation whose charter contemplated the
extension of the road beyond the limits of Maryland, was allowed by
act of the legislature of Virginia-re-enacting the Maryland charter in
words-to continue its road through that State, and was also allowed by
act of Congress to extend into the District of Columbia, a lateral road
in connection with the road through Maryland and Virginia; Held:
(the unity of the road being unchanged in name, locality, election and
power of officers, mode of declaring dividends, and doing all its business,)
First. That no new corporations were created, either in the District or in,
Virginia, but only that the old one was exercising its faculties in therr
with their permission; and that, as related to responsibility for damages, there was a unity of ownership throughout.
Second. That in view of such unity the corporation was amenable to the
courts of the District f',r injuries done in Virginia on its road.
Third. That this responsibility was not changed by a traveller's receiving
tickets in "coupons" or different parts, announcing that "Responsibility for safety of person or loss of baggage on each portion of the
route is confined to the proprietors of that portion alone."
2. The principle of pleading that a demurrer, after several pleadings,
reaches back to a defective declaration, has no application, where thedefect is one of form simply.
VOL. XII.

5

