HOLLADAY V.

KENNARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sidered in the Court of Claims by the act of March 3d, 1863.
His associate, Sibley, is at the same time barred by that act
of any action there, either joint or several, by reason of his
disloyalty. The act does thus, in fact, sever their claims,
allowing the claim of one to be prosecuted and barring that
of the other. The technical rule of pleading in an action in
a common law court, by which a contract with two must be
prosecuted in their joint names, if both are living, has no
application to a case thus situated. And the Court of
Claims, in deciding upon the rights of claimants, is not
bound by any special rules of pleading.
We see no error in the ruling of that court, and therefore
its judgment is
AFRMED.

HOLLADAY V. KENNARD.
1. During the late civil war the defendant was proprietor of a stage and
express line upon the overland route to California. The stage was attacked by Indians and robbed of its contents, amongst which was a
safe containing money of the plaintiff below. The judge charged the
jury, in determining what was the duty of the express agent at that
time, to inquire what a cool, self-possessed, prudent, careful man would
have done with his own property under the same circumstanues; that
it was the defendant's duty to provide such a man for this hazardous
business. Held, that the charge was not erroneous; that it only required
of the defendant what might be called ordinary care and diligence under
the special circumstances of the case.
2. What is ordinary negligence depends on the character of the employment. Where skill and capacity are required to accomplish an undertaking, it would be negligence not to employ persons having those
qualifications.
3. When goods in the hands of a common carrier are threatened to be destroyed or seized by a public enemy, he is bound to use due diligence to
prevent such destruction or seizure.
4. It is not necessary that he should be guilty of fraud or collusion with the
enemy, or wilful negligence, to make him liable; ordinary negligence
is sufficient.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
This was an action of trespass on the case against ono

Dec. 1870.]

V. KENNARD.
0
HOLLADAY
Statement of the case.

Holladay as a common carrier, for the loss of a package of
money delivered to his agent at Atchison, in Kansas, on-the
2d of January, 1865, to be carried to Central City, in Colorado Territory. The defendant was the proprietor of the
overland stage line, which was then engaged in the transportation of passengers and goods from Atchison to Placerville,
in California, as a part of the great through mail line across
the continent. The package in question was delivered to
the United States Express Company in New York, which
forwarded .it to Atchison and there delivered it to the defendant's agent. It was placed in a safe made of leather
and iron, and carried in the stage in charge of an express
agent in the defendant's employ. At the time of the loss
there were no persons in the stage but this express agent and
the driver. The loss occnrred by the stage being robbed by
hostile Indians at Julesburg, on the morning of the 7th of
January.
The civil war at this period was still pending, and the
Sioux, Cheyennes, and Arapahoes were hostile to the United
States, and were constantly committing outrages against persons and property whilst crossing the plains between Missouri and California. It required much courage, coolness,
and vigilance to carry on the business of transportation by
the overland route.
Julesburg at that time was a station of the express line,
consisting of a log house and stable, a telegraph office and
warehouse, occupied by three or four persons in charge.
About a mile east of Julesburg was a mud house, called
Bulin's ranch. About a mile west of Julesburg was a military post, occupied by about forty United States troops,
under command of Captain O'Brien, and consisting of an
" adobe" building about fifty feet long, with several outbuildings, and provided with two or three pieces of light
ordnance.
About two o'clock in the morning, when three or four
miles east of Julesburg, the stage was fired into by the Indians. Making what speed they could the express agent
and driver reached Bulia's ranch with the stage, staid there

HOLLADAY V.

]KENNARD.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

till daylight, and then went on to Julesburg, where they
changed horses. They then proceeded to the military post
and informed Captain O'Brien that they had been attacked
by Indians, and the express agent requested him to give
them an escort to protect the stage on its further progress.
The captain said he could not give them an escort, as he had
but forty men on duty, and was then mounting them to go
and fight the Indians, who were in sight, and told the agent
to remain where he was, as it would not be safe for him to
go up the road. He then went with his command to engage
the Indians, who, he said, were about fifteen hundred in
number. After the troops had left the post the express
agent changed the mail there and then returned to Julesburg
and had the horses put into the stable. They had not been
put out more than fifteen minutes when the Indians were
observed coming towards the station following the troops,
fourteen of whom had been killed. There being no time to
hitch the horses to the stage, the driver and express agent
mounted each a horse and followed the soldiers back to the
military post. The Indians stopped at the station, robbed
the stage, and broke open the safe and rifled it of its contents. The troops soon brought their howitzers to bear on
the savages and compelled them to retire to the hills.
Upon this evidence the court instructed the jury that the
attack of the Indians was that of a public enemy, and that
defendant was exonerated from the ordinary responsibility
of a common carrier, and was not liable for the loss of the
money unless his agents were guilty of some carelessness,
negligence, or want of vigilance or attention, which contributed to the loss. The plaintiff below contended that they
were guilty of carelessness and negligence,first, in le. 7ing
the military post after being charged by Captain O'Brien to
remain there; secondly, in unhitching and putting out the
horses, on going back to Julesburg. These points were left,
and as this court said "very properly left," to the jury as
questions of fact. But in giving the jury instructions on
this subject the presiding judge told them:
"In determining what was the duty of the express agent at

Dec. 1870.]

8IOLLADAY

V.

KENNARD.

Opinion of the court.

that time, I can lay down no better rule for your guidance than
this: What, in your judgment, would a cool, self-possessed, prudent, careful man have done with his own property under the

same circumstances? ...Such a man it was the duty of Mr.
Holladay to provide for this very hazardous business. It was
his duty to provide a cool, self-possessed man, a cautious, prudent man; a man of good judgment and forethought."
Adverting also to the fact that the evidence showed, that
if the express agent had taken the advice of Captain O'Brien
the stage would not have been robbed, the court added:
"But the result is not the criterion by which you are to judge."
The defendant's counsel, notwithstanding the language
above quoted in italics, regarding the instruction previously
given as contrary to law, and as exacting too imuch from the
defendant, at the trial requested the judge to charge,
First. That the capture of the package by the Indians
threw on the plaintiff the burden of proving fraud or collusion of th'e carrier with the captors.
Secondly. That if the jury believed that the express agent
exercised his best judgment at Julesburg, the defendant
could not be charged with negligence.
Thirdly. That wilful negligence is required to charge a
carrier who has lost property by the act of the public enemy.
The judge declined to charge the jury on these points
otherwise than he had done in the course of his address to
the jury, and verdict and judgment having gone against the
defendant he brought the case here.
Mr. H. M. Buggles, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. W. W.
.McFarlandand Joseph La Boque, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The effect of the charge, as delivered, was, that although
a common carrier is not responsible for the destruction or
loss of goods by the act of a public enemy, he is nevertheless
bound to use due diligence to prevent such destruction or
loss. If his negligence or want of proper attention contribl
VOL. XII.

17

HOLLADAY V.

KENNARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

uted thereto he would be liable therefor. It was not necessary, in this case, that there should have been fraud or collusion with the Indians, or wilful negligence on the part of
the defendant, or his agents, to render him liable. Supposing
the express agent to have been a suitable person for the duty
he had to perform, all that the charge exacted of him was,
such care and attention as he naturally would have taken of
his own goods, that is, ordinary care and attention.
Surely, the law requires this degree of diligence, and
would make the defendant liable for the want of it, that is,
for ordinary negligence. Whether such negligence was or
was not proved, was fairly left to the jury?
The only point, it seems to us, on which any doubt could
arise as to the entire accuracy of the charge, is, as to the
degree of care and attention required of the defendant himself in the selection of the agent. The court held that it
was his duty to provide for this hazardous business a cool,
self-possessed, prudent man, of good judgment and forethought. Now, surely, no one would think of employing a
man wanting in any one of these qualifications to carry his
own goods across the Plains at that time. Ordinary prudence would dictate that such a man was essential for that
hazardous service. Here, again, the charge really requires
of the defendant to do nothing more than, as a prudent man,
he would do in the transaction of his own business; in other
words, it only exacts ordinary diligence and attention at his
hands. Ordinary diligence, like most other human qualifications or characteristics, is a relative term, to be judged of
by the nature of the subject to which it is directed. It would
not be any want of ordinary care or diligence to intrust the
shoeing of a horse to a common blacksmith, but it would be
gross negligence to intrust to such a person the cleaning or
repair of a watch. A man who would be perfectly competent
to perform the duties of an express messenger now, on the
Union Pacific Railroad, with a commodious express car at his
service, might have been a very unfit and incompetent agent
in 1865, when nothing but a mail-coach traversed the prairie,
and roving bands of hostile Indians infested the route.

Dec. 1870.]

GERMAIN V. M ASON.

Statement of the case.

Now, whether the agent in charge of the line, on this
occasion, was such a man as should have been employed
could only be judged of by what he did, or what he neglected to do; and it was fairly left to the jury to say whether
his conduct was such as a proper and competent man would
have pursued; or whether it was wanting in that respect;
and the court took the pains to warn the jury that the result
is not always a true criterion whether a man pursued a prudent course or not. They must judge fairly in reference to
all the circumstances.
We do not mean to be understood as laying down any
difirent rule from that which was laid down by this court
in the late case of .RailroadCompany v. Reeves,* namely, that
ordinary diligence is all that is required of the carrier to
avoid or remedy the eiects of an overpowering cause. We
think that when this case, with all its circumstances, is fairly
considered, this was all that the judge who tried the cause
exacted of the defendant, and that the question of negligence
was fairly left to the jury.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GERMAIN V. MASON.
1. Though several defendants may be affected by a judgment or decree,
there may be such a separate judgment or decree against one of them
that be can appeal or bring a writ of error without joining the other
defendants.
2. A judgment in personam against one defendant for a sum of money,
which at the same time establishes the debt as a paramount lien on real
estate as to other defendants, may be brought to this court by the party
against whom the personal judgment is rendered, without joining the
others.
MOTION by Mr. Nathaniel Wilson to dismiss a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of Montana, Territory; the case as it
seemed, from a not very clear record, being thus:
J. Mason and L. B. Duke brought suit in the court below
10 Wallace, 176.

