164

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HUCOBERGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

affirmed in the Court of Appeals. It appeared that Wrard
was not in jail. The case being now here on writ of error
this motion was made to advance the hearing of it.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Motion to advance the cause filed by the plaintiff in error.
Indictment. The parties agreed that the defendant on the
day and at the place named in the indictment did sell the
articles of merchandise therein named without obtaining a
license, as required by the laws of the State.. Plea not
guilty. Issue tried by court. Finding for the State. He
moves the court to advance the cause.
Clearly the motion is not within the act of Congress of
the thirtieth of June, 1870, as the motion is not filed by the
State, nor by a party claiming under the laws of the State.*
Probably it is made under the thirtieth rule of the court,
which provides that criminal cases may be advanced by leave
of the court on motion of either party. Under that rule the
motion is addressed to the discretion of the court, and inasmuch as it appears that the defendant is not in jail, the
court fails to see any reason for granting the motion.
MOTION DENIED.

INSURANOE

COMPANY V. HUCHBERGERS.

Judgment affirmed under Rule 23d, with ten per cent. damages in addition
to interest; the court believing that the writ of error bad been brought
for delay.

to the Northern District of Illinois.
L. & M. Huchberger brought suit against the Merchants'
Insurance Company of Providence, R. I., declaring upon a
contract to insure them for one year from September 14th,
1866, against loss by fire on their goods "contained in the
brick building No. 173 Lake Street, Chicago." The narr
ERROR

* 16 Stat. at Large, 176.

Dec.

1870.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY v. HUCHBERGERS.

165

Argument for the defendant in error.

also set out that it was provided in the policy that if the
situation of the property should during the existence of the
policy be changed by the assured, the policy should be void;
and also it should be void, unless countersigned by the
agents of said Merchants' Insurance Company.
After the averment of interest in the property insured,
the narr continued:
"And the said plaintiffs aver that afterwards, to wit, on the
2d of March, A. D. 1867, the said property in the said policy of
insurance mentioned was burnt, and destroyed by fire. And
that the situation of the property has not been, during the existence of the said policy, altered or changed by the said plaintiffs."
The company pleaded the general issue; and a trial having
been had on the evidence a verdict was given for the plaintifs. The defendants then moved an arrest of judgment on
the grounds:
1. That the narr did not aver that the goods were burned
at the particular place mentioned in the contract, to wit,
"the brick building, No. 173 Lake Street, Chicago."
2. That the countersigning of the policy by the agents of
the insurance company, was a condition precedent, and ought
to have been averred in the narr.
This motion being overruled and judgment given for the
plaintif, the company brought the case here on the sufficiency of the narr.
No counsel appeared personally for the insurance company, the plaintiff in error. A brief was, however, filed by
Mr. 0. B. Sansuni in its behalf, arguing that the contract was
to insure goods in a particular place only, while for aught
that appeared they had been burned elsewhere. Neither, as
the brief argued, was the policy to be of effect unless countersigned, yet there was no averment that it bad been.
Accordingly no title to sue had been shown, and for this
want of title shown, judgment should have been arrested.
31r. Lyman Trumbull, contra:
1st. The inference from the allegations which are made is

166

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HUeHBERGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Judgment of the court.

clearly enough that the goods were burned in the building
where they were insured; but if it were not so, the declaration in this respect is as specific as the policy. If the one
does not allege where the goods were burned, neither does
the other limit the liability to a burning at any particular
place.
2d. As to the objection of a want of averment of a countersigning, the declaration alleges that the insurance company "made and executed to the plaintiffs a certain policy
This was sufficient.
of insurance in writing, whereby, &c."
the
company,
the policy was not
If not executed so as to bind
the instrument declared on,.and the plaintiffs must have
failed in their proof. After verdict, the court will presume
that every material fact inferable from what is alleged was
proved on the trial.
The writs of error have obviously been prosecuted for
delay. We ask damages, as provided by the 23d Rule' of
court, which declares that:
"In all cases where a writ of error shall delay the proceedings on the judgment of the inferior court, and shall appear to
have been sued out merely for delay, damages at the rate of ten
per cent., in addition to interest, shall be awarded on the amount
of the judgment."
The CHIEF JUSTICE: The court is of opinion that this
writ of error can have been taken out only for delay. We
affirm the judgment below with ten per cent.
DAMAGES
NOTE.-Two

IN ADDITION TO INTEREST.

other judgments, given under like circumstances, were

affirmed with the same penalty.

