362

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

If; prior to the execution of the deed, there bad been a
judgment of ouster against the corporation at the instance
of the government, the aspect of the case would be different.
There is no error in the record, and the judgment is
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD.
1. A mortgage by a railroad company covering all future acquired prop-

erty, attaches only to such interest therein as the company acquires,
subject to any liens under which it comes into the company's possession.
2. If the company purchase property subject to a lien for the purchasemoney; such lien is not displaced by the general mortgage.
3. If the company give a mortgage for the purchase-money at the time of
the purchase, such mortgage, whether registered or not, has precedence
of the general mortgage.
4. This rule fails, however, when the property purchased is annexed to a
subject already covered by the general mortgage, and becomes a part
thereof; as when iron rails are laid down and become a part of the
railroad.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky.
This was a suit instituted by the 'United States, as the
holder of a number of the first and second mortgage bonds
of the New Orleans and Ohio Railroad Company, against
that company, and one Trimble, trustee of them, to foreclose the mortgages given to secure the said bonds. These
mortgages were executed in 1858 and 1860, respectively,
and covered all the company's property of every kind, with
a stipulation to include also all future acquired property.
The trustee of the mortgages and several individnal bondholders were made parties, and the bill contained proper
allegations as to the impracticability of making all of them
parties. After a final decree of foreclosure and sale, and
whilst the execution was in the hands of the marshal, it
transpired that a portion of the rolling stock, consisting of
two locomotives and ten cars, had been sold to the railroad

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. -EW

ORLEANS RAILROAD.

363

Argument for the appellant.

company by the United States in 1866, and that, simultaneously with the sale, the company gave to the United States
a bond for the purchase-money, where in it was stipulated
that the latter should have a lien therefor upon the property
sold, and that the company should not sell it or part with it
until payment of the price, without the written consent of
the United States. Hereupon the respective solicitors of all
the parties, complainant and defendant, directed the marshal, in writing, not to sell the said locomotives and ca's.
The rest of the property was sold, but brought less than the
amount of the mortgage bonds.
The parties, then, by their respective solicitors, filed a
written statement of the facts in relation to said locomotives
and cars, adding to what is above stated the further fact that
the bond given for the purchase-money thereof was not recorded, and that its contents were unknown to all the bondholders of the railroad company except 'Mr. Trimble, the
trustee of the mortgages. Upon this statement the question
whether the United States had a superior equity in this
property to that of the bondholders under the mortgages
was submitted to the court for its decision, and the court decided that they had a superior equity, and made a decree to
that effect. This was the decree appealed from.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson, for the appellant:
1. The court below has undertaken to adjudicate the question of property as between the United States on one part
and the other bondholders on the other part, without any
pleadings upon which the decree could be based, and without any such proceedings, however irregular, as would answer
the purpose of proper pleadings and process, by giving the
bondholders an opportunity to litigate the question. It has
thus been acting in a case where it had no jurisdiction.
2. It has been settled in this court that a railroad company can mortgage not only its acquisitions in esse or presenti,
but those in posse or futuro as well. A mortgage of property to be acquired, was enforced to the displacement of a
vendor's lien in the recent case of Galveston -RailroadCom-

364

UNITED STATES V. NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pany v. Cowdrey.* The mortgage here was of that sort; and
on the authority of that case should displace the lien of the
United States.
Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. H ..
Assisantl Attorney- General, contra.

ill,

Mfr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants contend, first, that the court had no authority to make the decision; that the proceeding was wholly
irregular, without proper pleadings, and coram non, judice.
This objection hardly comes with a good grace from the
appellants, who all joined in submitting the question to the
court. But the jurisdiction was undoubted. A court of
equity, in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage, clearly
has coonizance of all questions relating to priority of lien
on the property in litigation, as between the parties to the
suit and those whom they lawfully represent. The mode in
which the jurisdiction shall be exercised is not so much a
matter of substance as of form. Ordinarily a reference to
a master before the final decree would be the formal method
to pursue, but where, from oversight or other cause, this has
been omitted, the parties may certainly agree (as was done
here) to submit the matter to the court, upon a statement of
facts, after the decree.
The appellants contend, in the next place, that the decision
upon the facts was erroneous; that the mortgages, being
prior in date to the bond given for the purchase-money of
these locomotives and cars, and being expressly made to include after-acquired property, attached to the property as
soon as it was purchased, and displaced any junior lien.
This, we apprehend, is an erroneous view of the doctrine
by which after-acquired property is made to serve the uses
of a mortgage. That doctrine is intended to sabserve the
purposes of justice, and not injustice. Such an application
of it as is sought by the appellants would often result in
* 11 Wallace, 459.

Dec. 1870.] UNITED

STATES V. NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD.

865

Opinion of the court.

gross injustice. A mortgage intended to cover after-ac.
quired property can only attach itself to such property in
the condition in which it comes into the mortgagor's hands.
If that property is already subject to mortgages or other
liens, the general mortgage does not displace them, though
they may be junior to it in point of time. It only attaches
to such interest as the mortgagor acquires; and if he purchase property and give a mortgage for the purchase-money,
the deed which he receives and the mortgage which he gives
are regarded as one transaction, and no gneral lien impending over him, whether in the shape of a general mortgage,
or judgment, or recognizance, can displace such mortgage
for purchase-money. And in such cases a failure to register
the mortgage for purchase-money makes no difference. It
does not come within the reason of the registry laws. These
laws are intended for the protection of subsequent, not prior,
purchasers and creditors.
Had the property sold by the government to the railroad
company been rails, as in the case of the Galveston Railroad
Cornpany v. Cowdrey, or any other material which became
affixed to and a part of the principal thing, the result would
have been different. But being loose property, susceptible
of separate ownership and separate liens, such liens, if binding on the railroad company itself, are unaffected by a prior
general mortgage given by the company, and paramount
thereto.
In the case before us, the United States, at the time of
making the sale, reserved a lien on the property, and imposed a condition of non-alienation until the price should
be paid. Taken all together the transaction amounts to a
transfer sub modo, and the lien must be regarded as attaching to the property itself, and as paramount to any other
liens arising from the prior act of the company.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

