194

INSURANCE Co. V. TRANSPORTATION CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
1. When two causes of loss concur, one at the risk of the assured and the

other insured against, or one insured against by A. and the other by B.,
if the damage caused by each peril can be discriminated, it must be borne
proportionably.
2. But if the damage caused by each peril cannot be distinguished from that
caused by the other, the party responsible for the predominating, efficient cause, or that which set in operation the other incidentally to it,
is liable for the loss.

3. An insurance upon a steamer against fire, "except fire happening by
means of any invasion, insurrection, riot, or civil commotion, or of any

military or usurped power," is an insurance against fire caused by collisions
4. Underwriters against fire are responsible for a loss occasioned by the sinking of a vessel insured when caused by fire (though the fire itself be
the result of a collision not insured against), if the effect of the collision
without the fire would have been only to cause the vessel to settle to her
upper deck, and that be a case in which she might have been saved.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut;
the case being thus:
The Howard Fire Insurance Company insured the steamer
Norwich, owned by the Norwich and New York Transportation Company, for $5000 against fire. The policy covered the steamer, her hull, boilers, machinery, tackle, furniture, apparel, &c., whether stationary or movable, whether
the boat should be running or not running, and insured
against all such loss or damage, not exceeding the sum insured, as should happen to the property by fire, other than
fire happening by means of any invasion, insurrection, riot,
or civil commotion, or of any military or usurped power.
While on one of her regular trips from Norwich to New
York, on Long Island Sound, the steamer collided with a
schooner, the latter striking her on her port side, and cutting
into her hull below the water-line, in consequence of which
she immediately and rapidly began to fill with water. Within
ten or fifteen minutes after the collision, the water reached
the floor of the furnace, and the steam thereby generated
blew out the fire, which communicated with the wood-work

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TRANSPORTATION CO.

195

Argument for the insurers.

of the boat.

Her upper works and her combustible freight

were soon enveloped in flames, and they continued to burn
half or three-quarters of an hour, when she gradually sunk
in twenty fathoms of water, reeling over. The steamer was
so constructed that her main deck was completely housed in
from stem to stern, up to her promenade, or hurricane deck
above. Her freight was stowed on the main deck, and her
cabin and staterooms were on the hurricane deck. From
the effects of the collision alone she would not have sunk
below her promenade deck, but would have remained there
suspended in the water, and would have been towed to a
place of safety, when she, her engines, tackle, and furniture,
could have been repaired and restored to their condition
prior to the collision for the sum of $15,000, the expense of
towage included. The sinking of the steamer below her
promenade deck was the result of the action of the fire in
burning off her light upper works and housing, thus liberating her freight, allowing much of it to drift away, whereby
her floating capacity was greatly reduced, so that she sunk
to the bottom, and all the damage which she suffered beyond
the $15,000 above named as chargeable to the collision,
(amounting to $7800), including the cost of raising the boat,
was the natural and necessary result of the fire, and of the
fire only.
The Transportation Company having set up a claim for
indemnity against the Insurance Company, for a loss by fire
within the policy, and the company declining to pay, suit
was brought in the court below against it; and on the facts
as already stated, and specially found as facts by the Circuit
Court, judgment was given for the plaintiff. The Insurance
Company brought the case here to reverse the judgment.

Messrs. J. C. Carter and G. Pratt,for the plaintiff in error,
citing Mills on Causation, Brown's Inquiry into the Relation
of Cause and Effect, Sir William Hamilton's Lectures, as
well as numerous adjudged cases, in England and the United
States, went into an ingenious and interesting though, as it
struck the reporter, possibly somewhat metaphysical argu-

196

INSURANCE Co. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ment, on the subject of what was to be regarded as "the
cause of any event;" how far the antecedents of a given
event are connected together as the successive links in one
chain; and how far there are several concurrent trains leading to the effect; concluding that in no case will the inquiry
whether a given event would have happened but for another
which preceded it, disclose the cause of the given event, or
what is called its proximate cause, or its principal cause, or
anything save this alone, that such preceding event was, or
was not, a necessary contributing cause. The true meaning
of the causa causans, the predominating cause, the series of
successive causes, and of Lord Bacon's apothegm, causa proxirna non remota speclahlr, were considered at length; and the
effbrt made to show that here-the sinking of the steamer,
being the result of two concurrent causes, of which the collision was the predominating, and therefore the proximate
cause-by a right application of the just rule of law, as
established by the two well-known rules of Mr. Phillips,
an authoritative text-writer on Insurance, the loss was attributable to the collision, and to that alone; a matter in
which the Transportation Company was its own insurers;
the policy having been but against fire.
Messrs. J A. Iovey and I Halsey, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Mr. Phillips, in his Treatise on the Law of Insurance, lays
down two rules respecting the concurrence of different causes
of loss, which the plaintiffs in error contend should be applied to this case, and which, if applied, they insist must
lead to a reversal of the judgment in the court below.* The
first of these is:
"In case of the concurrence of two causes of loss, one at the
risk of the assured, and the other insured against, or one insured against by A., and the other by B., if the damage by the
perils respectively can be discriminated, each party must beai
his proportion."
*

Phillips on Insurance, vol. i,

1136, 1137.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TRANSPORTATION CO.

197

Opinion of the court.

The second is:
"Where different parties, whether the assured and the underwriter, or different underwriters, are responsible for different
causes of loss, and the damage by each cannot be distinguished,
the party responsible for the predominating efficient cause, or
that by which the operation of the other is directly occasioned,
as being merely incidental to it, is liable to bear the loss."
These propositions may be accepted as correct statements
of the law, and the question before us is, whether the Circuit Court, in giving judgment for the assured, failed to
apply them rightly to the facts of the case.
The insurance in this case was against all such loss or
damage, not exceeding the sum insured, as should happen
to the property by fire, other than fire happening by means
of any invasion, insurrection, riot, or civil commotion, or of
any military or usurped power. Thus loss from fire happening in consequence of every other cause than those excepted was covered by the policy. The insurers took the
risk of fires caused by lightning, explosions, and collisions.
Such was the contract.
-It is urged on behalf of the plaintiffs in error the findings
in the case establish that the sinking of the steamer, wherein
consisted principally the loss, or that part of it in excess of
$15,000 chargeable to the collision, was the result of two
concurrent causes, one the fire, and the other the water in the
steamer's hold, let in by the breach made by the collision.
As the influx of the water was the direct and necessary consequence of the collision, it is argued that the collision was
the predominating, and, therefore, the proximate cause of
the loss. The argument overlooks the fact, distinctly found,
that the damage resulting from the sinking of the vessel was
the natural and necessary result of the fire only. If it be
said that this was but an inference from facts previously
found, it was not for that reason necessarily a mere legal
conclusion. But we need not rely upon this. Apart from
that finding, the other findings, unquestionably of facts,
show that neither the collision, nor the presence of water in

198

INSURANCE Co. V. TRANSPORTATION Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the steamer's hold was the predominating efficient cause of
her going to the bottom. That result required the agency
of the lire. It is found that the water would not have caused
the vessel to sink below her promenade deck, had not some
other cause of sinking supervened. It would have expended
its force at that point. The effects of the fire were necessary
to give it additional efficiency. The fire was, therefore, the
efficient predominating cause, as well as nearest in time to
the catastrophe, which not only directly contributed to all
the damage done, after the steamer had sunk to her promenade deck, but enlarged the destructive power of the water,
and rendered certain the submergence of the vessel. This
plainly appears, if we suppose that the fire had occurred on
the day after the collision, and had originated from. some
other cause than the collision itself. The effects of the prior
disaster would then have been complete. The steamer would
have been full of water, sunk to her promenade deck, and,
remaining thus suspended, would have been towed to a place
of safety and saved, in that condition, to her owners, except
for the new injury. But the fire occurring on the next day,
destroying the upper works and the housing, thus liberating
the light freight and greatly reducing the floating capacity of
the steamer, would have caused her to sink to the bottom as
she did. In the case supposed the water would have been as
truly a concurrent and efficient cause of the steamer's sinking, as it was in the case now in band. It would have operated in precisely the same manner, remaining dormant until
given new activity. But could there have been any hesitation in that case, in determining which was the proximate,
the efficient, predominating cause of the sinking of the vessel ? And can it be doubted that the underwriters against
loss by fire would be held responsible for such a loss?
Wherein does the case supposed differ in principle from the
present, when the facts found are considered ? True, the
fire in this case was caused by the collision, but the policy
insured against fire caused by collision. True, the fire immediately followed the filling of the steamer with water, or
commenced while she was filling, but the effects of the

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

TRANSPORTATION Co.

199

Opinion of the court.

fire are conclusively distinguished from the breach in the
steamer's hull, and the filling of her hold with water. The
damages caused by the several agencies have been discriminated, and its proper share assigned to each. It is an established fact that the damaging effect of the water, independent
of the fire, would not have reached beyond sinking of the
steamer to its upper deck, when she would have been saved
from further injury.
There is, undoubtedly, difficulty, in many cases, attending
the application of the maxim, "proxina causa, non remora
speclatur," but none when the causes succeed each other in
order of time. In such cases the rule is plain. When one
of several successive causes is sufficient to produce the effect
(for example, to cause a loss), the law will never regard an
antecedent cause of that cause, or the "causa causans."* In
such a case there is no doubt which cause is the proximate
one within the meaning of the maxim. But, when there is
no order of succession in time, when there are two concurrent causes of a loss, the predominating efficient one must be
regarded as the proximate, when the damage done by each
cannot be distinguished. Such is, in effect, Mr. Phillips's
rule. And certainly that cause which set the other in motion and gave to it its efficiency for harm at the time of the
disaster must rank as predominant. In the present case,
however, the rule hardly seems applicable, because the damage resulting from the fire and that caused by the filling of
the steamer are clearly distinguished.
It is true, as argued, that as the insurance in this case was
only against fire, the assured must be regarded as having
taken the risk of collision, and it is also true that the collision caused the fire, but it is well settled that when an efficient
cause nearest the loss is a peril expressly insured against,
the insurer is not to be relieved from responsibility by his
showing that the property was brought within that peril by
a cause not mentioned in the contract.t The case quoted* General Mutual Insurance Company v. Sherwood, 14 Howard, 866.

t St. John v. The American Mutual Insurance Company, 1 Kernan, 519.

200

INSURANCE Co. V. TRANSPORTATION CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

St. John v. The American Mutual Insurance Company-is instructive, and is, in one particular at least, responsive to the
argument of the plaintiffs in error. It exhibits the difference, in effect, between an express exception from a risk undertaken, and silence in regard to a peril not insured against.
The policy, as here, was against fire, but it contained a provision that the company would not be liable "for any loss
occasioned by the explosion of a steam boiler." While it
was in force there was an explosion of a steam boiler which
caused the destruction of the property insured by fire. It
was held the insurers were not liable. The proviso, or exception, was construed as extending to fire caused by such
explosions, fbir, as the parties were contracting about the
peril of fire alone, an express exception of all loss from explosions must have been meant to cover fire when a consequence
of explosions, otherwise the exception would have been unmeaning. But the court said, if nothing had been said in
the policy respecting a steam boiler, the loss, having been
occasioned by fire, as its proximate cause, would have rested
on the insurers, though it had been shown, as it might have
been, that the fire was kindled by means of the explosion.
The judgment thus turned on the effect of an express exception. Had there been none, the court would not have inquired how the fire happened, whether by an explosion or
not. In the case before us there is no exception of collisions,
or fires caused by collisions. It must therefore be understood that the insurers took the risk of all fires not expressly
excepted.
It has been argued that because the policy was against fire
only, the assured are to be considered their own insurers
against perils of the sea, including collisions, and as insurers
against marine risks are liable for collisions, with all their
consequences, including fires, the assured in this case must
be held to have undertaken that risk. This would be so if
they had taken out no policy against fire. But that works
a material difference. Suppose these underwriters had insured the steamer against collisions and fire, and had then
reinsured in another company against fire alone, as they

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

CO.

V.

TRANSPORTATION

Co.

201

Statement of the case.

might have done, would it have been a sufficient answer to
a suit brought by them against their insurers, that the fire
which caused the steamer to sink was itself caused by a collision ? No one will affirm that. Yet upon the theory of
the plaintiffs in error, this is substantially what is now attempted Before any policy was issued, the Transportation
Company were their own insurers against collisions and fire,
no matter how caused. They sought protection against some
of the possible consequences of these risks, and they obtained
a policy insuring them against all loss by fire, except fire
caused by certain things, of which collision was not one.
Against every other consequence of a collision than a fire,
they remained their own insurers, but the risk of fire was
no longer theirs.
We have already sufficiently said that the amount of the
'loss caused by the collision, apart from the fire, was distinctly
ascertained, and the insurers were not charged with it. So
was the amount of loss caused by the fire itself ascertained.
If therefore it was a case of the concurrence of two causes
of loss, one at the risk of the assured, and the other of the
insurers, the damage resulting from each has been discriminated, and the insurers have been held liable only for that
caused by the peril "againstwhich they contracted.*
Judgment has therefore been given in conformity with
the rules as above stated, in Phillips on Insurance. It is
AFIRMED.
NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was adjudged
another, in error, from the same circuit, to wit, that of
WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS INSURANCE

COMPANY V. SAME

DEFENDANTS,

In which the controlling question was the same as in the. case
just reported-a question which the court said that they did not
propose to reconsider. This second case had been adjudged be* Vide Heebner v. Eagle Insurance Company, 10 Gray, 143.

202

INSURANCE Co. v. TRANSPORTATION Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

low, before the other one, and not on a finding of facts by the
court, but on a verdict by a jury; the issues of fact being submitted to it under instructions from the court.
In this second case the policy provided that the loss or damage should be estimated according to the true and actual cash
value of the said property "at the time the fire should happen ;"
and evidence of the value of the steamer before the collision
took place having been offered by the owners of the steamer,
the insurance company objected to it, and on their objection it
was excluded.
Evidence was allowed to be given against the defendants'
objection, to show how much, it cost to raise the steamer, and
$22,500 were allowed; the value of the wreck when recovered
The plaintiff based his estimate of damages upon the cost of
repairing and restoring the vessel to her former condition, ex
elusive of the amount properly chargeable to the collision.
The judge charged, that the main question for tie jury to
determine was whether the loss sustained by the plaintiffs was
the natural, necessary, and inevitable consequence of the fire.
Then, after referring to the facts as proved, he added:
"The question is, would the steamer have gone to the bottom but for
the fire? This is a vital question, and must be decided by the jury before the plaintiff can recover. You will say, in view of the evidence,
whether she would have gone to the bottom or only settled down to her
promenade deck and remained suspended in the water but for the effect
produced by the fire. If she would not have sunk but only settled in
the water to the promenade deck, except for the effect of the fire in reducing her floating capacity, then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover.),
As to the damages, after stating the plaintiffs' base of estimate, he said:
"You will determine upon the evidence whether in your judgment
the repairs that were put upon her enhanced her value beyond her cash
value before the commencement of the fire. If they did, you will deduct
from the damage you find proved a sum equal to such increase of value.",
The jury found for the plaintiffs, and judgment went accordingly.
The case was argued by the same counsel as the preceding one;
the objection by the counsel of the insurance company, plaintiffs
in error, being to the charge on the main question, to the instruction as to damages and on the admission of the evidence to
show how much it cost to raise the steamer, which the learned

Dee. 1870.]

INSURANCE

Co. V. TRANSPORTATION Co.

203

Opinion of the court.

counsel contended that the defendants could not in any event
be liable for, the rule of damages being fixed in the policy.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
As the issues of fact in this case were submitted to a jury, it
is to be considered whether they were submitted with proper
instructions.
It is complained that the Circuit Court instructed the jury
that the way to determine the question whether the insurers
were liable was to consider and determine whether the steamer
would have sunk except for the effect of the fire. This is hardly
a fair statement of the manner in which the case was submitted.
The charge must be taken, not in detached portions, but accord.
ing to its general tenor and effect. That what the judge did
charge, was. in our opinion, proper instruction, is sufficiently
shown by what we have said in the case just decided. We have
also shown that the policy contained no implied exception
against the consequences of any marine peril.
The only other thing which need be noticed is the allegation
of the plaintiffs in error that the jury were instructed to ascertain the amount of the damage, not by refbrence to the actual
cash value of the subject, but by the cost of restoration. If this
complaint were founded in fact, it would call for a reversal of
the judgment, for the policy stipulated that loss or damage
should be estimated according to the true and actual cash value
of the property at the time the same should happen. But when
the insured offered evidence to prove what was the actual cash
value of the steamer before the collision, from which the damage caused by the collision might have been deducted, and thus
the cash value of the property at the time when the fire attacked
it might have been ascertained, the plaintiffs in error objected
and the evidence was excluded. There remained, then, no way
of establishing the cash value except by ascertaining the cost
of restoration to the condition in which the steamer was before
the fire. This was allowed, but the jury were instructed that
if the cost of repairs exceeded the damage done by the fire they
should deduct the excess. It is plain, therefore, that under such
instructions the loss of the assured must- have been measured
by the standard provided in the policy.
It is sufficient to say of the admission of evidence to prove
how much it cost to raise the steamer, that if it was erroneous

STATE TONNAGE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ase.

it did no harm. The value of the boat when raised was proved
to have been exactly equal to the cost of raising her, and the
insurers had the benefit of it.
Nothing need be said of the other exceptions. They were
not pressed in the oral argument, or in the printed briefs, and
they exhibit no error.
JUDGM'kENT :IS AFFIRMED.

STATE TONNAGE TAX CASES.

Cox v. THE

COLLECTOR.

TRADE COMPANY V. SAME.

I. Although taxes levied, as on property, by a State upon vessels owned by
its citizens, and based on a valuation of the same, are not prohibited by
the Federal Constitution, yet taxes cannot be imposed on them by the
State "at so much per ton of the registered tonnage." Such taxes are
within the prohibition of the Constitution, that ", no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage."
2. Nor is the case varied by the fact that the vessels were not only owned by
citizens of the State, but exclusively engaged in trade between places
within the State.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
These were two cases, which, though coming in different
forms, involved one and the same point only; and at the
bar-where the counsel directed attention to the principle
involved, separated from the accidents of the case-were
discussed together as presenting "precisely the same question." The matter was thus:
The Constitution ordains that "no State shall without the
consent of Congress lay any duty of tImnage."
With this provision in force as superior law, the State of Alabama passed
on the 22d of February, 1866, a revenue law. By this law,
the rate of taxation for property generally was the one-half
of one per cent; but "on all steamboats, vessels, and other
water crafts plying in the navigable waters of the State," the
act levied a tax at " the rate of $1 per ton of the registered tonnage thereof," which it declared should "be assessed and col-

