FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Slip. Ct

Syllabus.

not show that any testimony was given upon that subject.
The court was asked to assume that the limitation on the
face of coupons was itself conclusive, and to instruct the
jury accordingly. But having held the unity of the corporation, of the proprietorship of the roads, and of the contract, it is needless further to consider the case in this aspect.
The instruction asked for was properly refused.
The jurisdiction of the court was not governed by the 11th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. It did not depend
upon the citizenship of the parties. It was controlled by
acts of Congress local to the district. A citizen of the district cannot sue in the Circuit Courts of a State.* Ir a corporation appear and defend in a foreign State itis bound by
the judgment.t If the declaration were insufficient, the additional averments in the replications admitted by the demurrer to be true, cured the defcct.1
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

FRENCH1

V.

SHOEMAKER.

1. Where the whole law of a case before a Circuit Court is settled by a'decree, and nothing remains to be done, unless a new application shall be
made at the foot of the decree, the decree is a final one, so far as respects a right of appeal.
2. Where there is nothing on the record to show to the court that the indemnity given by an appeal bond is insufficient, the presumption is that
it is sufficient.
3. Where a party is perpetually enjoined and restrained by a decree of a
Circuit Court, from anyproceedingwhatever, not in accordance with certain contracts which a complainant had applied to that court to make
him, by injunction, observe, that court-though an appeal here has been
taken within ten days, and an appeal bond with sufficient indemnity
given ,-may yet properly order the defendant to desist from a second
Fairfield, 422; Dorr v. The New Jersey Steam Nay. Co., 4 Sandford, 136;
S. C , 1 Kernan, 485.
* Hepburn v. I llzey, 2 Cranch, 445.
t Angel & Ames on Corporations, 404, 405; Flanders v. zEtna Ins. Co..
3 Mason, 158; Cook v. The Champlain Transportation Co., 1 Dcnio, 98.

t

Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 Howard, 405.

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.
Statement of the case.

suit in another court of the United States to set aside the contract,
just as above mentioned, passed on. And this although in such second
suit new parties are introduced, whom the Circuit Court had held were
not necessary parties to the proceeding there. Such an order is not a
misconstruction by the Circuit Court of its own decree.

THESE were two motions by the opposite parties, in an
appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Virginia.
1. A motion on behalf of the appellee to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, on the ground of the decree's
being interlocutory and not final.
2. A motion on behalf of the appellant for a supersedeas,
or for any suitable order prohibiting the court from proceedings on the decree while the appeal was pending.
The case was thus:
In the year 1854, two persons, James S. French and Walter
Lenox, subscribed for the whole stock of the Washington and
Alexandria Railroad Company, then recently incorporated
by the State of Virginia; French taking three-fourths and

Lenox one-fourth, and French being made President of the company. The road was built. French and Lenox, however,
spent very little money of their own in its construction, but
raised large sums by borrowing. When, therefore, the road
Two
was built the company was seriously embarrassed
deeds of trust had been executed in 1855, and in 1857 another deed was made to Lenox, as trustee, to secure bonds,
issued to raise money for the purposes of the road.
The civil war broke out when the road was in this condition, and French and Lenox went South, and were disabled
by the condition of the country and by the government's
taking military possession of the road from asserting their
title to the property.
During their absence, a proceeding was instituted in the
Alexandria County Court for the removal of Lenox as trustee in the deed of trust to him, and this resulted in an order
for such removal, and for the substitution of one Stewart as
trustee in his place. The new trustee proceeded in alleged
conformity to the deed of trust to sell the railroad.

FRENCH v. SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

Under the sale thus made, a new company was organized,
which assumed the name of the *Washington, Alexandria,
and Gcoryetown Railroad Company; and the government
having relinquished the road in 1865, this company took
possession of it at once; and not long afterwards entered
into a contract with the Adams Express Company in relation to the conveyance of express freight, and the furnishing
by the latter of means to work the road. This contract did
not prove satisfactory, and by consent of both parties, a lease
for tell years was made to two persons, named Stevens and
Phelps, in May, 1866; and in the following June, another
contract for means of operation and for the conveyance of
express freight was made for ten years with the Adams Express Company.
Litigation soon arose upon this lease and upon these contracts. One Davison, asserting himself to be a stockholder
of the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad
Company, filed his bill in the Alexandria County Court in
November, 1866, alleging that the lease was made without
authority, and in fraud of the rights of the stockholders,
and praying that it might be set aside and annulled. The
Adams Express Company filed its bill about the same time,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Virginia, praying for the enforcement of its contract with
the company, and with the lessees; and under that proceeding an order was made by the Circuit Court for the appointment of receivers of the road, who took possession.
The Adams Express Company was not a part), to the suit
in the State court, nor was the Washington and Alexandria
Railroad Company a party to the suit in the Federal court.
The Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company describing itself as that company by fames S. .french, its President, had already in March, 1866 (the government having
with the suppression of the rebellion, given up, as already
said, its possession, and French and Lenox having returned
from the South), filed its bill in the Alexandria County Court
asserting its title to the road, charging fraud in the whole
proceeding for the organization of the Washington, Alex-

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

Statement of the case.

andria, and Georgetown Railroad Company, and praying
that it might be declared void, and that a decree might be
made establishing its own original title to the road as unimpaired by that proceeding.
In this condition of conflicting claims, and with these and
other suits pending, two instruments were executed with a
view to adjust things between all the parties at issue; and
who were the said French and Lenox, Stevens and Phelps,
and one Shoemaker, representing the Adams Express Company. Two other persons, viz., Brent and Smith, also had
an interest.
The transaction vested in Shoemaker the interest of French
in the Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company as security to himself and the Adams Express Company for the
repayment of the $5000 then advanced, and the sums to be
thereafter advanced in payment of the liabilities of the company, and of the lessees incurred on account of the road,
and as security to all the parties for the performance of the
covenants contained in the agreement, and especially for the
reorganization of' the company upon the rendering of a decree by the said Alexandria County Court establishing its
title to the road, and for the distribution of the stock of the
company among the parties in the stipulated proportions.
These instruments, which made what might be called a sort
of settlement contract, were intended as an adjustment of ,
controversies relating to the Washington and Alexandria
Railroad Company, so far as the parties to it were concerned,
and as an arrangement for means to liquidate its just liabilities, and put it into successful and profitable operation.
The decree, on the rendering of which the contract was to
be carried into effect, was rendered in the said Alexandria
County Court on the 28th of August, 1868. It declared the
sale by the trustee, Stuart, and the organization of the new
company fraudulent, null, and void; and ordered that on
execution of a bond in a suni specified, to account to creditors for the receipts of the road, it should be "restored" by
the officers of the so-called new company "to the possession
of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, its

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

duly constituted officers and agents." At the time of this
decree the road was in possession of the receivers appointed
by the Federal court at the suit of Adams Express Company.
In this state of things thus far completed, Shoemaker filed
a bill in the court below, the Circuit Court for Virginia,
against French; and French then filed a cross-bill against
him. The original bill, after stating the rendering of the
decree contemplated by the settlement contract, as just above
mentioned, stating also the alleged equities arising from the
contract, and the action of the parties to it, except French,
charged that notwithstanding French's conveyance, and notwithstanding that a meeting had been held of all the parties
to the contract, to reorganize the road under the contract
(he having been present), French, under color of the order
of restoration, had executed a pretended bond in the sum
specified in the order, as the bond required by the decree,
and that he had ordered the clerk of the Circuit Court to
issue a writ of possession ordering the restoration of the
road and property of the company, and under color of this
fraudulent and illegal proceeding had attempted to take possession of the road, notwithstanding that it was at the time
in possession of the receivers of the Circuit Court at the suit
of the Adams Express Company, represented by the complainant; charging further, that French was so reckless of
his obligation to him, the complainant, Shoemaker, and so
determined to prevent the execution of the reorganization
of the company, that unless enjoined he would damage the
interest of the complainant and the others irreparably. The
bill prayed that French be enjoined from attempting to do
any act as P resident of the said Alexandria and Washington
Railroad Company, and from intermeddling with the road
and property of the company, or with the parties to the
agreement, or with the complainant in carrying out its provisions, or from holding any meeting for the reorganization
of the company, or from taking any proceedings at law or
in equity for that purpose, except by proceedings in the suit
in which the bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Virginia, or by attending the meetings for the

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.
Statement of the case.

purpose of such reorganization, and voting or using the interest he may have under the settlement, if he have any, for
the quiet and proper object of the said meetings; and that
his said interest be sold by a commissioner of the court, for the
payment of said sum of $5000, according? to the practice of the
court; and that the complainant, in his own behalf, and as
trustee of said parties to said agreement, have such other
and further relief as his case and their interest might require.
The answer of French admitted the execution of the contract, and that he was then and for some time afterwards
satisfied with it; but proceeded to allege circumstances of
hardship and imposition under which he was induced to become a party to it, and various other matters supposed to
show a want of equity in the complainant.
The matters set up in the answer were again set up in the
cross-bill of French, together with other matter of complaint, as grounds for his prayer that the settlement contract
might be annulled, and the parties to it be restrained from
all attempts to enforce any pretended rights under it. The
point too was taken in the cross-bill, that Stevens and Phelps were
necessary parties to the original bill.
The answer of the original complainant to this bill denied
every substantial allegation of fact on which relief against
the contract was claimed.
The decree was thus made, Chase, C. J., presiding:
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the bill, answer, and
replication, and upon the cross-bill, answer, and replication, and
upon the proofs, and being maturely considered, the court is of
opinion that the equity of the case is with the complainant in the
original bill, and thereupon do.order, adjudge, and decree that
James S. French, the defendant in the original bill, be perpetually enjoined and restrained from any use of the name or title
of the president of the Washington and Alexandria Railroad
Company under any election to that office heretofore held, and
from any action by himself or any attorney or agent to interfere
with any proceeding fbr the reorganization of the said company
under the contracts mentioned in said bill, and dated on the 6th
of December, 1867, and from any proceeding whatever not in accord-

FRENOH V. SHOEMAKER.

Piup. Ct.

Argument in support of the first motion.

ance with the said contracts, without prejudice, however, to the
right of the said French to the stock assigned to him by said
contract, or to assert any claim he may have against said company reorganized under said contract, or against the said Shoemaker, or against the Adams Express Company, not in contravention of the said contract, or to pursue by proper proceedings
in law or equity any claim he may have in respect to the distribution of stock made in and by said contract, founded upon the
failure of consideration or other cause.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
defendant, French, pay the costs in this cause, and leave is given
to either party to apply at the foot of this decree for such further
order as may be necessary to its due execution, or as may be
required in relation to any matter not finally determined by it."
From this decree an appeal to this court was immediately
and within ten days asked for by French, and allowed by
the Chief Justice, " upon the defendant's giving bond with
good and sufficient security in the sum of $500." The bond,
&c., was given.
In this state of things the bill and cross-bill in the equity
suit, on which the decree has just above been given, having
been, as the reader will have observed, a proceeding between
French and Shoemaker alone, and the objection to the bill for
want of proper parties taken and overruled, French began a
suit in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against
all the parties to the settlement contract except Shoemaker, for
the purpose of setting aside the agreement. His bill being
demurred to because Shoemaker was not a party, and the
demurrer being sustained, Shoemaker was added.
Hereupon, on the application of Shobmaker to the Circuit
Court of Virginia, that court ordered French to dismiss his
bill in the District, and to stop proceedings under pain of
imprisonment. He dismissed his bill.
It was in this state of things that the two motions mentioned at the opening of the report (on page 87), came before
this court.
I. ON THE FIRST MOTION, to wit, that of Shoemaker, the
appellee, to dismiss the appeal, it was argued:

FRENCH 11. SHOEMAKER.

Dec. 1870.]

Argument in support of the second motion.

In support of the motion, that the decree was not final, because it had not touched the prayer for foreclosure of the
mortgage for $5000, one important object of the bill.
Neither had it dismissed the cross-bill. Yet in Ayres v.
Carver,* a decree was held not final on dismissal of a crossbill the original bill being left. This was but a converse of
that case.
That the decree was not meant to be final was shown by
the language of the decree, which anticipated further action
of the court in matters not finally disposed of.
Gontra, as respected this motion, it was said that the subject not disposed of, to wit, the mortgage for $5000, was
distinct from that which formed the substance of the decree,
and that, in fact, the bill was multifirious in joining these
two separate claims. The decree completely disposed of one
of them, and was final as to that. That was enough.t
To what was said about the cross-bill not being dismissed,
it was replied, that it had been in effect dismissed when on
a cause declared to have been heard on bill and cross-bill,
the equity was declared to have been with the complainant
in the original bill.
The leave reserved was to apply on the foot of the decree,
and plainly was meant for formal orders only. The Chief
Justice, who made the decree with this reservation, allowed
an appeal immediately; a proof that he did consider that
he had made a final decree.
-. As TO THE SECOND MOTION, for a supersedeas, or for any
suitable order prohibitingthe court below from proceeding, &c.,
it was argued-the parties reserving their position of parties
moving-infavor of the appellant,
1. That while the merits of this case could not be fully
considered on a motion, it was necessary to refer to the main
points in the case in order to act on the motion. The agreement was not between French and Shoemaker alone, but
* 17 Howard, 591.

j- Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wallace, 342, citing Forgay v. Conrad, 6 Howard,

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the second motion.

was signed by five other persons, to wit: Lenox, Stevens,
Phelps, Smith, and Brent. These persons were so interested
in the contracts that they were necessary parties to the suit.
Now the objection for want of parties had been distinctly
made in the cross-bill, on the hearing in the Circuit Court
below. The decree nevertheless went the full length of setting up the contracts, and enjoined French "from any proceedings whatever not in accordance with" them. It was
in effect an injunction against the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company. which was no party to the record.
And the effect of the order subsequently made, to stop proceedings in the court of the District, was to prevent the appellant from pursuing his remedy against the parties named,
and to make the decree conclusive in their favor, although
they were not parties to the proceeding in which it was rendered.
2. By the appeal taken and bond filed within ten days,
the decree was suspended and the case removed to this
court. No further proceedings as to that decree could be
taken in the court below while the appeal was pending here.
For any violation of the decree, the appellant was answerable to this court and not to the Circuit Court.
But, independently of the supersedeas thus claimed, this
court had the right, under the 14th section of the Judiciary
Act, "to issue any writ necessary to render its appellate
jurisdiction effectual."*
The order of the Circuit Court placed a construction on
the decree previously made which was unreasonable. It
was in fact equivalent to a new decree, inasmuch as it extended its operation not only beyond the parties to the
cause, but beyond the terms of the decree itself. If a court
could do this, pending an appeal; if it had the power to
construe the decree and enforce it by process of contempt
in doubtful cases, then it was evident that the inferior court
might evade the appellate jurisdiction, and use the decree
for purposes which this court would not sanction. This
* Ex parte Milwaukee Railroad Co , 5 Wallace, 189.

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

court should either prohibit such proceedings altogether or
should examine them when they were alleged to have taken
place, in order to prevent wrong and oppression, such as
appeared in this case.
Contra. The appeal cannot operate as a supersedeas because
of the insufficiency of the bond. The bond is in the penalty
of $500. A writ of error or an appeal is not a supersedeas
unless bond be given in a sum sufficient to secure the whole
amount of the judgment or decree, in case of affirmance.
But if there is a supersedeas this will not prevent the court
below preventing a plain contempt of its decrees. Such a
contempt was made by the suit in the Supreme Court of
the District.
The argument of the other side is in fact an argument on
merits, which are not now open to discussion.
.Mr. F. P. Stanton, for the appellant; lMessrs. B. T. Merrick
and G. W. Brent, contra.
M r. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Accurate conclusions in motions like the present, involving important questions of practice, are essential to the correct administration of justice in all judicial tribunals exercising appellate powers, but they are especially so in this
court, whether the case is brought here from a State court
or a Circuit Court, as the jurisdiction of the court is special
and must in every case be tested by the Constitution and
the laws of Congress.
Considerable importance is attached in this case to the
motion for a supersedeas as well as to the motion to dismiss
the appeal, but the court, in view of the circumstances, will
first examine the motion to dismiss, as it is in its nature
preliminary, and if granted will render it unnecessary to
examine the other motion.
On the sixteenth of November, 1868, the appellee filed a
bill of complaint against the appellant in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Virginia, setting up

FRENcH v. SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

two written agreements therein described, and to which
special reference is made as exhibited in the record. They
are both of the same date. Without entering much into
details, suffice it to say that one purports to be an assignment by the appellant to the appellee of all his right, title,
interest, claim, and demand whatsoever in and to the property, stock, road, road-bed, franchise, and charter of the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, for two specific purposes. (1) To secure the payment to the appellee
of the sum of five thousand dollars advanced by the appellee
to the appellant. (2) To carry into effect the purposes and
objects set forth in the other written agreement. Both
agreements are signed by the appellant, and upon the back
of the one given to secure the payment of the money advanced is the following agreement and consent: " We, the
undersigned, do hereby agree and consent to the terms and
conditions of the within assignment," which expressly recites that it was executed to accomplish the two purposes
already described. Reference to the record will show that
the assignment is signed by the appellant and that the indorsement is signed by all the other parties supposed by
him to have an interest in the assigned property.
Special reference is made in the instrument of assignment
to the purposes and objects set forth in the other written
agreement, in which it is stipulated in substance and effect
as follows: (1) That the appellant and Walter Lenox will
convey all their right, title, and interest in that railroad
company to a new corporation, to be formed as therein
specified, or to devote all of that interest to the common
benefit of the parties to the instrument, in the proportions
therein specified, in case the old company should be revived.
(2) That they agree to assign to the new company, when
the parties shall actually organize the same, all their interest
as lessees of the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown
Railroad, or to hold the same for the exclusive use of the
parties to the agreement, according to their respective interests. (3) That the appellee, for himself and the Adams
Express Company, covenants to aid the new company, with

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

Opinion of the court.

money and credits, to pay, settle, or compromise certain
specified liabilities as set forth in the agreement. Certain
other important conditions are also inserted in the instrument, but they are not material in this investigation.
Process was duly issued and served, and the appellant appeared and filed an answer setting up various defences to
the merits of the claim made by the appellee. Subsequent
to the filing of the answer the appellee filed the general replication, and the cause being at issue proofs were taken by
both parties. Before the final hearing, however, the appellant filed a cross-bill, in which he insisted upon the defences set up in the answer, and also alleged that the other
parties to the agreements were necessary parties to the bill
of complaint. Due answer was made by the appellee to the
cross-bill, and the appellant filed to the same the general
replication.
Such being the state of the pleadings, the cause, on the
twenty-first of June last, came on for final hearing " upon
the bill, answer, and replication, and upon the cross-bill,
answer, and replication, and upon the proofs," and the statement in the decree is that " the court is of the opinion that
the equity of the case is with the complainant," and that the
court "thereupon do order, adjudge, and decree that James
S. French, the defendant in the original bill, be perpetually
enjoined and restrained from any use of the name or title
of the president of the Washington and Alexandria 1ailroad
Company, under any election to that office heretofore held,
and from any action by himself or any attorney or agent to
interfere with any proceeding for the reorganization of the
said company under the contract mentioned in said bill, &c.,
and from any proceeding whatever not in accordance with
the said contracts, without prejudice," as therein recited.
Omitting the qualifications stated in the recitals, the decree
continues as follows: "It is further ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the said defendant, French, pay the costs in
this cause."
Final decrees in suits in equity passed in a Circuit Court,
VOL. XIL

7

FREN0OH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of two
thousand dollars exclusive of costs, may be re-examined in
this court, but the act of Congress does not define what is
meant by the phrase "final decree."
Objection is made
that the decree is not final because it does not in terms dismiss the cross-bill, but the court is of the opinion that the
statement contained in the decree, that the equity of the
case is with the complainant, by necessary implication disposes of the cross-bill as effectually as it does of the answer
filed by the appellant to the original bill of complaint.
Leave, it is true, is given to either party to apply, at the
foot of the decree, for such further order as may be. necessary to the due execution of the same, or as may be required
in relation to any matter not finally determined by it, but it
is quite apparent that that reservation was superadded to
the decree as a precaution and not because the court did not
regard the whole issue between the parties as determined
by the decree. Such was doubtless the view of the Chief
Justice who passed the decree, as the application for the appeal was made to him at the same term and was immediately
granted without objection.
Several cases might be referred to where it is held that a
decree of foreclosure and sale of mortgaged premises is a
final decree, and that the defendant is entitled to his appeal
without waiting for the return and confirmation of the sale
by a decretal order, upon the ground that the decree of foreclosure and sale is final as to the merits, and that the ulterior
proceedings are but a mode of executing the original decree.*
Unquestionably the whole law of the case before the court
-was settled by the Chief Justice in that decree, and as nothing remains to be done, unless a new application shall be
made at the foot of the decree, the court is of the opinion
that the decree is a final one, as it has conclusively settled
all the legal rights of the parties involved in the pleadings.t
Whiting v. Bank of the United States, 13 Peters, 15; Bronson v. Railroad, 2 Black, 524.
t Forgay v. Conrad, 6 Howard, 202; Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wallace, 342;
,Curtiss's Commentaries, 188; Beebe v. Russell, 19 Howard, 283.

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

Opinion of the court.

2. Beyond all doubt the appeal of the respondent in this
case was allowed within ten days from the date of the decree, and the record shows that the bond to prosecute the
writ to effect and answer all damages and costs if he fail tG
make his plea good was filed and duly approved within the
same period, but it is denied by the appellee that the appeal
operates as a supersedeas, because it is insisted that the bond
given in the case is not in a sum sufficient to constitute indemnity for the whole amount of the decree.
Where the judgment or decree is for the recovery of
money, not otherwise secured, the indemnity must be for
the whole amount of the judgment or decree, including just
damages for delay, and costs and interest on the appeal.*
But in all suits where the property in controversy neces.
sarily follows the event of the suit, as in real actions, r.
plevin, and in suits on mortgages, indemnity is only required
in an amount sufficient to secure the sum recovered for the
use or detention of the property and the other incidental
items, as in cases where the judgment or decree is for
money. What is necessary is that it be sufficient, and when
it is desired to make the appeal a supersedeas, that it be
filed within ten days from the rendering of the decree, and
the question of sufficiency must be determined in the first
instance by the judge who signs the citation, but after the
allowance of the appeal that question as well as every other
in the cause becomes cognizable here. It is therefore matter of discretion with the court to increase or diminish the
amount of the bond and to require additional sureties or
otherwise as justice may require.t
All that is required in a case where the writ of error is
not a supersedeas is that the bond shall be in an amount sufficient to answer the costs in case the judgment or decree is
affirmed. Nothing appears in the record to show that the
indemnity given is insufficient, and inasmuch as nothing ap* Catlett v. Brodie, 9 Wheaton, 553; Stafford v. Union Bank, 16 Howard,
135; Same v. Same, 17 Id. 275.
t Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 6 Wallace, 156; Rule 32; The Slaughterhouse Cases, 10 Wallace, 273; 1 Stat. at Large, 404.

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pears to the contrary the court is of the opinion that it must
be presumed that the amount is sufficient.
Appeals and writs of error are constituted a supersedeas
in certain cases by virtue of the twenty-third section of the
Judiciary Act, when the conditions there prescribed are fulfilled. Where those conditions are complied with the act
of Congress operates to suspend the jurisdiction of the subordinate court and stay execution pending the writ of error
or appeal, and until the case is determined or remanded.*
Power to issue a supersedeas to a decree in a subordinate
court does not exist in this court where the appeal was not
taken and the proper bond given within ten days from the
date of the order, except where an appeal was duly taken
within ten days, and the aggrieved party is obliged to take
a second appeal in consequence of the clerk below having
neglected to send up the record in season, or where the
granting of such a writ becomes necessary to the exercise
of the appellate jurisdiction of the court, as where the subordinate court improperly rejected the sureties to the bond
because they were not residents of the district.t
Appellate power in the controversy under consideration
is conferred upon this court, and it isclear that this court
may issue a supersedeas in such a case whenever it becomes
necessary to the exercise of its appropriate jurisdiction.1
Attention will now be called to the grounds of the motion
for a supersedeas, as shown in the affidavit of the appellant.
He states that he filed a bill in equity in the Supreme Court
of this district against Oscar A. Stevens, George W. Brent,
W. Jackson Phelps, Richard T. Merrick, J. Dean Smith,
and Walter Lenox; that the respondents demurred to the
bill on the ground that the appellee berore the court was a
necessary party respondent in the case, and that the court
* Hogan v.Ross, 11 Howard, 295.

Hogan v. Ross, 11 Howard, 296; Ex parte Milwaukee Railroad Co., 5
H
Wallace, 188; Stockton et al. v. Bishop, 2 Howard, 74; Hardeman v. Anderson, 4 Id. 640; Wallen v. Williams, 7 Cranch, 279; Saltmarsh v. Tuthill, 12 Howard, 389.
1 Stat. at Large, 81; Stockton et al. v. Bishop, 2 Howard, 75.

Dec. 1870.]

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.
Opinion of the court.

where the bill was pending sustained the demurrer. Wherefore the appellant here amended his bill, and made the appellee a party respondent.
Consequent upon those proceedings, as the affiant states,
the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia laid a rule on
him requiring him to appear in that court, on a day named
in the rule, to show cause why he should not be tined and
attached for the acts set forth in the petition, and charged
therein to be in violation of the aforesaid order and decree
of the court below in this case; that he appeared and showed
cause as required, but that the court there being of opinion
that he had violated the decree in the case before the court
by filing his bill in equity in the Supreme Court of this district, ordered that he foirthwith dismiss the same and cease
all proceedings under the same on pain of imprisonment,
and that he, having no alternative but to go to jail or to
submit to the order of the court, chose the latter, and dismissed his bill of complaint. His views are that the Circuit Court erred in passing that order, and that that court
gave an erroneous construction to the decree entered by the
Chief Justice in the case, making it more comprehensive than
its language will warrant, and he moves this court to issue a
supersedeas or other suitable order to correct those errors.
Suppose the theory of the appellant is correct that the circuit judge in construing the decree gave it a scope beyond
its legitimate meaning, very grave doubts are entertained
whether this court, under the present motion, could afford
the appellant any remedy, as the facts supposed would not
show that anything had been done to defeat or impair the
appellate jurisdiction of this court. Acts void in themselves
may be done by the Circuit Court outside of the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court which this court cannot re-examine.
Authority does not exist in this court to issue a supersedeas,
except in cases where it is necessary to the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction, but the court is not inclined to rest its
decision in this case upon that ground, as we are all of the
opinion that the circuit judge did not err in his construction
of the order and decree enjoining the appellant in that de-

FOWLER v. RATIMnONES.

[sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

cree. He is perpetually enjoined and restrained from any
use of the name or title of the president of the company
under any election to that office heretofore held, and from
any action, by himself or any attorney or agent, to interfere
with any proceeding for the reorganization of the company
under the contracts, orfron any proceedingwhatever not in accordance with the said contracts. More compreheusive language
could hardly be employed, and argument can hardly make
it plainer or add anything to its force or eflect.
lOT[ MOTIONS DENIED.

FOWLER V. RATHEONES.
1. Where a ship and cargo are exposed at a particular place to a common
peril of sinking, and becoming submerged in deep water, and the expense of raising and saving them from that place would be greater than
if stranded in shoal water, and the master, to save them from such increased expenses, runs the ship on flats near by and strands her in shoal
water, and thereby increases the peril to the ship and diminishes the
damages and expenses of saving her and the cargo, then there is a "voluntary stranding" within the meaning of the law, and a case entitling
the owners of the vessel to recover, as general average, their just proportion of such damages and expenses.
2. Where no water enters the ship which reaches and damages the cargo,
except what comes through holes cut in the bows by the ice previously
to such a case of stranding, then the owners of the cargo are not entitled
to be allowed anything for the damages to their cargo by water, by
way of general average, or by way of reduction of the shipowner's
claim.
3. In such a case of stranding the shipowners are entitled to recover in
general average only those expenses which were caused by stranding
the ship, not including any occasioned by damage to the ship through
the swelling of the cargo (linseed, which water swells) caused by water
which entered through the holes in the bows; but if the ship was also
injured by such stranding and by lying on an uneven bottom, her owners
are entitled to recover the expenses for repairing such injuries, by way
of general average, and it is for the jury to determine from the evidence
what such repairs amount to.
4. Erroneous findings of the jury-assuming them to be erroneous-as to
what injury the ship did suffer by the stranding and what by swelling

