Dec.

1870.]

HOFFMAN

& CO. v.

BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

181

Statement of the case.

of Congress was thus clearly manifested to adopt the construction of the act of 1853, which had been given to it by
the Pension Bureau, and we are hardly at liberty now to interpret it differently.
In view of this action of Congress, and the long-standing
construction of the act given by the department whose duty
it was to act under it, we are of opinion that the plaintiff's
intestate was not entitled to a pension commencing anterior
to February 3d, 1853. The judgment of the Court of Claims
was, therefore, erroneous.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the record remanded with in-

structions to
DISMISS

IHOFFMAN & Co. V.

THE PLAINTIFF'S SUIT.

BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

A consignor who had been in the habit of drawing bills of exchange on his
consignee with bills of lading attached to the drafts drawn (it being part
of the agreement between the parties that such bills should always
attend the drafts), drew bills on him with forged bills of lading attached
to the drafts, and had the drafts with the forged bills of lading so attached discounted in the ordinary course of business by a bank ignorant of the fraud. The consignee, not knowing of the forgery of the
bills of lading, paid the drafts. Held, that there was no recourse by the
consignee against the bank.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin;
the case being thus:
Chapin & Miles, a forwarding and commission firm in
Milwaukee, were engaged in moving produce to Hoffman &
Co., of Philadelphia, for sale there. The course of their
business was thus: They first shipped the produce, obtaining a bill of lading therefor, to which they attached a draft
drawn by them on their consignee fir about the value of the
grain, and then negotiated the draft with bill of lading attached, to some bank in Milwaukee, and obtained the money.

182

HOFFMAN & CO.

v. BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It was understood that the draft was drawn upon the credit
of the property called for by the bill of lading, and would
be paid by the consignee hpon receipt of the bill of lading;
and-with perhaps a single exception where the bills of
lading, not being obtained during bank hours, was sent
otherwise than with the draft-the drafts were accompanied by such bills. The Philadelphia firm, however, rarely
knew what flour belonged to any particular bill of lading;
not being obliged by the railroad clerks at Philadelphia,
where they were known, to exhibit any bill of lading in
order to get the flour, and their custom being, on getting
notice from the railroad office that flour had arrived for them,
to pay the charges, give receipts, and send their drayman
for it, and bring it away. It was the practice of the Mil-waukee firm to advise their Philadelphia correspondents by
letter of shipments made and drafts drawn, which advisements were acknowledged with a promise "to honor the
drafts." When flour was "slow" in going forward they corresponded with the Milwaukee house about it, but did not
on that account refuse acceptance or payment of any bill.
Having been thus dealing for about sixteen months, Chapin
& Miles drew three drafts on Hoffman & Co., in the ordinary
way, and attaching to them bills of lading which they had
forged, negotiated, in the ordinary course of business, the
drafts, with the forged bills of lading attached, to the City
Batik of Milwaukee, getting the money for them. The
bank knew nothing of the forgery of the bills of lading.
The ordinary correspondence between the two houses took
place. That in regard to one draft will exhibit its character.
" MILWAUKEE, February 26th; 1869.
"MEssRs. HOFFMAN & CO., PHILADELPHIA.

" DEAR SIRS: We ship to you to-day 200 bbls. IPrairie Flour,'
and draw at s't for $1100, which please honor. Will draw for
$5 only when we can, but must crowd 85J part of the time.
"Yours, truly,
" CHAPIN & MILES."

Dec. 1870.] HOFFMAN & Co. v. BANK

OF

MILWAUKEE.

183

Statement of the case.

" PHILADELPHIA,

"MESSRS.

CHAPIN &

March 2d, 1869.

MILES.

Your draft $1100, will
"GENTLEMEN: Yours 26th ult. here.
bepaid, but we think you should try to keep them down to $5
per barrel. We advise sale of 100 Prairie, at $7, and 54, at $7.25.
"Yours, respectfully,
HH[OFFMAN & Co."

No flour was forwarded. The Milwaukee bank forwarded
the drafts, however, with the forged bills of lading attached,
to their correspondent, the Park Bank in New York, for
collection. The Park Bank forwarded the same to its correspondent, the Commonwealth Bank of Philadelphia, for
the same purpose, and the latter bank presented the draft
and bill of lading to the drawees, Hoffman & Co., who, knowing the drafts to be genuine, and not supposing that the bills
of lading were otherwise, paid the drafts to the Philadelphia bank, which remitted fhe money back to the Park
Bank to the credit of the Bank of Milwaukee.
No flour coming forward, Hoffman & Co. discovered that
the bills of ladimg were forged, and Miles & Chapin being
insolvent, they sued the Bank of Milwaukee to recover the
amount paid, as above stated.
The declaration in the case contained the common counts
in assumpsit, with a notice attached to the defendant, "that
the action was brought to recover $3100, money paid by the
plaintiff, under mistake of fact, upon drafts and bills of
lading (of which copies were annexed), the mistake being
that the plaintiffs paid the money upon the belief that the
said bills of lading were genuine instruments; whereas, in
fact, they were forged; the amount of money paid being the
amount called for by the drafts, which was paid upon the
credit and inducement of the bills of lading."
Neither the name of the defendant, the Milwaukee bank,
nor of any of its officers or agents, appeared in or upon the
bills of lading in question, and had it not been for extrinsic
evidence, it could not have been told from those bills that the
bank had had anything to do with them. Nor had the bank

184

HOFFMAN & CO. v. BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bank.

had any dealings or correspondence of any kind with the
Philadelphia house, relative to the shipments of flour by.
Chapin & Miles, or relative to the drafts drawn by them.
On this case the court below directed the jury to find for
the bank, defendant in the case, and the plaintiffs brought
the case here.
Mr. Htt. H. Carpenter,for the plaintiff in error:
The case is this: The defendants are owners of certain
drafts drawn upon the plaintifs, which the defendants know
the plaiutifl will not pay unless accompanied with bills of
lading, which will authorize the plaintiffs to receive the flour,
upon the faith and security of which the drafts are drawn.
And knowing this, the defendant presents said drafts to the
plaintiffs, accompanied by forged bills of lading; and the
plaintiffs, believing the bills of lading to be genuine, pay the
money to the defendant. IHad the plaintiffs known the real
facts of the case they would not have accepted and paid the
drafts, and could not have been compelled to do so, and the
loss would have fallen on the defendants. The plaintiffs
paid the drafts to the defendant because they did not know
the facts; in other words, under a mistake. The money of
the plaintifs has therefbre got into the pocket of the defendant without consideration; both the plaintiffs in paying
and the defendant in receiving the money being mutually
mistaken about the fact which was the inducement for the
plaintiffs to pay the money. Money so paid can be recovered.*
"We fully concede the rule that the acceptor of a draft is
bound to know the signature of the person drawing or indorsing it. But the rule is confined to the signature of
mercantile paper; and this payment was made not on the
credit of the draft, but on the credit of the bills of lading.
It was part of the agreement between the forwarders and
the consignees, that bills of lading should always accompany
* Hudson v. Robinson, 4 2Iaule & Selwyn, 478; Ellis & Morton v. Ohio
Life and Trust Company, 4 Ohio State, 628.

Dec. 1870.]

]HOFFMAN & 00. v. BANK oF MILWAUKEE.

185

Argument for the plaintiffs.

the drafts; genuine bills, of course, not forged ones. The
Milwaukee bank being an indorser of the draft which carried the bill of lading with it, should be held to have guaranteed the genuineness of the bill.
In Bank of Commerce v. Union Bank,* it was held that the
acceptor of a draft which was forged, not as to the signalureof
the drawer, but by an alteration in the body of the draft, might
recover back the money, as money paid under a mistake.
The court distinguishing the case from that of the forgery
of the drawer's signature, which the acceptor is presumed to
know, say: "The greater negligence in a case of this kind
is chargeable on the party who received the -bill from the
perpetrator of the forgery. So far as respects the genuineness of the bill each indorser receives it on the credit of the
previous indorsers," &c.
This language is particularly applicable to the facts of
this case; for these forged bills of lading purported to be
executed in Milwaukee, where the defendant had its banking office, and where its officers could-have informed themselves as to the genuineness of the instruments by a few
minutes' walk. The plaintiffs resided and did business in
Philadelphia, and received the instruments on the faith of
approbation by the defendant.
Air. J. W. Cary, contra:
We concede that money paid by mistake may, in many
cases, be recovered back, but it is settled that money paid
by the drawee of a forged bill of exchange to an innocent
holder for value, cannot be so recovered, because the drawee
is presumed to know his drawer's signature. This exception
is "fully conceded" by the other side. Their argument is
obliged, therefore, to proceed on an assumption of facts not
true; to assume that this payment was not a payment of
drafts, but a payment on flour shipped. This is a radical
defect of the argument, and pervades it throughout. The
assumption is in the face of the facts. These show that
Hoffman & Co. paid drafts, relying on their general business
* 3 Oomstock, 280; and see Goddard v. Bank, 4 Id. 147.

186

HOFFMAN & Co. V. BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

arrangement with Chapin & Miles rather than on a receipt
of the very flour mentioned in any specific bill of lading. In
this particular case it is specifically "the draft" which they
promise to pay.
The bill of lading is not in any way indorsed by the Milwaukee bank. No representation of any sort was made by
that bank about anything to Hoffman & Co. The transaction was wholly between Miles & Chapin and Hoffman & Co.,
and in pursuance of their general agreement. The bills,
which were nol forgeries,-though the case would not be
changed if they had been-were discounted in ordinary
course, forwailded for collection,and paid on demand. That
concludes the thing. That the " collateral" was worthless
don't change the case. The bank's title to the drafts being
unquestioned, no defence was available to the acceptor after
payment of them.
These positions do not rest on argument merely. The
case of Craig v. Sibbelt & Jones,* where the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is given, in a luminous
opinion by Gibson, C. J., is in point. So too the English
case of Robinson v. Reynoldst covers this. After such precedents there would be an end of the question if the case were
not plainly within old rules, which it is.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Acceptors of a bill of exchange, by the act of acceptance,
admit the genuineness of the signatures of the drawers, and
the competency of the drawers to assume that responsibility.
Such an act imports an engagement, on the part of the acceptor, to the payee or other lawful holder of the bill, to pay
the same, if duly presented, when it becomes due, according to the tenor of the acceptance. He engages to pay the
holder, whether payee or indorsee, the full amount of the
bill at maturity, and if he does not, the holder has a right
of action against him, and he may also have one against the
drawer. Drawers of bills of exchange, however, are not
*. 15 P~ennsylvania, 238.

f 2 Adolphus & Ellis, :N. S. 196.

Dec. 1870.]

HOFFMAN &

Co. v.

BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

187

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

liable to the holder, under such circumstances, until it appears that the bill was duly presented, and that the acceptor
refused or neglected to pay the same according to the tenor
of the instrument, as their liability is contingent and subject to those conditions precedent.
Three bills of exchange, as exhibited in the record, were
drawn by Chapin, Miles & Co., payable to the order of the
defendants, and the record shows that they, the defendants,
received and discounted the three bills at the request of the
drawers. Attached to each bill of exchange was a bill of
lading for two hundred barrels of flour, shipped, as therein
represented, by the drawers of the bills of exchange, and
consigned to the plaintiffs; and the record also shows that
the drawers, in each case, sent a letter of advice to the consignees apprising them of the shipment, and that they would
draw on them as such consignees for the respective amounts
specified in the several bills of exchange. Prompt reply in
each case was communicated by the plaintiff., acknowledging the receipt of the letter of advice sent by the shippers,
and promising to honor the bills of exchange, as therein requested. Evidence was also introduced by the plaintiffs
showing that the defendants indorsed the bills of exchange
and forwarded the same, with the bills of lading attached,
to the National Park Bank of the city of New York, their
regular correspondent; that the same were subseqnently
indorsed by the latter bank, arid forwarded to the Commonwealth Bank of Philadelphia for collection; that the Commonwealth Bank presented the bills of exchange, with the
bills of lading attached, to the plaintiffs, as the acceptors,
and that they paid the respective amounts as they had previously promised to do, and that the Commonwealth Bank
remitted the proceeds in each case, to the National Park
Bank, where the respective amounts were credited to the
defendants. Proof was also introduced by the plaintiffs
showing that each of the bills of lading was a forger'y, and
that the plaintiffs, before the commencement of the suit,
tendered the same and the bills of exchange to the defend-

188

HOFFMAN & Co. v. BANK

OF MILWAUKEE.

[Sup.

Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

ants, and that they demanded of the defendants, at the same
time, the respective amounts so paid by them to the Commonwealth Bank. Payment as demanded being refused, the
plaintiffs brought an action of assumpsit against the defendants for money had and received, claiming to recover back
the several amounts so paid as money paid by mistake, but
the verdict and judgment were for the defendants, and the
plaintiffs sued out a writ of error, and removed the cause
into this court. Testimony was also introduced by the defendants tending to show that the shippers were millers; that
they made an arrangement with the plaintiffs to ship flour
to them at Philadelphia for sale in that market, the plaintifts
agreeing that they, the shippers, might draw on them for
advances on the flour, to be reimbursed out of the proceeds
of the sales; that for more than a year they had been in the
habit of shipping flour to the plaintiffs under that arrangement and of negotiating drafts on the plaintiffi to the banks
in that city, accompanied by bills of lading in form like
those given in evidence in this case; that the drafts, with
the bills of lading attached, were sent forward by the banks,
where the same were discounted, and that the same were
paid by the plaintiffl; that the drawers of the drafts in every
case notified the plaintiffs of the same, and that the plaintiffs, as in this case, answered the letter of advice and promised to pay the amount. They also proved that the drawers
of the drafts in this case informed their cashier that the
same would always be drawn upon property, and that the
bills of lading would accompany the drafts, and that they
had no knowledge or intimation that the bills of lading were
not genuine. Instructions were requested by the plaintiffs,
that if the jury found that the respective bills of lading
were not genuine, that they were entitled to recover the
several amounts paid to the Commonwealth Bank, with interest; but the court refused to give the instruction as prayed,
and instructed the jury that if they found the facts as shown
by the defendants, the plaintiffs could not recover in the
case, even ,though they should find that the several bills of
lading were a forgery.

Dec. 1870.]

HOFFMAN

& Co. v.

BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

189

Opinion of the court.

Money paid under a mistake of facts, it is said, may be
recovered back as having been paid without consideration,
but the decisive answer to that suggestion, as applied to the
case before the court, is that money paid, as in this case, by
the acceptor of a bill of exchange to the payee of the same,
or to a subsequent indorsee, in discharge of his legal obligation as such, is not a payment by mistake nor without consideration, unless it be shown that the instrument was fraudulent in its inception, or that the consideration was illegal,
or that the facts and circumstances which impeach the transaction, as between the acceptor and the drawer, were known
to the payee or subsequent indorsee at the time he became
the holder of the instrument.*
Such an instrument, as between the payee and the acceptor, imports a sufficient consideration, and in a suit by
the former against the latter the defence of prior equities,
as between the acceptor and the drawer, is not open unless
it be shown that the payee, at the time he became the
holder of the instrument, had knowledge of those facts and
circumstances.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the plaintiffs
accepted the bills of exchange upon the faith and security
of the bills of lading attached to the same at the time the
bills of exchange were discounted by the defendants. Suppose it was so, which is not satisfactorily proved, still it is
not perceived that the concession, if made, would benefit
the plaintiffs, as the bills of exchange are in the usual form
and contain no reference whatever to the bills of lading, and
it is not pretended that the defendants had any knowledge
or intimation that the bills of lading were not genuine, nor
is it pretended that they made any representation upon the
subject to induce the plaintiffs to contract any such liability.
They received the bills of exchange in the usual course of
their business as a bank or discount and paid the full amount
of the net proceeds of the same to the drawers, and it is not
* Fitch v. Jones, 5 Ellis & Blackburn, 238; Arbouin v. Anderson, 1
Adolphus & Ellis, N. S. 498; Smith v. Braine, 16 Id., N. S. 244; Hall v.
Featherstone, 3 Huristone & Norman, 287.

190

HOFFMAN

& Co.

V. BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

even suggested that any act of the defendants, except the
indorsemeut of the bills of exchange in the usual course of
their business, operated to the prejudice of the plaintiffs or
prevented them from making an earlier discovery of the
true character of the transaction. On the contrary, it distinctly appears that the drawers of the bills of exchange
were the regular correspondents of the plaintiffs, and that
they became the acceptors of the bills of exchange at the
request of the drawers of the same and upon their representations that the flour mentioned in the bills of lading had
been shipped to their firm for sale under the arrangement
before described.
Beyond doubt the bills of lading gave some credit to the
bills of exchange beyond what was created by the pecuniary
standing of the parties to the same, but it is clear that they
are not a part of those instruments nor are they referred to
either in the body of the bills or in the acceptance, and they
cannot be regarded in any more favorable light for the plaintiffs than as collateral security accompanying the bills of
exchange.
Sent forward, as the bills of lading were, with the bills of
exchange, it is beyond question that the property in the
same passed to the acceptors when they paid the several
amounts therein specified, as the lien, if any, in favor of the
defendants was then displaced and the plaintiffs became entitled to the instruments as the muniments of title to the
flour shipped to them for sale and as security for the money
which they had advanced under the arrangement between
them and the drawers of the bills of exchange. Proof,
therefore, that the bills of lading were forgeries could not
operate to discharge the liability of the p1aintifis, as acceptors, to pay the amounts to the payees or their indorsees,
as the payees were innocent holders, having paid value for
the same in the usual course of business.*
Different rules apply between the immediate parties to a
bill of exchange-as between the drawer and the acceptor,
or between the payee and the drawer-as the only consider* Leather v. Simpson, Law Reports, 11 Equity, 398.

Dec. 1870.]

HOFFMAN &

Co.

V. BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

191

Opinion of the court.

ation as between those parties is that which moves from the
plaintiff to the defendant; and the rule is, if that consideration fails, proof of that fact is a good defence to the action.
But the role is otherwise between the remote parties to the
bill, as, for example, between the payee and the acceptor, or
between the indorsee and the acceptor, as two distinct considerations come in question in every such case where the
payee or indorsee became the holder of the bill before it
was overdue and without any knowledge of the facts and
circumstances which impeach the title as between the immediate parties to the instrument. Those two considerations are as follows: First, that which the defendant received for his liability, and, secondly, that which the plaintiff
gave for his title, and the rule is well settled that the action
between the remote parties to the bill will not be defeated
unless there be an absence or failure of both these considerations.*
Unless both considerations fail in a suit by the payee
against the acceptor, it is clear that the action may be maintained, and many decided cases affirm the rule, where the
suit is in the name of a remote indorsee against the acceptor,
that if any intermediate holder between the defendant and
the plaintiff gave value for the bill, such an intervening consideration will sustain the title of the plaintifft
Where it was arranged between a drawer and his correspondent that the latter would accept his bills in consideration of produce to be shipped or transported to the acceptor
for sale, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held,t that the
acceptor was bound to the payee by his general acceptance
of a bill, although it turned out that the bill of lading forwarded at the same time with the bill of exchange was
fraudulent, it not being shown that the payee of the bill
* Robinson v. Reynolds, 2 Q. B. 202; Same v. Same, in error, Ib. 210;
Byles on Bills (5th Am. Ed.), 124; Thiedemann v. Goldschmidt, 1 De Gex,
Fisher & Jones, Oh. App. 10.
IMaryland,
- Hunter v. Wilson, 4 Exchequer, 489; Boyd v. McCann, 10
118; Howell v. Crane, 12 Louisiana Annual, 126; Watson v. Flanagan, 14
Texas, 834.

1 Craig v. Sibbett et al., 15 Pennsylvania, 240.

192

HIOFFMAN & CO. V. BANK OF MTILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was privy to the fraud. Evidence was introduced in that
case showing that the payee knew what the terms of the
arrangement between the drawer and the payee were, but
the court held that mere knowledge of that fact was not
sufficient to constitute a defence, as the payee was not a
party to the arrangement and was not in any respect a
surety for the good faith and fair dealing of the shipper.
Failure of consideration, as between the drawer and acceptor of a bill of exchange, is no defence to an action
brought by the payee against the acceptor, if the acceptance
was unconditional in its terms, and it appears that the plaintiff paid value for the bill, even though the acceptor was
defrauded by the drawer, unless it be shown that the payee
had knowledge of the fraudulent acts of the drawer before
he paid such value and became the holder of the instrument.*
Testimony to show that the payees were not bond fide
holders of the bills would be admissible in a suit by them
against the acceptors, and would constitute, if believed, a
good defence, but the evidence in this case does not show
that they did anything that is not entirely sanctioned by
commercial usage. They discounted these bills and they
had a right to present them for acceptance, and having obtained the acceptance they have an undoubted right to apply
the proceeds collected from the acceptors to their own indemnity.t
Forgery of the bills of lading would be a good defence to
an action on the bills if the defendants in this case had been
the drawers, but they were payees and holders for value in
the regular course of business, and the case last referred to,
which was decided in the Exchequer Chamber, shows that
such an acceptance binds the acceptor conclusively as between them and every bondftde holder for value.
Very many cases decide that the drawee of a bill of exchange is bound to know the handwriting of his corres* United States v. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Peters, 393.

f Thiedemann v. Goldschmidt et al., 1 De Gex, Fisher & Jones, Ch. App.
10; Robinson v. Reynolds, 2 Q. B. 211.

Dec.

1870.]

HOFFMAN

& Co. v. BANK OF MILWAUKEE.

193

Opinion of the court.

pondent, the drawer, and that if he accepts or pays a bill in
the hands of a bonafide holder for value, he is concluded by
the act, although the bill turns out to be a forgery. If he
has accepted he must pay, and if he has paid he cannot recover the money back, as the money, in such a case, is paid
in pursuance of a legal obligation as understood in the commercial law.*
Difficulty sometimes arises in determining whether the
plaintiff, in an action on a bill of exchange, is the immediate
promisee of the defendant, or whether he is to be regarded
as a remote party, but it is settled law that the payee, where
he discounts the bill at the request of the drawer, is regarded
as a stranger to the acceptor in respect to the consideration
for the acceptance; consequently, if the acceptance is absolute in its terms and the bill is received in good faith and
for value, it is no answer to an action by him that the defendant received no consideration for his acceptance or that
the consideration therefor has failed; and it is immaterial in
that behalf whether the bill was accepted while in the hands
of the drawer and at his request, or whether it had passed
into the hands of the payee before acceptance and was accepted at his request.t
Certain other defences, such as that the payments were
voluntarily made, and that the title to the bills at the time
the payments were made was in the National Park Bank,
were also set up by the defendants, but the court does not
find it necessary to examine those matters, as they are of
the opinion that the payments, if made to the payees of the
bills, as contended by the plaintiffs, were made in pursuance
of a legal obligation and that the money cannot be recovered
back.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* Goddard v. Merchants' Bank, 4 Comstock, 149; Bank of Commerce v.
Union Bank, 3 Id. 234; Bank of the United States v. Bank of Georgia, 10:
W heaton, 348; Price v. Neal, 3 Burrow, 1355.
t Parsons on Bills, 179; Munroe v. Bordier, 8 C. B. 862.
VOL X1 !

13

