Dec. 1870.]

THE WESTERN METROPOLIS.

Motion to take testimony-Opposition to the motion.

THE VESTERN METROPOLIS.
Where it appeared by affidavits filed by the appellant, who was ClaimaL t

below, in a collision case, that it was probable that two witnesses for
the libellant received, before testifying, a promise from him for the payment of a sum of money in the event that the case should be decided in
his favor, and that the appellant ascertained the fact after the appeal,
the court ordered a commission, under the 12th rule, to take the testimony of such witnesses relative to said agreenent.

ON rnotion.-.ohn Low, Jr., had libelled the steamer
Western Metropolis, in the District Court at New York, for
damages sustained by a collision between that steamer and
the schooner Triumph, owned by the libellant.
The District and Circuit Courts decreed in his favor, and
the owner of the steamer appealed to this court.
Mr. Hubley Ashton, counsel of the appellant, now filed an
affidavit 'ofthat party, stating that since the taking and perfecting of the appeal he had learned that two of the witnesses
for the schobner in the District Court, the master and the
mate of that vessel, had received from the libellant, John
Low, Jr., before giving their testimony, an agreement for
the payment of a sum of money on the contingency and in
the event that the case should be decided in favor of the
libellant and he should receive the damages claimed.
Oi this affidavit a motion was made, on behalf of the appellant, that a commission be issued under the 12th rule of
this court,* to take the testimony of the master and mate
of the Triumph as to the alleged agreement.
The application, it was contended, was brought by the
affidavit of the appellant within the rule laid down in the
case of The Jabey.t
On the hearing of the motion, Mr. B.

. Benedict, for the

* This rule declares that "in all cases where further proof is ordered by
the court, the depositions which shall be taken shall be by a commission, to
be issued from this court, or from any Circuit Court of the United States."
t 10 Wallace, 419.

PAItKER v. LATEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appellee, filed counter-affidavits of Low and the witnesses,
denying that the agreement referred to was given for the
purpose of influencing the testimony of the witnesses, but
merely for the purpose of securing their attendance and
compensating them for the time and money expended in
attending to give their evidence.
At a subsequent day the CHIEF JUSTICE announced
the order of the court,
GRANTIN G THE MOTION.

PARKER V. LATEY.
Writ of error to a Circuit Court in

an ejectment dismissed, where the

record stated that the land for which the suit was brought was "of
the value of $500 and over."

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District Of Nebraska.
Parker brought ejectment against Latey to recover possession of a certain tract of land situate in the city of Omaha,
in the State of Nebraska, described in the declaration, and
there stated to be of "the value of $500 and over." Verdict
and judgment were for the defendant, and the plaintiff sued
out this writ of error.
Mr. T . Pedick, for the dfendant in error, moved to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction; the Judiciary Act
giving jurisdiction to this court on writs of error to Circuit
Courts only "where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum
or value of $2000."

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Objection is made by the defendant that the matter in
controversy does not exceed two thousand dollars, and upon
an examination of the record the objection appears to be
,ciell founded. Enough must appear to show affirmatively

