Dec. 1870.]

ROGERS V. RITTER.
Statement of the case.

ROGERS V. RITTER.
Where a court on the preliminary examination of a witness can see that he
has that degree of knowledge of a party's handwriting which will enable
him to judge of its genuineness, he should be permitted to give to the
jury his opinion on the subject, though he have never seen the party
write nor corresponded with him.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;
the case being this:
Rogers brought ejectment against Ritter in the court below to recover a lot of land in San Francisco, known by
the name of Yerba Buena. The plaintiff having given in
evidence various deeds, and rested, the defendants offered
a writing, dated Yerba Buena, December 5th, 1845, purporting to be a petition by one Briones for the grant of the lot,
under which was written an instrument dated December 7th,
1845, purporting to be a grant of the lot by "the citizen
Jos6 de a Cruz Sanchez, juslice of the peace of the jurisdiction." The "grant" was objected to on the ground that the
name of Sanchez was forged. To prove its genuineness, the
defendant called three witnesses. One Sears, who had been
clerk in the recorder's office of San Francisco for eight years,
and having the especial charge of the records; B. C.Hopkins,
who had resided in California for fourteen years, had had
charge of the Spanish archives in the office of the SurveyorGeneral of the United States for California for nine years,
"whose business called upon him to investigate questions of
the genuineness of documents," and who "thought that
he had a facility from his profession of detecting writing
which was not genuine;" and one R1sher, who had been in
California for fourteen years, and was secretary, interpreter,
and custodian of the archives for over four years, and until
its expiration, of the land commission of the United States,
which sat in California under the act of March 3d, 1851.
In order to lay a foundation for his competency each
witness, as called, was requested to state whether he was
acquainted with the handwriting of Sanchez, and to give his

RO0GERS

v.

R ITTER.

Esup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

means of knowledge. Each and all answered that they were
familiar with it, and told how they knew it.
Sears had frequently seen it in his office, and had, many
times, made certified copies of the papers to which it was
attached, for the use of the courts, and knew it to his own
satisfaction. In speaking of it and the handwriting of another person, he said, "I have seen so many instruments
and papers passing through my hands that these signatures
(naming them) are like household implements with us." But
he had not corresponded with Sanchez nor actually seen him
write.
Hopkins had examined the correspondence of Sanchez,
while justice of the peace, with the governor, and other
papers in the archives to which his signature was affixed,
quite often, and conceived himself, therefore, well acquainted
with it; "I think," was his testimony, " no one living is so
familiar with these California archives as I am." But he had
not corresponded with Sanchez nor actually seen him write.
Fisher testified that he thought that he would know the
signature of Sanchez, because he had the custody, during
the whole term of the board of land commissioners, of all the
depositions taken by them, and acted as interpreter for those
who could not speak the English language. The party
making the depositions was required, as the witness testified,
to sign them after one of the commissioners had administered the oath. Then they passed into Fisher's hands, as
secretary, who indorsed them and put them among the papers of the case. Sanchez's testimony with many others,
was taken, and, although Fisher could not swear he had
actually seen him write his name, he believed he had, and,
at any rate, he should know his signature from having seen
it to the depositions.
The Circuit Court, after the witnesses had stated the
manner in which they formed their knowledge of the handwriting of Sanchez, allowed them-exception being duly
taken-to testify whether his signature to the grant in controversy was genuine or not. And they testifying that they
believed it to be genuine, the grant was allowed to go to the

:Dec. 1870.]

Ro0GERS v. RI TTER.

Argument in favor of the evidence.

jury, no objection being taken to it from the fact of its purporting to be made by a "justice of the peace of the jurisdiction," A. D. 1845.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the defendant the
case was brought here.
It was one incident of the trial that Sanchez himself, who
was alleged to have made the grant, swore that though he
had been "a justice of the peace of the jurisdiction" in 1845,
he had never made this grant nor any grant of the lot in
controversy; as it was another that Hopkins, who was examined to rebut the evidence of Sanchez, testified that he
"knew it to be generally the case, or sometimes the case,
that in regard to the genuineness of the signatures and acts
of officers of the old Mexican government, the true test is
not what they will swear to, but the testimony of experts."
Messrs. 1. Blair and _. A. Dick, for the plaintfif in error;
plaintiff also below.
1. The so-called grant purported to be by a "justice of
the peace of the jurisdiction." It is a fact shown by various
laws of Mexico, by the history of the Departmental Assemblies of California, and by the acts of the governors of California, and by judicial decision,* that no such officer had
power to grant land after the end of the year 1843. It was
a right of the alcaldes of the city of San Francisco. The
grant, therefore, even if genuine, should have been excluded
from the jury.
2. The court below erred in admitting what was but the
opinion of Sears, Hopkins, and Fisher, the defendant's witnesses, as evidence that the signature of Sanchez was genuine. The "knowledge" of the signatures which these witnesses had was acquired, not from having seen Sanchez
write, nor from having corresponded with him, but from
seeing writing supposed to be his, and from nothing more.
The testimony was, in truth, but a comparison of handwrit* Cohas v. Raisin, 3 California, 449; Hubbard v. Barry, 21 Id. 326.

ROGERS V. IRITTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ings, and did not render opinions of the persons so comparing the handwriting, legal evidence.*
There should the less willingly be a departure from ancient rules of caution, as Sanchez swears that the signature
is not genuine.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The objection to the grant, which, supposing it genuine,
is insisted on in the first place, in this court, by the counsel
of the plaintiff in error, presents a question which in the
state of the record this court is not called upon to decide;
for it does not appear that the objection was taken in the
court below. It is true that the grant was attacked there,
but on an entirely different ground. The main controversy
concerning it was, whether or not it was genuine. Its
validity, if genuine, does not seem to have been questioned.
We are not, therefore, required to travel through the various
laws of Mexico, the acts of California governors, and the
proceedings of Departmental Assemblies to determine at
what period of time the powers ofjustices of the peace, acting as alcaldes, to grant building lots within their jurisdiction, ceased.
It is insisted, in the second place, that comparison of
handwriting is in no case legal evidence, and as it was admitted to prove the genuineness of the disputed paper, the
judgment should, on that account, be reversed. It is certainly true that the ancient rule of the common law did not
allow of testimony derived from a mere comparison of hands,
and equally true that there has been a great diversity of
opinion, in the different courts of this country, in relation
to this species of evidence. But in England this rule of the
common law, as it respects civil proceedings, has been abrogated by the legislature, so that in the courts there, at the
present day, in civil suits, the wifness can compare two
* 2 Phillips's Evidence, 595-613, and notes, 480, 481, and 483; 2 Starkie
on Evidence, 512-518; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, . 577 and 578; Strother
v. Lucas, 6 Peters, 767; Greaves v. Hunter, 2 Carrington & Payne, 477;
Goldsmith v. Bane, 3 Hialsted, 87; Thatcher v, Goff, I1 -Louisiana, 94, 98.

Dec. 1870.]

ROGERS V. RITTER.

Opinion of the court.

writings with each other, in order to ascertain whether they
were both written by the same person.* It is, however, not
necessary for the purposes of this case to discuss the subject
in all its bearings, nor to depart from the rule laid down by
this court in S&rolher v. Lucas,t that evidence by comparison
of hands is not admissible when the witness has had no
previous knowledge of the handwriting, but is called upon
to testify merely from a comparison of hands. The witnesses who testified in this case had previous knowledge of
Sanchez's handwriting. It is true this knowledge was not
gained from seeing him write, nor from correspondence
with him, but in a way equally effectual to make them acquainted with it. Sanchez was for many years, under Mlexican rule in California, in official position, acting as justice
of the peace, transacting the duties of alcalde, corresponding
with the governor, and exercising for a time the power conferred upon him to grant small parcels of land to deserving
persons.$ NI:ecessarily, in the course of the administration
of the duties of his office, he had occasion frequently to
attach his signature to papers of importance. These papers,
after the United States took possession of the country, were
deposited in the recorder's office of San Francisco, and the
Surveyor-General's office, where- the Mexican archives are
kept. Sanchez also, as did most of the native Californians
and Mexicans who had been in public life, appeared before
the United States land commission, which sat in San Francisco to determine the validity of Spanish grants, and gave
his depositions. These depositions, with the other papers
of the commission, at the expiration of it, were taken to the
office of the Land Commissioner at Washington. As no,
question was raised on the trial of the genuineness of these
various writings-Sanchez was present and interposed no
objection-they must be considered, if not as having been
acknowledged by him, at least as having been proved to the
satisfaction of the court.
In this condition of things5 Sears, Hopkins, and Fisher
2 Taylor on Evidence, H 1667-8.
- 6 Peters, 763..
+ Colonial History of San Francisco, by Dwinelle.
VOL. XII.

21

ROGERS V.

RITTER.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

were called upon to testify upon the subject of the disputed
signatures; and the inquiry is, did the court err in its ruling
on this point? Obviously, the evidence is not obnoxious to
the objection that it is a mere comparison of hands; that is,
a comparison by a juxtaposition of two writings, in order to
enable a witness, without previous knowledge of the handwriting of the party, to determine by such comparison
whether both were written by the same person.
The witnesses in this case were conversant with the signature of Sanchez, and swore to their belief, not by comparing a disputed with an acknowledged signature, but from
the knowledge they had previously acquired on the subject.
The text-writers all agree, that a witness is qualified to testify to the genuineness of a controverted signature if he has
the proper knowledge of the party's handwriting. The difficulty has been in determining what is proper knowledge,
and how it shall be acquired. It is settled everywhere, that
if a person has seen another write his name but once he can
testify, and that he is equally competent, if he has personally
communicated with him by letter, although he has never
seen him write at all. But is the witness incompetent unless he has obtained his knowledge in one or the other of
these modes? Clearly not, for in the varied affairs of life
there are many modes in which one person can become acquainted with the handwriting of another, besides having
seen him write or corresponded with him. There is no good
reason for excluding any of these modes of getting information, and if the court, on the preliminary examination of the
witness, can see that he has that degree of knowledge of the
party's -handwriting which will enable him to judge of its
genuineness, he should be permitted to give to the jury his
opinion on the subject.
This was done in this case, and it is manifest that the
three witnesses told enough to satisfy any reasonable mind
that they were better able to judge of the signature of Sanchez, than if they had only received one or two letters from
him, or saw shim write his name once.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

