DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERMS, 1870, 1871.

THE COLLECTOR v. HUBBARD.
1. A promise on the part of a collector of taxes to repay a tax illegally collected and paid only under protest cannot be implied where statute
makes it the duty of such officer to pay into the public treasury without
any deduction on account of claims of any description the gross amount
that he receives.
2. The 19th section of the act of July 13th, 1866, which enacts that no suit
shall be maintained in any court to recover a tax illegally assessed,
except on certain conditions stated in the section, operates on all suits
brought subsequently to the time fixed by the act for it to take effect,
and on suits brought in State courts as well as in Federal.
3. Prior acts giving persons a right to sue, without similar conditions, did
not confer on them any such vested right so to sue, in regard to transactions which occurred before the passage of the act of 1866, as that
they still could sue irrespective of the conditions after the time when
this act by its terms was to take effect.
4. Nor had such persons, in such a case as is mentioned in the first paragraph above, any vested right to sue independently of statute.
6. The 117th section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, which required a
stockholder in companies mentioned in the section, to return as income
all gains and profits in them to which he should be entitWed, whether
the same were "divided or otherwise," embraces not only dividends declared, but profits not divided and invested partly in real estate, machinery, and raw material, and partly applied to the payment of debts
incurred in previous years.

to the Supreme Court of Connecticut; the case
being thus:
The 117th section of the Internal Revenue Act of June
80th, 1864,* which laid what was known as the income tax,,
ERROR

* 18 Stat. at Large, 281.
VOL. X11.

( I ))

THE COLLECTOR V.

HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

after providing for the collection of an income tax from
certain classes of companies specified, and enacting that "in
estimating the annual gains, profits, or income of any
person," revenue from such and such sources "shall be ineluded and assessed as part of the income of such person."
proceeds:
"And the gains and profits of all companies, whether incorporated or partnership, other than the companies specified in
this section, shall be included in estimating the annual gains,
profits, or income of any person entitled to the same, whether
divided or otherwise."
With this enactment in force, one Hubbard owned, A.D.
1864, certain shares in two manufacturing companies (being
companies other than those previously specified in the section), which in that year made large profits and made divilends of part of them, though not of the whole of them.
The excess was not divided, nor had it been in any way set
apart from the general assets of the respective corporations,
or appropriated for the use of the stockholders, otherwise
than as the law would imply from the existence of them.
On the contrary, it was part of the case as settled and admitted by the parties:
"That from time to time during said year, and without any
intention to defraud the government, unless the investment
hereinafter named constituted such fraud by implication of law,
said corporations invested said profits in part in real estate,
machinery, and raw material, proper for carrying on their business. and in part for the payment of debts incurred in previous
years, and the same remained so invested in 1865."
Hubbard, when making in the year just named his return
of income for the preceding year, returned as part of his income the dividends which had been made on his stock, but
would not return the undivided profits. The assessor insisted on his returning his proportion of these also, settling
the proportion by a reference to the number of shares which

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.
Statement of the case.

he held in the company compared with the whole number
into which its capital stock was divided. Under compulsion
from the assessor he then did make such return, and under
like compulsion did pay, on the 19th August, 1865, the tax
accordingly, protesting in due form against the collection.
The assessor had given Hubbard due notice of where appeals from the assessment would be held, but Hubbard did
not make any appeal, either to the assessor or to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to the provisions
of law in that regard, which allowed him to do so, though
it did not make his having done so a condition of his bringing suit. On the contrary, relying on his simple payment
under protest he brought suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States to recover the tax. It was not denied that
at the time when he brought that action such a suit could
be maintained to recover such a tax illegally paid under
protest though no such appeal had been made. However,
after Hubbard had thus brought his suit in the Circuit Court,
Congress, on the 13th July, 1866, passed an act* whose 19th
section was thus:
"That no suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally
assessed or collected, until appeal shall have been duly made to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to the provisions of law in that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury established in pursuance thereof, and a
decision of said commissioner shall be had thereon, unless such
suit shall be brought within six months from the time of said
decision, or within six months from the time this act takes
effect," &c.
The suit was called for trial in June, 1867, and in consequence of this enactment and the admitted want of appeal
to the commissioner, the Circuit Court dismissed the case.
The plaintiff then, on the 9th of August, 1867, sued the
collector in indebitatus assumpsit in one of the State courts of
Connecticut, a case as above stated being agreed on, and it
* 14 Stat. at Large, 152.

THE COLLEcToR

V. HUBBARD.

[SUP., Ct.

Argument for the stockholder.

being further admitted that the collector had, prior to the
bringing of the suit, paid over to the Treasury of the United
States the whole amount of the tax collected; a payment
over which was made in pursuance of the act of Congress
of March 3d, 1865,* by which collectors were required to
pay daily into the treasury the gross amount of all duties,
taxes, and revenue received or collected in virtue of the internal revenue acts, without any abatement or deduction on
account of compensation, &c., or claims of any description
whatever; the act, however, or other acts containing provisions authorizing a person from whom a tax has been collected to sue the collector for its recovery, and provisions
for repayment by the treasurer to the collector of whatever
should be thus recovered against him.
In the suit in the State court, the collector set up the fact
of his payment over, and more particularly the act of 1866
as a bar to the suit; maintaining, also, as a second ground,
that if the suit was not thus barred the tax had been rightly
assessed and levied.
The court in which this second suit was brought gave
judgment for the plaintif, and on error to the Supreme
Court that judgment was affirmed. The case was now
brought here under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The questions being:
I. Did the act of Congress of 1866 incapacitate Hubbard
from bringing the second suit?
II. If not, were the undivided profits, applied as they had
been, "income" within the meaning of the act of 1864?
Mr. C. E. Perkins, in support of the judgment below :
I. The fact of payment over is plainly no bar to our suit,
Congress authorizing suits against collectors to recover taxes
illegally paid, and making abundant provision for repayment
to the collector if judgment go against him.
Neither is the act of 1866, requiring a previous appeal
to the commissioner, a bar.
* 13 Stat. at Large, 483.

Dec. 1870.]

THE

COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

Argument for the stockholder.

1. The act was prospective only. It was not intended to
affect the rights of parties already vested. Courts refuse to
give statutes a retroactive construction,.unless the intention
is so clear and positive as by no possibility to admit of any
other construction.* It would be grossly unjust to us to apply this rule. At the time when the act was passed we bad
a suit pending in the Circuit Court. It was not reached for
trial till June, 1867, more than six months after the act took
effect. The court then dismissed the case because the act
took away its jurisdiction, and we were deprived of any redress. A construction which would bring about such a
result should be avoided.
2. The act only refers to proceedings in courts of the
United States.t
8. It is a kind of statute of limitations, and it is set up as
-a bar to an action in a State court arising at common law.
But Congress has no power to pass acts barring such suit§.
It is only when causes of action arise under laws of the
United States that that body can prohibit or limit proceedings in State courts. This case does not so arise. One
citizen f Connecticut has here money belonging to another
citizen, fbr which, by the laws of Connecticut, an action of
indebitatusassumpsit will lie. Congress cannot affect this right
of action. As soon as the money was illegally collected and
paid under duress, a right to recover it vested in the plaintiff
with which Congress could not interfere.
II. As to the merits. The internal revenue enactment says
expressly that only the gains and profits to which a stockholder is "entitled" shall be returned. In no possible
sense of the word is a stockholder entitled as income to
moneys spent by the corporation during the year in paying
its debts and preparing for -its future business. This is a
Connecticut corporation, and the question of the right of a
* Plumb v. Sawyer, 21 Connecticut, 351; McEwen v. Den, 24 Howard,
242.
t Carpenter v. Snelling, 97 Massachusetts, 452; Griffin v. Ranney, 35
Connecticut, 239.

THE COLLECTOR v.

HUBBARD.

[Slp. Ct.

Argument for the stockholder.

stockholder to their property should be and is fixed by Connecticut law. In Phelps v. Farmers' Bank,* the court say:
"The profits of a bank, no matter when made, until separated
from the stock by declaring a dividend, are mere increment and
augmentation of the stock. They are properly stock themselves,
Composing a part of the stock of the bank, and will pass with
the stock under that name either by contract, bequest, or levy
of execution"
The rule is the same- in other States.
In 1inot v. Paine,t a Massachusetts case, the court say:
"The net earnings of a railroad corporation remain the property of the company as fully as its other property till the directors declare a dividend- A shareholder has no title to them prior
to the dividend being declared- . . . The money in the hands
of the directors may be income to the corporation, but it is not
so to a stockholder till a dividend is made; and where the company invest it in buildings and machinery, or in railroad tracks,
depots, rolling stock, or any other permanent improvements for
enlarging or carrying on their legitimate business, it never becomes income to the shareholder."
In Goodwin v. ffardy;t a case in Maine, the court say:
"The stockholders have no claim to a dividend until it is de¢lared. Until that time it belongs to the corporation precisely
as any other property it may own."
If these cases are good law they are decisive.
Apart from decisions, this is the only reasonable construction. IHow can a stockholder be entilled to money which the
corporation has used in paying off its debts? The same
principle applies to replacing wornout machinery, buying
new, and purchasing raw material to carry on the business.
- 26 Connecticut, 272.
57 Maine, 143.

- 99 Massachusetts, 106, 111.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.
Argument for the United States.

Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General, and Mr. Bristow, SolicitorGeneral, contra:
I. As to the bar.
1. The act of 1866 does not act retrospectively in barring
this suit, for the suit was not brought until after it was
passed.
2. It bars, by its terms, suits in "any court," and interpreted in accordance with its purposed meaning it is constitutional.*
3. The plaintiff had no vested right to recover by the
principles of the common law the money illegally taken by
the collector; for acts of Congress compelled the collecto
to pay the money immediately to the government. No prom-'
ise can be implied to refund in such a case. The whole
right to sue came by necessary implication from the revenue
laws,t and the authority to sue could at any time be qualified or even taken away by Congress, which gave it.
1-.As to the merits. It was the design of Congress to tax
the undivided gains and profits made by all corporations, as
well as those which are divided among the stockholders.
This appears by considering the 117th section of the act of
1864 in connection with the 120th and 122d of the same act.
The corporations mentioned in the 120th section are banks,
ti'ust companies, and insurance companies, and the tax is
thereby made to cover not only " dividends," but also "all
undistributed sums, or sums made or added during the year
to their surplus or contingent funds." Those mentioned in
the 122d section are railroad, canal, turnpike, canal-navigation, and slack-water companies; and the tax is thereby
made to cover, not only gains and profits divided, but, in
addition, "all profits of such company carried to the account
of any fund or used for construction." All other corporations not specified in those sections are covered by the 117th
section, which expressly declares that the gains and profits
thereof shall be included in estimating the annual gains,
Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 254; Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 461.
t Philadelphia v. The Collector, 5 Wallace, 731.

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

profits, or income of any person entitled to the same, whether
divided or otherwise.
The purpose is the same in each of these sections, the
only difference being in the mode of effectuating it. Where
the gains and profits are those made by a corporation specified in either the 120th or the 122d sections, the tax thereon
is collected directly from the corporation, whether such gains
and profits are divided or not. Where they are the gains
and profits made by any corporation included in the 117th
section, the tax thereon is collected directly from the stockholders, or persons entitled thereto, whether the same are
divided or otherwise. In all cases the entire annual gains
and profits of every corporation, divided or undivided, seem
to be within the aim and purview of the statute as objects
of taxation.
The decisions cited on the other side, if pertinent at all to
the question of an income tax, which they are not, are not
strong enough to control an enactment which includes "all
gains and profits," "whether divided or otherwise;" that is
to say, whether divided or undivided.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Suits to recover back moneys illegally exacted as internal
revenue duties cannot, under existing laws, be commenced
in the Circuit Courts, except in cases where the taxpayer
and the defendant, whether the assessor or collector, are
citizens of different States.* Such suits under any other circumstances must be commenced in the State courts, as the
Circuit Courts have no jurisdiction to hear and determine
the same, except when they are removed from a State court
into the Circuit Court for the same district, on motion of
the defendant.t Where the parties are citizens of the same
State the action must be brought in the State court, but the
defendant, if he sees fit, and seasonably takes the proper
steps, may remove the case into the Circuit Court for trial.t
* Philadelphia v. The Collector, 5 Wallace, 728.

f Hornthall v. The Collector, 9 Id. 564.
The Assessor v. Osbornes, lb. 572.

Dec. 1870.]

-THE

COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.
Opinion of the court.

Both parties in this case were citizens of the same State, and
the action was accordingly commenced by the plaintiff in
the State court, and the collector, as the defendant, not having taken any steps to remove the suit into the Circuit
Court, the same was heard and determined in the State
court in which it was commenced.
Taxes were assessed against the plaintiff, under the internal revenue laws, in the sum of one thousand five hundred
and ninety-seven dollars, and the findings of the court sho*that the assessor duly returned his assessment list to the
collector; that the collector demanded of the plaintiff the
amount of the tax assessed, and that he threatened if the
plaintiff refused to pay the same that he would coerce the
collection of the whole amount; that the assessor gave due
notice to the plaintiff when and where appeals from the
assessment would be heard, but that the plaintiff did not
appeal from the same, either to the assessor or to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and that he paid the whole
amount of the assessment under protest.
Pursuant to the practice in that jurisdiction, the Superior
Court reserved the questions of law arising upon the fact
found, and the question what judgment ought to be rendered
in the case, for the opinion and advice of the Supreme Court
of Errors, and the record shows that the Supreme Court of
Errors advised the Superior Court to render judgment foithe plaintiff, as exhibited in the transcript of the record removed here by the writ of error fir re-examination.
1. Remarks respecting the jurisdiction of the court to reexamine the judgment rendered by the State court may well
be omitted, as the claim of the plaintiff as set forth in the
declaration necessarily draws in question the acts of Congress imposing internal revenue duties and the authority
exercised by the defendant in collecting the same, and the
decision of the State court was against the validity of both,
if the acts of Congress be construed as authorizing the assessment and collection of the duties.
2. Tried as the case was by the judge of the Superior
Court, as a substitute for a jury, the Supreme Court of

THE COLLECTOR

V.

HUBBARD.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Errors was bound to take the facts as found by that court,
and this court in re-examining the judgment must proceed
upon the same basis, as the finding of fhets is made a part
of the record.*
By the finding, it appears that at the time of the assessment the plaintiff owned a mijority of the stock in two certain manufacturing corporations, whose affhirs respectively
were managed by three or more directors, of which the
plaintiff was one; that the profits realized by the respective
companies the year preceding the assessment was greater
than the dividends which they made within the same period;
that the profits at the time of the assessment had not been
divided nor had they been in any way set apart from the
general assets of the respective corporations, nor had they
been appropriated for the use of the stockholders, otherwise
than the law will imply from the fact of the existence of
such profits; that the profits made by the respective corporations during that year were to such an amount that if the
interest of the plaintiff therein was legally subject to the
assessment the amount assessed and collected was the proper
amount; that the plaintiff delivered, under oath, his list
to the assistant assessor on the day of its date, omitting
the amount now in controversy from the list; that the assessor required him to add the same to the list, which he declined to do, and that the same was then added to the list
by the assessor; and the court also found that the assessment was legally made, if such profits were in law liable to
such an assessment.
3. Such an amount of profits was made by the two corporations during that year that if the interest of the plaintiff
therein was legally subject to any assessment it is conceded
that the amount assessed and collected was correct, but the
proposition is that the interest of the plaintiff in such profits
was not legally subject to any such assessment, as it appears
that the corporations invested the profits in part in real estate,
machinery, and raw material proper for carrying on their
*

Tancred v. Christy, 12 Meeson & Welsby, 323.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

11

Opinion of the court.

business, and in part for the payment of debts incurred in
previous years, and that the same remained so invested at
the time the duties were assessed and collected. Part only
of the profits of that year was so invested, and it was that
part of the same which was not included in the dividends of
the year, and which the plaintiff refused to add to the list
he delivered to the assistant assessor, and which is now the
subject of controversy.
4. Intention to defraud the government is not imputed,
either to the corporations or to the plaintif, unless the investment, in view of the circumstances, and the refusal of
the plaintiff to add the proportional amount of the same to
his list of annual gains and profits, constitute such fraud by
implication of law; but the defendant contends that the
plaintiff was required by law to pay the regular income tax
on such proportion of the entire net profits made by the two
companies as his stock bore to the whole stock of the corporations.
Apart from the defence to the merits of the claim, that
the tax was lawfully assessed and collected, the defendant
also set up in his notice of special 'matters to be given in
evidence under the general issue that be paid over the
amount to the Treasury of the United States before the suit
was brought, and that the suit was barred by the nineteenth
section of the act of Congress, entitled an act to reduce internal taxation, which provides, among other things, that no
suit except under certain conditions not existing in the case
before the court, shall be maintained in. any court for the recovery of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected until appeal shall have been duly
made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and a decision shall be had thereon, except in certain cases not
material to be noticed in this investigation, as the case, if
affected at all by the provision, falls within the rule and not
within either of the exceptions.*
5. Payment of the amount into the public treasury before
14 Stat. at Large, 152; Braun v. Sauerwein, 10 Wallace, 218.

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

[Sup. (Jt.

Opinion of the court.

the suit was brought would be a good defence to the action
if the right of the plaintiff depended solely upon an implied
promise at common law, as the payment was made in pursuance of the requirement of an act of Congress, and the
rule is well settled that the law will not imply a promise by
a public officer to pay money in his hands as such officer
twice, nor to pay it to a private party in a case where the
law requires him to pay it into the public treasury, and he
has complied with that requirement.* Indebilatus assumnpsit
is founded upon what the law terms an implied promise on
the part of the defendant to pay what in good conscience he
is bound to pay to the plaintiff. Where the case shows that
it is the duty of the defendant to pay, the law imputes to
him a promise to fulfil that obligation. Such a promise to
pay, however, will never be implied unless some duty creates
such an obligation, nor will the law ever imply a promise to
do an act contrary to law or in violation of a public duty.t
Collectors of internal revenue, as well as collectors of import duties, are required to pay all moneys by them collected into the Treasury of the United States, and where
such moneys have been collected and the payment has been
made into the treasury as required by the act of Congress,
the law, in the absence of any other statutory regulations
upon the subject, would not imply any promise on the part
of the collector to pay back the amount to the taxpayer,
even if it appeared that the assessment was erroneous or
illegal, as he could not, in such a case, be under any obligation to pay the money twice, and to have paid it back to the
taxpayer in the first place would have been contrary to his
official duty as prescribed by an act of Congress. But the
right of the plaintiff to recover in such a case, if the tax is
illegal and le is not otherwise in fault, does not depend
done upon an implied promise as at common law, as the
same act of Congress which requires the collector to collect
the tax and pay the money into the public treasury, contains
13 Stat. at Large, 236; 13 Id. 485; Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 250.
" Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 478.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

18.

Opinion of the court.

other provisions from which the implication necessarily
arises that the taxpayer in such a case, if the tax is illegal,
may maintain an action against the collector to recover back

the amount. Much examination of that question, however,
is unnecessary at this time, as the rule upon the subject is
definitely settled by prior decisions of this court.*
Such a defence, therefore, cannot avail the defendant in
this cause, as the right of action, though in form an action
of assumpsit, is grounded upon the act of Congress providing
for the- assessment and collection of taxes, which will sufficiently appear from a single suggestion. None of the internal revenue acts contemplate that the collectors shall
reimburse themselves for the amount of any judgment recovered against them on account of duties illegally or erroneously assessed and collected. On the contrary, the act of
Congress expressly provides that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall repay to collectors or deputy collectors the
full amount of such sums of money as shall or may be recovered against them in any court for any internal duties or
licenses collected by them, with the costs and expenses of
suit.t
6. Prior to the passage of the act of the 13th of July,
1866, it is quite clear that the taxpayer, if he was illegally
assessed, might maintain an action of assumpsit against a
collector to recover back the amount, if he paid it under
protest, although he had not taken any appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.t Such were the views of
this court in the case of Philadelphia v. The Collector,§ and
no doubt is entertained that the decision was entirely correct, but it is a great mistake to suppose that the right to
maintain the action, as there conceded, was founded in the
theory that the collector held money in his bands belonging to the plaintiff which he was bound to refund, as the
* Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wallace, 731; Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black

479; 13 Stat. at Large, 236, 239.
f- 13 Stat. at Large, 239.
: Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wallace, 730; 14 Stat. at Large, 152.
5 Wallace, 730.

THE

COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

decision was placed expressly upon the ground that the several provisions in the internal revenue acts, before referred
to, warranted the conclusion as a necessary implication that
Congress intended to give the taxpayer such remedy.
Remedies of the kind, given by Congress, may be changed
or modified, or they may be withdrawn altogether at the
pleasure of the law-maker, as the taxpayer cannot have any
vested right in the remedy granted by Congress for the correction of an error in taxation.*
Suits for such causes of action are absolutely prohibited
until the taxpayer shall appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and until the appeal has been decided, unless
the decision is postponed longer than six months, in which
case he is at liberty to sue within one year from the time
when his appeal was taken.t
Three answers are made by the plaintiff to that defence,
as presented in the record: (1.) He contends that the provision is prospective, and that Congress did not intend that
it should retroact so as to affect a vested right. (2.) That
the act of Congress in question, even if it is a bar to such a
suit in a Federal court,, is inoperative, as such, in a State
court. (3.) Thbt the money paid for the taxes, inasinuch as
it was paid under protest, must be considered as money in
the hands of the defendant belonging to the plaintiff, and that
the plaintiff in that view of the case has a vested right at
common law to his remedy to recover it back.
Pending suits, it may be conceded, are not affected by
that provision, but it is impossible to say that any suit subsequently commenced for such a cause of action is not embraced within its scope and meaning, as the language is,
"No suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of
any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed
or collected, until appeal shall have been duly made to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue," &c., as more fully set
forth in the section. Authority was vested in the commis* Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 479.
t Nichols v. United States, 7 Wallace, 180; Braun v. Sauerwein, 10 Id
218.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR

V. HUBBARD.

15

Opinion of the court.

sioner by the prior act to remit, refund, and pay back, "on
appeal to him made," all duties erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, and all duties that appeared to be unjustly assessed or excessive in amount.*
Appeals were permitted by that act, though not required
as a condition to a right of action, but inasmuch as the right
of appeal and the right of action were conferred by the same
act, the court is of the opinion that it was entirely competent
for Congress to add new conditions to the exercise of that
right whenever in its discretion the public interest might
require such additional regulation. Unless the meaning of
the section can be restrained by construction it is quite clear
that it includes the State courts as well as the Federal courts,
as the language is that no suit shall be maintained in any
court to recover any tax alleged to have been erroneously or
illegally assessed or collected, and there is not a word in the
section tending to show that the words "in any court" are
not used in their ordinary sense. Unquestionably if the provision is *a good bar in the Federal courts, it is a good bar
in all courts acting under the same act of Congress, and furnishes the rule of decision for all.t
Special reference is made to the fact that a prior suit was
commenced by the plaintiff, which was pending in the Circuit Court at the time the act was passed taking away the
original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts in all such cases,
except where the parties are citizens of different States, but
the only answer which need be made to that suggestion
is that the present suit is wholly unaffected by that circumstance.
Regulations exist in some of the States that where the
first suit is abated and a second suit is brought within a
prescribed time the statute of limitations shall cease to run
from the date of the first suit, but Congress has not passed
any law to that effect, and it is conceded that none such exists in the State where the suit was commenced.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the
*13

Stat. at Large, 239.

t Cary -v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 254.

THE COLLECTOR -0. HUBBARD.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

third proposition of the plaintiff cannot be sustained, as a
party cannot have any vested right in a remedy conferred
by an act of Congress to prevent Congress from modifying
it or adding new conditions to its exercise.
7. Suppose, however, that the rule is otherwise, that the
provision in question is not a bar to the present suit, still
the court is of the opinion that the addition made to the list
rendered by the plaintiff was proper, that the tax was lawfully assessed, and that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover
in this case.
Assessed as the duties in this case were under the act of
the thirtieth of June, 1864, attention will be called chiefly
to the provisions of that act. Congress evidently intended
by that act, as appears by the one hundred and sixteenth,
and the six following sections, to tax all the annual gains,
profits, and income of every person residing here, and of
every citizen residing abroad, whether derived from any kind
of property, rents, interests, dividends, salaries, or from any
profession, trade, employment, or vocation, or fiom any
other source whatever, except as therein mentioned, if such
annual gains, profits, or income exceed six hundred dollars.
Section one hundred and seventeen declares what shall be
included in estimating the annual gains, profits, or income
of any person, and, among other things, expressly provides
that the gains and profits of all companies, whether incorporated or partnership, other than the companies specified
in that section, shall be included in estimating the annual
gains, profits, or income of any person, entitled to the same,
whether divided or otherwise.*
Manufacturing companies are riot mentioned in that section, and of course they fall within that clause of the section
which in terms applies to all companies, whether incorporated or partnership, not specified in that section. Lists or
returns of the amount of income are required by section one
hundred and eighteen, and section one hundred and nineteen prescribes the time of payment and defines the penalty
in case of neglect and refusal.
* 13 Stat. at Large, 282.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. HUBBARD.

17

Opinion of the court.

Support to the view that the list of an individual should
include undivided as well as divided profits is derived from
the requirements of the one hundred and twentieth section,
which levies a duty of five per centum on all dividends in
scrip or money thereafter declared due, whenever the same
shall be payable to stockholders, policy-holders, or depositors, as part of the earnings, income, or gains of certain
described companies, not including manufacturing companies, and on all undistributed sums, or sums made or added
during the year, to their surplus or contingent funds. Strong
confirmation of that view is also derived from section one
hundred and twenty-one of the same act, which requires
banks of circulation, if they neglect to make dividends, or
additions to their surplus or contingent fund, as often as
once in six months, to make a list or return in duplicate of
the amount of profits which have accrued or been earned
within that period, and to present the list or return to the
collector of the district and pay to him five per cent. on such
profits.*
Substantially the same requirement is made of every railroad, canal, turnpike, canal-navigation and slack-water company, and the provision is that all profits of such a company
carried to the account of any fund or used for construction
shall be subject to and pay a duty of five per centum on the
amount of all such profits.-t Other references to the saine
effect might be made, but it is believed that these are -sufficient to show that the policy of Congress in that act was
to tax all gains and profits, whether divided or undivided,'
and that the construction that the undivided gains ankl profits
of manufacturing companies are properly included in that
rule is just and reasonable.
Decided cases are referred to,J in which it is held that a
stockholder has no title for certain purposes to the earning,.
net or otherwise, of a railroad prior to the dividend being
t 18 Id. 284, 122.
M
Minot v. Paine, 99 Massachusetts, 106; Goodwin v. Hardy, 57 Mainer
13 Stat. at Large, 284.
146.
VOL.

XII.

2

THE

COLLECTOR v. HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

declared, and it cannot be doubted that those decisions are
correct as applied to the respective subject-matters involved
in the controversies. Grant all that, still it is true that the
owner of a share of stock in a corporation holds the share
with all its incidents, and that among those incidents is the
right to receive all future dividends, that is, his proportional
share of all profits not then divided. Profits are incident to
the share to which the owner at once becomes entitled provided he remains a member of the corporation until a dividend is made.* Regarded as an incident to the shares, undivided profits are property of the shareholder, and as such
are the proper subject of sale, gift, or devise. Undivided
profits invested in real estate, machinery, or raw material
for the purpose of being manufactured are investments in
which the stockholders are interested, and when such profits
are actually appropriated to the payment of the debts of the
corporation they serve to increase the market value of the
shares, whether held by the original subscribers or by assignees. But the decisive answer to the proposition is that
Congress possesses the power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises, and it is as competent for Congress to
tax annual gains and profits before they are divided among
the holders of the stock as afterwards, and it is clear that
,Congress did direct that all such gains and profits, whether
,divided or otherwise, should be included in estimating the
annual gains, profits, or income liable to taxation under the
,provisions of that act. Annual gains and profits, whether
divided or not, are property, and, therefore, are taxable.
•JUDGMENT REVERSED with costs and the cause remanded

for further proceedings
IN

CONFORMITY TO THE OPINION OF THIS COURT.

* March v. Railroad, 43 New Hampshire, 520.

