Dec. 1870.]

MILLER

v. THE

STATE.

Statement of the case-.

For these reasons we are of opinion that the Circuit Court
erred in entering a decree for the appellee.
DECREE REVERSED with costs, and the cause remanded with
directions to enter a decree for the appellant,

IN

CONFORMITY WITH THE OPINION OF THIS COURT.

MILLER ET AL. V.

THE

STATE.

Although a suit be nominally by a State as the plaintiff, yet where the real
plaintiffs are individuals-as ex gr. in a quo warranto, where the State
is plaintiff ex relatione-thecdurt will not advance, even by consent of
counsel on both sides, a case under the act of June 30th, 1870.

to advance a cause, &c.
Seven persons, asserting themselves to be the true directors of the Rochester and Genesee Railroad Company, a corporation created by the State of New York, brought suit in
one of the courts of that State in the nature of a quo warranlo-using the name of The People of the State of New
York as plaintiff with their own names as relators-against
one Miller and several others, who also asserted themselves
to be directors, charging that these last had unlawfully
usurped the office of directors, from which they, the relators,
had been unlawfully ousted.
The case being transferred from the special term of the
court to which it was brought to the general term, the
names of the seven relators were dropped, and the matter
proceeded in the name of" The People of the State of New
York" alone. Judgment being finally given in the case
thus entitled, by the Court of Appeals in New York, the
case came here from that court on error. and now, standing
low down on the docket, a motion was made by Mr. T. Bacon, for the plaintiff in error, Mr. J. C. Cochrane in behalf of the
other side, favoring the same, and having himself made a
MOTION

MILLER

v. TIE

STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

similar motion, to advance the cause and hear it at such
time as the court should direct.
The motion was made under the act of 30th June, 1870,
which provides:
"That in all suits . . . now pending or which may hereafter
be brought in tny of the courts of the United States, whether
original suits in the courts of the United States, or brought into
wherein a State is
said courts by appeal or writ of error,.
a party,. ..or where the execution of the revenue laws of any
State may be enjoined or stayed byjudicial order or process ...
it shall be the duty of any court in which such case may be
pending, on sufficient reason shown, to give to such cause the
preference and priority over all other civil causes pending in
such court between private parties.
"And the State or party claiming under the State the execution of whose revenue laws is enjoined or suspended shall have
a right to have such cause heard at any time after such cause is
docketed in such court, in preference to any other civil cause
pending in such court between private parties."
It was stated at the bar, in support of the motion under
this statute, that in addition to the suit being by the State
of New York, and so within the statute on that ground, the
State named was interested in a fiscal point of view in the
successful operation of the road, now greatly interfered with
and almost arrested by the quarrels between the different
bodies asserting themselves to be its true board of directors;
that the revenue laws of the State and her receipts from the
road were in fact suspended until the road was put into quiet
and successful operation ; that is to say, were suspended by
the judicial order or process granting a writ of error in the
case, until the disposition of which in some way the road
could not be put into the sort of operation spoken of.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion is that the cause be advanced, and that it be
heard at such time as the court shall direct, in preference to
civil causes between private parties.
Founded as the motion is, upon the act of Congress of the

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. THE STATE.

Opinion of the court.

thirtieth of June, 1870, it becomes necessary to inquire and
determine whether the case is within the terms of that hct,
as if it is the motion should be granted, and the cause set
for hearing as there directed.
Provision is there made to the effect that in all suits and
actions now pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in
a Federal court, whether the suit is original or brought into
said courts by appeal or writ of error or by removal from a
State court, wherein a State is a party, or where the execution of the revenue laws of any State may be enjoined or
stayed by judicial order or process, it shall be the duty of
any court in which such chse may be pending, on sufficient
reason shown, to give such cause the preference and priority
over all other civil causes pending in such court between
private parties.
Reliance, however, is placed, in support of the motion,
upon the next clause of the act, which provides that the
State, or the party claiming under the laws of the State, the
execution of whose revenue laws is enjoined or suspended,
shall have a right to have such cause heard at any time after
such cause is docketed in such court in preference to any
other civil cause pending in such court between private parties, as provided in the last phrase of the preceding clause.*
No objection to the motion is made by the defendants.
Instead of that they have filed one to the same effect, but
such motions are not grantdd as of course, even when both
parties concur, as such an order, if improperly made, would
prejudice the rights of other parties on the calendar, and in
view of that consideration it becomes necessary to determine
whether the case is one where the parties, or either of them,.
are entitled to such preference, and to enable us to determine
that point we have examined the record, and are satisfied
that the motion must be denied.
The action was one in the nature of a quo warranto to try
the title of the defendants, as directors of the Rochester and
Genesee Valley Railroad, a corporation created by the laws
* 16 Stat, at Large, 176.
VOL. XII.

11

MILLER V.

THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the State of New York, and doing business in that State,
and the real controversy is between two sets of directors as
to which set is entitled to manage and control the affairs of
the corporation.
Both parties assume in argument that the suit is in the
name of the State, or the people of the State alone, and it is
upon that ground that it is claimed that the motion ought
to be granted; and if the fact was so it may be conceded
that the cause ought to be advanced. Such, however, is not
the fact. On the contrary, the suit was brought not only in
the name of the People of the State of New York, but also
in the name of seven persons claiming to be directors of the
railroad company, and that they, as such, are entitled to
manage and control its affairs or to participate in such management and control; and they charge that the defendants,
without any legal authority, right, or warrant whatsoever,
have usurped and entered upon said offices of directors of
the said corporation, and that they still unlawfully hold and
exercise those rights and franchises. Subsequently, when
the cause was transferred to the general term, the names of
the seven directors joined as plaintiffs in the court of original
jurisdiction were dropped in the title of the case, but the
whole proceedings in the case in all the courts of the State
where the case was litigated were upon the declaration as
originally filed, without any amendment in that behalf.
Evidently the suit is one in the name of the State, on the
relation of the seven persons who charge that the defendants
have unlawfully usurped the offices of directors from which
they have been unlawfully ousted, or to which they are justly
entitled by a legal election. Suggestion may be made that
the State is the only party plaintiff named in the writ of
error, but it is the duty of the court in such a case to open
the record and ascertain whether the case in point of fact is
one where the parties are entitled to be heard in preference
to other civil causes between party and party pending on
the calendar. Such a case is not within the act of Congress,
.and the
MOTION IS DENIED.

