Dec.

1870.]

BRONSON's EXECUTOR V. CHAPPELL.

681

General statement of the case.

right to command. So thought our great Master when he
said to his disciples: "If ye love me, keep my commandments."

BRONSON'S

EXECUTOR V.

CHAPPELL.

Where one, without objection, suffers another to do acts which proceed upon
the ground of authority from him, or, by his conduct, adopts and sanctions such acts after they are done, he will be bound, though no previous
authority exist, in all respects as though the requisite power had been
given in the most formal way. This doctrine applied to a case depending on special facts.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
Bronson, of New York, being owner as executor of lands
in Wisconsin, sold a tract to E. and J. Chappell, residing
near Galena, in that State, the sale being negotiated by one
W. C. Bostwick, of the last-named place. A portion of the
purchase-money was secured by mortgage; and as it became
due it was paid by the Chappells to Bostwick, under the assumption by them that Bostwick, who had -advertised himself during a term of twelve or fourteen years as the agent
of Bronson, was the duly constituted agent of Bronson to
receive it. Bostwick having failed, and appropriated the
money to his own use, Bronson now filed a bill against the
Chappells in the court below to foreclose the mortgage.
The defendants set up the payments to Bostwick; and the
question involved was thus a pure question of agency. The
defendants relied upon a correspondence between Bronson
and Bostwick, and particularly, as sufficient of itself, on a
letter from the latter to the former, dated 9th February,
1860, and a reply to it of the 15th. These two letters are
quoted and the general character of the others, with the
leading fitcts of the case, stated in different parts of the
opinion. The court below dismissed the bill, and Bronson
took the appeal.

BRoNsoN's ExECUTOR V. CHIAPPELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease in the opinion.

MAr. J. .1. Townsend, for the appellant; .flessrs. Cothren and
Laken, contra.
.Kr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
But a single question has been argued in this court, and
that is one arising upon the facts as developed in the record.
This opinion will be confined to that subject.
William 0. Bostwick, acting for Frederick Bronson, negotiated the sale of a tract of land in Wisconsin to the defendants. According to his custom in such cases, Bronson
forwarded to Bostwick the draft of a contract to be executed
by the buyers. At the foot of the draft was a note in these
words:
"William C. Bostwick, Esq., of Galena, is authorized to receive
and receipt for the first payment on this contract. All subsequent payments to be made to F. Bronson, in the city of New
York."
The defendants expressed to Bostwick a preference to receive a deed and give a mortgage. This was communicated
to Bronson, who acceded to the proposition and forwarded
to Bostwick a deed and the draft of a bond and mortgage.
On the 25th of March, 1865, the defendants paid to Bostwick
$1500 of the purchase-money, and executed the bond and
mortgage to secure the payment of the balance. According
to the condition of the bond it was to be paid to the obligee
in the city of New York, in instalments, as follows: $781.20
on the 13th of November, 1865, and the remaining s im of
$4562.40 in seven equal annual payments, from the 12th of
February, 1865, with interest thereon at the rate of 7 per
cent. per annum. The contract was erroneously construed
by Bronson as requiring the interest on all the instalments
to be paid with each one as it fell due. The other parties
seem to have acquiesced in this construction. On the 4th
of December, 1865, the defendants paid to Bostwick, as the
agent of Bronson, $825.36, in discharge of the amount
claimed to be due on the 30th of November, 1865, and took
his receipt accordingly. On the 28th of February, 1866,

Dec. 1870.] BRoNSON's

EXECUTOR V. CHAPPELL.

683

Opinion of the court.

they paid Bostwick $980 to meet the second instalment and
interest, as claimed, with exchange, and took his receipt as
before. Bostwick failed in December, 1866. These moneys
were never paid over to Bronson. He denied the authority
of Bostwick to receive them, and demanded payment from
the defendants. They refused, and Bronson thereupon filed
this bill to foreclose the mortgage. The validity of these
payments is the question presented for our determination.
Agents are special, general, or universal. Where written
evidence of their appointment is not required, it may be implied from circumstances. These circumstances are the acts
of the agent and their recognition, or acquiescence, by the
principal. The same considerations fix the category of the
agency and the limits of the authority conferred. Where
one, without objection, suffers another to do acts which proceed upon the ground of authority from him, or by his conduct adopts and sanctions such acts after they are done, he
will be bound, although no previous authority exist, in all
respects as if the requisite power had been given in the
most formal manner. If he has justified the belief of a
third party that the person assuming to be his agent was
authorized to do what was done, it is no answer for him to
say that no authority had been given, or that it did not reach
so far, and that the third party had acted upon a mistaken
conclusion. He is estopped to take refuge in such a defence.
If a loss is to be borne, the author of the error must bear it.
If business has been transacted in certain cases it is implied
that the like business may be transacted in others. The inference to be drawn is, that everything fairly within the
scope of the powers exercised in the past may be done in
the future, until notice of revocation or disclaimer is brought
home to those whose interests are concerned. Under such
circumstances the presence or absence of authority in point
of fact, is immaterial to the rights of third persons whose
interests are involved. The seeming and reality are followed
by the same consequences. In either case the legal result is
the same.

BRONSON's ExouroTR V. CHAPPELL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Bronson, as executor, had a large body of lands in Wisconsin for sale. For several years prior to the purchase by
the defendants, Bronson had been in the habit of receiving
and forwarding propositions to Bostwick. If approved,
Bronson executed and forwarded contracts for the property,
to be executed by the other parties. In the early part of
the year 1860 Bostwick was startled by a memorandum
touching payments, on a draft sent out by Bronson, like
that in the draft sent to Bostwick for execution by the defendants. On the 9th of February he addressed a letter to
Bronson, in which he said:
'lIy attention was naturally arrested by the note at bottom of the contract of Tormey, and if it is to be interpreted as
an intimation that a withdrawal of my agency is contemplated,
it would cause me not less surprise than pain, not so much by
any means from the pecuniary consideration connected with it,
as from the implied dissatisfaction o1n your part with the manner
in which I have transacted your business; and it occasions the
more surprise that I have always endeavored to attend with
fidelity and promptness to your business and interests, and have
never before had any intimation whatsoever from you that you
were not entirely satisfied. I am wholly at a loss to conceive
wherein I have given dissatisfaction, or fiiled to do all that was
necessary to do, or could be done under the particular circumstances of any case involving your business or interests in my
hands."
On the 15th of the same month Bronson replied as follows:
"The memorandum at the foot of Tormey's contract I have
recently put on all of my land contracts to repel the construction lately sought to be put on them, that the first or other payments, if received by the agent, is an implied waiver of the claim
for exchange, and of the stipulation in the body of the contract,
that the money is to be paid to me in the city of New York.
In other words, it is but a repetition of a clause in the contract, as applicable to all except the first payment."

This correspondence suggests several remarks:
Bostwick speaks of his employment as having been, and
then being, an "agency" for Bronson. He inquires whether

Dec.

1870.]

BRoNsoN's EXECUTOR V. CHAPPELL.

685

Opinion of the court.

it was contemplated by Bronson to revoke it. Bronson does
not deny or revoke it. He says the object of the memorandum was to repel the construction that the receipt of
"the first or other payments by the agent" was "an implied
waiver of the claim for exchange," and which was the same
thing in effect-a waiver of the stipulation in the contract
that the money was to be paid to him "*in the city of New
York." It recognizes the authority of the agent to receive
the subsequent payments as well as the first one, provided
exchange were paid upon the former by the debtor.
The language employed by Bronson will admit of no other
construction. It applies with full force to the bond' of these
defendants. They paid exchange as well as the principal
and interest of the instalments in question. There is no
evidence in the record that the authority thus admitted to
exist was ever withdrawn. It must be presumed to have
continued until the relations of the parties were terminated
by Bostwick's failure and insolvency. Bostwick says in his
deposition: "I advertised myself as the agent of the Bronson lands, which advertising was continued for a period of
twelve or fourteen years." His testimony upon this subject
is uncontradicted.
There are found in the record thirty-four letters from
Bronson to Bostwick, all relating to business connected with
the Bronson lands. The first letter bears date on the 12th
of December, 1855, the last one on the 27th of November,
1865. They are in all respects such as would naturally be
addressed by a principal to an agent in whose judgment,
integrity, and diligence he had the fullest confidence. They
refer to sales, to the delivery of deeds and contracts, the payment and collection of taxes, and a variety of other matters
in the same connection. Ten of the letters authorize the
delivery of contracts on the receipt of the first payment by
Bostwick. Fourteen of them authorize the collection, or
acknowledge the transmission, of other moneys. Bronson
was absent in Europe from the 9th of October, 1861, until
about the middle of December, 1864. During that time his
business was attended to by his attorney, E. S. Smith, Esq.,

686

BRONSON'S EXECUTOR V. CHAPPELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the city of New York. There are in the record twentyone letters from him to Bostwick. They are of the same
character with those from Bronson. Twelve of them a.cknowledge the collection and transmission of moneys for
Bostwick. It is not stated whether they were the first or
later payments. But the circumstances show clearly that
they were in most, if not in all instances, of the latter character. All collections were made, and all business relating
to the lands was transacted through Bostwick. In one of
these letters, Smith says:
"P. S.-Mr. Bronson, in a letter received, writes: 'I am willing to sell lands through Mr. Bostwick upon an advance of price
equal to the depreciation of paper money at the time of sale,'"
&C
A further analysis of the letters of these parties would
develop a large array of additional facts bearing in the same
direction and hardly less cogent than those to which we have
adverted. There is no intimation in any of them that Bostwick was regarded as the agent of the buyers, that he was
not regarded as the agent of Bronson, or that he had in any
instance exceeded his authority. It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. Viewed in the light of the law,
we think the evidence abundantly establishes two propositions:
1. That Bostwick was the agent of Bronson, and as such
authorized to receive the payments in question.
2. If this were not so-that the conduct of Bronson-numerous transactions between him and Bostwick and the
course of business by the latter-authorized or known to
and acquiesced in by the former-justified the belief by the
defendants that Bostwick had such authority and that Bronson was bound accordingly.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

