TnE

[Sup. Or.

EUTAW.

Statement of the case.

court having come to that conclusion set them aside and ordered the steamer restored to the custody in which it was
when the writ of sequestration was served.
DEOREE AFFIRMED.*

THE EUTAW.
'When a case is within the jurisdiction of the court, and there has been no
defect in removing it from the subordinate court to this, the court will
not dismiss the case on motion made out of the regular call of the docket.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal; the case being thus:

In March, 1867, Harris, Howell & Co. libelled the steamer
Eutaw, in the District Court at New York, for repairs, supplies, advances, and labor and services to the vessel, at Wilmington, N. C. The answer denied generally the allegations of the libel. A reference was made by consent to a
master to ascertain and report the aniount due; "the same
proof of the payment and propriety of payment of bills to be
made as if before the court." The master, after admissions
or proofs heard, found $4140.94; one item of this sum being
$1000 for "commissions at 2 - per cent.," and this item
being allowed on an allegation of a custom of maritime coun.
tries, and of which, as prevalent at Wilmington, specific
proofs were given or attempted, in the shape of affidavits from
commission merchants of that place, and otherwise in more
formal shape. This item, unlike most of the charges, was apparently not admilled, though it was not attempted specifically
to be dis-proved, it being left to be judged of on the record
and the law. The respondents not excepting, so far as the
record seemed to show, to this item of $1000, or to any other
item found in the report, nor moving any correction nor objecting to confirmation, the report was confirmed in May,
1868, by the District Court. From that decree the respondThis decree was made at the last term.

Dec. 1870.]

THE EUTAW.
Argument in favor of dismissal.

ents appealed in about two years afterwards (March 19th,
1870), to the Circuit Court, assigning error in a general allegation, "that the said decree is erroneous inasmuch as the
said libellants were not entitled to the damages claimed in
the premises;" and in the prayer for an appeal stating that
on the appeal the appellant "intended to make new allegations and introduce the same and new and further proofs."
In the Circuit Court, no new allegations being made of
record, nor further proofs introduced, the case was argued
and taken into advisement. As was said in the briefs of one
side, and not contradicted in those of the other, the court on
one hearing (before Nelson, J.), set aside the report or decree,
though afterwards, on reargument (before Woodruff, J.),
affirmed it. Nothing of this difference of view between the
judges appeared on the record.
From this decree, made March 19th, 1870, the case was
brought here by appeal two months afterwards and now
stood No. 403, a number quite far on upon the list, and
making the case, if left to be heard in ordinary course, not
likely to be reached for a considerable time.
The 23d rule of this court declares:
"In all cases where a writ of error shall delay the proceedings
on the judgment of the inferior court, and shall appear to have
been sued out merely for delay, damages shall be awarded at
the rate of 10 per centum per annum on the amount of the judgment, and the said damages shall be calculated from the date of
the judgment in the court below until the money is paid."
31r. C. Donohoe, in support of his motion to dismiss:
No exception was taken to the proceedings or proof before the commissioner and none before the court against the
report. No definite defence is set up in the answer. In order
to allow an appeal or hearing on it, the appealing party
should point out specifically what the defence is, and what
he objects to.*
To adopt any other rule would be to allow a party to let
Commander-in-Chief, 1 Wallace, 43.

TuE EUTAW.[

.[Sup.

Gt.

Argument against dismissal.

a decree go against him, in fact stand by and tacitly admit
the claim, and then, when he had misled the court and
counsel, attempt on some defect of evidence, or, in fact, on
evidence not returned or accidentally omitted, to raise points
not raised before. The court will not even bear by consent
points not raised on the record.*
The appeal being evidently for delay, and there being no
point really taken on the record, the case should be affirmed
for want of a point to argue, or dismissed with costs. The
ten per cent. damages given by the 22d rule for such appeals, while in part a punishment to the appellant, do not
pay the appellee in what he suffers by them. He has to pay
counsel and be out of his money. Such appeals, on the contrary, are disastrous to business men.
Mr. T. l. Wheeler, contra:
The reference required "the same proof of payment, and
propriety of payment of bills to be made, as if made before
the court."
It is not necessary to take an exception to the report of
the commissioner.t
The appeal to the Circuit Court does point out an error,
"in saying that the decree of the District Court is erroneous,
inasmuch as the libellants were not entitled to the damages
claimed in the premises." The error will appear friom an
examination of the record.
The court will not, on this motion, examine the merits of
the case. That there is good ground for appeal is evident
from the fact that two judges of the Circuit Court differed
in opinion. The record will show that some of the payments were not legally proved, and that payment of some of
the bills was not proper, and that therein the report did not
conform to the order of reference. The item for commission on the cargo, amounting to $1000, is among the- class
of which we speak. It was not properly proved and is not
Bradstreet v. Potter, 16 Peters, 317.
t Murray v. Charming Betsy, 2 Cranch, 64; Himely v. Rose, 5 Id 313.

Dec. 1870.]

TimE ,UTAW.

Opinion of the court.

a legal charge. On this point the appellant has a right to
be heard by this court. It would not now be proper to
make an argument nor would the court hear it on this
motion.
.Reply. Nothing should be on the calendar that does not
contain points to argue. It misleads parties lower on the
calendar and will render uncertain the date of argument of
cases having merits; for no one but the appellant, in cases
like the present one, can tell whether it is intended to argue
them or not when called. The class will increase when once
tolerated, and the thing will end in the calendar of this tribunal being put, like the calendars of some of our State
courts now are, beyond the control of the court.
The only reason the case was before two judges below
was, that neither before the first nor the second judges did
the appellant in the circuit snbmit any points or make any
argument; lie simply submitted his record, as he did in the
district, and left the court, as he does here, to find aii excuse
for non-payment.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Cases regularly on the calendar, whether brought here by
writ of error or appeal, if within the jurisdiction of the court
are required to be heard when reached in the regular call
of the docket, and they cannot be heard before they are
reached except when they are advanced by the order of the
court.
Where the case is one not within the jurisdiction of the
court the writ of error or appeal may be dismissed on motion, and certain defects in removing the canse from the
subordinate court into this court entitle the party who prevailed in the court below to the same remedy.
Motions to dismiss are non-enumerated motions, and they
may be filed by leave of court in any case on the calendar
before the case is reached in the regular call of the docket,
and they are entitled to preference on Friday in each week
during the sitting of the court, as provided in the twenty-

THE EUTAW.

[Slip. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

seventh rule, but they do not give either party any right to
be heard upon the merits of the controversy.
On the ninth of March, 1867, the appellees filed the libel
in the District Court against the appellants, as the owners
of the steamer Eutaw, her engine, tackle, apparel, &c., in a
cause of action founded upon contract civil and maritime.
By the second article of the libel it is alleged that the
steamer belonged to the port of New York, that she was
engaged in the coasting trade, that in the months of November and December prior to the filing of the libel she
was in the port of Wilmington, North Carolina, and that
she was in need of supplies, repairs, advances, and necessaries for her voyage; that the master of the steamer applied to the libellants to make such repairs and to furnish
such supplies and advances, and that they, the libellants,
complied with the request, and that there is due to them for
such repairs, supplies, and advances, the sum of fbur thousand dollars. They also alleged that the repairs, supplies,
and advances were necessary and proper to render the
steamer seaworthy and fit to perform her intended voyage,
and that the same were furnished on the credit of the
steamer as well as of the master and owners.
Process was served and the first-named respondent appeared and filed an answer, in his own behalf and in behalf
of the other respondent with whom he was irnpleaded,
denying all the allegations of the libel. Subsequent to the
filing of the answer an order was passed referring the cause
to a master to ascertain and report the amount due to the
libellants. Testimony was taken on both sides and the
parties were heard and the master reported that there was
due to the libellants the sum of four thousand one hundred
and forty dollars and ninety-four cents for the repairs, supplies, and advances made and furnished, as alleged in the
libel. No exceptions were taken by either party to the report of the master, and on the ninth of May, 1868, the District Court confirmed the report and entered a final decree
in favor of the libellants for that amount.

Dec. 1870.]

THE EUTAW.
Opinion of the court.

Dissatisfied with the decree, the respondent appealed to
the Circuit Court, where the parties were again heard upon
the same testimony. Apparently they were heard without
any new reference of the cause and upon the general allegation of the appellant that the decree was erroneous and that
the libellants were not entitled to the damages claimed in
the libel and decree. Different conclusions, however, were
formed by the circuit judge, as be adjudged that the decree
of the District Court should be affirmed with costs, and it is
from that decree that the original respondent appealed to
this court.
Referring to the record, it appears that the decree in the
Circuit Court was entered on the nineteenth of March, 1870,
and the appeal was taken to this court on the nineteenth of
May following. Such an appeal is not a supersedeas, but it
cannot be dismissed, because no question is raised or presented in the record for the decision of this court.
Appeals are subject to the same rules, regulations, and
r,;tfrictions as are prescribed in law in case of writs of error,
and it is well-settled law that it is no sufficient cause to dismiss a writ of error that the record does not present any
question of law for the revision of this court, as the writ
of error when sued out under the twenty-second section
of the Judiciary Act brings up the whole record, and it is
the right of the plaintiff in error to be heard and have an
opportunity to show, if he can, that there is error in any
part of the record.*
When a cause is brought here upon a writ of error sued
out under that section, and all the proceedings are regular
and correct, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
affirmed, but the cause cannot be dismissed although there
is no question presented in the record for revision.t
Apply that rule to the case before the court and it is
clear that the motion must be denied, and it is equally
Minor et al. v. Tillotson, 1 Howard, 288; 2 Stat. at Large, 244.
f Taylor v. Morton, 2 Black, 484; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard,
440.

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

clear that appeals in that respect are subject to the same
rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law
in case of writs of error. Appeals of the kind are usually
regarded as brought for delay, and it may become necessary
to amend the second article of the twenty-third rule so that
ten per cent. damages shall be allowed in addition to the
interest provided for in the first article of that rule.
MOTION DENIED.

BIGLER v. WALLER.
On a bill filed in the Circuit Court for Virginia, against A. and B., the
administrators of both were substituted on the record as defendants;
A. and B. themselves having died after the bill was filed, and suggestion of their deaths being made. In this state the cause was heard and
judgment given for the defendants. The complainant appealed to this
court, the appeal bond and the citation referring, however, throughout,
to A. and B. as defendants in the case, and not referring in any way to
their suggested deaths and the substitution of their administrators.
J. A. I., signing himself "counsel for the defendats in, this cause in, the Circuit Court of the United States for Virginia," acknowledged service of the
citation.
On motion in this court to dismiss, the court acknowledging the obvious
irregularity of both bond and citation, yet held,
1. That the acceptance by the counsel, J. A. I., in the-circumstantial
language above quoted, was a waiver of the irregularity in the citation.
2. That the irregularity, as respected the bond, did not necessarily exact
a dismissal, which was accordingly ordered, only unless the appellant
filed a sufficient appeal bond, in the usual form, within ten days, in
the same sum as that required on the allowance of the appeal.

to dismiss for want of jurisdiction an appeal from
the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia; the case being
thus:
James Bigler filed a bill in the court below against William
Waller and Robert Saunders. Pending the suit, Saunders
died, and his death being suggested, a scire facias to revive
the cause was issued, and returned executed on one Hlarrell,
MOTION

