HANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

HANNIBAL RAILROAD V.

SWIFT.

1. The obligations and liabilities of a common carrier are not dependent
upon contract, though they may be modified and limited by contract;
they are imposed by the law, from the public nature of his employment.
2. If a common carrier of passengers and of goods and merchandise have
reasonable ground for refusing to receive and carry persons applying
for passage, and their baggage and other property, he is bound to insist
at the time upon such ground if desirous of avoiding responsibility. If
not thus insisting he receives the passengers and their baggage and other
property, his liability is the same as though no ground for refusal existed.
3. The liability of a common carrier of goods and merchandise attaches
when the property passes, with his assent, into his possession, and is not
affected by the carriage in which it is transported, or the fact that the
carriage is loaded by the owner. The common carrier is an insurer of
the property carried, and upon him the duty rests to see that the packing and conveyance are such as to secure its safety.
4. It is not a ground for limiting the responsibility of a common carrier,
where no interference is attempted with his control of the property carried, that the owner of the property accompanies it and keeps watch for
its safety.
5. Where a railroad company receives for transportation, in cars which
accompany its passenger trains, property of a passenger other than his
baggage, in relation to which no fraud or concealment is practiced or
attempted upon its employees, it assumes with reference to the property
the liability of a common carrier of merchandise.
6. Surgical instruments, in the case of a surgeon in the army travelling
with troops, constitute part of his baggage.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.
Swift, a surgeon in the army of the United States, brought
a suit in the court below against the Hannibal and St. Jo
seph Railroad Company, to recover the value of certain baggage and personal property, owned by him, and lost when
in a course of transportation on the said road.
The case, which was agreed on by the parties, and tried
by the court without a jury, was thus:
The plaintiff had been stationed as a surgeon in the army,
with his wife and family, previous to the rebellion, at Fort
Randall, Dacotah Territory. A part of the garrison, with the
plainti, having been ordered to report for duty at Cincinnati,

Dec. 1870.]

HANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.
Statement of the case.

arrived in December, 1861, at St. Joseph, Missouri, where
they were to take the cars of the railroad of the company
now sued, for Hannibal, on the Mississippi River, the eastern
end of the road. The plaintiff was accompanied by his wife
and family, and they carried with them their wearing apparel,
some household outfit, and other property.
On their arrival at St. Joseph, the commanding officer gave
notice to the railroad company that he required transportation
for the troops, their baggage, camp equipments, arms, munitions, and the chattels of himself, as well as those of the
plaintiff, from St. Joseph to Hannibal. At that time nearly
all that portion of the State of Missouri through which the
railroad ran, was in a state of rebellion against the United
States. For some months previously, armed bands of rebels
had committed frequent depredations on the railroad by
firing intb trains, burning bridges, trains of cars, and station-houses, destroying culverts, and tearing up the track.
The railroad agents at St. Joseph communicated these facts
to the commanding officer of the troops, and so did the officer
who was then in command of United States troops at St.
Joseph. On account of the great danger to the command
along the line of the road from these bands, the officers of
the road refused to make any contract for the transportation
of the command over the road, and none was made or signed
until after the command had arrived at Hannibal, at which
place the amount of compensation for transportation was
agreed upon.
On demand of the commanding officer the railroad company furnished transportation for the troops, their baggage,
camp equipments, arms, munitions of war, and the chattels of
himself as well as those of the plaintiff. Out of several cars
standing in the yard of the railroad company at St. Joseph,
the commanding officer selected the car in which the baggage belonging to the officers and men of the command, its
camp equipage, arms, and munitions, also the property of
the plaintiff, for which this action was brought, were loaded.
In the said car 9000 cartridges were placed. The car was
well built and in a secure condition; and the plaintiff was

HANNIBAL

RAILROAD V.

SWIFT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

aware that his property was placed in that car. The commanding officer, as is customary where troops are moving
by public conveyance from one point to another, detailed
some men from \his command to guard that car, while
another portion packed and loaded it with the property
mentioned. The soldiers carried their arms in their hands
for use in case of an attack from the enemy. None of the
railroad company's officers, agents, or servants had anything
to do with selecting, packing, or loading the car selected,
but after the same was completed, and the car locked up by
the commanding officer, the agents of the railroad company
placed the car in the train next to the tender of the engine
that moved the car, and the train upon which the command
were transported from St. Joseph to Hannibal. The train
in which the car was placed was a regular passenger train
of the railroad company, and was well manned and bquipped.
It had a baggage car attached to it and a baggage-master in
charge of the car, whose duty it was to receive and take
charge of all baggage of passengers transported on said
train, and who did take charge of all baggage of passengers
on the train that was offered him, checks being given therefor. There was ample room in the baggage car for the plaintiff's baggage, and the baggage car and its contents were
not burned or destroyed. The car containing the property
sued for was the only one burnt, and no part of the train
was attacked or molested by armed rebels or otherwise as
known. The plaintiff did not place the property sued for
in charge of the baggage-master or other agent or servant
of the defendant, except as above stated, nor was the same
ever received by the defendant, except as thus stated, that
is, by taking possession of the car and placing it in the train.
It did not appear, from anything in the agreed case, that the
,control and management of the car or of the train by the
;agents and servants of the defendant were subsequently in-terfered with by the commanding officer, or the plaintiff, or
.any of the troops.
The car in which the property was loaded as above menttioned, whilst on the way from St. Joseph to Hannibal,

Dec. 1870.]

HANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

265

Statement of the case.

from some cause unknown, and, so far as known, without
any fault of the agents, or servants of the railroad company,
except as disclosed above, took fire and, with most of its
contents, was consumed. After the discovery of the fire
most of the contents of the car could have been saved, but
from fear of injury by explosion of the cartridges known to
be therein.
A surgeon in the United States Army is entitled by army
regulations to 800 pounds of baggage.
The court held that the plaintiff was entitled to recover,
and the case went to a referee under the stipulation of the
parties to ascertain the damages sustained.
The property lost, for which the action was brought, consisted of the wearing apparel of plaintiff and family; table
furniture, including silverware to the value of $204.50; three
buffalo robes, two deer robes, hair mattresses and pillows,
writing-desks, tables, engravings, pictures, and statuary, and
numerous articles of a household outfit; besides jewelry to
the value of $787.50; a set of surgical instruments of the
value of $350, and an unpublished manuscript on veterinary
surgery. The property weighed twenty-seven hundred
pounds.
The value of the jewelry, as above stated, and $1000 as
the value of the manu.script, were allowed by the referee in
assessing the damages. He also allowed interest on the
d'mages from the time of the loss to the filing of his report.
The Circuit Court, however, on exception, disallowed the
value of the jewelry and the manuscript, as well as the interest given by the referee, allowing interest on the principal
sum only from commencement of the suit.
The following exceptions of the defendant to the referee's
report were overruled by the court: (1) To the allowance
of the value of more than 800 pounds of baggage. (2) To
the allowance of the value of the silverware. (3) To the
allowance of the value of plaintiff's surgical instruments.
The court sustained the assessment for the suni of
$3129.60, for which judgment was entered in favor of the
plaintif, and the railroad company brought the case here.

HANNIBAL

RAILROAD v.

SWIFT.

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the carrier.

Mr. James Carr,for the plaintiff in error:
The goods were never delivered to the railroad company.
It had expressly refused to receive them. The car in which
they were shipped was selected by the officer in command
of the troops; it was guarded, loaded, and packed by them,
and then locked by the officer. They were in the exclusive
custody and control of the officer and men. lIe and his
men were the agents of the plaintiff for this particular purpose. They continued in this exclusive custody and control
from the time that the goods were loaded, until the car in
which they were, with its contents, was burnt. It was the only
car in the train that was burnt. If the plaintiff desired to
hold the company responsible as a common carrier why did
he not deliver his goods to its servants, and let them select
the car and pack and load to suit themselves? The company ought not to be held responsible for the unskilful or
negligent loading and packing of the agents of the plaintiff.
But if it be held that there was a delivery to the company,
then the delivery was obtained by compulsion, and is not
binding.
The plaintiff was guilty of negligence in having his goods
loaded in the car with the nine thousand musket cartridges;
things of a highly combustible nature, and liable to ignite
by the friction occasioned by the oscillation of the train.
He voluntarily had his goods placed in that car. He had
the privilege of putting them in the baggage car in charge
of the baggage-master. He did not do so. The baggage car
was not burnt or anything in it injured. Volenti nonfit iijuria.
The army regulations entitled the plaintiff to transportation for only eight hundred pounds of baggage; whereas the
fact is, that he had two thousand seven hundred pounds of
things, which he was having transported at the expense of
the government, and at government rates, and under the
vegis of the government. Nor was what he had baggage.
Silverware is not baggage;* nor samples of merchandise;t
* Bell v. Drew, 4 E. D. Smith, 59.

t Hawk-ins v. Hoflman, 6 Hill, 586; Chicago, &c., Railroad Co. v. Marcus, 88 Illinois, 219.

Dec. 1870.]

HANNIBAL RAILROAD

v.

SWIFT.

267

Argument for the passenger.

nor a trunk of merchandise ;* nor bank notes in a travelling trunk.t
Mr. J. Hubley Ashton, contra:
The case shows that on the demand of the officer in command of the troops, the defendant furnished transportation
for them, as well as the plaintiff, and the public and private
property which they brought; that the car in which this
property was stored was placed by the agents of the company in
the train on which the command was carried; and that, on
the arrival of the troops at Hannibal, the compensation,
payable for transporting the troops and the property, was
fixed by agreement between the proper officer and the company, and the amount afterwards received by the defendant
from theUnited States; The payment made by the government was thus for ove entire service, just as if the amount had
been agreed upon and paid before the troops started, and the
company had then furnished cars to convey them and their
baggage and the public property in their charge. The compensation received was none the less because it was adjusted
afterwards.
The only reason why no contract was made before the
train started was, that the company did not desire to be responsible for any loss happening through rebel violence.
At that early day of the rebellion it was doubtless supposed
that such loss would not be within the exception of the act
of the public enemy.
No express stipulation was made, however, before the
train went off, discharging the company from any of the duties annexed to its employment.
Now, in view of these facts, it is vain to say that this
property was never delivered to the defendant, and that it
refused to receive the goods.
The arrangement in regard to the baggage was made by
the proper officer with the company. That this arrangement
Pardee v. Drew, 25 Wendell, 459; Collins v. Boston & M. Railroad
Co., 10 Cushing, 506.
t Orange County Bank v. Brown, 9 Wendell, 86.

HIANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the passenger.

contemplated a separate car for all the property with the
command, and not the ordinary conveyance in the regular
baggage car, as in the case of a private passenger, cannot
affect the carrier's responsibility. Nor can it matter that
the officer selected the car. The car was the defendant's.
It must be equally unimportant that the soldiers loaded the
car, and not the servants of the company, so far as the question of the delivery of the goods to it for carriage is concerned. A company will not be exonerated, because the
owner of the goods furnishes his own car, and assumes the
loading and unloading, and furnishes a brakeman to accompany the car. This is expressly decided in M allory v.
Tioga .Railroad.* Nor will it be if the goods are placed in a
crate belonging to an express company, and placed in charge
of the carrier.t Nor where a warehouseman, having goods
to send by rail, applied to the company, who ran a car upon
a side track to the warehouse.t Nor if the owner accompa.
nies the goods to look after them.ยง Nor where a passenger
on a boat takes charge of his property after it is placed on
the boat.I1 If the carrier receive an article for carriage,
though not bound to receive it at the time or place, or in
the condition in which offered, he is responsible. f
No question of negligence,,in the matter of loading the
car, can arise here, as the agreed case expressly finds that
the car took fire "from some cause unknown." It cannot
be inferred here and now that it was fired by the explosion
of the cartridges, or by a spark from the engine. The latter
is, however, the most probable theory, as the defendant's
agents placed the car next to the tender of the engine, the
unsafest place of all for it in the train.
On the question of damages. As to the weight of baggage.
The defendant received from the government the agreed
39 Barbour, 488.
t New Jersey Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 344.
1 Illinois Central Railroad v. Smyser, 38 Illinois, 361; Merritt v. Old
Colony Railway, 11 Allen, 80.
:Robinson v. Dunmore, 2 Bosanquet & Puller, 416.
II Fisher v. Clisbee, 12 Illinois, 344.
Pickford v. Grand Junction Railway, 12 Maeeson & Welsby, 766.

Dec. 1870.]

HANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

269

Argument for the passenger.

compensation for its carriage along with the rest of the
property. Presumably, the proper fare and freight for persons and property accompanying the command Were agreed
upon; and the company received all it was entitled to for
the service. It is not found that it claimed any greater compensation than it got. If the government paid for more baggage than the officer was entitled to carry, under regulations, in the quartermaster's wagons, that was its affair.
The company furnished transportation for all the property
with the command, and incurred the carrier's responsibility
for all. If some of the property was not strictly baggage,
the acceptance of it for carriage renders the company liable
for it.*
The term baggage, is necessarily a relative term, and must
be defined by the fa~cts and circumstances of each case; ineluding the object and length of the journey, and the habits
and condition in life of the passenger. It is a question for
the jury, rather than the court.t Thus a proper sum of
money for travelling expenses, contained in a trunk, is to
be considered part of the passeIger's personal baggage; and
the amount must be determined by the whole journey, and
include accidents, sickness, and sojourns by the way. So
manuscript books, the property of a student, and the papers
and books of a lawyer, in travelling on business.1 A valuable diamond breastpin, a gold breastpin, and a miniature
set with gold, have been included in a lady's baggage.ยง So

a watch in a trunk.jj
The only objection that can be made to the allowance of the
little silverware is, that it is not found that it was necessary
for plaintiff's family. But this court will presume that all
* Minter v. Pacific Railroad, 41 Missouri, 507; Glasco v. New York Central Railroad, 36 Barbour, 561; Cahill v. London and N. W. Railway, 13
C. B. (N. S.), 818, Exchequer Chamber; Butler v. Hudson River Railroad,
3 E. D. Smith, 671.
t 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th American edition, 382; Merrill v. Grinnell, 30 New York, 609; Woods v. Devin, 13 Illinois, 746; Parmelee v.
Fischer, 22 Illinois, 212.
$ Hopkins v. Westcott, 6 Blatchford Circuit Court, 64.
11Jones v. Voorhees, 10 Ohio, 145.
SMcGill v. Rowand, 3 Barr, 452.

HIANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

[Slip. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

matter of fact was found that may be necessary to support
the judgment. Besides, the finding is that it was household
outfit. And in the case of an officer travelling with his
family from one post to another, it would be included in the
term "baggage."
As for the surgical instruments, it has been held that these,
in the case of a medical man, are baggage.*
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented by the record for our determination: 1st, whether upon the facts stated in the agreed
case the railroad company was liable as a common carrier
for the safe conveyance of the baggage and other property
of the plaintiff; and, 2d, whether there was any error in the
assessment of damages as allowed by the Circuit Court.
The railroad company was chartered by the legislature of
Missouri in 1847, and for many years its railroad between
the city of Hannibal, on the Mississippi River, and the city
of Saint Joseph, on the Missouri River, has been constructed
and in operation. Between those places the company was,
in 1861, a common carrier, over its road, of passengers and
their baggage, and of goods and merchandise. As such
carrier, its duties and liabilities were plain; as a carrier of
passengers it was bound, unless there was reasonable ground
for refusal, to take all persons who applied for passage, and
their baggage, and as a carrier of goods, to take all other
property offered for transportation, and was responsible for
the safe conveyance of the baggage and other property to
the point for which they were destined, or the termination
of the road, unless prevented by inevitable accident or the
public enemy. Its obligations and liabilities in these respects
were not dependent upon the contract of the parties, though
they might have been modified and limited by such contract.
They were imposed upon it by the law, from the public nature of its employment, independent of any contract.
If at any time reasonable ground existed for refusing to
* Giles v. Fauntleroy, 18 Maryland, 129.

Dec. 1870.]

HANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

271

Opinion of the court.

receive and carry passengers applying for transportation, and
their baggage and other property, the company was bound
to insist upon such ground if desirous of avoiding responsibility. If not thus insisting, it received the passengers and
their baggage and other property, its liability was the same
as though no ground for refusal had ever existed.
It does not appear from the agreed case that the company
refused to transport over its road the troops of the United
States, and the plaintiff and his family who accompanied
them, when they arrived, in December, 1861, at Saint Joseph,
or their baggage. camp equipments, arms, munitions, and
other property, but only that it refused to enter into any
special contract for the transportation, on account of the
danger to the troops from the insurrectionary condition ot
the country through which the road ran, and the frequent
depredations committed by armed bands of rebels upon the
railroad, and its track, bridges, depots, and station-houses.
It was usual at the time, and during the entire war, for
railroad companies to transport troops of the United States,
with their baggage, at a less rate per head, and their equipments, arms, and munitions at a less rate per pound, than
the prices paid by ordinary passengers for similar services,
and it was undoubtedly the desire of the commanding officer
in this case to have a special contract as to the amount of
compensation to be paid for the transportation. As we read
the agreed statement it was only a contract of this kind,
fixing the rate of compensation, which was refused.
Whether the reasons assigned would also have justified a
refusal to transport the troops and the plaintiff, with his
family, and their baggage and other property, it is unnecessary to determine. It is enough to fasten a liability upon
the company that it did not insist upon these reasons and
withhold the transportation, but, on the contrary, undertook
the carriage of men and property without being subjected
to any compulsion or coercion in the matter.
The liability of the company was in no respect affected by
the fact that the baggage, camp equipments, arms, and munitions of the troops, and the property of the plaintiff were

HANNIBAL

]RAILROAD V.

SWIFT.

[Sup.' Ct.

Opinion of the court.

placed in a separate cat-, selected by the commanding officer
out of several cars standing in the yard of the company, and
not in its regular baggage cn'r, or by the fict that the car
was loaded by some of the soldiers detailed for that purpose,
and not by the servants of the defendant. The car selected
belonged to the company, and, after it was loaded and locked
by the commanding officer, the agents and employees of the
company took charge of it and placed it in the regular train,
which transported the troops and the plaintiff and his family,
next to the tender of the engine. The liability of the coipany attached when it thus took possession of the property.
No objection was made at the time to the selection of a
separate car for the baggage and other property of the troops
and the plaintiff, or to the kind of property offered for transportation, or to the manner in which the property was packed,
or to the locking up of the car by the commanding officer.
If objection existed on any of these grounds, or on any other
ground not concealed but open to the observation of the
company, it should have been stated before the property was
received. The company might then have insisted, as a condition of its undertaking the transportation, upon the selection of a different car, or upon superintending its loading,
or upon the possession of its key, or upon all of these things.
Not having thus insisted, but having received the property
and undertaken its transportation in the car in which it was
placed, the company assumed, with respect to it, the ordinary liabilities of a common carrier.
The case of Mallory v. The Tioga -Railroad Company,* is
much stronger than this. There the company only agreed
with the plaintiff to furnish the motive power to draw his
cars laden with his property, he to load and unload the cars
and to furnish brakemen, to be under the control of the
conductor of the train, to accompany them, yet the company
was held liable, as a common carrier, for injuries to the cars
and the property of the plaintiff not caused by inevitable
accident or the public enemy. The court did not consider
* 39 Barbour, 488.

Dec. 1870.]

HANNIBAL RAILROAD V. SWIFT.

273

Opinion of the court.

the fact that the property was transported in the cars of the
plaintif, and that the cars were loaded and unloaded by him,
affected, in any respect, the liability of the company, the
entire train in which the cars were moved being, whilst on
the route, under the control and management of its servants
and employees.
In all such cases the liability of the common carrier attaches when the property passes, with his assent, into his
possession, and is not affected by the car in which it is transported, or the manner in which the car is loaded. The common carrier is regarded as an insurer of the property carried,
and upon him the duty rests to see that the packing and
conveyance are such as to secure its safety. The consequences
of his neglect in these particulars cannot be transferred to
the owner of the property.
It does not distinctly appear, from the agreed case, whether
any troops were detailed to guard the car which contained
their property and that of the plaintiff, except while the car
was being loaded. But if it were admitted that a special
guard was appointed for the car on the route, the admission
would not aid the company or relieve it of liability. The
control and management of the car, or of the train, by the
servants and employees of the company, were not impeded
or interfered with; and where no such interference is attempted it can never be a ground for limiting the responsibility of the carrier that the owner of the property accompanies it and keeps a watchful lookout for its safety.
The ruling of the court upon the findings of the referee,
appointed to ascertain the damages sustained by the plaintiff,
does not appear to us to be open to any valid objection. A
considerable portion of the property, it is true, was not personal baggage, which the company was obliged to transport
under the contract to carry the person; nor does it appear
that it was offered to the company as such. It embraced
buffalo robes, hair mattresses, pillows, writing desks, tables,
statuary, and pictures, in relation to which there could be
no concealment, and it is not pretended that any was
attempted. Where a railroad company receives for transVOL. XII.

18

HANNIBAL

RAILROAD

V.

SWIFT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

portation, in cars which accompany its passenger trains,
property of this character, in relation to which no fraud or
concealment is practiced or attempted upon its employees,
it must be considered to assume, with reference to it, the
liability of common carriers of merchandise. It may refuse
to receive on the passenger train property other than the
baggage of the passenger, for a contract to carry the person
only implies an undertaking to transport such a limited
quantity of articles as are ordinarily taken by travellers for
their personal use and convenience; such quantity depending of course upon the station of the party, the object and
length of the journey, and many other considerations. But
if property offered with the passenger is not represented to
be baggage, and it is not so packed as to assume that appearance, and it is received for transportation on the passenger
train, there is no reason why the carrier shall not be held
equally responsible for its safe conveyance as if it were
placed on the freight train, as undoubtedly he can make the
same charge for its carriage.
Here two companies of artillery in the army of the United
States sought transportation with their arms, equipments,
and ammunition. The plaintiff as surgeon in the army, was
ordered to accompany the troops, and fbr him and his fimily
and his property transportation was also sought as part of
the general transportation for the whole command. On
arrival at Hannibal the amount of compensation for the
entire transportation, which included carriageof men and
property, was agreed upon and was subsequently paid. It
is to be presumed when the compensation was fixed that the
company took into consideration not merely the peculiar
kind of property carried by the troops, which could hardly be
treated as simple baggage of travellers, but also the property
besides baggage possessed by the plaintiff and his family.
The value of the unpublished treatise on veterinary surgery,
and of the jewelry, as estimated by the referee, was excluded
in the amount allowed. The value of the surgical instruments was properly included. Instruments of that character,
in the case of a surgeon in the army travelling with troops,

Dec. 1870.]

]KEAIRNEY V. CASE.
Syllabus.

may properly be regarded as part of his baggage. He may
be required to use these instruments at any time, and must,
accordingly, have them near his person where they can be
had upon a moment's notice. Whether the table silverware
of the plaintiff, although of a very limited amount, can be regarded in the same manner, admits of much doubt. It does
not appear that the plaintiff or his family had any occasion
for this ware on the cars, or even that they carried it with
any intention of using it on the route. It is not, however,
necessary to charge the defendant that it should be treated
as baggage. Its value may be properly included in. the
amount-of damages, considering it only as part of the property which the company received as a common carrier of
goods, and against the loss of which, from any cause but inevitable accident or the public enemy, it was, as such carrier,
an insurer to the plaintiff
We see no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court,
and it is accordingly
AFFIRM)ED.

KEARNEY V.. CASE.
1. A paper, found in the record, purporting to be a statement of facts agreed
to by the parties, and filed with the clerk after the writ of error is
issued, or after the case is disposed of by the Circuit Court, cannot be
noticed here on writ of error though both parties consent.
2. Prior to the act of March 8d, 1866, parties to an action at law could submit the issues of fact to be tried by the court without a jury, but they
were bound by the judgment of the court, and could not have a review
on error of any ruling of the court on such trial.
3. To enable parties to have such a review and to enable them to make a
valid agreement to waive a jury the act above-mentioned was passed,
which for that purpose required the waiver to be in writing and filed
with the clerk.
4. There can, under this act, be no review of the ruling of the court in such
cases, unless the record shows that such an agreement was signed and
filed with the clerk.
5. But the existence-of such a writing may be shown in this court: 1st, by
a copy of the agreement.; or 2d, by a statement in the finding of facts
by the court that it was executed; or 3d, by such statement in the reccrd

