TnoitP v.

HAMMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

TnORP v. HlAIMOND.
1. When a vessel is sailing in close proximity to other vesseB, the fact that
her hands are engaged in reefing her mainsail is no sufficient excuse for
failure to keep a lookout, or to take such precautions as are needful to
avoid collisions.
2. One of several general owners, who sails a vessel on shares, under an
arrangement between himself and the other owners, whereby he in
effect has become the charterer, hiring his own crew, paying and victualling them, paying half the port charges, retaining half the net freight
after the pert charges are taken out, and paying the other half to the
general owners, is to be considered the owner "pro hac vice," and, as
such, is liable personally for a tortious collision with another vessel.
3. Though sued jointly with the other general owners, in a libel which does
not describe him as owner pro hac vice, a decree may be made against
him alone.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of Noew York, in a libel in personam, for a collision between
vessels at sea. The case was thus:
By an act of Congress of Mfarch 3d, 1851, it is enacted"Section 3. That the liability of the owners of any vessel for
any loss, damage, or injury by collision, occasioned without the
privity of such owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or
value of the interest of such owners respectively in such vessel
and her freight then pending.
"Section 5. That the chartererof any ship or vessel, in case he
or they shall man, victual, and navigate such vessel at his or their
own expense, shall be deemed the owner of such vessel, within
the meaning of this act ; and such ship or vessel, when so chartered, shall be liable in the same manner as if navigated by the
owners thereof."

With this statute in force, three schooners-the Capes,
the Huntley, and the Brothers-were sailing towards New
York, along the New Jersey coast, not far from Sandy
Hook. There was nothing special in the ownership of the
first and last named of the vessels. The Huntley, however,
was owned by one S. S. Hammond and eight others as general owners, Hammond alone sailing her; he doing this on

THORP V. HAMMOND.

Dec. 1870.]

Statement of the ease.

shares, hiring, paying, and victualling his own crew; paying
half the port charges, retaining half the net freight afterwards, and paying to the general owners the remaining half.
The collision, which was the cause of this suit, occurred
on a winter morning of 1860. All three vessels were heavily
laden, and were sailing close-hauled, having the wind about
north-northwest, blowing fresh and fitfully. The general
,direction of their courses was about the same. The vessels
were near each other, the Capes in advance, and perhaps
somewhat the most out toward sea, the Hluntley next, and
the Brothers last and nearest to the shore. After sailing
thus from eight in the morning until after nine, the wind
having veered more northwardly, all the schooners tacked
toward the northeast, thus standing off shore. When the
Huntley tacked to stand out she lowered her mainsail in

Cape s
C ap.

e7

"]: u tl

B

r o t h er s

.. . u ntleyJ

Brotherte

order to take in reefs, but the Capes and the Brothers continued to carry the same sail they had carried before. In
consequence of this the Brothers passed the Huntley, though
on the leeward side, at the distance of about one hundred
yards, running at the speed of seven or eight knots, while

THORP V. HIAMMOND.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

the speed of the Huntley, carrying her foresail and jib and
falling to the leeward, was only four or five. All the vessels
ran on the off-shore tack some fifteen or twenty minutes,
which carried them about two miles out to sea. The Capes
then went about and stood in shore on her starboard tack,
the Brothers following very soon after. Whether the Brothers had beaten out her tack when she thus came about was
not clear upon the evidence, though the weight of testimony perhaps tended to show that she had. iowever this
fact was, before the Brothers could gather headway after
tacking, the iluntley-running freely on the off-shore
tack, four or five knots an hour, foresail and jib set-ran
into her, head on, striking her abaft the main rigging, and
causing her to sink in about half an hour. The diagrams
on p. 409 will perhaps better illustrate positions at difrerent
times.
At the time of the collision, all hands on board of the
]Huntley were engaged in reefing the mainsail. When the
Brothers tacked to stand in shore, the Iuntley was astern
of her, not less than five or six hundred yards, the Hfuntley
being slightly to the windward. There was no look-out on
the Huntley; no one on board of her saw the Brothers when
she tacked, or when she was in stays, or noticed her at all
after her tacking until it was too late to avoid the collision.
Though hailed from the Brothers, and told to keep off, no
attention was given to the hail, and the evidence left no
doubt that had those in charge of the Iuntley been watchful, had they seen the Brothers when she went about, it
would have been entirely in their power, by porting their
heln, to pass under the Brothers' stern.
The owner of the Brothers (Thorp) hereupon filed a libel
in the District Court of New York inpersonan, against 11ammond and the eight others, general owners of the iuntley,
averring that the Brothers had been negligently run into
and sunk by the Hluntley, in consequence of the mismanagement of those on board the Iuntley and in charge of her.
The libel, which averred nothing about the ownership of
the iuntley, except that she "was ozvned by and in possession

Dec. 1870.]

THORP v. HAMMOND.
Statement of the case.

of the respondents," claimed $12,000 damages, as the value
of the Brothers.
The owners of the Huntley set up as defence:
I. That they were, in fact, only her general owners, and
that she was commanded, sailed, and exclusively managed
by Hammond, under an agreement made between him and
them; that he was to have entire control and management
of her as charterer on and for his own account; that he was
the owner pro hac vice at the time of the collision, and, under
the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, alone responsible for
the catastrophe.
II.That the entire value of the Huntley did not exceed
$5000, and that her freiaht was but $424.
III. That on the merits the Brothers was in fault herself.
1. In not beating out her tack.
2. In improperly turning about when the Capes turned
about, whereby, with a slight variation of heri helm, she
could have easily passed under the stern of the Capes.
8. In that when the Brothers turned about on the inshore
tack, and whose direction was across the Huntley's bow, the
Brothers knew that the Huntley's crew were engaged in
reefing her mainsail, by reason of which she was in a crippled condition, and that, in disregard of the rights and condition of the Huntley, the Brothers had placed herself in
such a position as to render a collision inevitable. The respondents brought witnesses to show that it was a custom
of the sea not to have a lookout in the daytime, and that it
was the duty of all vessels to keep out of the way of a reefing vessel. But their evidence was contradicted by the
libellants.
The District Court dismissed the libel. That court considered that as Hammond, a part owner, was on board, and
had charge of the vessel at the time of the collision; as ie
had the exclusive possession and control of her, and manned,
victualled, and navigated her at his own expense, he was to
be deemed a charterer, within the meaning of the act of
Congress, of March 3d, 1851, which exempted the owners
from personal liability. And that as Hammond, the cap.

THORP V. HAMMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the respondents.

tain, was sued merely as a part owner, and not as the charterer, wrong-doer, or active cause of the disaster, and as his
liability was placed, by the libel, on the same ground as
that of the other owners, the suit necessarily stood or fell
as to all the respondents. The court therefore thought the
statute a bar to the suit in this form, and dismissed the libel.
This decree being affirmed by the Circuit Court, the case
was brought here on appeal.
Mr. 3lilc-ahon, for the appellants:
I. As respects the effect of the act of Congress of March
3d, 1851:
1st. li-ammond is not to be regarded as charterer, or
owner pro hac vice; for lie did not navigate the Brothers at
his own expense. Earnings were divided.
2d. It is not to be tolerated, even under the act of Congress, that a person-the accredited and presumptive agent
of the general owners-whether part owner or not, who
navigates a vessel ostensibly as her master, shall screen his
general owners from liability for torts, under pretence that
he was in a position as to them that would relieve them of
their general liability.*
3d. In admiralty, parties who are injured by a collision
have been allowed to maintain their libel in rei, and also
their libel in personam, against different vessels and diffbrent
persons doing the injury complained of. In these actions
some defendants have been discharged, and others held
liable. Our case needs less than this.t
I. As to merits. The case is clear against the respondents. The alleged custom on which the defence rests is
disproved, and would have been bad if proved.
Mr. R. -H. Huntley, contra:
I. The libellants cannot recover, because they have sued
the general owners of the colliding vessels in personam;
The Druid. Newton. 1 W. Robinson, 399.
f Newell v. Norton and ship, 3 Wallace, 266; Smith v. The Creole and
Sampson, 2 Wallace, Jr., 485.

Dec. 1870.]

THORP V. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the court.

whereas the vessel was not in their employ, was not managed or controlled by them, was not victualled or manned
by theta, and was not sailed by their agent, nor by a person
in their employ. This is doubtless so on principles of common and admiralty law; but is made undeniably true by
the act of Congress.
Although Hammond, the charterer, is made a party to
the suit, yet he is so made as one of several owners, and not
as charterer or special owner. He is not sued because he
had charge of the vessel, or because he controlled her, but
because he happened to have an interest in her as a general
owner. Now as a general owner he is, under the act of Congress, not liable; anjd as a special owner he is not sued. No
recovery can therefore be had against him in this libel.
As to the suggestion that the respondent, Hammond,should
be held solely liable in this action, it is sufficient to say that
the libellants have not asked that such liability be decreed
in either of the courts below; no amendment has been
suggested by them, and they are here upon the same pleadings on which they originally based their claim.
II. As to the merits. As we understand the evidence, the
Brothers had not beaten out her tack. If this is so she was
clearly the cause of the collision. She should have gone
on; she would not have struck the Capes, but would have
gone astern of her; neither would she have come across our
bows, which she did. The Brothers was under full sail and
perfectly manageable, while the Huntley was under bead
sails only, and was reefing. In such position she was crippled, and was to be considered and treated as a favored
vessel.
No special lookout is kept in daylight on a little schooner,
or while reefing. This we think our witnesses show. The
helmsman and every man on deck is a lookout. The Huntley was reefing her mainsail, and this act required all her
men. The Brothers knew both facts.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is plain, as respects the merits of this suit, that the col-

TIIORP V. I[AMMOND.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lision was the result of gross carelessness in the management of the iuntley. Knowing, as the master did, that
there were two schooners in close proximity to his own;
knowing also, as he must have known, that they were beating out their tacks, and would probably soon come about
and put in shore, there can be no excuse for his failure to
keep watch of their movements and to notice the change of
course by the Brothers in season to port his helm and thus
pass under her stern. That the hands on the Huntley were
engaged in reefing the mainsail certainly did not relieve her
from all obligation to observe the commonest precautions
against inflicting an injury upon a neighboring vessel ahead,
especially when the movements of that vessel were precisely
what ought to have been anticipated.
The respondents, however, insist that it is a custom of the
sea not to have a lookout in the daytime, or while reefing,
and they have produced witnesses to prove such a custom.
But the evidence falls far short of showing that such a custom exists generally, and if it were proved, it would not be
a reasonable one, sufficient to justify the absence of a lookout in such a case as this when the Huntley was in close
proximity to two other vessels, both beating to the windward, and one of them at least expected soon to cross her
bow.
It has not been claimed that the collision was the result
of inevitable accident, without fault, but the respondents contend that it was due to the mismanagement of the Brothers,
rather than to that of the Huntley. Their argument is that
the Brothers was under full sail and perfectly controllable,
while the Huntley, being under head sails only, with her
hands engaged in reefing, was a crippled vessel, and therefore one to be favored. Hence it is inferred that it was the
duty of the Brothers to keep out of the way. It may be
conceded that when two vessels are approaching each other,
the one crippled and the other in good manageable condition, it is the duty of the latter, if possible, to give way to
the former. But the Huntley can in no sense be said to
have been a crippled vessel. She was running freely on her

Dec. 1870.]

THoRP

v. HAMMOND.

Opinion of the court.

off-shore tack, four or five knots an hour, with her foresail
and jib set. She obeyed her helm perfectly, and though she
may not have been able to come about as easily as she would
had her mainsail been set, there was not the slightest difficulty in the way of her taking care of herself and avoiding
collision with other vessels. The most obvious mancuvre,
that of porting her helm, was not embarrassed at all by the
fact that her mainsail was not spread.
It is further urged that the Brothers had not beaten out
her tack when she came about, and, hence, that her putting
her helm down and turning in shore when she did was a
fault which, by throwing her in the way of the Hluntley,
caused the disaster. Was it, however, a fault? It is by no
means clear, from the evidence, that the Brothers had not
beaten out her tack fully. On the contrary, the evidence
that she had, appears to us to preponderate. But, whether
she had or not, it is fully proved that her coming about when
she did was rendered proper, if not necessary, by the fact
that the Capes changed to the starboard tack. The Capes
was the leading vessel, and while it is possible that the
Brothers might have ported her helm and gone astern of
her, it is obvious that the safer course was to tack when the
Capes tacked. And there was no reason to apiprehend that
the luntley, following astern at the distance of five or six
hundred yards, and very little, if at all, at the windward,
would be embarrassed by her tacking. She had passed the
Huntley close on the latter's lee side, at a distanceof not more
than one hundred yards, and the Huntley, carrying on her
foresail and jib, had been constantly falling off to the leeward. Abundant sea-room was, therefbre, left for the fbllowing vessel. It required only that the Huntley's helm
should be ported half a point to carry her safely past the
Brothers. We think, therefore, the whole fault of the collision is justly chargeable to the Huntley.
It remains to inquire, whether the respondents, or any of
them, are personally responsible for the injury. They were
all general owners of the schooner at fault at the time when

THORP V. HAMMOND.

[SLIP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the collision occurred, but the evidence shows that she was
commanded, sailed, and exclusively managed by S. S. Hammond, one of them, under an arrangement made between him
and the other owners, whereby he had in effect become the
charterer of the vessel, to be employed on his own account,
without the management, control, restraint, or possession of
the other owners. He sailed the vessel on shares, hiring his
own crew, paying and victualling them, paying half the port
charges, retaining half the net freight after the port charges
were taken out, and paying to the general owners the other
half. It is clear, therefore, that he must be considered as
having been the owner "pro hac vice." This accords with
the authorities generally.* Notwithstanding this, however,
and though Hammond was the special owner, it has been
contended on behalf of the libellants that all the general
owners are liable for the torls committed by the schooner
while she was thus let to charter. The Circuit Court was
of opinion that they are not, and this court is equally divided
upon the question.
But we are all of opinion that the owner pro hae vice is
liable, and that he may be charged in this proceeding. The
court below held that he had been sued merely as a part
owner, not as the charterer, wrong-doer, or active cause of
the disaster, and that as his liability was placed by the libel
on the same ground as that of the other owners, the suit
must stund or fail as to all the respondents, and they held
the act of March 3d, 1851, a bar to the suit in the form in
which it had been brought. The court, therefore, dismissed
the lib l. This, we think, was an error. The act of March
3d, 181i, enacts, by its 5th section, that the charterer or
chartei ers of any ship or vessel, in case he or they shall
man, vctual, and navigate such vessel at his or their own
expense, or by his or their own procurement, shall be deemed
the owner or owners of such vessel within the meaning of
the act. The previous section had declared what shall be
* Hallet v. The Columbian Insurance Company, 8 Johnson, 272; Webb

v. Peirce, I Curtis, 104; Thomas v. Osborn, 19 Howard, 22.

of Congress of March 8, 1861,

5,9 Statute at Large, 686.

See also act

Dec. 1870.]

THORP V. HAMMOND.
Opinion of the court.

the liability of owners for collisions. iHammond, therefore,
is to be regarded as the owner, because the charterer, and
as such responsible for the tortions acts of the vessel. If the
other general owners are not, lie is. The libel, it is true,
avers that all the respondents were owners at the time of
the collision. It does not set forth whether they were general or special owners. Such an averment was unnecessary,
for it is immaterial to their liability whether they were one
or the other, if they bad the possession and control of the
vessel. It is ownership which determines the liability, and
an averment of the mode in which ownership was acquired
would be superfluous. Had Hammond been sued alone, as
he might have been, the libel need not have averred more
respecting his ownership than is averred now. It would
have been of no importance to set out whether he became
owner by purchase of the schooner, or by bequest, or by
charter-party, for his liability would have been as fixed in
each case as in the others. Nor does the libel in this
case charge general ownership, as distinguished from ownership pro hac vice, or ownership as defined by the statute.
There is nothing, then, in the structure of the libel which
stands in the way of a recovery against Hammond as owner,
unless it be that others are also sued with him. And surely
that is no bar to a recovery against him. The libel is for a
tort, and tortfeasors are jointly and severally responsible.
At common law, when several are sued, there may be a
recovery against one alone, or against more than one, and
less than the whole number. We know of no reason for
a different rule in admiralty, and it is in accordance with
admiralty practice to decree against one of several'respondents to a libel for a tort, and to discharge the others.*
Our opinion, therefore, is, that even if the libel was rightly
dismissed as to all the respondents except Hammond, the
libellants are entitled to a decree against him.
DECREE REVLSaED, and the record remitted with instruc* Newell v. Norton and Ship, 3 Wallace, 257; Smith v. The Creole and.
Sampson, 2 Wallace, Jr.: 485.
vor'. XI.

27

WARD V. ]MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

tions to order a reference to ascertain the damages, and to
decree that the libellants recover against Hammond.

WARD V. MARYLAND.
A statute of Maryland required all traders resident within the State to take
out licenses and to pay therefor certain sums regulated by a sliding
scale of from $12 to $150, according as their stock in trade might vary
from $1000 to more than $40,000. The statute also made it a penal
offence in any person not being a permanent resident in the State to
sell, offer for sale, or expose for sale, within certain limits in the State,
any goods, wares, or merchandise whatever, other than agricultural
products and articles manufactured in 'Maryland, within the said limits,
either by card, sample, or other specimen, or by written or printed
trade-list or catalogue, whether such person be the maker or manufacturer thereof or not, without first obtaining a license so to do, for which
license (to be renewed annually) a sum of $300 was to be paid.
ield,
That the statute imposed a discriminating tax upon non-resident traders
trading in the limits mentioned, and that it was pro tanto repugnant
to the Federal Constitution and void.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland;
the case being this:
The Constitution of the United States, in one place, thus
ordains:
"ARTIOLE IV. See. 2. The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States."

Also thus, in another:
"ARTICLE I. See. 8.The Congress shall have power to regulate commerce among the several States."

With these provisions in force, as fundamental law, the
State of Maryland passed two general laws re'gulating the
subject of traders.* One part of the enactment regulated
traders resident within the State, and another sought to reg* Code of Public Law, article 56, title "License."

