Dee.1871.]

TREBILCOCK V.

WILSON.

Statement of the case.

TREBILCOOK V. WILSON ET UX.
1. Where a plaintiff in error set up in the court below that he was entitled
to have a note held by him and made by the defendant in error, paid
in gold or silver coin under the Constitution, upon a proper construction of various clauses of that instrument, and the decision of the court
below was against the right thus set up, this court has appellate jurisdiction under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or the 2d
section of the amendatory Judiciary Act of 1867, to review the decision.
The case of Roosevelt v. Meyer (1 Wallace, 512) overruled.
2. Where a note is for dollars, payable by its terms, in specie, the terms "1in
specie" are merely descriptive of the kind of dollars in which the note
is payable, there being more than one kind of dollars current recognized by law; and mean that the designated number of dollars shall,
be paid in so many gold or silver dollars of the coinage of the United
States.
8. The act of February 25th, 1862, in declaring that the notes of the United
States shall be lawful money and a legal tender for all debts, only applies to debts which are payable in money generally, and not to obligations payable in commodities or obligations of any other kind.
4. When a contract for money is by its terms made payable in specie or in
coin, judgment may be entered thereon for coined dollars. Bronson v.
Rhodes (7 Wallace, 229) affirmed.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa; the
case being thus:
In June, 1861, Wilson gave to Trebilcock his promissory
note for nine hundred dollars, due one year after date with
ten per cent. interest, payable in specie; and, at the same
time, to secure its payment, he and his wife executed and
delivered to Trebilcock a mortgage, duly recorded, upon
certain real property in Iowa.
In February, 1863, Wilson offered to pay the amount due
on the note, principal and interest, and for that purpose tendered to Trebilcock such amount in United States notes, declared by the act of Congress of February 25th, 1862,* to be
a legal tender for all debts, public and private, with certain
exceptions; but Trebilcock refused to receive them, asserting that the note was payable in gold or silver coin of the
United States.
ERROR

12 Stat. at Large, 845.

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In July, 1865, Wilson and wife presented to one of the
District Courts of Iowa their petition, reciting the contract
to pay "in specie," and setting forth that they had tendered
to Trebilcock the full amount of money, principal and interest, due, "said money so offered and tendered being
United States legal tender treasury notes, commonly called
greenbacks ;" setting forth, further, that Trebilcock had refused to accept the same, "because," among other reasons,
" the said money was not in kind what the contract demanded or called for; . . . the said defendant claiming that

the same was payable only in gold or silver coin." And praying finally that Trebilcock might be required, by decree, to
release and discharge the mortgage upon the proper book of
record, 9s required by law upon the payment of a mortgagedebt. The complainants averred that they had kept the
money tendered, ready to pay the defendant, and that they
brought the same into court for that purpose.
The defendant demurred to the petition, and for causes,
among others of demurrer, set down the following:
"1st. The petition shows upon its face that by the contract
the note could only be discharged by payment of the amount
due thereon in gold.
"2d. The petition asks the aid of this court for the reason
that the petitioners tendered the amount of the note described
in the petition in United States treasury notes. Such tender is
not good. There is no law of this State or of the United States
making anything but gold and silver a legal tender in discharge
of the contract set out in the petition. This contract was entered into on the 25th day of June, 1861. The law of Congress
making United States treasury notes a legal tender in payment
of debts does not apply to this contract, because it was not enacted until long after this contract was entered into, to wit, on
the 25th day of February, 1862. To apply this law to this contract would be to make it a retrospective law, a law impairing
the obligation of contracts, in violation of the Constitution of
the United States."
The court overruled the demurrer, and in September,
1866, gave its decree, that the mortgage be cancelled, and

Dec. 1871.]

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.
Statement of the case.

that the defendant enter satisfactidn of it upon the record;
thus holding that the tender in notes was legal and sufficient.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of Iowa, this decree was,
in October, 1857, affirmed, and the defendant brought the
case here on a writ of error, under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789.
That section was re-enacted, with some changes in its
phraseology, by the 2d section of the act of 1867, amending
the Judiciary Act of 1789. As the old section was the
ground of argument at the bar and the new one is adverted
to in the opinion of the court, both are here presented.
Judiciary Act of 1789.*

Amendatory Judiciary Act of

1867.t

25. And be it further en"Sc. 2. And be it further enacted, That a final judgment or acted, That a final judgment or
decree in any suit, in the high- decree in any suit in the highest
est court [of law or equity] of court of a State in which a dea State in which a decision in cision in the suit could be had,
the suit could be had,
"Where is drawn in question
"Where is drawn in question
the validity of a treaty or stat- the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exer- ute of, or an authority exercised
cised under, the United States, under, the United States, and
and the decision is AGAINST their the decision is AGAINST their vavalidity,
lidity,
"Or where is drawn in ques"Or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of tion the validity of a statute of
or an authority exercised under or an authority exercised under
any State, on theground of their any State, on the ground of
being repugnant to the Consti- their being repugnant to the
tution, treaties, or laws of the Constitution, treaties, or laws
United States, and the decision of the United States, and the
is in favor of such their va- decision is in favor of such
lidity;
their validity;
" Or where is drawn in question
"Or where any title, right,privithe construction of any clause of lege, or immunity is claimed under
the Constitution, or of a treaty, the Constitution, or any treaty or
or statute of, or commission held statute of, or commission held, or"SEC.

* I Stat. at Large, 86.
VOL. XII.

t 14 Id. 386.

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

under the United States, and
the decision is AGAINST the title,
right, privilege [or exemption],
specially set up or claimed by
either party, under such [clause
of the said] Constitution, treaty,
statute [or], commission, may

be re-examined and reversed or
affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the United States upon a
writ of error, ....in the same
manner and under the same
regulations, and the writ shall
have the same effect as if the
judgment or decree complained
of had been rendered or passed
in a [circuit] court, and the proceeding upon the reversal shall
also be the same, except that
the Supreme Court [instead of
remanding the cause for a final
decision, as before provided],
may at their discretion [if the
cause shall have been once remanded before], proceed to a
final decision of the same, and
.award execution [but no other
error shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal
in any such case as aforesaid
than such as appears on the face
-of the record, and immediately
respects the before-mentioned
questions of validity or construction of the said Constitution, treaties, statutes, commissions, or authorities in dispute]."

authority exercised under the
United States, and the decision
isAGAINST the title, right, privilege [or immunity], specially
set up or claimed by either
party under such constitution,
treaty, statute, commission [or
authority], may be re-examined
and reversed or affirmed in the
Supreme Court of the United
States upon a writ of error, ....
in the same manner and under
the same regulations, and the
writ shall have the same effect
as if the judgment or decree
complained of had been rendered or passed in a court [of
the United States]; and the
proceeding upon the reversal
shall also be the same, except
that the Supreme Court may,
at their discretion, proceed to
a final decision of the same, and
award execution [or remand the
same to an inferior court]."

,Mr. G. B. Corkhill, for the defendant in error,asked to have
.the casedismissed for want of jurisdiction, relying on Roose-

Dec. 1871.]

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.
Opinion of the court.

velt v. Meyer,* as in point. There Meyer, a mortgagor,
tendered in United States notes, authorized by the act of
February 25th, 1862 (the sort of notes tendered here), then
at a discount of 4 per cent. for gold, to Roosevelt, his mortgagee, the amount due on a mortgage; one created in 1854,
like this one, before the passage of the legal tender acts.
Roosevelt refused the tender; demanding coin. The highest
court of New York decided that the notes were a good
tender; and though it appeared by the order of that court
for judgment, that on the hearing of the case, Roosevelt
relied on the provision of the Constitution, that "the Congress shall have power to coin money and regulate the value
thereof," and of the 5th, 9th, and 10th amendments, which
ordain that "no person shall be deprived of property without due process of law;" that "the enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or
disparage others retained by the people ;" and that "the
powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively or to the people "-against all which, as
he contended the decision of the New York court sustaining the tender, had been,-this court dismissed the case for
want of jurisdiction. They say that "as the validity of the
act of February 25th, 1862, was drawn in question, and the
decision was in favor of it, this court could not take cognizance of the case."
. But if jurisdiction exists, the unsettled condition of the
law of legal tender justifies asking a review of the whole
subject; cases of coin contract (if this one falls within that
class) as well as others.
Mr. G. W. McCrary, contra, relied for an answer to the
point of jurisdiction, on Furman v. Nichols;t and as to the
matter of merits, on Bronson v. Bhodes.4
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question presented in this case for our con*1 Wallace, 612.

t 8 W.allace, 44.

t7 Id. 229.

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sideration is, whether a promissory note of an individual,
payable by its terms in specie, can be satisfied, against the
will of the holder, by the tender of notes of the United
States declared by the act of Congress of February 25th,
1862, to be a legal tender in payment of debts.
There is, however, a preliminary question of jurisdiction
raised, which must be first disposed of. The State court, in
holding the tender legal and sufficient, sustained the validity
and constitutionality of the act of Congress declaring the
notes a legal tender. Its decision was, therefore, in favor,
of, and not against, the right claimed by the plaintiffi under
the act of Congress, and hence it is contended that the appellate jurisdiction of this court does not arise under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. Some support is
given to this view by the decision of this court in Roosevelt
v. Meyer,* where it was held that, as the validity of the
legal tender act was drawn in question in that case, and
the decision of the State court was in favor of it, and of the
right set up by the defendant, this court had no jurisdiction
to review the judgment, and a dismissal of the case was accordingly ordered. The court in that case confined its attention to the first clause of the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, and, in its decision, appears to have overlooked the third
clause. That section provides for the review of the final
judgments and decrees of the highest court of a State in
which decisions could be had, in three classes of cases:
First. Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United
States, and the decision is against their validity;
Second. Where is drawn in question the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties,
or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of
their validity; and,
Third. Where is drawn in question the construction of
4nZ clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty or statute of,
1 Wallace, 512.

Dec. 1871.]

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.

Opinion of the court.

or commission held under the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption
specially set up or claimed by either party under such clause
of the Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission.
Under this last clause the appellate jurisdiction of this
court in the case of Roosevelt v. Meyer might have been sudtained. The plaintiff in error in that case claimed the right
to have the bond of the defendant paid in gold or silver coin
under the Constitution, upon a proper construction of that
clause which authorizes Congress to coin money and regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin; and of those articles of the amendments which protect a person from deprivation of his property without due process of law; and declare
that the enumeration of certain rights in -the Constitution
shall not be construed as a denial or disparagement of others
retained by the people; and reserve to the States or the people the powers not delegated to the United States or prohibited to the States.
The decision of the court below being against the right of
the plaintiff in error claimed under the clauses of the Constitution, the construction of which was thus drawn in question, he was entitled to have the decision brought before this
court for re-examination.
In the present case, as the defendant claimed a similar
right upon a construction of the same and other clauses of
the Constitution, and a like adverse decision of the court
below was made, he is equally entitled to ask for a re-examination of the decision.
But the defendant also claimed a right to demand coin in
payment of the note of the plaintiff by the acts of Congress
regulating the gold and silver coins of the United States,
and making them a legal tender in payment of all sums according to their nominal or declared values, contending that
the act of 1862, making notes of the United States a legal
tender for debts, did not apply to the contract in suit. He
thus claimed in fhct, although he did not state his position
in this form, that, upon a proper construction of the several
acts together, he was entitled to payment in coin. This

TREBILCOCK V.

WILSON.

[Sul). Ot.

Opinion of the court.

right having been denied by an adverse decision, he was
clearly in a condition to invoke the appellate jurisdiction of
this court for a review of the decision.
Nor is the appellate jurisdiction of this court, in this case,
affected by the change in the language of the third clause
of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, by the 2d
section of the amendatory judiciary act of February 5th,
1867. By this clause in the latter act the judgraent or decree of the highest court of a State can be reviewed "where
any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under the
Constitution, or any treaty, or statute of, or commission held,
or authority exercised under the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed by either party, under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority." The
section came incidentally before the court at the last term,
in Stewart v. Kahn,* but it was not deemed necessary to determine whether it had superseded the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789. As there observed, it is to a great
extent a transcript of that section ; and several of the alterations of phraseology are not material. The principal addition is found in the second clause, and the principal omission
isat the close of the section. But in this case, as in that,
there is no occasion to express any opinion as to the effect
of the new section upon the original. Under the new section, as under the old, if that be superseded, the plaintiff in
error can seek a review of the decision made against the
right claimed by him.
We proceed, then, to consider the merits of the case.
The note of the plaintiff is made payable, as already stated,
in specie. The use of these terms, in specie, does not assimilate the note to an instrument in which the amount stated
is payable in chattels; as, for example, to a contract to pay
a specified sum in lumber, or in fruit, or grain. Such contracts are generally made because it is more convenient for
* 11 Wallace, 502.

Dec. 1871.]

TREBILCOCK V. WILSON.
Opinion of the court.

the maker to furnish the articles designated than to pay the
money. He has his option of doing either at the maturity
of the contract, but if he is then unable to furnish the articles or neglects to do so, the number of dollars specified is
the measure of recovery. But here the terms, in specie, are
merely descriptive of the kind of dollars in which the note
is payable, there being different kinds in circulation, recognized by law. They mean that the designated number of
dollars in the note shall be paid in so many gold or silver
dollars of the coinage of the United States. They have acquired this meaning by general usage among traders, merchants, and bankers, and are the opposite of the terms, in
currency, which are used when it is desired to make a note
payable in paper money. These latter terms, in currency,
mean that the designated number of dollars is payable in
an equal number of notes which are current in the community as dollars.*
This being the meaning of the terms in specie, the case is
brought directly within the decision of Bronson v. Rhodes,t
where it was held that express contracts, payable in gold
or silver dollars, could only be satisfied by the payment
of coined dollars, and could not be discharged by notes of
the United States declared to be a legal tender in payment
of debts.
The several coinage acts of Congress make the gold and
silver coins of the United States a legal tender in all payments, according to their nominal or declared values. The
provisions of the act of January 18th, 1837, and of March
3d, 1849, in this respect, were in force when the act of February 25th, 1862, was passed, and still remain in force. As
the act of 1862 declares that the notes of the United States
shall also be lawful money and a legal tender in payment
of debts, and this act has been sustained, by the recent decision of this court, as valid and constitutional, we have,
according to that decision, two kinds of money, essentially different in their nature, but equally lawful. It follows, from
*Taup v. Drew, 10 Howard, 218.

-t 7 Wallace, 229.

TiEBILCOCK V. WILSON.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

that decision, that contracts payable in either, or for the
possession of either, must be equally lawful, and, if lawful,
must be equally capable of enforcement. The act of 1862
itself distinguishes between the two kinds of dollars in providing for the payment in coin of duties on imports and the
interest on the bonds and notes of the government. It is
obvious that the requirement of coin for duties could not be
complied with by the importer, nor could his necessities for
the purchase of goods in a foreign market be answered, if
his contracts for coin could not be specifically enforced, but
could be satisfied by an offer to pay its nominal equivalent
in note dollars.
The contemporaneous and subsequent legislation of Congress has distinguished between the two kinds of dollars.'
The act of March 17th, 1862,* passed within one month
after the passage of the first legal tender act, authorized the
Secretary of the Treasury to purchase coin with bonds or
United States notes, at such rates and upon such terms as
he might deem most advantageous to the public interest,
thus recognizing that the notes and the coin were not exchangeable in the market according to their legal or nominal
val u es.
The act of March 3d, 1863,t amending the internal revenue act, required contracts for the purchase or sale of gold
or silver coin to be in writing, or printed, and signed by the
parties, their agents or attorneys, and stamped; thus impliedly recognizing the validity of previous contracts of that
character without this formality. The same act also contained various provisions respecting contracts for the loan
of currency secured by a pledge or deposit of gold or silver
coin, where the contracts were not to be performed within
three days.
Legislation of a later date has required all persons making
returns of income, to declare "whether the several rates and
amounts therein contained are stated according to their
values in legal tender currency, or according to their values
* 12 Stat. at Large, 370.

t- Tb. 719,

4.

Dec. 1871.]

TREBILCOCK V.

WILSON.

Opinion of the court.

in coined money," and if stated "in coined money," it is
made the duty of the assessor to reduce the rates and amounts
"to their equivalent in legal tender currency, according to
the value of such coined money in said currency for the
time covered by said returns."*
The practice of the government has corresponded with
the legislation we have mentioned. It has uniformly recognized in its fiscal affairs the distinction in value between
paper currency and coin. Some of its loans are made payable specifically in coin, whilst others are payable generally
in lawful money. It goes frequently into the money market,
and at one time buys coin with currency, and at another
time sells coin for currency. In its transactions it every day
issues its checks, bills, and obligations, some of which are
payable in gold, while others are payable simply in dollars.
And it keeps its accounts of coin and currency distinct and
separate.
If we look to the act of 1862, in the light of the contemporaneous and subsequent legislation of Congress, and of the
practice of the government, we shall find little difficulty in
holding that it was not intended to interfere in any respect
with existing or subsequent contracts payable by their express terms in specie; and that when it declares that the
notes of the United States shall be lawful money, and a legal
tender for all debts, it means for all debts which are payable
in money generally, and not obligations payable in commodities, or obligations of any other kind.
In the case of Cheang-Kee v. United Slates,t a judgment for
unpaid duties, payable in gold and silver coin of the United
States, rendered by the Circuit Court for the District of California, was affirmed by this court.
It is evident that a judgment in any other form would
often fail to secure to the United States payment in coin,
which the law requires, or its equivalent. If the judgment
were rendered for the payment of dollars generally it might,
according to the recent decision of this court, be paid in
* 14 Stat. at Large, 147.

t

3 Wallace, 320.

TREBILCOCK V.

WILSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

note dollars, and, if they were depreciated, the government
would not recover what it was entitled to receive. If, on
the other hand, the value of the coin was estimated in currency and judgment for the amount entered, the government, in case of any delay in the payment of the judgment,
by appeal or otherwise, would run the risk of losing a portion of what it was entitled to receive by the intermediate
fluctuations in the value of the currency. From considerations of this kind this court felt justified in sustaining the
judgment of the Circuit Court for California, requiring its
amount to be paid specifically in coin, as being the only
mode by which the law could be fully enforced.* The same
reasoning justified similar judgments upon contracts that
stipulated specifically for the payment of coin. Tie twentieth section of the act of 1792,t establishing a mint and
regulating the coins of the United States, in providing that
the money of account of the United States slall be expressed
in dollars, dimes, cents, and mills, and that all proceedings
in the courts of the United States shall be kept in conformity with this regulation, impliedly, if not directly, sanctions the entry of judgments in this form. The section has
reference to the coins prescribed by the act, and when, by
the creation of a paper currency, another kind of money,
The twelfth section of the act of Congress of ,Mfarch 3d, 1865, entitled,
"An act amendatory of certain acts imposing duties upon foreign importations," enacts: "That in all proceedings brought by the United States

in any court for due recovery, as well of duties upon imports alone as
of penalties for the non-payment thereof, the judgment shall recite that the
same is rendered for duties, and such judgment, interest, and costs shall be

payable in coin by law receivable for duties, and the execution issued on
such judgment shall set forth that the recovery is for duties, and shall
require the marshal to satisfy the same in the coin by law receivable for
duties; and, in case of levy upon and sale of the property of the judgment
debtor, the marshal shall refuse payment from any purchaser at such sale in
any other money than that specified in the execution."
It appears, from the examination of the record in Cheang-Kee v. The
United States, that the judgment of the Circuit Court in that case, affirmed

by the Supreme Court, was rendered before this act was passed, namely, on
the 8th of August, 1864.
t 1 Stat. at Large, 250, 20.

Dec. 1871.]

TREBILCOCK V. -WILSON.
Opinions of Bradley and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

expressed by similar designations, was sanctioned by law
and made a tender in payment of debts, it was necessary, as
stated in Bronson v. Rhodes, to avoid ambiguity and prevent
a failure of justice, to allow judgments to be entered for the
payment of coined dollars, when that kind of money was
specifically designated in the contracts upon which suits
were brought.
It follows from the views expressed, that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Iowa must be reversed, and that
court directed to remand the cause to the proper inferior
court of the State for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion;
AND IT IS SO ORDERED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case for
reasons stated in my opinion delivered in the cases of Knox
v. Lee and Parkerv. Davis.* In all cases where the contract
is to pay a certain sum of money of the United States, in
whatever phraseology that money may be described (except
cases specially exempted by law), I hold that the legal tender
acts make the treasury notes a legal tender. Only in those
cases in which gold and silver are stipulated for as bullion
can they be demanded in specie, like any other chattel.
Contracts for specie made since the legal tender acts went
into operation, when gold became a commodity subject to
market prices, may be regarded as contracts for bullion.
But all contracts for money made before the acts were passed
must, in my judgment, be regarded as on the same platform.
No difficulty can arise in this view of the case in sustaining
all proper transactions for the purchase and sale of gold coin.
Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting:
In the case of Bronson v. Rhodes I expressed my dissent
on the ground that a contract for gold dollars, in terms, was
in no respect different, in legal effect, from a contract for
* Supra,p. 554.

THE PROTECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

dollars without the qualifying words, specie or gold, and
that the legal tender statutes had, therefore, the same effect
in both cases.
I adhere to that opinion, and dissent from the one just
delivered by the court.

THE PROTECTOR.
1. The beginning and termination of the late rebellion in reference to acts
of limitation, is to be determined by some public act of the political
department.
2. The war did not begin or close at the same time in all the States.
3. Its commencement in certain States will be referred to the first proclamation, of blockade embracing them, and made on the 19th April, 1861;
and as to other States to the second proclamation of blockade embracing
them, and made on the 27th April, 1861.
4. Its termination as to certain States will be referred to the proclamation
of the 2d April, 1866, declaring that the war had closed in those States,
and as to Texas to the proclamation of the 20th August, 1866, declaring
it bad closed in that State also.
5. Alabama was one of the States named in the first proclamation of blockade, and the first proclamation as to the termination of the war.
6. Accordingly an appeal from a decree by the Circuit Court of Alabama
of the 6th April, 1861, which was flied in the clerk's office on the 17th
May, 1871, was dismissed; it being held on the principles above stated,
that more than five years had elapsed between the date of the decree and
the filing of the appeal, allowing the suspension of the time produced
by the war.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
This was a motion by Mr. P. Phillips to dismiss an appeal
from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States in
the Southern District of Alabama. A motion to dismiss an
appeal from the same decree, for the reason that it was not
brought within one year from the passage of the act of
March 2d, 1867,* had been made and denied at the Decentber Term, 1869.t The appeal was subsequently dismissed
on another ground.T The ground of this present motion
*14

Stat. at Large, 545.

-t 9 Wallace, 689.

$ 11 :Id. 82.

