404

INSURANCE COMPANY v. SLAUGHTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. SLAUGHTER.

1. A condition in a policy of assurance, by which the policy was made
void in case the assured kept gunpowder, phosphorus, saltpetre, and

benzine on the premises, held, under the punctuation of the policy, to
mean "in quantities exceeding a barrel ;" this being a more reasonable
construction than one which made the policy void if there was any

quantity, however small, of these articles, on the premises.
2. When insurance companies restrict, by conditions subsequently stated,

the liability which the policy in its body appears to create, they should
set forth these restrictions in terms which cannot admit of controversy,
and should print these restrictive clauses in type large enough to arrest
the attention of the assured. Nonpareil criticized as not being so.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi; the case being thus:
The Phenix Insurance Company of Hartford insured
goods owned by one Slaughter, in a certain storehouse described in the policy. The policy was on one side of a sheet
of paper sixteen inches long by ten wide; the upper seven
being left blank for the name of the person insured, and a
description in writing of the property insured. Four printed
lines, in the type known as minion,* but leaded so as to be
sufficiently legible, declared that "the company agreed to
make good as to the assured his loss to the amount insured,
to be estimated according to the actual cash value of the
property at the time of the loss, and to be paid sixty days
after due notice and proofs of the same made by the assured
and received at this office, in accordance with the terms of this
policy hereinafter mentioned."
Then followed, in a smaller type, not leaded, eight paragraphs, covering the rest of the sheet, and making a solid
body of finely printed matter, most of the matter being provisions in favor of the company; some of them restricting
the liability apparently incurred in the body of the instrument, and not a few making the policy entirely void. There
was abundant room on the sheet, if less blank space had
* A smaller type than that in which the syllabuses of this book are printed.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

SLAUGHTER.

405

Statement of the case.

been left, to have printed all these terms of the policy in a
larger type.
The fourth subdivision of these terms ran thus, the size
of the type and leading being here reproduced. The commas
and semicolons were the same as here given, though here,
for the benefit of the reader's eye, the pointing in some
places is made more conspicuous than on the policy itself:
"If the assured shall have or shall hereafter make any other insurance of the property
hereby insured, or any part thereof, without the consent of the company written hereon; or
if the above-mentioned premises shall be occupied so as to increase the risk, or become
vacant and unoccupied for a period of more than thirty days, or the risk be increased by
any means whatever within the control of the assured, without the consent of this company
indorsed hereon ; or if the property be sold or transferred, or any change take place in title
or possession whatever, by legal process, judicial decree, voluntary transfer, or conveyanceT
or if this policy shall be assigned, either before or after a loss, without the consent of the
company indorsed hereon; or if the assured is not the unconditional and sole owner of the
property; or if the interest of the assured in the property, whether as owner, trustee, consignee, ter, mortgagee, lessee, or otherwise, is not truly stated in this policy; or it gunpowder, polphorus, satpeire, nealth, benzie, benzoin, varaish, bcnzole, pctroleum, or crude cartis

oils are kept on the premises, or sYfeamphene, burning-fiia, refined coat or earth oils are k¢eptfor
sale, stored, or used on the premises in quantities exceeding one barrel at any one time, without

writtenpermissiom
in, oriudorsed upon, thte policy; then, and in every such case, thte policy
shall be void."

The goods having been destroyed by fire, Slaughter sued
the company, which set up as a plea that "the plaintiffs, contrary to the terms and provisions of the policy, without the
written permission, or permission indorsed on it by the company, did keep gunpowder on the premises, and in the said
storehouse described where the goods so insured were kept."
The plaintiffs demurred, and the demurrer being sustained,
and judgment given against the company, it brought the
case here.
Whether or not the plea was good, and the judgment
rightly given, depended of course upon the proper construction of the part above italicized of the portion of the conditions of the policy in which it was found. It was contended
by the insurance company that keeping gunpowder in the
store in any quantity vacated the policy, while the assured
insisted that the policy was not defeated if they did not keep
more than one barrel at a time. Wiich was the right couelusion was the matter to be now decided.

No counsel appearedfor the insurancecompany, the plaintiffin
error. Messrs. W. P. Harris and TV. J. Withers, argued the
case on briefs for the other side, and characterizing the defence

ITSURATNCE COIPANY V.

SLAUGHTER.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

as made merely for delay, asked damages under the 23d
Rule of court.*
Mr,. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
If the clause of the policy out of which the difference of
opinion between the parties to this suit arises, were detached
from other parts of the instrument, there might be some
question as to its proper grammatical construction. But
-such is not the case. It is the last clause in the fourth subdivision of the conditions embraced in the body of the policy,
and in this subdivision a number of causes are set forth which
shall operate to avoid the policy. These causes are all embraced in separate clauses, each class being separated from
the others by a semicolon. If there were in the clause in
dispute a semicolon where, the word premises is first used, it
may be, in view of the punctuation adopted in reference to
the other clauses, that this clause would be complete in itself,
and exclude wholly from thepremises gunpowder, saltpetre,
and the other articles in the same class. But in the absence
of the semicolon, it is manifest that no greater restriction
can be applied to gunpowder and saltpetre than to camphene
and burning fluid, and that, therefore, the words "in quantities exceeding one barrel at any one time," are applicable
alike to all, the materials which are specified in the clause
in controversy. This construction is fortified by the nature
of the forbidden articles. Saltpetre is not a dangerous substance; and yet, according to the view of the counsel for
the plaintiff in error, it is prohibited altogether, while a
barrel of camphene and burning fluid, which are inflaninable, can be stored with impunity. A construction that would
lead to such a result cannot be adopted, unless the language
employed leaves no other alternative.
Besides, if the contract is as contended for, it would impeach the good faith and fair dealing of the insurance company, for it would be deceptive, and calculated to mislead
those who. are not well informed on matters of this kind.
* See suprar166.

Dec. 1870.] INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

SLAUGHTER.

407

Opinion of the court.

It is well known that the agencies of this company are located
in all parts of the country, and that, in many places where
they are established, housekeepers generally keep on hand,
for their own use, in small quantities, gunpowder, saltpetre,
benzine, and perhaps other interdicted articles. It would
never occur to this class of persons, on making application
at one of these agencies for insurance, that they were forbidden to keep these things in their houses, and unless their
attention was particularly called to the subject, which would
be an unusual occurrence, they would take out their policies
in the belief that they could keep and use the substances
required for their necessities as they had been in the habit
of doing; and, if they should happen to read over the
schedule of conditions annexed to the policy, usually printed
in the smallest type, not being accustomed to a critical examination of the structure of sentences, they would naturally
conclude, as saltpetre and gunpowder are classed together,
and as saltpetre is comparatively harmless, while camphene
and burning-fluid are quite dangerous, that the restriction,
at the end of the enumerated articles was intended to be applied to all of them alike.
This, too, is the rational construction of the clause in,
question, and we cannot suppose the company which framed
this policy intended it to be interpreted differently.
If insurance companies do not mean to take risks on property where gunpowder, saltpetre, and the like substances
are kept, even for ordinary use, then good faith to the assured
requires that they should declare their intention in terms
which cannot admit of controversy; and, in order to avoid
just cause of complaint, it would be better for them to employ type, in relation to this important subject, large enough
to arrest the attention of an interested party.
In our opinion the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining
the demurrer to the third plea, and the judgment of that
court is, accordingly, affirmed.
The motion for damages is disallowed.

