OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Per Curiam.

HENRY

ET AL.

376 U. S.

v. CITY OF ROCK HILL.

ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 826.

Decided April 6, 1964.

After this Court granted certiorari, vacated the judgment holding
petitioners guilty of breach of the peace, and remanded the case
to the Supreme Court of South Carolina "for further consideration
in light of Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U. S.229," that court
found Edwards and the later case of Fields v. South Carolina, 375
U. S. 44, not controlling and reaffirmed the convictions. Held:
Edwards and Fields, which established that the peaceful expression
of unpopular views at a place not lawfully proscribed by state law
is protected by the Fourteenth Amendment from state criminal
action, are controlling here.
Certiorari granted and judgment reversed.

Jack Greenberg, Constance Baker Motley, Matthew J.
Perry, Lincoln C. Jenkins, Jr., Donald James Sampson
and Willie T. Smith, Jr. for petitioners.
PER CURIAM.

When this case was last before us, we granted certiorari,
vacated the judgment holding petitioners guilty of breach
of the peace, and remanded the case to the Supreme Court
of South Carolina "for further consideration in light of
Edwards v. South Carolina,372 U. S.229." 375 U. S.6.
That has been our practice in analogous situations where,
not certain that the case was free from all obstacles to
reversal on an intervening precedent, we remand the case
to the state court for reconsideration. Daegele v. Kansas,
375 U. S. 1; Pickelsimer v. Wainwright, 375 U. S. 2;
Newsome v. North Carolina, 375 U. S. 21; Shockey v.
Illinois, 375 U. S.22; Ausbie v. California,375 U. S.24;
Herrera v. Heinze, 375 U. S.26; Barnes v. North Carolina, 375 U. S.28. The South Carolina Supreme Court
examined Edwards and the later case of Fields v. South

HENRY v. CITY OF ROCK HILL.
776

Per Curiam.

Carolina, 375 U. S. 44, found them not controlling, and
reaffirmed the convictions. In its opinion on the remand
in the present case, the South Carolina Supreme Court
expressed do ubt concerning the meaning and significance
of our remand order, and it went on to explain why, in its
view, the Edwards and the Fields cases were distinguishable. For those reasons, it is appropriate to add these
words of explanation.
The South Carolina Supreme Court correctly concluded
that our earlier remand did not amount to a final determination on the merits.* That order did,h-o-wev'er, indicate that we found Edwards sufficiently analogous
and, perhaps, decisive to compel re-examination of the
case.
We now think Edwards and Fields control the result
here. As in those cases, the petitioners here, while at
a place where the State's law did not forbid them to be,
were engaged in the "peaceful expression of unpopular
views." Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U. S., at 237.
They assembled in a peaceful, orderly fashion in front of
the City Hall tQ.lratest segregation. They carried signs
to that effect and they sang patriotic and religious songs.
Although white onlookers assembled, no violence or
threat of violence occurred and traffic was not disturbed.
After 15 minutes of this, they were arrested for failure
to disperse upon orders. Here, as in Edwards and Fields,
petitioners "were convicted of an offense so generalized
as to be, in the words of the South Carolina Supreme
Court, 'not susceptible of exact definition.' " Ibid. And
here as there "they were convicted upon evidence which
showed no more than that the opinions which they were
*The South Carolina Supreme Court intimated that the rule of
Edwards was designed to guide us in determining our review of state
action. But Edwards states a rule based upon the Constitution of
the United States which, under the Supremacy Clause, is binding
upon state courts as well as upon federal courts.

778

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Per Curiam.

376 U. S.

peaceably expressing were sufficiently opposed to the
views of the majority of the community to attract a
crowd and necessitate police protection." Ibid.
Edwards established that the "Fourteenth Amendment
does not permit a State to make criminal the peaceful
expression of unpopular views." Ibid. As in Edwards,
the South Carolina Supreme Court has here "defined a
criminal offense so as to permit conviction of the petitioners if their speech 'stirred people to anger, invited
public dispute, or brought about a condition of unrest.
A conviction resting on any of those grounds may not
stand.' [Terminiello v. Chicago, 337 U. S. 1, 5.]" Id.,
at 238. Accordingly certiorari is granted and the judgment is reversed.

