OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

questions concerning the arbitrary character of the
Board's ruling. Tomorrow those questions may relate.
to the right to notice, adequacy of hearings, or the lack
of procedural due process of law. But no matter how
extreme the action pf the Board, the courts are powerless
to correct it under today's decision. Thus the purpose
of Congress is frustrated.
Judicial review would assure the President, the litigants
and the public that the Board had acted within the limits
of its authority. It would carry out the aim of Congress
to guard against administrative action which exceeds the
statutory bounds. It would give effect to the interests
of both Congress and the President in this field.
SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILROAD CO. v. DANIEL,

ATTORNEY GENERAL,
APPEAL FROM TH-I

No. 390.

ET AL.

SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

Argued January 8, 1948.-Decided February 16, 1948.

In a railroad reorganization under § 5 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended by the Transportation Act of 1940, a Virginia corporation, with the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission, succeeded to the ownership and operation of a unitary railroad
system in six states, including 'South Carolina. In granting its
approval, the Commission found that, for the corporation to comply with the laAs of South Carolina forbidding the ownership and
operation of railroads in the State by foreign corporations, would
result in "substantial delay and needless expense" and "would not
be consistent with the public interest." The corporation sued in
the Supreme Court of South Carolina to enjoin the State Attorney
General from enforcing these state laws against it or collecting the
heavy statutory penalties for noncompliance. Held:
1. The State Supreme Court hc.d jurisdiction of the suit, with
power to determine whether the Commission's order exempted the
corporation from compliance with the state railroad corporation
laws and, if so, whether the Commission had transcended its statutory authority in making the order. Pp. 122-123.

SEABOARD R. CO. v. DANIEL.
118

Opinion of the Court.

2. The Commission's order was intended to exempt the corporation from obedience to the State's laws forbidding foreign corporations to own or operate railroads in the State. P. 124.
3. The Commission was authorized to issue such an order by § 5
of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the Transportation
Act of 1940. Texas v. United States, 292 U. S. 522. Pp. 124126.
4. It was not prevented from dWng so by § 5 (11), which forbids
creation of a federal corporation but authorizes a state railroad
corporation to exercise the powers therein granted in addition to
those bestowed upon it by the state of its creation. Pp. 126-127.
5. The corporation is entitled to the injunction it sought. P.
127.
211 S.C. 122, 43 S. E. 2d 839, reversed.

The Supreme Court of South Carolina dismissed a suit
brought therein by a Virginia railroad corporation to
enjoin the Attorney General of South Carolina from enforcing against it certain state laws forbidding foreign.
corporations to own or operate railroads in the. State.
211 S.C. 122, 43 S.E. 2d 839. On appeal to this Court,
reversed and remanded, p. 127.
W. R. C. Cocke argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were J. B. S. Lyles, Harold J. Gallagher,
Leonard D. Adkins and James B. MeDonough, Jr.
Irvine F. Belser, Assistant Attorney General of South
Carolina, argued the cause for appellees. With him on
the brief were John M. Daniel, Attorney General, and
T. C. Callison,Assistant Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The constitution and statutes of South Carolina provide that railroad lines within that State can be owned
and operated only by state-created corporations; a railroad corporation- chartered only under the laws of another
state is forbidden under heavy penalties to exercise such

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

powers within South Carolina.' There is a way, however,
in which a foreign railroad corporation may, under South
Carolina statutes, indirectly exercise some, powers over
its South Carolina operations. It may organize a South
Carolina subsidiary. In addition, it may, under South
Carolina law, consolidate that corporation with itself.
In that event, so far as South Carolina statutes can govern, the consolidated result would be a corporation both
of South Carolina and of another state.2
In 1946 the appellant, Seaboard Air Line Railroad Company, with the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission, succeeded to the ownership and operation of a
unitary railroad system with 4,200 railway miles in six
southern states. Seven hundred and thirty-six miles of
its lines traverse South Carolina connecting with its lines
in' adjoining states. Appellant is a Virginia created corporation, has no South Carolina subsidiary, and has effected no. consolidation with a South Carolina created
corporation. It is therefore subject to the penalties provided by South Carolina law if that law can validly be
applied to it.
This action was brought by appellant in the South
Carolina Supreme Court to enjoin the state attorney
general from attempting to collect the statutory penalties from appellant or to enforce the statutory provisions
against it.' The complaint alleged the following facts,
'S. C. Const., Art. 9, § 8; S. C. Code Ann. § 7784 (1942). Violatio'is are punishable by fines of $500 for each county in which the
railroad operates. Apparently each day's operation of the railroad
constitutes a separate offense. The appellant in this suit operates
in 30 South Carolina counties.
2S.*C. Const. Art. 9, §8; S..C. Code Ann. §§7777, 7778, 7779,
7785, 7789 (1942). See Geraty v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 80
S.C.-355, 361,60 S.E. 936, 937.
a The appellant also prayed for a mandamus to .compel the Secre•tary of State to accept and file papers and documents tendered by

SEABOARD R. CO. v. DANIEL.
118

121.

Opinion of the Court.

about which there is no substantial dispute. Appellant
applied to the Interstate Commerce Cominission for approval of its purchase of the railway system pursuant to
§,5 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, 49
U. S. C. § 5. After notice to the Governor-of South Carolina and others, the Commission conducted hearings and
made a report in which it found that compliance by appellant with the South Carolina railroad corporationl.aws
would result in "substantial delay and needless expense.".
It further found that compliance "would not be consistent
with the public interest"-the criterion which § 5 required the Commission to use in passing upon a change
in ownership or control of a railroad. The Commission
then entered an order which authorized appellant; as a
Virginia corporation, to -own and operate the entire system including the South Carolina mileage. The complaint also asserted that the order, by explicit reference to
the Commission finding in its report, affirmatively authorized appellant 'to own and operate the entire railway
system without complying with the South Carolina railroad corporation laws."
The answer to the complaint did not challenge the
constitutional power of Congress to relieve appellant of
compliance with South Carolina's requirements of state
incorporation. It took the position that insofar as the
Commission order could be interpreted as an attempt to
override state laws in this respect it was void because
outside the scope of the Commission's statutory authority.
appellant seeking authority to do business in the state as a foreign
corporation under other South Carolina statutes. That phase of the
case is not pressed here.
' The complaint also alleged, and it is argued here, that the state
constitutional and ptatutory provisions imposed burdens on this
interstate railroad in violation pf the Commerce Clause of the Constitution of the United States. The view we take makes it unnecessary for us to pass on this contention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

1 333 U. S.

The appellant then filed ardemurrer on the ground that
the answer as a matter of law constituted neither a defense
nor a counterclaim since it admitted all allegations of fact
in the complaint, and advanced nothing more than erroneous legal conclusions as asserted reasons why appellant
should not be granted the relief for which it prayed.
No evidence was taken, and the State Supreme Court
decided the case on the pleadings. That court construed
the Commission's order as relieving appellant from compliance with the statutory and constitutional provisions
in issue, but it agreed with the respondents that the Commission lacked power under § 5 to enter such an order.
Accordingly the State Supreme Court revoked the temporary restraining order it had previously issued, denied
the requested injunction, and dismissed the complaint.
211 S. C. 122, 43 S. E. 2d 839. The case is properly here
on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, as
amended, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a).
First. The complaint largely relied on an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission as a basis for the relief
sought. The answer questioned the validity and scope
of that order but did not seek a decree to set it aside
or suspend 'it. Federal district courts have exclusive
jurisdiction of suits to enjoin, set aside, annul or suspend
an order of the Commission. In such suits the United
States is an indispensable party. 28 U. S. C. § 46. Although the jurisdiction of the South Carolina Supreme
Court was there- conceded, and is not here challenged,
we think it appropriate to pass upon it.
So far as the appellant's complaint is concerned, this
is not the kind of action to "set aside" a Commission
order of which the federal district courts have exclusive
jurisdiction. While the action does involve the scope
and validity of a Commission order, the relief requested
in the Complaint was the removal of an obstruction to
the railroad's obedience to the order, not its suspension

SEABOARD R. CO. v. DANIEL.
118

Opinion of the Court.

or annulment. Nor did the'answer seek to have the
enforcement of the order enjoined, although it did ques tion its validity as a basis for the relief sought in the
complaint.
The appellant was in this dilemma. Federal law required it to obey the order so long as it remained in
effect; for a failure to abide by its terms serious federal
penalties could be imposed on it. 49 U. S. C. §§ 10 (1), 16
(7), (8), (9), (10). On the other hand, South Carolina
statutes provided penalties for obedience to the order,
which South Carolina officials asserted were enforceable
against appellant despite the Commission's order. There
was thus a bona fide controversy between appellant and
the state officials over the validity of the order. Appellant wanted to obey the order; the state officials insisted
appellant must obey their statutes instead. Federal district courts have not been granted special jurisdiction to
review and confirm orders of the Commission at the suit
of railroads wishing to obey such orders.
Under the foregoing circumstances appellant was not'
compelled to wait until someone who had standing to
attack the Commission's order might decide to seek its
annulment in a federal district court. It properly sought
relief frbm a court which could obtain jurisdiction of the
parties whose refusal to recognize the order gave rise to its
predicament. And the state court then had power, because of the issues raised by the complaint and because of
the relief requested, to determine whether the order, properly interpreted, did exempt appellant from compliance
with the state railroad corporation laws and, if so, whether
the Commission had transcended its statutory authority
in making the order. Illinois Cent. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 245 U. S. 493, 502-505. See Lambert
Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 258 U. S. 377,
381l-382; CentralNew England R. Co. v. Boston &.A. R.
Co., 279 U. S. 415, 420-421

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Second. It is here contended that the Commission's
order did not manifest a clear purpose to authorize the.
exemption of appellant from obedience to the state's
domestic corporation policy. We have no doubt that the
Commission intended its order to have this effect. Its
final order expressly stated that, subject to a condition
not here relevant, it approved and authorized "the purchase . . . and the operation" by the appellant of the

South Carolina and other railroad properties. Furthermore, the Commission discussed the South Carolina
requirements in its report and therein made findings that
compliance by appellant with them "would not be consistent with the public interest." These references were
made to the South Carolina provisions, according to the
Commission's report, in response to the appellant's suggestion that it would "avoid complications" if the Commission's report showed "on its face that our order is
intended to override them."
Third. Respondents contend that the Commission
lacked statutory authority to enter an order which would
permit a Virginia corporation to operate these railroad
lines in and through South Carolina contrary to that
state's constitutional and legislative policy. They point
to the broad powers states have always exercised in excluding foreign corporations and in admitting them within
their borders upon conditions. They also -emphasize the
importance of this regulatory power to the states, and
urge that, in the absence of express language requiring it,
§ 5 shpuld be construed neither to restrict that state power
nor to authorize the Commission to override state enactments. Recognizing the force of these arguments in general, we note the following circumstances which render
them inapplicable in this case.
Congres&has long made the maintenance and development of an economical and efficient railroad system a matter of primary national concern. Its legislation must be

SEABOARD R. CO. v. DANIEL.
118

.125

Opinion of the Court.

read with this purpose in mind. In keeping with this
purpose Congress has often recognized that the nation's
railroads should have sound corporate and financial structures and has taken appropriate steps to this end. The
purchase of this very railroad by appellant resulted from
extensive reorganization proceedings conducted by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and. federal district
courts in accordance with congressional enactments applicable to railroads. In furtherance of this congressional
policy these agencies approved reorganization plans which,
called for the purchase and operation of these properties,
including the portion in South Carolina, by appellant, as
a Virginia corporation.
This Court has previously approved a Commission
order entered in a § 5 consolidation proceeding which
granted a railroad relief from state laws analogous to the
state requirements here. Texas v. United States, 292
U. S. 522 (1934). Most of the reasons which justified
the Commission's order in that case are equally applicable
here. Furthermore, since that case was decided Congress
has given additional proof of its purpose to grant-adequate
power to the Commission to override state laws which may
interfere with efficient and economical railroad operation.
By § 5 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
by the Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 908, 49
U. S. C § 5"(11), Congress granted the Commission
"exclusive and plenary" authority in refusing or approving railroad consolidations, mergers, acquisitions, etc.
The breadth of this grant of power can be understood only by reference to § 5 (2) (b). which authorizes.:
the Commission to *condition its approval upon "such
terms and conditions and such modifications as it shall
find to be just and reasonable." . All of this power can be
exercised in accordance with what the Commission mayfind to be "consistent with the public interest." The pur-,
chaser of railroad property with Commission approval. is

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S

authorized by § 5 (11) "to own and operate any properties
acquired through said transaction without invoking any approval under State authority," and such an
approved owner, according to that paragraph, is "relieved
from the operation of the antitrust laws and of all other
restraints, limitations, and prohibitions of law, Federal,
State, or muhicipal, insofar .as may be necessary to enable
them to carry into effect the transaction so approved . . .
and to hold, maintain, and operate any properties . . .
-acquired through such transaction."
This language very clearly reposes power in the Commission to exempt railroads under a § 5 proceeding from
state laws which bar them from operating in the state
or impose conditions upon such operation. The state
court nevertheless thought that the last sentence of § 5
(11) negatived a congressional purpose to empower the
Commission to relieve railroads from state laws such as
South Carolina's. That sentence reads: "Nothing in this
section shall be construed to create or provide for the
creation, directly or indirectly, of a Federal corporation,
but any power granted by this section to any carrier or
other corporation shall be deemed to be in addition to and
in modification of its powers under its corporate charter
or under the laws of any State." We see nothing in this
sentence that detracts from the broad powers granted the
Commission by § 5. In fact, the laniguage of the sentence
appears to support the Commission's power here exercised.
Although the sentence bars creation of a federal corporation, it clearly authorizes a railroad corporation to exercise the powers therein granted over and above those
bestowed upon it by the state of its creation. These federally conferred powers can be exercised in the same manner as though they had been granted to a federally created
corporation.. See Californiav. Central PacificR. Co., 127
U. S. 1, 38; 40-45. Here, just as a federally created railroad corporation could for federal purposes operate in

FUNK BROS. SEED CO. v. KALO CO.
118

127

Syllabus.

South Carolina. so can this Virginia corporation exercise
its federally granted power to operate in that State.
Other arguments of respondent have been considered
and found to be without merit. Appellant is entitled to
the injunction it sought.
The judgment of the South Carolina Supreme Court
denyin'g the injunction and dismissing the complaint .is
reversed, and the cause is remanded to that court for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

FUNK BROTHERS SEED CO. v. KALO
INOCULANT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 280.

Argued January 13, 1948.-Decided February 16, 1948.

1. Certain product claims of Bond Patent No. 2,200,532, on certain
mixed cultures of root-nodule bacteria capable of inoculating the
seeds of leguminous plants belonging to several cross-inoculation
groups, held invalid for want of invention. Pp. 128-132.
2. Discovery of the fact that certain strains of each species of these
bacteria can be mixed without harmful effect on the properties of
eitber is not patentable, since it is no more than the discovery of
a phenomenon of nature. P. 131.
", The ,application of this newly-discovered natural principle to the
problem of packaging inoculants was not invention or discovery
within the meaning of the patent laws. Pp.'131-132.
161 1. 2d 981, reversed.

In a patent infringement suit, the District Court held
certain product claims invalid for wait of invention. The
Circuit jCourt of Appeals reversed. 161 F. 2d 981. This
Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 755. Reversed,
132:

