OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

where an alien having committed a crime involving moral
turpitude and having been convicted and sentenced, once
again commits a crime of that nature and is convicted
and sentenced for it.
We resolve the doubts in favor of that construction
because deportation is a drastic measure and at times the
equivalent of banishment or exile, Delgadillo v. Carmichael, 332 U: S. 388. It is the forfeiture for misconduct
of a residence in this country. Such a forfeiture is a
penalty. To construe this statutory provision less generously to the alien might find support in logic. But
since the stakes are considerable for the individual, we
will not assume that Congress meant to trench on his
freedom beyond that which is required by the narrowest
of. several possible meanings of the words used.
Reversed.
JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 329.

Argued December 18, 1947.-Decided February 2, 1948.

1. Where officers detected the odor of burning opium emanating
from a hotel room, entered without a search warrant and without
knowing who was there, arrested the only occupant, searched the
room and found opium and smoking apparatus, the search violated
the Fourth Amendment to the Federal Constitution; and a conviction for a violation of the federal narcotic laws based on the
evidence thus obtained cannot be sustained. Pp. 11-17.
2. As a general rule, the question when the right of privacy must
reasonably yield to the right of search must be decided by a
judicial officer, not by a policeman or government enforcement
agent. Pp. 13-14.
3. There were no exceptional circumstances in this case sufficient
to justify the failure of the officer to obtain a search warrant.
Pp. 14-15.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
10

Opinion of the Court.

4. It being conceded that the officer did not have probable cause
to arrest petitioner until he entered the room and found her to
be the sole occupant, the search cannot be sustained as being incident to a valid arrest. Pp. 15-16.
5. The Goverlhient cannot at the same time justify an arrest by
a search and justify the search by the arrest. Pp. 16-19.
6. An officer gaining access to private living" quarters under color
of his office and of the law must then have some valid basis in law
for the intrusion, P. 17.
162 F. 2d 562. reversed.

Petitioner was convicted in a Federal District Court
on evidence obtained by a search made without a warrant.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 162 F. 2d 562.
This Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 807. Reversed,
p. 17.
James Skelly Wright argued the cause, and John F.
Garvin filed a brief, for petitioner.
Robert S. Erdahl argued the cause for theUnited States.

With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Assistdnt Attorney General Quinn and Irving S.

Shapiro.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner va- 6.onvicted on four counts charging violation of federal narcotic laws.' The only question which
brings the case here is whether it was lawful, without a
warrant of any kind, to arrest petitioner and to search, her
living quarters.
Two counts charged violation of ยง 2553 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U. S. C. ยง 2553 (a)) and two counts charged violation
of the Narcotic Drugs Import and Export Act as amended (21 U. S.-C.
ยง 174).

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Taking the Government's version of disputed events,
decision would rest on these facts:
At about 7:30 p. m. Detective Lieutenant Belland, an
officer of the Seattle police force narcotic detail, received
information from a confidential informer, who was also
a known narcotic user, that unknown persons were smoking opium in the Europe Hotel. The informer was taken
back to the hotel to interview the manager, but he returned at once saying he could smell burning opium in the
hallway. Belland communicated with federal narcotic
agents and between 8:30 and 9 o'clock went back to
the hotel with four such agents. All were experienced in
narcotic work and recognized at once a strong odor of
burning opium which to them was distinctive and .unmistakable. The odor led to Room 1. The officers did not
know who was occupying that room. They knocked and
a voice inside asked who was there. "Lieutenant Belland," was the reply. There was a slight delay, some
"shuffling or noise" in the room and then the defendant
opened the door. The officer said, "I want to talk to you a
little bit." She then, as he describes it, "stepped back acquiescently and admitted us." He said, "I want to talk
to you about this opium smell in the room here." She
denied that there was such a smell. Then he said, "I
want you to consider yourself under arrest because we are
going to search the room." The search turned up incriminating opium and smoking apparatus, the latter being
warm, apparently from recent use. This evidence the
District Court refused to suppress before trial and admitted over defendant's objection at the trial. Conviction
resulted and the Circuit Court ofAppeals affirmed.2
The defendant challenged the search of her home as a
violation of the rights secured to her, in common with
others, by the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution.
2

152 F. 2d 562.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
10

Opinion of the Court.

The Government defends the search as legally justifiable,
more particularly as incident to what it urges was a lawful
arrest of the person.
I.
The Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United
provides:
. "The States
right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized."
Entry to defendant's living quarters, which was the
beginning of the search, was demanded under color of
office. It was granted in submission to authority rather
than as an understanding and intentional waiver of a
constitutional right. Cf. Amos v. United States, 255
U. S.313.
At the time entry was demanded the officers were
possessed of evidence which a magistrate might have
found to be probable cause for issuing a search warrant.
We cannot sustain defendant's contention, erroneously
made, on the strength of Taylor v. United States, 286
U. S. 1, that odors cannot be evidence sufficient to constitute probable grounds for any search. That decision held
only that odorg 'alone do not authorize a search without
warrant. If the presence of odors is testified to before a
magistrate and he finds the affiant qualified to know the
odor, and it is one sufficiently distinctive to identify a forbidden substance, this Court has never held such a basis
insufficient to justify issuance of a search warrant. Indeed it might very well be found to be evidence of most
persuasive character.
The point of the Fourth Amendment, which often is not
grasped by zealous officers, is not that it denies law en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

forcement the support of the usual inferences which reasonable men draw from evidence. Its protection consists
in requiring that those inferences be drawn by a neutral
and detached magistrate instead of being judged by the
officer engaged in the often competitive enterprise of ferreting out crime.' Any assumption that evidence sufficient to support a magistrate's disinterested determination
to issue a search warrant will justify the officers in making
a search without a warrant would reduce the Amendment
to a nullity and leave the Oeople's homes secure only in
the discretion of police officers.' Crime, even in the privacy of one's own quarters, is, of course. of grave concern
to society, and the law allows such cririle to be reached
on proper showing. The right of officers to thrust themselves into a home ".'3 also a grave concern, not only to the
individual but t*o a society which 'chooses to dwell in
reasonable security and freedom from surveillance.
When the right of privacy must reasonably yield to the
right of search is, as a rule, to be decided by a judicial
officer, riot by a policeman or government enforcement
agent. ,
There are exceptional circumstances in which, on balancing the need for effective law enforcement against the
In United States v. Lefkovitz, 285 U. S. 452, 464, this Court said:
. . the info.-med and deliberate determinations of magistrates empowered. to issue warrants as to what searches and seizures are
permissible under the Constitution are to be preferred over the
hurried action of officers and others who may happen to make arrests.
Security against unlawful searches is more likely to be attained by
resort to search warrants than by reliance upon the caution and
sagacity of petty officers while acting under the excitement that
attends the capture of persons accused of crime ..
"
"Belief, however well founded, that an article sought is concealed
in a dwelling house furnishes no justification for a search o; that'
place without a warrant. And such searches are held unlawful notwithstanding facts unquestionably showing probable cause." A..gnello
v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, 33.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
10

Opinion of the Court.

right of privacy, it may be contended that a magistrate's
warrant for search may be dispensed with. But this is
not such a case. No reason is offered for not obtaining a
search warrant except the inconvenience to the officers
and some slight delay necessary to prepare papers and present the evidence to a magistrate. These are never very
convincing reasons and, in these circumstances, certainly
are not enough to by-pass the constitutional requirement.
No suspect was fleeing or likely to take flight. The search
was of permanent premises, not of a movable vehicle.
No evidence or contraband was threatened with removal
or destruction, except perhaps the fumes which we suppose in time would disappear. But they were not capable
at any time of being reduced to possession for presentation
to cotrt. The evidence of- their existence before the
search was adequate and the testimony of the officers to
that effect would not perish from the delay of getting a
warrant.
If the officers in this case were excused from the constitutional duty of presenting their evidence to a magistrate,
it is difficult to think of a case in which it should be
required.
II.
The Government contends, however, that this search
without warrant must be held valid because incident to
an arrest. This alleged ground of validity requires examination of the facts to determine whether the arrest
itself was lawful. Since it was without warrant, it could
be valid only if for a crime committed in the presence
-of the arresting officer or for a felony of which he had
reasonable cause to believe defendant guilty.5
5This is the Washington law. State v. Symes, 20 Wash. 484, 55 P.
626; State v. Lindsey.,192 Wash. 356, 73 P. 2d 738; Siate v. Krantz,
24 Wash. 2d 350, 164 P. 2d 453; State v. Robbins, 25 Wash. 2d 110,
169 P. 2d 246. State law determines the validity of arrests without
warrant. United States v. Di Re, 332 T. S. 581.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

The Government, in effect, concedes that the arresting
officer did not have probable cause to arrest petitioner
until he had entered her room and found her to be the sole
occupant.' It points'out specifically, referring to the time
just before entry, "For at that time the agents did not
know whether there was one or several persons in the
room. It was reasonable to believe that the room might
have been an opium smoking den." And it says, "...
that when the agents were admitted into the room and
found only petitioner present they had a reasoiiable basis
for believing that she had been smoking opium and thus
illicitly possessed the narcotic." Thus the Government
quite properly stakes the right to arrest, not on the informer's tip and the smell the officers recognized before entry,
but on the knowledge that she was alone in the room,
gained only after, and wholly by reason of, their entry of
her home. It was therefore their observations inside of
her quarters, after they had obtained admission under
color of their police authority, on which they made the
arrest.!
Thus the Government is obliged to justify the arrest by
the search and at the same time to justify the search by
"The Government brief states that the question- presented is
"Whether there was- probable cause for the arrest of petitioner for
possessing opium prepared for smoking and the search of her room in
a hotel incident thereto for the contraband opium, where experienced
narcotic agents unmistakably detected and traced the pungent,
identifiable odor of burning opium emanating from her room and
knew, before they arrested her, that she was ihe only person in. the
room."
The Government also suggests that "In a sense, the arrest was
made in 'hot pursuit.' . . ."

However, we find no element of "hot

pursuit" in the arrest of one who was not in flight, was completely
surrounded by agents before she knew of their presence, who claims
without denial that she was in bed at the time, and who made no
attempt to escape. Nor would- these facts seem to meet the requirements of the Washington "Uniform Law on Fresh Pursu:t." Session
1
Laws 1943, ch. 261.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
10

17

Opinion of the Court.

the arrest. This will not do. An officer gaining access
to private living quarters under color of his office 'and-of
the law which he personifies must then have some valid
basis in law for the intrusion. Any other rule would undermine "the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects,"8 and would obliterate
one of the most fundamental distinctions between our
form of government, where officers are under the law, and
the police-state where they are the law.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE
REED and MR. JUSTICE BURTON dissent.

8 In Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 303, 304, this Court said:

"It would not be possible to add to the emphasis with which the
framers of our Constitution and this court (in Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616, in Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, and in Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385) have declared
the importance to political liberty and to the welfare of our country
of the due observance of the rights guaranteed under the Constitution by these two [Fourth and Fifth] Amendments. The effect of
the decisions cited is: that kuch rights are declared to be indispensable
to the 'full enjoyment of personal security, personal liberty and private property'; that they are to be regarded as of the very essence
of constitutional liberty; and that the guaranty of them is as important and as imperative as are the guaranties of the other fundamental rights of the individual citizen,-the right, to trial by jury, to
the writ of habeas corpus and to due process of law. It has been
repeatedly decided that these Amendments should receive a liberal
construction, so as to prevent stealthy encroachment upon or 'gradual
depreciation' of the rights secured by them, by imperceptible practice
of courts or'by well-intentioned but mistakenly over-zealous executive
officers."

