MOORE v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

MOORE

ET AL.

V. NEW YORK.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 485.

Argued February 12, 1948.-Decided March 29, 1948.

1. The validity of New York special jury statutes under the Federal
Constitution is sustained as against a claim of invalidity based on
the ratio of convictions to acquittals in cases tried by special juries
and in cases tried by ordinary juries. Fay v. New York, 332 U. S.
261. Pp. 566-567.
2. The claim of systenmatic, intentional and deliberate exclusion of
Negroes from the jury is not sustained by the record in this .case.
Pp. 567-569.
297 N. Y. 734, 77 N. E. 2d 25, affirmed.

Petitioners were convicted of murder by a special jury
in a New York state court. The Court of Appeals of
New York affirmed the convictions. 297 N. Y. 734, 77
N. E. 2d 25. This Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S.
843. Affirmed, p. 569.
John F. Wilkinson argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief was Isidore Ehrman.
George Tilzer argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was Samuel J. Foley.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

With

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners were indicted in Bronx County, New York,
on February 11, 1947, for the crime of murder in the first
degree. The District Attorney moved the court for an
order that the trial be by a special jury, pursuant to New
York law, which motion was granted over opposition on
behalf of defendants by assigned counsel. One hundred
and fifty names were drawn from the'special jury panel,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

under supervision of a Justice of the State Supreme Court,
in the presence of defendants' counsel and without
objection.
When the case was called for trial defendants, as permitted by the state practice, served a written challenge
to the panel of jurors upon the following grounds:
1. That ยง 749-aa of the Judiciary Law of the State
of New York is in violation of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
2. That qualified Negro jurors were improperly
excluded from the list of special jurors, from which
said jury panel was drawn.
3. That qualified women jurors were improperly
excluded from the list of special jurors, from which
said jury panel was drawn.
After full hearing, the challenge was disallowed and
petitioners were tried and convicted. On appeal to the
Court of Appeals, the third ground of challenge to the
jury panel was abandoned and the convictions were affirmed. 297 N. Y. 734, 77 N. E. 2d 25. We granted
certiorari on a petition raising the remaining grounds.
332 U. S. 843.
The constitutionality of the New York special jury
statutes has but recently been sustained by this Court,
Fay v. New York, 332 U. S. 261, against a better supported challenge than is here presented, and the issue
warrants little discussion at this time.
Some effort is made by statistics to differentiate this
case from the precedent one as to the ratio of convictions
before special juries contrasted with that before ordinary
juries. The defendants present to us a study from July 1,
1937, to June 30, 1946, which indicates that special juries
in Bronx County returned 15 convictions and 4 acquittals

MOORE v. NEW YORK.
565

Opinion of the Court.

during the period and concludes that the special jury.
convicted in 79% of the cases while the general juries
convicted in 57%. The District Attorney responds that
in 5 of these 19 cases, the special jury returned conviction
in a lesser degree than that charged and, hence in 9,out
of 19 cases withheld all or part of what the State asked.
Moreover, it is said that all but two were capital cases,
another was for manslaughter and one for criminally
receiving stolen property. It should be observed that
the number of cases involved in these statements is too
small to afford a secure basis for generalizing-as to the
convicting propensities of the two jury panels, even if
the cases were comparable. But it appears that in Bronx
County a system of special and intensive investigation
is applied to capital cases from the moment they are
reported, more careful preparation is given -them and
they are tried by the most experienced prosecutors. This
makes this class of cases not fairly comparable with the
run-of-the-mill cases, felony and misdemeanor, that are
included in the ordinary jury statistics. Moreover, none
of these facts were laid before the trial court, which. was
in the best position to analyze, supplement. or interpret
them. We think on this part of the challenge no question
is presented that was not disposed of in Fay v. New York,
supra. Indeed, on opening the hearing on defendants'
challenge the trial court said, "I understand the inquiry
now is to be directed to the intentional elimination or
disqualification of women and Negroes on the special
jury panel." Counsel for both defendants assented to
this definition- of the issues and no evidence on other
subjects was offered.
Petitioners' remaining point is that "the trial of the
petitioners, Negroes, by a jury selected from a panel from
which Negroes were systematically, intentionally and deliberately excluded, denied petitioners the equal protec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

tion of law and due process of law guaranteed them by
the Constitution of the United States." If the evidence
supported the assumption of fact included in this statement, the point would be of compelling merit. The law
on this subject is now so settled that we no longer find
it necessary to write out expositions of the Constitution
in this regard. See Brunson v. North Carolina,333 U. S.
851, decided March 15, 1948.
It is admitted that on this panel of one hundred and
fifty there were no Negroes. But not only is the record
wanting in proof of intentional and systematic exclusionthe only witnesses sworn testified that there was no such
practice or intent. Nothing in the background facts discredits this testimony. The census figures give a proportion of Negro-to-white population in that county of .7%
in 1920, 1.0% in 1930, and 1.7% in 1940. It is admitted
that since the last census the Negro population has considerably increased. According to one estimate, the number of colored inhabitants, which in 1940 was 24,892,
has increased to 192,066 in 1948. The same estimator
later revised the figures to between 65,000 and 70,000.
Neither estimate was before the trial court, and no evidence or finding gives us judicially approved data. Of
course, new wartime arrivals take some time to qualify
as active members of the community and its machinery
of justice cannot be expected instantaneously to reflect
their presence. The official who compiled the jury lists
testified as to Negro jurors that "from 1946 on I must
have examined at least 500 myself." The number accepted for service could not be'ascertained from the records, which make no notation of color, but he testified
that there were "maybe two dozen; maybe three dozen."
For the speciAl panel, he testified that he had examined.
an. estimated one hun'dred Negroes and had accepted
"maybe a dozen." The testimony is undenied.

MOORE v. NEW YORK.
565

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

The record is utterly devoid of proof of systematic,
intentional and deliberate exclusion of Negroes from jury
duty.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur,

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissenting.
This case represents a tragic consequence that can flow
from the use of the "blue ribbon" jury. Two men must
forfeit their lives after having been convicted of murder
not by a jury of their peers, not by a jury chosen from
a fair cross-section of the community, but by a jury drawn
from a special group of individuals singled out in a manner inconsistent with the democratic ideals of the jury
system. That group was chosen because they possessed
some trait or characteristic which distinguished therh
from the general panel of jurors, some qualification which
made them more desirable for the State's purpose of securing the conviction of the two petitioners. Such. a
basis for jury selection has no place in our constitutional
way of life. It contravenes the most elementary notions
of equal protection and I can no more acquiesce in its
use in this case than I'was able to do in Fay v. New York,
332 U. S. 261.
The constitutional invalidity of this "blue ribbon" system does not depend upon proof of the systematic and
intentional exclusion of any economic, racial or social
group. Nor does it rest upon a demonstration that "blue
ribbon" juries are more inclined to convict than ordinary
juries. Such factors are frequently, if not invariably,
present in "blue ribbon" situations, though proof is extremely difficult. But they are at best only the end products of the system, not the root evil.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

333 U. S.

The vice lies in the very concept of "blue ribbon" panels--the systematic and intentional exclusion of all but
the "best" or the most learned or intelligent of the general
jurors. Such panels are completely at war with the democratic theory of our jury system, a theory formulated out
of the experience of generations. One is constitutionally
entitled to be judged by a fair sampling of all one's neighbors who are qualified, not merely those with superior
intelligence or learning. Jury panels are supposed to be
representative of all qualified classes. Within those
classes, of course, are persons with varying degrees of
intelligence, wealth, education,- ability and experience.
But it is from that welter of qualified individuals, who
meet specified minimum standards, that juries are to be
.chosen. Any method that permits only the "best" of
these to be selected opens the way to grave abuses. The
jury is then in danger of losing its democratic flavor and
becoming the instrument of the select few.
Hence the "blue ribbon" method of selecting only the
"best" of the general jurors, a method instituted with the
highest of intentions, does violence to the fundamental
precepts of the jury system. Appeals to administrative
convenience do not soften that violence. And since the
method deprives the defendant of the protection accordedothers who are able to draw upon the general panel, itt
falls under the ban of the Fourteenth Amendment. I
would therefore reverse the judgment below.

