OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

196

Syllabus.

333 U. S.

The findings of the lower courts make it clear that there
has been no claim of failure or impending failure by the
sponsor'to carry out the terms of the contest. The record
shows no complaint from any contestant. Nevertheless,
the Postmaster General took it upon himself to stop the
contest. On the evidence before him and before the
courts, this was an abuse of his discretion. It was
"palpably wrong and therefore arbitrary." See-Leach v.
Carlile, 258 U. S. 138, 140.

COLE

ET .AL.

v. ARKANSAS.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 373.

Argued February 4-5, 1948.-Decided March 8, 1948.

Petitioners were tried in a state court under an information charging
them only with a violation of § 2 of a state statute, making it an
offense to promote an unlawful assemblage. The trial court instructed the jury that they were charged with an offense under
§ 2; and they were convicted. They appealed to the State Supreme
Court, contending, inter alia, that § 2 was contrary to the Federal
Constitution. ,Withoutpassing on that question, the State Supreme
Court sustained their convictions on the ground that the information charged and the evidence showed that petitioners had violated
§ 1 of the same statute, which describes the distinct offense of using
force and violence. Held.: Petitioners were denied due process of
law and the judgment is reversed and remanded to the State.
Supreme Ccnrt for further proceedings. Pp. 197-202.
(a) It is as much a violation of.due process to.send an accused
to prison following a conviction of a charge on which he was never
tried as it would be to convict him upon a charge that was never
made. "P..201.
(b) To conform to due process of law, petitioners were entitled
..to have the validity'of theii convictions appraised on consideration
of the case as it was tried and as the issues were determined in
the trial court. P. 202.
21i Ark. 836, 202 .. W. 2d 770, reversed.

COLE v. ARKANSAS.
196

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners were tried and convicted of 'a violation of
§ 2 Of a state statute. Their convictions were affirmed by.
the Supreme Court of Arkansas on the ground that they
had violated § 1, describing a separate and distinct offense.
211 Ark. 836, 202 S. W. 2d 770. This Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 834. Reversed and remanded, p. 202.
David Rein, and Joseph Forer argued the cause for
petitioners. With them on the brief was Lee Pressman.
Oscar E. Ell* Assistant Attorney General of Arkansas,.
and Shields M. Goodwin argued the cause for respondent.
With Mr. Ellis on the brief was Guy E. Williams, Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioners were convicted of a felony'in' an Arkansas state court and sentenced to serve one year in
the state penitentiary. The State Supreme Court affirmed, one judge dissenting on the ground that the evidence was insufficient to sustain the convictions. 211
Ark. 836, 202 S. W. 2d 770. A petition for certiorari
here alleged deprivation of important rights guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment. We granted certiorari
because the record indicated that at least. one of the
questions presented was substantial. That question, in
the present state of the record, is the only one we find
it appropriate to consider. The question is: "Were the
petitioners denied due process of law . . . in. violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment by the circumstance that
their convictions were affirmed under a criminal statute
for violation of w hich they had not been charged?"
The present cbnvictions are under an information. The
petitioners. urge that the information charged them with
a violation of § 2 of Act 193 of the 1943 Arkansas Legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

lature and that they were tried and convicted of violating
only §'2. The State Supreme Court affirmed their convictions on the ground that the information haid charged
.and the evidence had shown that the petitioners had
violated § 1 of the Arkansas Act which describes an offense
separate and distinct from the offense described in § 2.
The information charged:
" Walter Ted Campbell, acting in concert with
other persons, assembled at the Southern Cotton Oil
Company's plant in Pulaski County, Arkansas, where
a labor dispute existed, and by force and violence
prevented Otha Williams from engaging in a lawful
vocation. The said Roy- Cole, Louis Jones and
Jessie Bean,' in the County and State aforesaid, on
the 26th day of December, 1945, did unlawfully and
feloniously, acting in concert with eath [sic] other,
promote. encourage and aid such unlawful assemblage, against the peace and dignity of the State of
Arkansas."
The foregoing language describing the offense charged
in the information is substantially identical with the following language of § 2 of the Arkansas Act. That section
provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any person acting in concert with one or more other persons, to assemble at
or near any place where a 'labor dispute' exists and
by force or violence prevent . .. any person from
engaging in any lawful vocation, or for any person
acting . . .in concert with one or more other persons, to promote, encourage or aid any'such unlawful
assemblage."
The State Supreme Court held that Bean's conviction was based
on insufficient evidence, reversed his conviction, and directed that
the cause be dismissed as to him.

COLE v. ARKANSAS.
196

Opinion of the Court.

The record indicates that at the request of the prosecuting attorney, the trial judge read § 2 to the jury. He
then instructed them that § 2 "includes two offenses,
first, the concert of action between two or more persons
resulting in the prevention of a person by means of force
and violence from engaging.in a lawful vocation. And,
second,. in promoting, encouraging or aiding of such unlawful assemblage by concert of action among the defendants as is charged in the information here. The latter
offense is the one on trial in this case."
The trial court also instructed the jury that they could
not convict petitioners unless "convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that they promoted, encouraged, and -aided in
an unlawful assemblage at the plant of the Southern Cotton Oil Company, for the purpose of preventing Otha
Williams from engaging in a lawful vocation." This
instruction, like the preceding one, told the jury that
the trial of petitioners was for violation of § 2, since § 2
makes an unlawful assemblage an ingredient of the offense
it defines and § 1 2 .does not. Thus the petitioners were
clearly tried and convicted by the jury for promoting
an unlawful assemblage made an offense by § 2, and were
not tried for the offense of using force and violence as
described in § 1.
2 "Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any person by the use of force
or violence, or threat of the use of force or violence, to prevent or
attempt to prevent any person from engaging in any lawful vocation
within this State. Any person guilty of violating this section shall
be deemed guilty of a felony, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by.confinement in the State Penitentiary for not less than
one (1) year, nor more than two (2) years." Act 193, Arkansas Acts
of 1943.
3 A previous conviction of petitioners under an indictment charging
them with a violation of § 1 was set aside by the State Supreme Court
because of the erroneous admission of evidence by the trial court,
Cole v. State, 210 Ark. 433, 196 S. W. 2d 582.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

When the case reached the State Supreme Court on
appeal, that court recognized that the information as
drawn did include a charge that petitioners violated § 2
of the Act. That court also held that the information
accused petitioners of "using force and violence to prevent Williams from working," and that the "use of force
or violence, or threat of the use of force or violence, is
made unlawful by Sec. 1." For this reason the Supreme
Court said that it affirmed the convictions of the petitioners "without invoking any part of Sec. 2 of the Act . . . ."
That court accordingly refused to pass upon petitioners'
federal. constitutional challenges to § 2. It later denied a
petition for rehearing in which petitioners argued: "To
sustain a conviction on grounds not charged in the information and which the jury had -o opportunity to pass
upon, deprives the defendants of a fair trial and a trial
by jury, and denies the defendants that due process of law
guaranteed by. the 14th Amendment to the United States
Constitution."
We therefore have this situation. The petitioners read
the information as charging them with an offense under
§ 2 of the Act, the language of which the information
had used. The trial judge construed the information as
charging an offense under § 2. He instructed the jury
to that effect. He charged the jury that petitioners were
on trial for the offense of promoting an unlawful assemblage, not for the offense "of using force and violence."
Without completely ignoring the judge's charge, the jury
could not have convicted petitioners for having committed the separate, distinct, and substantially different
offense defined in § 1.4 Yet the State Supreme Court
refused to consider the validity of the convictions under
4"Under any reasonable construction Section 1 creates separate
offenses, as does Section 2, and an indictment that alleges crimes
covered by a part of Section 1 does not impose upon the defendant

COLE v. ARKANSAS.
196

Opinion of the Court.

§ 2, for violation of which petitioners were tried and
convicted. It affirmed their convictions as though they
had been tried for violating § 1, an offense for which they
were neither tried nor convicted.
No principle of procedural due process is more clearly
established than that notice of the specific charge, and
a chance to be heard in a trial of the issues raised by that
charge, if desired, are among the constitutional rights of
every accused in a criminal proceeding in all courts, state
or federal. In re Oliver, 333 U. S. 257, 273, decided today,
and cases there cited. If, as the State Supreme Court
held, petitioners were charged with a violation of § 1, it is
doubtful both that the information fairly informed them
of that charge and that they sought to defend themselves
against such a charge; it is certain that they were not tried
for or found guilty of it. It is as much a violation of due
process to send an accused to prison following conviction
of a charge on which he was never tried as it would be to
convict him upon a charge that was never made. De
Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 362.
Furthermore, since Arkansas provides for an appeal to
the State Supreme Court and on that appeal considers
questions raised under the Federal Constitution, the proceedings in that court are a part of the process of law
under which the petitioners' convictions must stand or
fall. Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 327. Cf. Mooney
v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 113. That court has not
affirmed these convictions on the basis of the trial petitioners were afforded. The convictions were for a violation of § 2. Petitioners urged in the State Supreme
Court that the evidence was insufficient to support their
convictions of a violation of § 2. They also raised serious
a duty to defend under Section 2 or against 'threat' provisions of
Section 1." Cole v. State, 210 Ark. 433, 441, 196 S. W. 2d 582,

586.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947..
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

objections to the validity of that section under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.' None
of their contentions were passed upon by the State Supreme Court. It affirmed their convictions as though they
had been tried and convicted of a violation of § 1 when in
truth they had been tried and convicted only of a violation
of a single offense charged. in § 2, an offense which is
distinctly and substantially different from the offense
charged in § 1. To conform to due process of law, petitioners were entitled to have the validity of their convictions appraised on consideration of the case as it was tried
and as the issues were determined in the trial court.
We are constrained to hold that the petitioners have
been denied safeguards guaranteed by due process of
law-safeguards essential to liberty in a government dedicated to justice under law.
In the present state of the record we cannot pass upon
those contentions which challenge the validity of § 2 of
the Arkansas Act. The judgment is reversed.and remanded to the State Supreme Court for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

The objections pressed in the Arkansas Supreme Court and also
argued here were: (1) that petitioners were deprived of freedom
of speech and assembly by reason of their convictions under § 2; (2)
that their convictions were based upon a statute or charges too vague
and indefinite to conform to due process; and (3) that Act 193
deprived them of the equal protection of the laws by makihg certain
conduct, which otherwise would have been a misdemeanor, a felony
when committed by striking workmen.

