OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

333 U. S.

The statute itself shows that Congress has recognized
the inherent difficulty presented. While this patent may
not be technically a "plant patent" in the precise sense in
which that term is used in this Section, the references in
the Section to the differences in descriptions expected in
mechanical patents and plant patents obviously support
the position here taken. An inventor should not be denied a patent upon an otherwise patentable discovery
merely because the nature of the discovery defies description in conventional terms. Terms ordinarily unsuitable
to describe and distinguish products'that are capable of
description and distinction by their appearance may be
the most appropriate in which to describe and distinguish
other products that are not reasonably possible of identification by their appearance, but which are easily
identified by their effects when being sought for or described by those skilled in the art.

WOODS, HOUSING EXPEDITER, v. CLOYD W.

MILLER CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 486. Argued February 6, 1948.-Decided February 16, 1948.

1. Title II of the-Housing and Rent Act of 1947, enacted after the
effective date of the Presidential Proclamation terminating hostilities on December 31, 1946, and limiting the rent which may
be charged for certain housing accommodations in "defense-rental
areas," is a valid exercise of the war power of Congress. Hamilton
v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146; Ruppert v. Caffey,
251 U. S.264; Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall. 493. Pp. 141-146.
2. The constitutionality of action taken by Congress does not depend
on recitals of the power which it undertakes to exercise; and the
legislative history shqws that Congress was invoking its war power
to cope with a current condition of which the war was a direct
and immediateCause. P. 144.

WOODS v. MILLER CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

3. The Act prescribes adequate standards for the guidance of administrative action aihd does not unconstitutionally delegate legislative
power. Pp. 144-145.
4. By its exemption of certain classes of housing accommodations,
the Act does not violate the Fifth Amendment. P. 145.
5. The fact that the property regulated suffers a decrease in value
is no more fatal to the exercise of the war power than it is where
the police power is invoked to the same end. P. 146.
74 F. Supp. 546, reversed.

The Housing Expediter sued to enjoin violations of
Title II of the Housing and Rent Act of 1947. The District Court denied a permanent injunction on the ground
that the Act was unconstitutional. 74 F. Supp. 546. On
direct appeal to this Court, reversed, p. 146.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for appellant. With him on the brief were Robert L. Stern, Robert
W. Ginrane, Irving M. Gruber and Ed Dupree.
Paul S. Knight argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case is here on a direct appeal, Act of August 24,
1937, 50 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 349a, fjrom a judgment
of the District Court holding unconstitutional Title II of
the Housing and Rent Act of 1947. 61 Stat. 193, 196.
The Act became effective on July 1, 1947, and the following ddy the appellee demanded of its tenants increases
of 407 and 60% for rental accommodations in the Cleveland Defense-Rental Area, an admitted- violation of the
Act and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.' Appel1 Section 204 (b) of the Act provides that "no person shall demand,
accept, or recpive any rent for the use or occupincy of any controlled
housing accommodations greater than the maximum rent established

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

lant thereupon instituted this proceeding under § 206 (b)
of the Act 2 to enjoin the violations. A preliminary injunction issued. After a hearing it was dissolved and
a permanent injunction denied.
The District Court was of the view that the authority
of Congress to regulate rents by virtue of the war power
(see Bowles v. Willingham, 321 IT.S. 503) .ended with the

Presidential Proclamation terminating hostilities on December 31, 1946,' since that proclamation inaugurated
"peace-in-fact" though it did not mark termina qnof
the war. It also concluded that, even if the war power
continues, Congress did not act under it because it did
not say so,' and only if Congress says so, or enacts provisions so implying, can it be held that Congress intended to exercise such power. That Congress did not
under the authority of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942,
as amended, and in effect with respect thereto on June 30, 1947."
Controlled Housing Rent Regulation, 12 Fed. Reg. 4331, contains
similar provisions. §§ 2 (a), 4 (a). Provisions of this statute and
regulation, not here material, allow adjustment of maximum rentals
when necessary to correct inequities and permit a 15% increase if
negotiated between landlord and tenant and incorporated in a lease
of a designated term.
2 Section 206 (a) makes it unlawful "to offer, solicit, demand, accept,
or receive any rent for the use or occupancy of any controlled housing
accommodations in excess of the maximum rent prescribed under
section 204." Section 206 (b) authorized the Housing Expediter to
apply to any federal, stte, or territorial court of competent jurisdiction for an order enjoining "any act or practice which constitutes
or will constitute a violation of subsection (a) of this section."
3
.Proclamation 2714, 12 Fed. Reg. 1. That proclamation recognized that "a state of war still exists." On July 2'., 1947, on approving S. J. Res. 123 terminating certain war statutes, the President
issued a statement in which he declared that "The emergencies-declared by the Presideait on September 8, 1939, and May 27, 1941,
and the state of war continue to exist, however, and it is-not possible
at this time to provide for terminating all war and emergency
powers."

WOODS v. MILLER CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

so intend, said the District Court, follows from the provision that the Housing Expediter can end controls in
any area without regard to the official termination of the
war,' and from the fact that the preceding federal rent
control laws (which were concededly exercises of the war
power) were neither amended nor extended. The District Court expressed the further view that rent control
is not within the war power because "the emergency
created by housing shortage came into existence long
before the war." It held that the Act "lacks in uniformity
of application and distinctly constitutes a delegation of
legislative power not within the grant of Congress" because of the authorization to the -Housing Expediter to
lift controls in any area before the Act's expiration. It
also held that the Act in effect provides "low rentals for
certain groups without taking the property or compensating the owner in any way." See 74 F. Supp. 546.
We conclude, in the first place, that the war power
sustains this legislation. The Court said in Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 161, that the
war power includes the power "to remedy the evils
which have arisen from its rise and progress" and continues for the duration of that emergency. Whatever
may be the consequences when war is officially terminated,5 the war power does not necessarily end with the
cessation of hostilities. We recently held that it is adequate 'to support the preservation of rights created by
wartime legislation, Fleming v. Mohawk Wrecking &
Section 204 (c) provides: "The Housing Expediter is hereby authorized and directed to remove any or all maximum rents before
this title ceases to be in effect, in any defense-rental area, if in his
judgment the need for continuing maximum rents in such area no
longer exists due to sufficient construction of new housing accommod.ations or when the demand for rental housing accommodations
has been otherwise reasonably met."
5 See Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, 262 U. S. 51, 57.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

Lumber Co., 331 U. S. 111. But it has a broader sweep.
In Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., supra, and
Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264,-prohibition laws which
were enacted after the Armistice in World War I were
sustained as exercises of the war power because they
conserved manpower and increased efficiency of production in the critical days during the period of demobilization, and helped to husband the supply of grains and cereals depleted by the war effort. Those cases followed the
reasoning of Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall. 493, which held
that Congress had the power to toll the statute of limitations of the States during the period when the process of
their courts was not available to litigants due to the
conditions obtaining in the Civil War.
The constitutional validity of the present legislation
follows a fortiori from those cases. The legislative
history of the present Act' makes abundantly clear
that there has not yet been eliminated the deficit
in housing which in considerable measure was caused
by the heavy demobilization of veterans and by
the cessation or reduction in residential construction
during the period of hostilities due to the allocation of
building materials to military projects.' Since the war
6See H. R. Rep. No. 317, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1, 2, 3, 10-11.
The Report states, p. 2:
"There are several factors, in addition' to the normal increase in
population, which have contributed to the existing housing shortage.
These include demobilization of a large number of veterans, shifts
in population, less intensive use of housing accommodations, amount
of new housing construction, trend away from construction of rental
units, and change from tenant to owner occupancy."
As to the effect of demobilization of veterans the Report states,
p. 2:
"Heavy demobilization of members of our armed forces, particularly in late 1945 and the first half of 1946, made effective an important derhand for housing accommodations. In 1945 an estimated
6,279,000 veterans of World War II were returned to civilian life,

WOODS v. MILLER CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

effort contributed heavily to that deficit, Congress has the
power even after the cessation of hostilities to act to control the forces that a short supply of the needed article
created. If that were not true, the Necessary and Proper
Clause, Art. I, § 8, cl. 18, would be drasticallylimited in its
application to the several war powers. The Court has de-

clined to follow that course in the past. Hamilton v.
Kentucky DistilleriesCo., supra, pp. 155, 156; Ruppert v.
Caffey, supra, pp. 299, 300. We decline to take it today.
The result would be paralyzing. It would render Congress powerless to remedy conditions the creation of which
necessarily followed from the mobilization of men and materials for successful prosecution of the war. So to read
the Constitution would be to make it self-defeating.
We recognize the force of the argument that the effects
of war under modern conditions may be felt in the econin 1946 the number so returned was 5,659,000, and in 1947 to February 28 an additional 212,000 veterans were demobilized. Statistics

are not available as to the number of new family units created by
returning veterans but undoubtedly the figure is substantial and in
many cases creation of new family units was delayed until these
veterans were returned to civilian life. The importance and delayed
impact of the 11,938,000 veterans returned to civilian life in 1945
and 1946 on an already acute housing shortage is readily apparent."
The effect of the war upon the construction of new dwelling units
is shown by the following table:
Total'non-farm dwelling units constructed
1937 .................
1938 .................
1939 .................
1940 ................
1941 ..............
1942 .................

336,000
406,000
515,000
603,000
7.15,000
497,000

1943.................
1944 .................
1945 .................
1946 .................
1947 (11 months) .....

350,000
169,000
247,000
776,200
799,000

The. figures for the years 1937-1945 inclusive are taken from H. R.
Rep. No. 317, supra, p. 3. Those for 1946 and 1947 are taken from
U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Construction, Dec. 1947, p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

omy for years and -years, and that if the war power can
be used in days of peace to treat all the wounds which
war inflicts on our society, it may not only swallow
up all other powers of Congress but largely obliterate
the Ninth and the Tenth Amendments. as well. There
are no such implications in today's decision. We deal
here with the consequences of a housing deficit igreatly"
intensified during the period of hostilities by the war
effort. Any power, of course, can be abused. But we
cannot assume that Congress is not alert to its constitutional responsibilities. And the question whether the
war power has been properly employed in cases such -as
this is open to judicial inquiry. Hamilton v. Kentucky
Distilleries Co., supra; Ruppert V. Caffey, supra.
The question of the constitutionality of action taken
by Congress does not depend on recitals of the power
which it undertakes to exercise. Here it is plain from
the legislative history that Congress was invoking its
war power to cope with a current condition of which the
war was a direct and immediate cause.7 Its judgment on
that score is entitled .to the respect granted like legislation enacted pursuant to the police power. See Block v.
Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256
U. S. 170; Chastleton Corp. v. Sinclair, 264 TT. S. 543.
Under the present Act the Housing Expediter is authorized to-remove the rent controls in any defense-rental area
if in his judgment the need no longer exists by reason of
new construction or satisfaction of demand in other ways.8
The powers thus delegated are far less extensive than
those sustained in Bowles v. Willingham, supra, pp..512515. Nor is there here a grant of unbridled administra7 See H. R. Rep. No. 317, supra, note .6, and statement of Repre-

sentative Wolcott, Chairman of the House Committee on Banking
and Currency which reported the rent bill, 93 Cong. Rec. 4395.
8
See note 4, Supra.

WOODS v. MILLER CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

tive discretion.

The standards prescribed pass muster
See. Bowles v. Willingham, supra,
pp. 514-516, and cases cited.
Objection is made that the Act by its exemption of
certain classes of housing accommodations' violates the
Fifth Amendment. A similar argument was rejected
under the Fourteenth Amendment when New York made
like exemptions under the rent-control statute which was
here for review in Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, supra,
pp. 195,198-199. Certainly Congress is not under greatklr
limitations. It need not control all rents or none. It
can select those areas or those classes of property where
the need seems the greatest. See Barclay & Co. v. Edwards, 267 U. S. 442, 450. This alone is adequate answer
to the objection, equally applicable to the original Act
sustained in Bowles v. Willingham, supra, that the present
Act lacks uniformity in application.
under our decisions.

9

Sec. 202 (c) provides: ",The term 'controlled housing accommodations' means housing accommodations in any defense-rental area,
except that it does not inlude-(1) those housing accommodations,
in any establishment which is commonly known as a hotel in the
community in which it is located, which are occupied by persons who
are provided customary hotel services such as maid service, furnishing and laundering of linen, telephone and secretarial or desk service,
use and upkeep of furniture and fixtures, and bellboy service; or
(2) any motor court, or any part thereof; or any tourist home
serving transient guests exclusively, or any part thereof; or (3) any
housing accommodations (A) the construction of which was completed on or after February 1, 1947, or which are additional housing
accommodations created by conversion on or after February 1, 1947,
except that contracts for the rental of housing accommodations to
veterans of 'World War II and their immediate families, the con.Etruction of which was assisted by allocations or priorities under
Public Law 388, Seventy-ninth Congress, approved May 22, 1946,
shall remain in full force and effect, or .(B) which at no trne during
the period February 1, 1945, to January 31, 1947, both dates inclusive, were rented (other than to members of the immediate family
of the occupant) as housing accommodations."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
JACKSON,

J., concurring-

333 U. S.

The fact that the property regulated suffers a decrease
in value is no more fatal to the exercise of the war power
(Bowles v. Willingham, supra, pp. 517, 518) than it is
where the police power is invoked to the same end. See
Block v. Hirsh, supra.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER

concurs in this opinion

because it decides no more than was decided in Hamilton
v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, and Jacob
Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264, and merely applies those
decisions to the situation now before the Court.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

I agree with the result in this case, but the arguments
that have been addressed to us lead me to utter more explicit misgivings about war powers than the Court has
done. The Government asserts no constitutional basis
for this legislation other than this vague, undefined and
undefinable "war power."
No one will question that this power is the most dangerous one to free government ii the whole catalogue of
powers. It usually is invoked in haste and excitement
when calm legislative consideration of constitutional limitation is difficilt. It is executed in a time of patriotic
fervor that makes moderation unpopular. And, worst of
all, it is interpreted by judges under the influence of
the same passions and pressures. Always, as in this case,
the Government urges hasty decision to forestall some
emergency or serve some purpose and pleads that paralysis
will result if its claims to power are denied or their confirmation delayed.
Particularly when the war power is invoked to do things
to the liberties of people, or to their property or economy
that only indirectly affect conduct of the war and do not

FISHER v. HURST.
138

Opinion of the Court.

relate to the management of the war itself, the constitutional basis should be scrutinized with care.
I think we can hardly deny that the war power is as
valid a ground for federal rent control now as it has been
at any time. We still are technically in a state of war.
I would not be willing to hold that war powers may be
indefinitely prolonged merely by keeping legally alive a
state of war that had in fact ended. I cannot accept the
argument that war powers last as long as the effects and
consequences of war, for if so they are permanent-as
permanent as the war debts. But I find no reason to
conclude that we could find fairly thatthe present state
of war is merely technical. We have armies abroad exercising our war power and have made no peace terms with
our allies, not to mention our principal enemies. I think
the conclusion that the war power has been applicable
during the lifetime of this legislation. is unavoidable.

FISHER v. HURST, CHIEF JUSTICE, ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR. LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

'No. 325, Misc.

Decided February 16, 1948.

The order of the state district court quoted in the opinion did not
depart from the mandate issued by this Court in Sipuel v. Board
of Regents, 332 j.S. 631; and a motion for 1eave to file a petition
for a writ of mandamus to compel compliance with that mandate
is denied. Pp. 147-151.

Thurgood Marshall, Amos T. Hall, William H. Hastie
and Marian Wynn Perry filed a brief for petitioner.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner moves for leave to file a petition for a writ
of -mandamus to cdnpol compliane with our mandate

