OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

SHADE v. DOWNING

333 U. S.
ET AL.

ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 448. Argued February 11, 1948.-Decided April 5, 1948.
The United States is not a necessary party to a proceeding, brought
under the Act of June 14, 1918, to determine the heirship of a
deceas.ed citizen allottee of the Five Civilized Tribes.

Pp. 586-590.

Petitioner brought suit against respondents in an Oklahoma state court, claiming an.interest in lands of a deceased citizefii allottee of the Five Civilized Tribes.
Upon motion of the Superintendent for the Five.Civilized
Tribes, who had been served with notice of the proceeding the cause was removed to the Federal District Court.
Judgment was entered for respondents. On appeal, the
Circuit Court of Appeals.certified a question to this Court
for determination. The question certified is here answered "No," ).590.
Kelly Brown argued the cause for Shade, urging an
affirmative answer.
ForresterBrewster argued the cause for Downing et al.,
urging a negative answer.
MiR.

,J1:STCE DOUGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit,
acting under Judicial Code § 239, 28 U. S. C. §.346, has
certified the following question for our determination:
"(1) Is the United States a necessary party to a proceeding to determine the heirship of a-deceased citizen allottee of the Five Civilized Tribes brought
under the Act of June 19 [14], 1918, 40 Stat. 606?"
On January 4, 1935, the County Court of Cherokee
County, Oklahoma, decreed that the sole and only heirs

SHADE v. DOWNING.
586

587

Opinion of the Court.

of Thompson Downing, a full-blood Cherokee, were his
three daughters, the appellees below. Sometime thereafter Peggy Shade brought this suit in an Oklahoma court
to claim, as the only heir of Downing's second wife, an
undivided one-fourth interest in Downing's allotted lands.
She attacked the 1935 decree on the ground, among others,
that no notice of the pendency of the heirship proceedings
had been served on the Superintendent for the Five
Civilized Tribes under the Act of April 12, 1926, 44 Stat.
239, 240-241.' Notice of the pendency of the present
action was duly served upon the Superintendent and on
1 Sec.

3 of the Act, so far as material here, provides: "Any one

or more of the parties to a suit in the United States courts in the
State of Oklahoma or in the State courts of Oklahoma to which a

restricted member of the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma, or the
restricted heirs or grantees of such Indian are parties, as plaintiff,
defendant, or intervenor, and claiming or entitled to claim title to
or an interest in lands allotted to a citizen of the Five Civilized
Tribes or the proceeds, issues, rents, and profits derived from the
same, may serve written notice of the pendency of such suit upon
the Superintendent for the Five Civilized Tribes, and the United
States may appear in said cause within twenty days thereafter, or
within such extended time as the trial court in its discretion may
permit, and after such appearance or the expiration of said twenty
days or any extension thereof the proceedings and judgment in said
cause shall bind the United States and the parties thereto to the same
extent as though no Indian land or question were involved ....
Provided, That within twenty days after the service of such notice on the
Superintendent for the Five Civilized Tribes or within such extended
time as the trial court in its discretion may permit the United States
may be, and hereby is, given the right to remove any such suit pending in a State court to the United States district court by filing in such
suit in the State court a petition for the removal of such suit into
the said United States district court, to be held in the district where
such suit is pending, together with the certified copy of the pleadings in such suit served on the Superintendent for the Five Civilized
Tribes as hereinbefore provided. It shall then be the duty of the
State court to accept such petition and proceed no further in said
suit. . . ." See United States v. Rice, 327 U. S. 742, cf. 61 Stat. 731,
732, § 3 (c); H. R. Rep. No. 740, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

333 U. S.

his motion the cause was removed to the District Court
for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. Judgment was
entered for defendants on June 6, 1945, the court holding
that the United States was not a necessary party to
the 1935 heirship proceedings, and that notice under the
1926 Act was not necessary to the validity of that decree.
On appeal, the court below certified the above question
for our determination.
The Act of June 14, 1918, 40 Stat. 606, 25 U. S. C.
§§ 375, 355, vested in the Oklahoma courts jurisdiction
to determine heirship of restricted Indian lands and to
entertain proceedings to partition such lands. See §§ 1
and 2. It is a jurisdictional statute only (see United
States v. Hellard, 322 U. S. 363, 365) and leaves open
the question whether the United States is a necessary or
indispensable party to proceedings under either section.
We held in United States v. Hella, d, supra, that the
United States is a necessary party to partition proceedings
Sec. 1 provides: "That a determination of the question of fact
as to who are the heirs of any deceased citizen allottee of the Five
Civilized Tribes of Indians who may die or may have heretofore
died, leaving restricted heirs, by the probate court of the State of
Oklahoma having jurisdiction to settle the estate of said deceased,
conducted in the manner provided by the laws of said State for the
determination of heirship in closing up the estates of deceased
persons, shall be conclusive of said question .... "
Sec. 2 provides: "That the lands of full-blood members of any of
the Five Civilized Tribes are hereby made subject to the laws of
the State of Oklahoma, providing for the partition of real estate.
Any land allotted in such proceedings to a full-blood Indian, or
conveyed to him upon his election to take the same at the appraisement, shall remain subject to all restrictions upon alienation and
taxation obtaining prior to such partition. In case of a sale under
any decree, or partition, the conveyance thereunder shall operate
to relieve the land described of all restrictions of every character."
3 It is well-settled that Congress has authority to select state
agencies to perform such functions. United States v. Hellard, supra,
2

SHADE v. DOWNING.
586

Opinion of the Court.

brought under § 2 of that Act. That holding was based
upon the direct and important interests of the government in the course and outcome of partition proceedings,
interests flowing from the statutory restrictions on alienation of allotted lands. Lands partitioned in kind to
full-blood Indians remaia restricted under § 2. Thus the
United States, as guardian of the Indians, is directly
interested in obtaining a partition in kind, where that
course conforms to its policy of preserving restricted
lands for the Indians, or, if a sale is desirable, in insuring
that the best possible price is obtained. Moreover, if
the lands are both restricted and tax-exempt, it has an
interest in the reinvestment of the proceeds of the sale
in similarly tax-exempt and restricted lands. Act of June
30, 1932, 47 Stat. 474, 25 U. S. C. § 409a. And there
is a further interest in protecting the preferential right
of the Secretary of the Interior to purchase the land for
another Indian under § 2 of the Act of June 26, 1936,
49 Stat. 1967. For these reasons we held in United States
v. Hellard, supra, that the United States was a necessary
party to the partition proceedings, even absent a statutory requirement to that effect.
Heirship proceedings, however, present quite different
considerations. They involve no goverhmental interests
of the dignity of those involved in partition proceedings.
Restrictions on alienation do not prevent, inheritance.
United States v. Hellard, supra, p. 365. Death of the
allottee operates to remove the statutory restrictions on
alienation; 'and the determination of heirship does not of
itself involve a sale of land.4 The heirship proceeding
4'The Act of April 12, 1926, provides in part: "The death of any

allottee of the Five Civilized Tribes shall operate to remove all restrictions upon the alienation of'said allottee's land: Provided, That
hereafter no conveyance by any full-blood Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes of any interest in lands restricted by section 1 of this
Act acquired by inheritance or devise from an allottee of such lands
shall be valid unless approved by the county court having jurildiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
333 U. S.

Dissent.

involves only "a determination of the question of. fact
as to who are the heirs of any deceased citizen allottee
of the Five Civilized Tribes." ' As such, it is little more

than an identification of those who by law are entitled
to the lands in question and does not directly affect the
restrictions on the land or the land itself. Important
as these proceedings may be to the stability of Indian
Land titles," they are of primary interest only to the

immediate parties. The United States is, indeed, hardly
more than a stakeholder in the litigation.
That is the distinction between partition and heirship
proceedings which we recognized in United States v.
Hellard,supra, pp. 365-366.' We adhere to it. Accordingly the question certifiea isanswered "No."
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE-REED, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
JUSTICE 'JACKSON

and MR.

would answer the question in the

of the settlement of the estate of the deceased allottee or testator .... ." See also 61 Stat. 731, § 1. We do not have before us the
question as to whether or not the United States is - necessary party
to a proceeding to obtain court approval *of a di !d under the 1926
Act.
5See § 1 of the 1918 Act, note 2, supra.
See Sen. Rep. No. 330, 65th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1.
7Subsequent to the institution of these heirship proceedings, and
after the decision in the Hellard ctse, Congress marked this distinction
by providing that the Oklahomc state courts should have exclusive
jurisdiction in all actions to determine heirship under § 1 of the 1918
Act and that the United States is not a necessary or indispensable
party to such proceedings. 61 Stat. 731, 732, § 3 (a) and (b).
Moreover, Congress by § 3 of the Act of July 2, 1945, 59 Stat. 313,
314, provided that no order, judgment or decree in partition'made
subsequent to the 1918 Act and prior to the 1945 Act and involving
inherited restricted lands of enrolled and unenrolled members of the
Five Civilized Tribes nor any conveyance pursuant thereto should
be invalid because the United States was not a party or was not served
with any notice or process in connection therewith.

COMMISSIONER v. SUNNEN.
586

591

Syllabus.

affirmative because, in their view, the purpose of Congress
was to permit the intervention of the. United States in
cases in which a restricted member of the Five Civilized
Tribes is a party and therefore the United States is a
necessary party to the proceedings.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE. v.
_SUNNEN.
CERTIORARI. TO

No. 227.

HE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Argued December 17, 1947.-Decided April 5, 1948.

1. A taxpayer owned 89% of the stock of a.manufacturing corporation and his wife owned 10%. The corporation was managed by
five directors, includingthe taxpayer and his wife, elected annually
by the stockholders. A vote of three directors was required to
take binding action. In exchange for a specified royalty, the
taxpayer gave the corporation non-exclusive licenses to manufacturp and'sell devices covered by certain patents which he owned.
The licenses were cancellable by either party upon giving appropriate notice, specified no minimum royalties, and did not bind
the corporation to manufacture and sell any particular number of
the patented devices. The taxpayer assigned his interest in the
royalty agreements to his wife, who reported the income therefrom
as hers. Held: The facts were sufficient to. support a finding by
the Tax Court that the taxpayer retained sufficient interest in
the royalty contracts and sufficient control over- the amount of
income derived therefrom to justify taxing the income as his.
Pp. 607-610.
2. The general rule of res judicata applies to tax proceedings involving the same claini and the same tax year, while the doctrine of
collateral e.stoppel,*which is a narrower version of the res judicata
rule, applies to tax proceedings involving similar or unlike claims
and different tax year . P. 598.
.3.An earlier decision of.the Board of Tax Appeals involving a similar
royalty agreement. ahd assignment but different license contracts
and different tax years was not conclusive .ofthe controversy under
the doctrine of collateral estoppel. P. 602.

