OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC., ET AL. V. CITY OF
NORTHLAKE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-191.

Argued March 20, 1996-Decided June 28, 1996

Respondent city maintains a rotation list of available companies to perform towing services at its request. Until the events recounted here,
the city's policy had been to remove companies from the list only for
cause. Petitioner O'Hare Truck Service, Inc., was removed from the
list after its owner, petitioner Gratzianna, refused to contribute to respondent mayor's reelection campaign and instead supported his opponent. Alleging that the removal was in retaliation for Gratzianna's
campaign stance and caused petitioners to lose substantial income, petitioners filed this suit under 42 U. S. C. § 1983. The District Court dismissed the complaint in conformity with Seventh Circuit precedent that
Elrod v. Burns, 427 U. S. 347 (plurality opinion), and Branti v. Finkel,
445 U. S. 507-in which the Court held that government officials may
not discharge public employees for refusing to support a political party
or its candidates, unless political affiliation is an appropriate requirement for the job in question-do not extend to independent contractors.
The Seventh Circuit affirmed.
Held, The protections of Elrod and Branti extend to an instance where
government retaliates against a contractor, or a regular provider of
services, for the exercise of rights of political association or the expression of political allegiance. Pp. 716-726.
(a) In assessing when party affiliation, consistent with the First
Amendment, may be an acceptable basis for terminating a public employee, "the ultimate inquiry is not whether the label 'policymaker' or
'confidential' fits a particular position; rather, the question is whether
the hiring authority can demonstrate that party affiliation is an appropriate requirement for the effective performance of the public office involved." Branti, supra, at 518. A different, though related, inquiry,
the balancing test from Pickering v. Board of Ed. of Township High
School Dist. 205, Will Cty., 391 U. S. 563, is called for where a government employer takes adverse action on account of an employee or service provider's right of free speech. In Elrod and Branti,the raw test of
political affiliation sufficed to show a constitutional violation. However,
since the inquiry is whether the affiliation requirement is reasonable, it
is inevitable that some case-by-case adjudication will be required even

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)
Syllabus
where political affiliation was the test the government imposed. The
analysis will also accommodate cases where instances of the employee's
speech or expression are intermixed with a political affiliation requirement. Pp. 716-720.
(b) Despite respondents' argument that the principles of Elrod and
Branti have no force here because an independent contractor's First
Amendment rights, unlike a public employee's, must yield to the government's asserted countervailing interest in sustaining a patronage systern; this Court cannot accept the proposition that those who perform
the government's work outside the formal employment relationship are
subject to the direct and specific abridgment of First Amendment rights
described in petitioners' complaint. The government may not coerce
support in the manner petitioners allege, unless it has some justification
beyond dislike of the individual's political association. As respondents
offer no other justification for their actions, the complaint states a First
Amendment claim. Allowing the constitutional claim to turn on a distinction between employees and independent contractors would invite
manipulation by government, which could avoid constitutional liability
simply by attaching different labels to particular jobs, Board of
Comm'rs, Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr, ante, at 679. Accord, Lefkowitz
v. Turley, 414 U. S. 70. Respondents present no convincing data to
support their speculation that a difference of constitutional magnitude
exists because independent contractors are less dependent on the government for income than employees are. There is little reason to suppose that a decision in petitioners' favor will lead to numerous lawsuits.
While government officials may terminate at-will relationships, unmodified by any legal constraints, without cause, it does not follow that this
discretion can be exercised to impose conditions on expressing, or not
expressing, specific political views, see Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S.
593, 597. In view of the large number of legitimate reasons why a contracting decision might be made, fending off baseless First Amendment
lawsuits should not consume scarce government resources. If the government terminates its affiliation with a service provider for reasons
unrelated to political association, Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle,
429 U. S. 274, 287, as, for example, where the provider is unreliable, or
if the service provider's political "affiliation is an appropriate requirement for the effective performance" of the task in question, Branti,
supra, at 518, there will be no First Amendment violation. The absolute right to enforce a patronage scheme as a means of retaining control
over independent contractors and satisfying government officials' concerns about reliability has not been shown to be a necessary part of a
legitimate political system in all instances. This was the determination
controlling the Court's decisions in Elrod, supra, at 365-368, 372-373,

714

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF
NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

and Branti, supra, at 518-520. There is no basis for rejecting that
reasoning in this context and drawing a line excluding independent contractors from the First Amendment safeguards of political association
afforded to employees. Pp. 720-726.
(c) The lower courts, upon such further proceedings as are deemed
appropriate, should decide whether the case is governed by the ElrodBranti rule or by the Pickering rule. P. 726.
47 F. 3d 883, reversed and remanded.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CoNNoR, SOUTER, GINSBURG, and BREYER, JJ.,
joined. ScALA, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which THOMAS, J., joined,
ante, p. 686.

Harvey Grossman argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Jane M. Whicher, BarbaraP. O'Toole,
Steven R. Shapiro, Michael P. McGovern, Colleen K. Connell, and Marc 0. Beem.
Gary M. Feiereisel argued the cause for respondents.

With him on the brief was Frank P Kasbohm.*
JUSTICE KENNEDY delivered the opinion of the Court.

Government officials may not discharge public employees
for refusing to support a political party or its candidates,
unless political affiliation is a reasonably appropriate requirement for the job in question. Elrod v. Burns, 427 U. S. 347
(1976); Branti v. Finkel, 445 U. S. 507 (1980). We must de-

cide whether the protections of Elrod and Branti extend to
an independent contractor, who, in retaliation for refusing to
comply with demands for political support, has a government
contract terminated or is removed from an official list of contractors authorized to perform public services.

Although

the government has broad discretion in formulating its contracting policies, we hold that the protections of Elrod and
*RobertA Hirsch filed a brief for the Towing & Recovery Association
of America, Inc., as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Jeffrey D. Colman, Edward J Lewis II, and David Jiminez-Ekman
filed a brief for Illinois State Officials as amicus curiaeurging affirmance.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)

Opinion of the Court

Branti extend to an instance like the one before us, where
government retaliates against a contractor, or a regular provider of services, for the exercise of rights of political association or the expression of political allegiance.
I
The suit having been dismissed by the District Court for
failure to state a claim, the complaint's factual allegations are
taken as true. Leatherman v. Tarrant County Narcotics
Intelligence and Coordination Unit, 507 U. S. 163, 164
(1993). John Gratzianna is the owner and operator of
O'Hare Truck Service, which provides towing services in
Cook and DuPage Counties, Illinois. Gratzianna and his
company are petitioners here, and we sometimes refer to
them as O'Hare.
The city of Northlake, a respondent in this Court, coordinates towing services through its Police Department and for
at least 30 years has maintained a rotation list of available
towing companies. When the police receive a tow request,
they call the company next on the list to provide the service.
Until the events recounted here, the city's policy had been to
remove a tow truck operator from the rotation list only for
cause. O'Hare had been on the list since 1965, performing
towing services at the city's request. O'Hare and the city's
former Mayor, Gene Doyle, had a mutual understanding that
the city would maintain O'Hare's place on the rotation list so
long as O'Hare provided good service. In 1989, soon after
being elected Northlake's new Mayor, respondent Reid Paxson told Gratzianna he was pleased with O'Hare's work and
would continue using and referring its services.
Four years later, when Paxson ran for reelection, his campaign committee asked Gratzianna for a contribution, which
Gratzianna refused to make. Gratzianna instead supported
the campaign of Paxson's opponent and displayed the opponent's campaign posters at O'Hare's place of business. Soon
after, O'Hare was removed from the rotation list. We shall

716

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF
NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

assume, as the complaint alleges, that the removal was in
retaliation for Gratzianna's stance in the campaign. Petitioners allege the retaliation caused them to lose substantial income.
O'Hare and Gratzianna sued in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, alleging infringement of First Amendment rights in violation of Rev. Stat.
§ 1979, 42 U. S. C. § 1983. In conformity with binding Seventh Circuit precedent, which does not extend Elrod and
Branti to independent contractors, see, e. g., Downtown
Auto Parks, Inc. v. Milwaukee, 938 F. 2d 705, cert. denied,
502 U. S.1005 (1991), the District Court dismissed the complaint, 843 F. Supp. 1231 (1994). The Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit affirmed, adhering to the view that "it
should be up to the Supreme Court to extend Elrod." 47
F. 3d 883, 885 (1995). (The Court of Appeals also affirmed
dismissal of O'Hare's claim that respondents' failure to give
it notice of removal from the list or provide a hearing on the
matter deprived O'Hare of due process of law. That ruling
is not before us.)
The Courts of Appeals take different positions concerning
Elrod and Branti's applicability to independent contractors.
Compare 47 F. 3d 883 (1995) (opinion below); Horn v. Kean,
796 F. 2d 668 (CA3 1986) (en banc); Sweeney v. Bond, 669
F. 2d 542 (CA8), cert. denied sub nom. Schenberg v. Bond,
459 U. S.878 (1982), with Blackburn v. Marshall, 42 F. 3d
925 (CA5 1995); Abercrombie v. Catoosa, 896 F. 2d 1228
(CA10 1990). We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict,
516 U. S.1020, and now reverse.
II

The Court has rejected for decades now the proposition
that a public employee has no right to a government job and
so cannot complain that termination violates First Amendment rights, a doctrine once captured in Justice Holmes' aphorism that although a policeman "may have a constitutional
right to talk politics ... he has no constitutional right to be

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

a policeman," McAuliffe v. Mayor of New Bedford, 155 Mass.
216, 220, 29 N. E. 517 (1892). A State may not condition
public employment on an employee's exercise of his or her
First Amendment rights. See, e. g., Keyishian v. Board of
Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y, 385 U. S.589 (1967); Pickering v. Board of Ed. of Township High School Dist. 205,
Will Cty., 391 U. S. 563 (1968); Perry v. Sindermann, 408
U. S. 593 (1972). See also Board of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee
Cty. v. Umbehr, ante, at 674-675 (collecting cases). As we
have said: "[I]f the government could deny a benefit to a
person because of his constitutionally protected speech or
associations, his exercise of those freedoms would in effect
be penalized and inhibited. This would allow the government to 'produce a result which [it] could not command directly.' Such interference with constitutional rights is impermissible." Perry v. Sindermann, supra, at 597, quoting
Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S.513, 526 (1958). Absent some
reasonably appropriate requirement, government may not
make public employment subject to the express condition of
political beliefs or prescribed expression.
In Elrod v. Burns, 427 U. S.347 (1976), we considered
whether to apply the principles of the unconstitutional conditions cases to public employees dismissed on account of their
political association. In keeping with local tradition, a
newly elected county sheriff had discharged non-civil-service
employees because they were not members of his political
party. It was by no means self-evident whether our First
Amendment precedents applied, for as Justice Powell explained in dissent, id., at 377-387, the patronage practices at
issue had been sanctioned by history and had been thought
by some to contribute to the effective operation of political
parties. See also Branti v. Finkel, 445 U. S., at 522, n. 1,
527-532 (Powell, J., dissenting); Rutan v. Republican Party
of Ill., 497 U. S.62, 104-109 (1990) (SCALIA, J., dissenting).
If indeed those patronage practices fortify the party system,
they may serve important First Amendment interests, since

718

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF

NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

parties promote and generate political discourse, see, e. g.,
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 14-15 (1976) (per curiam);
Democratic Party of United States v. Wisconsin ex rel. La
Follette, 450 U. S. 107, 121-122 (1981).
We need not inquire, however, whether patronage promotes the party system or serves instead to entrench parties
in power, see Elrod v. Burns, supra, at 364-373 (plurality
opinion); Rutan v. RepublicanParty of Ill., supra, at 88-89,
n. 4 (STEVENS, J., concurring), for Elrod and Branti establish
that patronage does not justify the coercion of a person's
political beliefs and associations. Although no opinion in
Elrod commanded a majority of the Court, five Justices
found common ground in the proposition that subjecting a
nonconfidential, nonpolicymaking public employee to penalty
for exercising rights of political association was tantamount
to an unconstitutional condition under Perry v. Sindermann,
supra. See Elrod v. Burns, supra, at 359 (plurality opinion)
("The threat of dismissal for failure to provide [support for
the favored political party] unquestionably inhibits protected
belief and association, and dismissal for failure to provide
support only penalizes its exercise"); 427 U. S., at 375 (Stewart, J., concurring in judgment) ("The single substantive
question involved in this case is whether a nonpolicymaking,
nonconfidential government employee can be discharged or
threatened with discharge from a job that he is satisfactorily
performing upon the sole ground of his political beliefs. I
agree with the plurality that he cannot").
Four Terms later, in Branti v. Finkel, supra, we reaffirmed Elrod's common holding and said government termination of a public employee on account of his political affiliation brings our unconstitutional conditions cases into play,
for "[i]f the First Amendment protects a public employee
from discharge based on what he has said, it must also protect him from discharge based on what he believes," 445
U. S., at 515. We also modified the standard, announced in
the two opinions supporting the Elrod judgment, for assess-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

ing when party affiliation, consistent with the First Amendment, may be an acceptable basis for terminating a public
employee: "[T]he ultimate inquiry is not whether the label
'policymaker' or 'confidential' fits a particular position;
rather, the question is whether the hiring authority can demonstrate that party affiliation is an appropriate requirement
for the effective performance of the public office involved."
445 U. S., at 518.
Our cases call for a different, though related, inquiry
where a government employer takes adverse action on account of an employee or service provider's right of free
speech. There, we apply the balancing test from Pickering
v. Board of Ed. of Township High School Dist. 205, Will
Cty., supra. See generally Board of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee
Cty. v. Umbehr, ante, at 675-678. Elrod and Branti involved instances where the raw test of political affiliation
sufficed to show a constitutional violation, without the necessity of an inquiry more detailed than asking whether the
requirement was appropriate for the employment in question. There is an advantage in so confining the inquiry
where political affiliation alone is concerned, for one's beliefs
and allegiances ought not to be subject to probing or testing
by the government. It is true, on the other hand, as we
stated at the outset of our opinion, supra, at 714, that the
inquiry is whether the affiliation requirement is a reasonable
one, so it is inevitable that some case-by-case adjudication
will be required even where political affiliation is the test the
government has imposed. A reasonableness analysis will
also accommodate those many cases, perhaps including the
one before us, where specific instances of the employee's
speech or expression, which require balancing in the Pickering context, are intermixed with a political affiliation requirement. In those cases, the balancing Pickering mandates will be inevitable. This case-by-case process will
allow the courts to consider the necessity of according to the
government the discretion it requires in the administration

720

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF
NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

and awarding of contracts over the whole range of public
works and the delivery of governmental services.
The Court of Appeals, based on its understanding of the
pleadings, considered this simply an affiliation case, and held,
based on Circuit precedent, there was no constitutional protection for one who was simply an outside contractor. We
consider the case in those same terms, but we disagree with
the Court of Appeals' conclusion.
III
There is no doubt that if Gratzianna had been a public employee whose job was to perform tow truck operations, the
city could not have discharged him for refusing to contribute
to Paxson's campaign or for supporting his opponent. In
Branti,we considered it settled that to fire a public employee
as a penalty for refusing a request for political and financial
support would impose an unconstitutional condition on government employment. See 445 U. S., at 516. Respondents
insist the principles of Elrod and Branti have no force here,
arguing that an independent contractor's First Amendment
rights, unlike a public employee's, must yield to the government's asserted countervailing interest in sustaining a patronage system. We cannot accept the proposition, however, that those who perform the government's work outside
the formal employment relationship are subject to what we
conclude is the direct and specific abridgment of First
Amendment rights described in this complaint. As respondents offer no justification for their actions, save for insisting on their right to condition a continuing relationship
on political fealty, we hold that the complaint states an actionable First Amendment claim.
The complaint alleges imposition of a burden on an individual's right of political association, a concerted effort to coerce
its relinquishment. O'Hare was not part of a constituency
that must take its chance of being favored or ignored in the
larger political process-for example, by residing or doing

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

business in a region the government rewards or spurns in
the construction of public works. Gratzianna instead was
targeted with a specific demand for political support. When
Gratzianna refused, the city terminated a relationship that,
based on longstanding practice, he had reason to believe
would continue. We see nothing to distinguish this from the
coercion exercised in our other unconstitutional conditions
cases. See, e. g., Keyishian v. Board of Regents of Univ. of
State of N. Y, 385 U. S. 589 (1967) (teaching position conditioned upon nonmembership in "subversive" organizations);
Perryv. Sindermann, 408 U. S. 593 (1972) (teaching position
conditioned upon not criticizing college administration).
Had Paxson or his backers solicited the contribution as a
quid pro quo for not terminating O'Hare's arrangement with
the city, they might well have violated criminal bribery statutes. Cf. Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 720, §§ 5/33-1, 5/33-3; ch. 65,
§ 5/4-8-2 (1994). That Paxson may have steered clear of
criminal liability, however, does little to diminish the attempted coercion of Gratzianna's political association, enforced by a tangible punishment. Our cases make clear that
the government may not coerce support in this manner, unless it has some justification beyond dislike of the individual's
political association. See, e. g., Branti v. F inkel, 445 U. S.,
at 516-517.
Respondents say this case is different because it involves
a claim by an independent contractor. We are not persuaded. A rigid rule "giv[ing] the government carte
blanche to terminate independent contractors for exercising
First Amendment rights ... would leave [those] rights unduly dependent on whether state law labels a government
service provider's contract as a contract of employment or a
contract for services, a distinction which is at best a very
poor proxy for the interests at stake." Board of Comm'rs,
Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr, ante, at 679. It is true that the
distinction between employees and independent contractors
has deep roots in our legal tradition, see, e. g., 9 W. Jaeger,

722

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF

NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

Williston on Contracts § 1012A (3d ed. 1967); 1 Restatement
of Agency §§ 2, 220 (1933), and often serves as a line of
demarcation for differential treatment of individuals who
otherwise may be situated in similar positions, see, e. g.,
Community for Creative Non-Violence v. Reid,-490 U. S. 730
(1989); Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. Darden, 503 U. S. 318
(1992); 2 Restatement (Second) of Torts §409 (1964). We
see no reason, however, why the constitutional claim here
should turn on the distinction, which is, in the main, a creature of the common law of agency and torts. Recognizing
the distinction in these circumstances would invite manipulation by government, which could avoid constitutional liability
simply by attaching different labels to particular jobs, Board
of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr, ante, at 679. The
fact of interference here is not altered by the circumstance
that the victims are not classified as employees.
Our conclusion is in accord with Lefkowitz v. Turley, 414
U. S.70 (1973), where independent contractor status did not
suffice to allow government to insist upon a waiver of the
Fifth Amendment's privilege against self-incrimination.
After reviewing our rulings extending the Fifth Amendment's privilege to government employees, we said that
"[w]e fail to see a difference of constitutional magnitude between the threat of job loss to an employee of the State, and
a threat of loss of contracts to a contractor." Id., at 83.
Some Courts of Appeals, refusing to extend Elrod and
Branti to independent contractors, find "a difference of constitutional magnitude" in the relative degree to which employees and contractors depend on government sources for
their income. See LaFalce v. Houston, 712 F. 2d 292, 294
(CA7 1983) ("An independent contractor would tend we
imagine to feel a somewhat lesser sense of dependency"),
cert. denied, 464 U. S.1044 (1984); Horn v. Kean, 796 F. 2d,
at 675 (same). Respondents present no convincing data to
support this speculation, however, and we doubt it is true
for many service providers who come under the formal clas-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

sification of "independent contractor," cf., e. g., Havekost v.
United States Dept. of Navy, 925 F. 2d 316 (CA9 1991)
(worker was licensed grocery bagger at Navy commissary).
The only statistics presented to us in the briefs are relevant
to tow truck services, and these data point the other way.
A national association of towing and recovery service operators, appearing as amicus, estimates that 75 percent of towing companies provide services in connection with government requests, the referrals generating between 30 and 60
percent of their gross revenues. Brief for Towing & Recovery Assn. of America, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 9. Petitioners, furthermore, allege a loss of substantial income due to
their termination.
Perhaps some contractors are so independent from government support that the threat of losing business would be
ineffective to coerce them to abandon political activities.
The same might be true of .certain public employees, however; they, too, might find work elsewhere if they lose their
government jobs. If results were to turn on these sorts
of distinctions, courts would have to inquire into the extent
to which the government dominates various job markets as
employer or as contractor. We have been, and we remain,
unwilling to send courts down that path. See, e. g., Perry
v. Sindermann, supra, at 597-598. Courts are not well
suited to the task of measuring levels of employee dependence, but there is a more fundamental concern. Independent contractors, as well as public employees, are entitled to
protest wrongful government interference with their rights
of speech and association.
Some Courts of Appeals surmise that independent contractors doing business with the government "are political
hermaphrodites," LaFalce v. Houston, supra, at 294, who
find it in their self-interest to stay on good terms with both
major political parties and so are not at great risk of retaliation for political association. The facts here, if the allegations in the complaint are true, indicate this dubious course

724

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF
NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

of action may not be followed by many small independent
contractors who are either unable or unwilling to maintain
close ties to all the organized political forces in their communities. In all events, even if some independent contractors
adjust to their precarious position by currying favor with
diverse political parties, the question here concerns coercive
government action taken against those who do not. That
some citizens find a way to mitigate governmental overreaching, or refrain from complaining, does not excuse
wrongs done to those who exercise their rights.
Respondents argue that any decision in O'Hare's favor will
lead to numerous lawsuits, which will interfere with the
sound administration of government contracting. We have
little reason to accept the assessment. The amicus brief
filed on behalf of respondents' position represents that in the
six years since our opinion in Rutan v. Republican Party of
Ill., 497 U. S. 62 (1990), which extended Elrod and Branti
to public employment promotion, transfer, recall, and hiring
decisions based on political affiliation, only 18 suits alleging
First Amendment violations in employment decisions have
been filed against Illinois state officials, Brief for Illinois
State Officials as Amicus Curiae 3. Furthermore, we have
found no reported case in the Tenth Circuit involving a First
Amendment patronage claim by an independent contractor
in the six years since its Court of Appeals first recognized
such claims, see Abercrombie v. Catoosa, 896 F. 2d 1228
(1990). We have no reason to believe that governments cannot bear a like burden in defending against suits alleging the
denial of First Amendment freedoms to public contractors,
and we doubt that our decision today will lead to the imposition of a more extensive burden.
Cities and other governmental entities make a wide range
of decisions in the course of contracting for goods and services. The Constitution accords government officials a large
measure of freedom as they exercise the discretion inherent

Cite as: 518 U. S. 712 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

in making these decisions. Board of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee
Cty. v. Umbehr,ante, at 674. Interests of economy may lead
a governmental entity to retain existing contractors or
terminate them in favor of new ones without the costs and
complexities of competitive bidding. A government official
might offer a satisfactory justification, unrelated to the suppression of speech or associational rights, for either course
of action. The first may allow the government to maintain
stability, reward good performance, deal with known and reliable persons, or ensure the uninterrupted supply of goods
or services; the second may help to stimulate competition,
encourage experimentation with new contractors, or avoid
the appearance of favoritism. These are choices and policy
considerations that ought to remain open to government officials when deciding to contract with some firms and not
others, provided 6f course the asserted justifications are not
the pretext for some improper practice. In view of the large
number of legitimate reasons why a contracting decision
might be made, fending off baseless First Amendment lawsuits should not consume scarce government resources. If
the government terminates its affiliation with a service
provider for reasons unrelated to political association, Mt.
Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274, 287 (1977),
as, for example, where the provider is unreliable, or if the
service provider's political "affiliation is an appropriate requirement for the effective performance" of the task in question, Brantiv. Finkel, 445 U. S., at 518, there will be no First
Amendment violation.
Respondents' theory, in essence, is that no justification is
needed for their actions, since government officials are entitled, in the exercise of their political authority, to sever relations with an outside contractor for any reason including
punishment for political opposition. Government officials
may indeed terminate at-will relationships, unmodified -by
any -legal constraints, without cause; but it does not follow

726

O'HARE TRUCK SERVICE, INC. v. CITY OF

NORTHLAKE
Opinion of the Court

that this discretion can be exercised to impose conditions on
expressing, or not expressing, specific political views, see
Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S., at 597.

The absolute right to enforce a patronage scheme, insisted
upon by respondents as a means of retaining control over
independent contractors, Brief for Respondents 13, and satisfying government officials' concerns about reliability, Tr. of
Oral Arg. 34-39, has not been shown to be a necessary part
of a legitimate political system in all instances. This was
the determination controlling our decisions in Elrod, 427
U. S., at 365-368, 372-373 (plurality opinion), and Branti,
supra, at 518-520, and we see no basis for rejecting that
reasoning in this context. We decline to draw a line excluding independent contractors from the First Amendment safeguards of political association afforded to employees.
IV
Upon such further proceedings as are deemed appropriate
by the Court of Appeals or the District Court, including upon
motion for summary judgment if there is no genuine issue
as to material facts, the courts on remand should decide
whether the case is governed by the Elrod-Brantirule or by
the Pickering rule.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
It is so ordered.
this opinion.
[For dissenting opinion of JUSTICE SCALIA, see ante,
p. 686.]

