OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT
No. 95-865.

Argued April 24, 1996-Decided July 1, 1996

Realizing that the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
(FSLIC) lacked the funds to liquidate all of the failing thrifts during
the savings and loan crisis of the 1980's, the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board (Bank Board) encouraged healthy thrifts and outside investors
to take over ailing thrifts in a series of "supervisory mergers." As
inducement, the Bank Board agreed to permit acquiring entities to
designate the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets as an intangible asset referred to as supervisory goodwill,
and to count such goodwill and certain capital credits toward the capital
reserve requirements imposed by federal regulations. Congress's
subsequent passage of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) forbade thrifts to count goodwill and capital credits in computing the required reserves. Respondents are three thrifts created by way of supervisory mergers. Two of
them were seized and liquidated by federal regulators for failure to meet
FIRREA's capital requirements, and the third avoided seizure through
a private recapitalization. Believing that the Bank Board and FSLIC
had promised that they could count supervisory goodwill toward regulatory capital requirements, respondents each filed suit against the United
States in the Court of Federal Claims, seeking damages for, inter alia,
breach of contract. In granting each respondent summary judgment,
the court held that the Government had breached its contractual obligations and rejected the Government's "unmistakability defense"--that
surrenders of sovereign authority, such as the promise to refrain from
regulatory changes, must appear in unmistakable terms in a contract in
order to be enforceable, see Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social Security Entrapment,477 U. S.41, 52-and its "sovereign act" defense-that a "public and general" sovereign act, such as FIRREA's
alteration of capital reserve requirements, could not trigger contractual
liability, see Horowitz v. United States, 267 U. S.458, 461. The cases
were consolidated, and the en banc Federal Circuit ultimately affirmed.
Held: The judgment is affirmed, and the case is remanded.
64 F. 3d 1531, affirmed and remanded.
JUSTICE SOUTER, joined by JUSTICE STEVENS, JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

and JUSTICE BREYER, concluded in Parts II, III, IV, and IV-C that

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Syllabus
the United States is liable to respondents for breach of contract.
Pp. 860-896; 904-910.
(a) There is no reason to question the Federal Circuit's conclusion
that the Government had express contractual obligations to permit respondents to use goodwill and capital credits in computing their regulatory capital reserves. When the law as to capital requirements changed,
the Government was unable to perform its promises and became liable
for breach under ordinary contract principles. Pp. 860-871.
(b) The unmistakability doctrine is not implicated here because enforcement of the contractual obligation alleged would not block the Government's exercise of a sovereign power. The courts below did not construe these contracts as binding the Government's exercise of authority
to modify its regulation of thrifts, and there has been no demonstration
that awarding damages for breach would be tantamount to such a limitation. They read the contracts as solely risk-shifting agreements, and
respondents seek nothing more than the benefit of promises by the Government to insure them against any losses arising from future regulatory change. Applying the unmistakability doctrine to such contracts
not only would represent a conceptual expansion of the doctrine beyond
its historical and practical warrant, but also would compromise the Government's practical capacity to make contracts, which is "of the essence
of sovereignty" itself, United States v. Bekins, 804 U. S. 27, 51-52.
Pp. 871-887.
(c) The answer to the Government's unmistakability argument also
meets its two related ultra vires contentions: that, under the reserved
powers doctrine, Congress's power to change the law in the future was
an essential attribute of its sovereignty that the Bank Board and FSLIC
had no authority to bargain away; and that in any event no such authority can be conferred without an express delegation to that effect. A
contract to adjust the risk of subsequent legislative change does not
strip the Government of its legislative sovereignty, and the contracts
did not surrender the Government's sovereign power to regulate. And
there is no serious question that FSLIC (and the Bank Board acting
through it) lacked authority to guarantee respondents against losses
arising from subsequent regulatory changes. Pp. 888-891.
(d) The facts of this case do not warrant application of the sovereign
act doctrine. That doctrine balances the Government's need for freedom to legislate with its obligation to honor its contracts by asking
whether the sovereign act is properly attributable to the Government
as contractor. If the answer is no, the Government's defense to liability
depends on whether that act would otherwise release the Government
from liability under ordinary contract principles. Pp. 891-896.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Syllabus
(e) Even if FIRREA were to qualify as a "public and general" act,
the sovereign act doctrine cannot excuse the Government's breach here.
Since the object of the doctrine is to place the Government as contractor
on par with a private contractor in the same circumstances, Horowitz v.
United States, supra, at 461, the Government, like any other defending
party in a contract action, must show that passage of the statute rendering its performance impossible was an event contrary to the basic assumptions on which the parties agreed, and, ultimately, that the language or circumstances do not indicate that the Government should be
liable in any case. The Government has not satisfied these conditions.
There is no doubt that some changes in the regulatory structure governing thrift capital reserves were both foreseeable and likely when the
parties contracted with the Government. In addition, any governmental contract that not only deals with regulatory change but allocates the
risk of its occurring will, by definition, fail the further condition of a
successful impossibility defense, for it will indeed indicate that the parties' agreement was not meant to be rendered nugatory by a change in
the regulatory law. That the Bank Board and FSLIC could not themselves preclude Congress from changing the regulatory rules does not
stand in the way of concluding that those agencies assumed the risk of
such change, for determining the consequences of legal change was the
point of the agreements. Pp. 904-910.
JUSTICE SOUTER, joined by JUSTICE STEVENS and JUSTICE BREYER,
concluded in Parts IV-A and.IV-B that, since the Government should
not be excused by legislation when the substantial effect of regulation
was to help itself out of improvident agreements, it is impossible to
attribute the exculpatory "public and general" character to FIRREA.
Not only did that statute have the purpose of eliminating the very accounting "gimmicks" that acquiring thrifts had been promised, but also
the congressional debates indicate Congress's expectation, which there
is no reason to question, that FIRREA would have a substantial effect
on the Government's contractual obligations. The evidence of Congress's intense concern with contracts like those at issue is not neutralized by the fact that FIRREA did not formally target particular
transactions or by FIRREA's broad purpose to advance the general
welfare. Pp. 896-903.
JUSTICE SCALIA, joined by JUSTICE KENNEDY and JUSTICE THOMiAS,
agreed that the Government was contractually obligated to afford respondents favorable accounting treatment, and violated its obligations
when it discontinued that treatment under FIRREA. The Government's sovereign defenses cannot be avoided by characterizing its obligations as not entailing a limitation on the exercise of sovereign power;

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Syllabus
that approach, alfhough adopted by the plurality, is novel and fails
to acknowledge that virtually every contract regarding future conduct
operates as an assumption of liability in the event of nonperformance.
Accordingly, it is necessary to address the Government's various
sovereign defenses, particularly its invocation of the "unmistakability"
doctrine. That doctrine simply embodies the commonsense presumption that governments do not ordinarily agree to curtail their sovereign
or legislative powers. Respondents have overcome that presumption
here in establishing that the Government promised, in unmistakable
terms, to regulate them in a particular fashion, into the future. The
Government's remaining arguments are readily rejected. The "reserved powers" doctrine cannot defeat a claim to recover damages for
breach of contract where subsequent legislation has sought to minimize
monetary risks assumed by the Government. The "express delegation"
doctrine is satisfied here by the statutes authorizing the relevant federal
bank regulatory agencies to enter into the agreements at issue. Finally, the "sovereign acts" doctrine adds little, if anything, to the "unmistakability" doctrine, and cannot be relied upon where the Government has attempted to abrogate the essential bargain of the contract.
Pp. 919-924.
SOUTER, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which STEVENS and BREYER, JJ., joined, and in which O'CONNOR,
J., joined except as to Parts IV-A and IV-B. BREYER, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 910. SCALIA, J., filed an opinion concurring in the
judgment, in which KENNEDY and THOMAS, JJ., joined, post, p. 919.
REHNQUIST, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which GINSBURG, J., joined
as to Parts I, III, and IV,post, p. 924.

Deputy Solicitor General Bender argued the cause for
the United States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor
General Days, Assistant Attorney General Hunger, James
A. Feldman,Douglas Letter, and Jacob M. Lewis.
Joe G. Hollingsworth argued the cause for respondent
Glendale Federal Bank, FSB. With him on the brief were
Jerry Stouck, Donald W.Fowler, CatherineR. Baumer, Carter G. Phillips,Richard D. Bernstein, Theodore R. Posner,
and Jesse H. Choper. Charles J Cooper argued the cause
for respondents Winstar Corp. et al. With him on the brief

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

were Michael A. Carvin, Robert J Cynkar, and Vincent J
Colatriano.*
JUSTICE SOUTER announced the judgment of the Court
and delivered an opinion, in which JUSTICE STEVENS and
JUSTICE BREYER join, and in which JUSTICE O'CONNOR joins

except as to Parts IV-A and IV-B.
The issue in this case is the enforceability of contracts
between the Government and participants in a regulated industry, to accord them particular regulatory treatment in
exchange for their assumption of liabilities that threatened
to produce claims against the Government as insurer. Although Congress subsequently changed the relevant law, and
thereby barred the Government from specifically honoring
its agreements, we hold that the terms assigning the risk of
regulatory change to the Government are enforceable, and
that the Government is therefore liable in damages for
breach.
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Chamber
of Commerce of the United States by Herbert L. Fenster, Tami Lyn Azorsky, and Robin S. Conrad; for the Aerospace Industries Association of
America, Inc., et al. by Clarence T Kipps, Jr., Alan I. Horowitz, and Mac
S. Dunaway;for AmBase Corp. et al. by Laurence H. Tribe, BrianStuart
Koukoutchos, Harvey Silverglate, and John C. Millian; for the American
Association of State Colleges and Universities et al. by Joseph N. Onek,
Kent R. Morrison, Robert P. Charrow, Sheldon Elliot Steinbach, and
J Mark Waxman; for Coast Federal Bank, FSB, by Daniel J Goldberg
and Matthew G. Ash; for Dollar Bank, FSB, by Paul Blankenstein, John
K Bush, and Robert T Messner; for the Franklin Financial Group, Inc.,
et al. by Thomas M. Buchanan, Paul M. Fish, Ronald R. Glancz, John
F. Cooney, Don S. Willner, and Jerrold J Ganzfried; for Keystone Holdings, Inc., et al. by Melvin C. Garbow and Edward H. Sisson; for
Long Island Savings Bank, FSB, by Russell E. Brooks and Fred W.
Reinke; for Trinity Ventures, Ltd., et al. by John C. Millian, John K
Bush, and Wesley G. Howell, Jr.; for the Watts Health'Foundation, Inc.,
et al. by Peter J Gregora and Kenneth R. Heitz; and for the Western
Federal Savings and Loan Association et al. by Dennis A. Winston.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

I
We said in Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U. S. 245, 250 (1947),
that "i[b]anking is one of the longest regulated and most
closely supervised of public callings." That is particularly
true of the savings and loan, or "thrift," industry, which has
been described as "a federally-conceived and assisted system
to provide citizens with affordable housing funds." H. R.
Rep. No. 101-54, pt. 1, p. 292 (1989) (House Report). Because the contracts at issue in today's case arise out of the
National Government's efforts over the last decade and a
half to preserve that system from collapse, we begin with
an overview of the history of federal savings and loan
regulation.
A
The modern savings and loan industry traces its origins to
the Great Depression, which brought default on 40 percent
of the Nation's $20 billion in home mortgages and the failure
of some 1,700 of the Nation's approximately 12,000 savings
institutions. Id., at 292-293. In the course of the debacle,
Congress passed three statutes meant to stabilize the thrift
industry. The Federal Home Loan Bank Act created the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board (Bank Board), which was
authorized to channel funds to thrifts for loans on houses and
for preventing foreclosures on them. Ch. 522, 47 Stat. 725
(1932) (codified, as amended, at 12 U. S. C. §§ 1421-1449 (1988
ed.)); see also House Report, at 292. Next, the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 authorized the Bank Board to charter
and regulate federal savings and loan associations. Ch. 64,
48 Stat. 128 (1933) (codified, as amended, at 12 U. S. C.
§§ 1461-1468 (1988 ed.)). Finally, the National Housing Act
created the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC), under the Bank Board's authority, with responsibility to insure thrift deposits and regulate all federally insured thrifts. Ch. 847, 48 Stat. 1246 (1934) (codified,
as amended, at 12 U. S. C. §§ 1701-1750g (1988 ed.)).

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

The resulting regulatory regime worked reasonably well
until the combination of high interest rates and inflation in
the late 1970's and early 1980's brought about a second crisis
in the thrift industry. Many thrifts found themselves holding long-term, fixed-rate mortgages created when interest
rates were low; when market rates rose, those institutions
had to raise the rates they paid to depositors in order to
attract funds. See House Report, at 294-295. When the
costs of short-term deposits overtook the revenues from
long-term mortgages, some 435 thrifts failed between 1981
and 1983. Id., at 296; see also General Accounting Office,
Thrift Industry: Forbearance for Troubled Institutions 19821986, p. 9 (May 1987) (GAO, Forbearance for Troubled Institutions) (describing the origins of the crisis).
The first federal response to the rising tide of thrift failures was "extensive deregulation," including "a rapid expansion in the scope of permissible thrift investment powers and
a similar expansion in a thrift's ability to compete for funds
with other financial services providers." House Report, at
291; see also id., at 295-297; Breeden, Thumbs on the Scale:
The Role that Accounting Practices Played in the Savings and
Loan Crisis, 59 Ford. L. Rev. S71, S72-S74 (1991) (describing
legislation permitting nonresidential real estate lending by
thrifts and deregulating interest rates paid to thrift depositors).' Along with this deregulation came moves to weaken
the requirement that thrifts maintain adequate capital reserves as a cushion against losses, see 12 CFR § 563.13
(1981), a requirement that one commentator described as
"the most powerful source of discipline for financial institutions." Breeden, supra, at S75. The result was a drop in
capital reserves required by the Bank Board from five to
1

The easing of federal regulatory requirements was accompanied by
similar initiatives on the state level, especially in California, Florida, and
Texas. The impact of these changes was substantial, since as of 1980 over
50 percent of federally insured thrifts were chartered by the States. See
House Report, at 297.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.
four percent of assets in November 1980, see 45 Fed. Reg.
76111, and to three percent in January 1982, see 47 Fed. Reg.
3543; at the same time, the Board developed new "regulatory
accounting principles" (RAP) that in many instances replaced generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for
purposes of determining compliance with its capital requirements.2 According to the House Banking Committee, "[t]he
use of various accounting gimmicks and reduced capital
standards masked the worsening financial condition of the
industry, and the FSLIC, and enabled many weak institutions to continue operating with an increasingly inadequate
cushion to absorb future losses." House Report, at 298.
The reductions in required capital reserves, moreover, allowed thrifts to grow explosively without increasing their
capital base, at the same time deregulation let them expand
into new (and often riskier) fields of investment. See Note,
Causes of the Savings and Loan Debacle, 59 Ford. L. Rev.
S301, S311 (1991); Breeden, supra, at S74-S75.
While the regulators tried to mitigate the squeeze on the
thrift industry generally through deregulation, the multitude of already-failed savings and loans confronted FSLIC
with deposit insurance liabilities that threatened to exhaust
its insurance fund. See Olympic FederalSavings and Loan
Assn. v. Director,Office of Thrift Supervision, 732 F. Supp.
2

"Regulatory and statutory accounting gimmicks included permitting
thrifts to defer losses from the sale of assets with below market yields;
permitting the use of income capital certificates, authorized by Congress,
in place of real capital; letting qualifying mutual capital certificates be
included as RAP capital; allowing FSLIC members to exclude from liabilities in computing net worth, certain contra-asset accounts, including loans
in process, unearned discounts, and deferred fees and credits; and permitting the inclusion of net worth certificates, qualifying subordinated debentures and appraised equity capital as RAP net worth." House Report, at
298. The result of these practices was that "[b]y 1984, the difference between RAP and GAAP net worth at S&L's stood at $9 billion," which
meant "that the industry's capital position, or ... its cushion to absorb
losses was overstated by $9 billion." Ibid.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

1183, 1185 (DC 1990). According to the General Accounting
Office, FSLIC's total reserves declined from $6.46 billion in
1980 to $4.55 billion in 1985, GAO, Forbearance for Troubled
Institutions 12, when the Bank Board estimated that it
would take $15.8 billion to close all institutions deemed insolvent under GAAP. General Accounting Office, Troubled Financial Institutions: Solutions to the Thrift Industry Problem 108 (Feb. 1989) (GAO, Solutions to the Thrift Industry
Problem). By 1988, the year of the last transaction involved
in this case, FSLIC was itself insolvent by over $50 billion.
House Report, at 304. And by early 1989, the GAO estimated that $85 billion would be needed to cover FSLIC's
responsibilities and put it back on the road to fiscal health.
GAO, Solutions to the Thrift Industry Problem 43. In the
end, we now know, the cost was much more even than that.
See, e.g., Horowitz, The Continuing Thrift Bailout, Investor's Business Daily, Feb. 1, 1996, p. Al (reporting an estimated $140 billion total public cost of the savings and loan
crisis through 1995).
Realizing that FSLIC lacked the funds to liquidate all of
the failing thrifts, the Bank Board chose to avoid the insurance liability by encouraging healthy thrifts and outside
investors to take over ailing institutions in a series of "supervisory mergers." See GAO, Solutions to the Thrift Industry
Problem 52; L. White, The S&L Debacle: Public Policy Lessons for Bank and Thrift Regulation 157 (1991) (White).3
3

See also White 157 (noting that "[tihe FSLIC developed lists of prospective acquirers, made presentations, held seminars, and generally tried
to promote the acquisitions of these insolvents"); Grant, The FSLIC:
Protection through Professionalism, 14 Federal Home Loan Bank Board
Journal 9-10 (Feb. 1981) (describing the pros and cons of various defaultprevention techniques from FSLIC's perspective). Over 300 such mergers occurred between 1980 and 1986, as opposed to only 48 liquidations.

GAO, Forbearance for Troubled Institutions 13. There is disagreement
as to whether the Government actually saved money by pursuing this
course rather than simply liquidating the insolvent thrifts. Compare,
e. g., Brief for Franklin Financial Group, Inc., et al. as Amici Curiae 7,

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

Such transactions, in which the acquiring parties assumed
the obligations of thrifts with liabilities that far outstripped
their assets, were not intrinsically attractive to healthy institutions; nor did FSLIC have sufficient cash to promote such
acquisitions through direct subsidies alone, although cash
contributions from FSLIC were often part of a transaction.
See M. Lowy, High Rollers: Inside the Savings and Loan
Debacle 37 (1991) (Lowy). Instead, the principal inducement for these supervisory mergers was an understanding
that the acquisitions would be subject to a particular accounting treatment that would help the acquiring institutions meet their reserve capital requirements imposed by
federal regulations. See Investigation of Lincoln Savings &
Loan Assn.: Hearing Before the House Committee on Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs, 101st Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 5,
p. 447 (1989) (testimony of M. Danny Wall, Director, Office
of Thrift Supervision) (noting that acquirers of failing thrifts
were allowed to use certain accounting methods "in lieu of
[direct] federal financial assistance").
B
Under GAAP there are circumstances in which a business
combination may be dealt with by the "purchase.method" of
accounting. See generally R. Kay & D. Searfoss, Handbook
of Accounting and Auditing 23-21 to 23-40 (2d ed. 1989) (describing the purchase method); Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 16 (1970) (establishing rules as to what method
must be applied to particular transactions). The critical aspect of that method for our purposes is that it permits the
acquiring entity to designate the excess of the purchase price
quoting remarks by H. Brent Beasley, Director of FSLIC, before the California Savings and Loan League Management Conference (Sept. 9, 1982)
(concluding that FSLIC-assisted mergers have "'[h]istorically . . .cost
about 70% of [the] cost of liquidation'"), with GAO, Solutions to the Thrift
Industry Problem 52 ("FSLIC's cost analyses may... understat[e] the
cost of mergers to the government").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

over the fair value of all identifiable assets acquired as an
intangible asset called "goodwill." Id., 11, p. 284; Kay &
Searfoss, supra, at 23-38. 4 In the ordinary case, the recognition of goodwill as an asset makes sense: a rational purchaser in a free market, after all, would not pay a price for
a business in excess of the value of that business's assets
unless there actually were some intangible "going concern"
value that made up the difference. See Lowy 39.5 For that
reason, the purchase method is frequently used to account
for acquisitions, see A. Phillips, J. Butler, G. Thompson, &
R. Whitman, Basic Accounting for Lawyers 121 (4th ed.
1988), and GAAP expressly contemplated its application
to at least some transactions involving savings and loans.
See Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation
No. 9 (Feb. 1976). Goodwill recognized under the purchase
method as the result of an FSLIC-sponsored supervisory
merger was generally referred to as "supervisory goodwill."
Recognition of goodwill under the purchase method was
essential to supervisory merger transactions of the type at
issue in this case. Because FSLIC had insufficient funds to
4See also Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 17,

26, p. 839 (1970)
(providing that "[ilntangible assets acquired ... as part of an acquired
company should ...be recorded at cost," which for unidentifiable intangible assets like goodwill is ' neasured by the difference between the cost
of the, . . enterprise acquired and the sum of the assigned costs of individual tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities
assumed").
5See Newark Morning Ledger Co. v. United States, 507 U. S. 546, 556
(1993) (describing "goodwill" as "the total of all the imponderable qualities
that attract customers to the business"). Justice Story defined "goodwill" somewhat more elaborately as "the advantage or benefit, which is
acquired by an establishment, beyond the mere value of the capital, stock,
funds, or property employed therein, in consequence of the general public
patronage and encouragement, which it receives from constant or habitual
customers, on account of its local position, or common celebrity, or reputation for skill or affluence, or punctuality, or from other accidental circumstances, or necessities, or even from ancient partialities, or prejudices."
J. Story, Law of Partnership §99, p. 189 (1841).

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

make up the difference between a failed thrift's liabilities
and assets, the Bank Board had to offer a "cash substitute" to
induce a healthy thrift to assume a failed thrift's obligations.
Former Bank Board Chairman Richard Pratt put it this way
in testifying before Congress:
"The Bank Board... did not have sufficient resources
to close all insolvent institutions, [but] at the same time,
it had to consolidate the industry, move weaker institutions into stronger hands, and do everything possible to
minimize losses during the transition period. Goodwill
was an indispensable tool in performing this task."
Savings and Loan Policies in the Late 1970's and 1980's:
Hearings before the House Committee on Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs, 101st Cong., 2d Sess., Ser.
No. 101-176, p. 227 (1990).6

Supervisory goodwill was attractive to healthy thrifts for
at least two reasons. First, thrift regulators let the acquiring institutions count supervisory goodwill toward their reserve requirements under 12 CFR §563.13 (1981). This
treatment was, of course, critical to make the transaction
possible in the first place, because in most cases the institution resulting from the transaction would immediately have
been insolvent under federal standards if goodwill had not
counted toward regulatory net worth. From the acquiring
6See also 185 Cong. Rec. 12061 (1989) (statement of Rep. Hyde) (observing that FSLIC used goodwill as "an inducement to the healthy savings
and loans to merge with the sick ones"); Brief for Franklin Financial
Group, Inc., et al. as Amici Curiae 9, quoting Deposition of Thurman
Connell, former official at the Atlanta Federal Home Loan Bank, Joint
App. in Charter Federal Savings Bank v. Office of Thrift Supervision,
Nos. 91-2647, 91-2708 (CA4), p. 224 (recognizing that treating supervisory

goodwill as regulatory capital was "'a very important aspect of [the acquiring thrifts'] willingness to enter into these agreements,"' and concluding that the regulators "'looked at [supervisory goodwill] as kind of the
engine that made this transaction go. Because without it, there wouldn't
have been any train pulling out of the station, so to speak"').

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

thrift's perspective, however, the treatment of supervisory
goodwill as regulatory capital was attractive because it inflated the institution's reserves, thereby allowing the thrift
to leverage more loans (and, it hoped, make more profits).
See White 84; cf. Breeden, 59 Ford. L. Rev., at S75-S76 (explaining how loosening reserve requirements permits asset
expansion).
A second and more complicated incentive arose from the
decision by regulators to let acquiring institutions amortize
the goodwill asset over long periods, up to the 40-year maximum permitted by GAAP, see Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 17, 29, p. 340 (1970). Amortization recognizes
that intangible assets such as goodwill are useful for just so
long; accordingly, a business must "write down" the value of
the asset each year to reflect its waning worth. See Kay &
Searfoss, Handbook of Accounting and Auditing, at 15-36 to
15-37; Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 17, supra,
27, at 339-340. 7 The amount of the write down is reflected
on the business's income statement each year as an operating
expense. See generally E. Faris, Accounting and Law in a
Nutshell § 12.2(q) (1984) (describing amortization of goodwill). At the same time that it amortizes its goodwill asset,
7In this context, "amortization" of an intangible asset is equivalent

to depreciation of tangible assets. See Newark Morning Ledger Co. v.
United States, supra, at 571, n. 1 (SOUTER, J., dissenting); Gregorcich,
Amortization of Intangibles: A Reassessment of the Tax Treatment of
Purchased Goodwill, 28 Tax Lawyer 251, 253 (1975). Both the majority
opinion and dissent in Newark Morning Ledger agreed that "goodwill"
was not subject to depreciation (or amortization) for federal tax purposes,
see 507 U. S., at 565, n. 13; id., at 573 (SOUTER, J., dissenting), although
we disagreed as to whether one could accurately estimate the useful life
of certain elements of goodwill and, if so, permit depreciation of those
elements under Internal Revenue Service regulations. Id., at 566-567;
id., at 576-577 (SOUTER, J., dissenting). Neither of the Newark Morning
Ledger opinions, however, denied the power of another federal agency,
such as the Bank Board or FSLIC, to decide that goodwill is of transitory
value and impose a particular amortization period to be used for its own
regulatory purposes.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

however, an acquiring thrift must also account for changes
in the value of its loans, which are its principal assets. The
loans acquired as assets of the failed thrift in a supervisory
merger were generally worth less than their face value, typically because they were issued at interest rates below the
market rate at the time of the acquisition. See Black, Ending Our Forebearers' Forbearances: FIRREA and Supervisory Goodwill, 2 Stan. L. & Policy Rev. 102, 104-105 (1990).
This differential or "discount," J. Rosenberg, Dictionary of
Banking and Financial Services 233 (2d ed. 1985), appears on
the balance sheet as a "contra-asset" account, or a deduction
from the loan's face value to reflect market valuation of the
asset, R. Estes, Dictionary of Accounting 29 (1981). Because loans are ultimately repaid at face value, the magnitude of the discount declines over time as redemption
approaches; this process, technically called "accretion of discount," is reflected on a thrift's income statement as a series
of capital gains. See Rosenberg, supra, at 9; Estes, supra,
at 39-40.
The advantage in all this to an acquiring thrift depends
upon the fact that accretion of discount is the mirror image of
amortization of goodwill. In the typical case, a failed thrift's
primary assets were long-term mortgage loans that earned
low rates of interest and therefore had declined in value to
the point that the thrift's assets no longer exceeded its liabilities to depositors.

In such a case, the disparity between

assets and liabilities from which the accounting goodwill was
derived was virtually equal to the value of the discount from
face value of the thrift's outstanding loans. See Black, 2
Stan. L. & Policy Rev., at 104-105. Thrift regulators, however, typically agreed to supervisory merger terms that allowed acquiring thrifts to accrete the discount over the average life of the loans (approximately seven years), see id., at
105, while permitting amortization of the goodwill asset over
a much longer period. Given that goodwill and discount
were substantially equal in overall values, the more rapid

Cite as: 51& U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of

SOUTER,

J.

accrual of capital gain from accretion resulted in a net paper
profit over the initial years following the acquisition. See
ibid.; Lowy 39-40.8 The difference between amortization
and accretion schedules thus allowed acquiring thrifts to
seem more profitable than they in fact were.
Some transactions included yet a further inducement,
described as a "capital credit." Such credits arose when
FSLIC itself contributed cash to further a supervisory
merger and permitted the acquiring institution to count the
FSLIC contribution as a permanent credit to regulatory capital. By failing to require the thrift to subtract this FSLIC
contribution from the amount of supervisory goodwill generated by the merger, regulators effectively permitted double
counting of the cash as both a tangible and an intangible
asset. See, e.g., Transohio Saving's Bank v. Director,Office
of Thrift Supervision, 967 F. 2d 598, 604 (CADC 1992).
Capital credits thus inflated the acquiring thrift's regulatory
capital and permitted leveraging of more and more loans.
As we describe in more detail below, the accounting treatment to be accorded supervisory goodwill and capital credits
was the subject of express arrangements between the regulators and the acquiring institutions. While the extent to
which these arrangements constituted a departure from
prior norms is less clear, an acquiring institution would rea8

See also National Commission on Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement, Origins and Causes of the S&L Debacle: A Blue-

print for Reform, A Report to the President and Congress of the United
States 38-39 (July 1993) (explaining the advantages'of different amortization.and accretion schedules to an acquiring thrift). The downside of a
faster. accretion schedule, of course, was that it exhausted the discount
long before the goodwill asset had been fully amortized.

As a result, this

treatment resulted in a net drag on earnings over the medium and long
terms. See Lowy 40-41; Black, Ending Our Forebearers' Forbearances:
FIRREA and Supervisory Goodwill, 2 Stan. L. & Policy Rev. 102, 104-105

(1990). Many thrift managers were apparently willing to take the shortterm gain, see Lowy 40-41, and others sought to stave off the inevitable
losses by pursuing further acquisitions, see Black, supra, at 105.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

sonably have wanted to bargain for such treatment. Although GAAP demonstrably permitted the use of the purchase method in acquiring a thrift suffering no distress,
the relevant thrift regulations did not explicitly state that
intangible goodwill assets created by that method could be
counted toward regulatory capital. See 12 CFR §563.13
(a)(3) (1981) (permitting thrifts to count as reserves any
"items listed in the definition of net worth"); § 561.13(a) (defining "net worth" as "the sum of all reserve accounts ... ,
retained earnings, permanent stock, mutual capital certificates ... , and any other non-withdrawable accounts of an
insured institution").9 Indeed, the rationale for recognizing
goodwill stands on its head in a supervisory merger: ordinarily, goodwill is recognized as valuable because a rational
purchaser would not pay more than assets are worth; here,
however, the purchase is rational only because of the accounting treatment for the shortfall. See Black, supra, at
104 ("GAAP's treatment of goodwill.., assumes that buyers
do not overpay when they purchase an S&L"). In the end,
of course, such reasoning circumvented the whole purpose of
the reserve requirements, which was to protect depositors
and the deposit insurance fund. As some in Congress later
recognized, "[gloodwill is not cash. It is a concept, and a
shadowy one at that. When the Federal Government liquidates a failed thrift, goodwill is simply no good. It is valueless. That means, quite simply, that the taxpayer picks up
the tab for the shortfall." 135 Cong. Rec. 11795 (1989) (remarks of Rep. Barnard); see also White 84 (acknowledging
9

The 1981 regulations quoted above were in effect at the time of the
Glendale transaction. The 1984 regulations relevant to the Winstar
transaction were identical in all material respects, and although substantial changes had been introduced into § 563.13 by the time of the Statesman merger in 1988, they do not appear to resolve the basic ambiguity as
to whether goodwill could qualify as regulatory capital. See 12 CFR
§ 563.13 (1988). Section 563.13 has since been superseded by the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

that in some instances supervisory goodwill "involved the
creation of an asset that did not have real value as protection
for the FSLIC"). To those with the basic foresight to appreciate all this, then, it was not obvious that regulators
would accept purchase accounting in determining compliance
with regulatory criteria, and it was clearly prudent to get
agreement on the matter.
The advantageous treatment of amortization schedules
and capital credits in supervisory mergers amounted to more
clear-cut departures from GAAP and, hence, subjects worthy
of agreement by those banking on such treatment. In 1983,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the font of
GAAP) promulgated Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 72 (SFAS 72), which applied specifically to
the acquisition of a savings and loan association. SFAS 72
provided that "[i]f, and to the extent that, the fair value of
liabilities assumed exceeds the fair value of identifiable
assets acquired in the acquisition of a banking or thrift institution, the unidentifiable intangible asset recognized generally shall be amortized to expense by the interest method
over a period no longer than the discount on the long-term
interest-bearing assets acquired is to be recognized as interest income." Accounting Standards, Original Pronouncements (July 1973-June 1, 1989), p. 725. In other words,
SFAS 72 eliminated any doubt that the differential amortization periods on which acquiring thrifts relied to produce
paper profits in supervisory mergers were inconsistent with
GAAP. SFAS 72 also barred double counting of capital
credits by requiring that financial assistance from regulatory
authorities must be deducted from the cost of the acquisition
before the amount of goodwill is determined. SFAS 72,
9.10 Thrift acquirers relying on such credits, then, had
'0 Although the Glendale transaction in this case occurred before the
promulgation of SFAS 72 in 1983, the proper amortization period for goodwill under GAAP was uncertain prior to that time. According to one
observer, "when the accounting profession designed the purchase account-

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

every reason for concern as to the continued availability of
the RAP in effect at the time of these transactions.
C
Although the results of the forbearance policy, including
the departures from GAAP, appear to have been mixed, see
GAO, Forbearance for Troubled Institutions 4, it is relatively
clear that the overall regulatory response of the early and
mid-1980's was unsuccessful in resolving the crisis in the
thrift industry. See, e. g., Transohio Savings Bank, 967
F. 2d, at 602 (concluding that regulatory measures "actually
aggravat[ed] the decline"). As a result, Congress enacted
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA), Pub. L. 101-73, 103 Stat. 183,
with the objects of preventing the collapse of the industry,
attacking the root causes of the crisis, and restoring public
confidence.
FIRREA made enormous changes in the structure of federal thrift regulation by (1) abolishing FSLIC and transferring its functions to other agencies; (2) creating a new thrift
deposit insurance fund under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; (3) replacing the Bank Board with the Office
of Thrift Supervision (OTS), a Treasury Department office
with responsibility for the regulation of all federally insured
savings associations; and (4) establishing the Resolution
Trust Corporation to liquidate or otherwise dispose of
certain closed thrifts and their assets. See note following 12 U. S. C. § 1437, §§ 1441a, 1821. More importantly for
the present case, FIRREA also obligated OTS to "prescribe and maintain uniformly applicable capital standards
for savings associations" in accord with strict statutory reing rules in the early 1970s, they didn't anticipate the case of insolvent
thrift institutions .... The rules for that situation were simply unclear
until September 1982," when the SFAS 72 rules were first aired. Lowy
39-40.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

quirements. § 1464(t)(1)(A)." In particular, the statute required thrifts to "maintain core capital in an amount not less
than 3 percent of the savings association's total assets,"
§ 1464(t)(2)(A), and defined "core capital" to exclude "unidentifiable intangible assets," § 1464(t)(9)(A), such as goodwill.
Although the reform provided a "transition rule" permitting
thrifts to count "qualifying supervisory goodwill" toward
half the core capital requirement, this allowance was phased
out by 1995. § 1464(t)(3)(A). According to the House Report, these tougher capital requirements reflected a congressional judgment that "[t]o a considerable extent, the size of
the thrift crisis resulted from the utilization of capital gimmicks that masked the inadequate capitalization of thrifts."
House Report, at 310.
The impact of FIRREA's new capital requirements upon
institutions that had acquired failed thrifts, in exchange for
supervisory goodwill was swift and severe. OTS promptly
issued regulations implementing the new capital standards
along with a bulletin noting that FIRREA "eliminates [capital and accounting] forbearances" previously granted to certain thrifts. Office of Thrift Supervision, Capital Adequacy:
Guidance on the Status of Capital and Accounting Forbearances and Capital Instruments held by a Deposit Insurance
Fund, Thrift Bulletin No. 38-2, Jan. 9, 1990. OTS accordingly directed that "ta]ll savings associations presently operating with these forbearances .. should eliminate them in
determining whether or not they comply with the new minimum regulatory capital -standards." Ibid. Despite the
statute's limited exception intended to moderate transitional
11

See 135 Cong. Rec. 18863 (1989) (remarks of Sen. Riegle) (emphasizing
that these capital requirements were at the "heart" of the legislative reform); id., at 18860 (remarks of Sen. Chafee) (describing capital standards
as FIRREA's "strongest and most critical requirement" and "the backbone
of the legislation"); id., at 18853 (remarks of Sen. Dole) (describing the
"[tiough new capital standards [as] perhaps the most important provisions
in this bill").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of

SOUTER,

J.

pains, many institutions immediately fell out of compliance
with regulatory capital requirements, making them subject
to seizure by thrift regulators. See Black, 2 Stan. L. & Policy Rev., at 107 ("FIRREA's new capital mandates have
caused over 500 S&Ls... to report that they have failed one
or more of the three capital requirements").
D
This case is about the impact of FIRREA's tightened capital requirements on three thrift institutions created by way
of supervisory mergers. Respondents Glendale Federal
Bank, FSB, Winstar Corporation, and The Statesman Group,
Inc., acquired failed thrifts in 1981, 1984, and 1988, respectively. After the passage of FIRREA, federal regulators
seized and liquidated the Winstar and Statesman thrifts for
failure to meet the new capital requirements. Although the
Glendale thrift also fell out of regulatory capital compliance
as a result of the new rules, it managed to avoid seizure
through a massive private recapitalization. Believing that
the Bank Board and FSLIC had promised them that the supervisory goodwill created in their merger transactions
could be counted toward regulatory capital requirements, respondents each filed suit against the United States in the
Court of Federal Claims, seeking monetary damages on both
contractual and constitutional theories. That court granted
respondents' motions for partial summary judgment on contract liability, finding in each case that the Government had
breached contractual obligations to permit respondents to
count supervisory goodwill and capital credits toward their
regulatory capital requirements. See Winstar Corp. v.
United States, 21 Cl. Ct. 112 (1990) (Winstar V (finding an
implied-in-fact contract but requesting further briefing on
contract issues); 25 Cl. Ct. 541 (1992) (Winstar II) (finding
contract breached and entering summary judgment on liability); Statesman Savings Holding Corp. v. United States, 26
Cl. Ct. 904 (1992) (granting summary judgment on liability

Cite as: 518 U. S. 889 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

to Statesman and Glendale). In so holding, the Court of
Federal Claims rejected two central defenses asserted by
the Government: that the Government could not be held to
a promise to refrain from exercising its regulatory authority
in the future unless that promise was unmistakably clear in
the contract, Winstar I, supra, at 116; Winstar II, supra,
at 544-549; Statesman, supra, at 919-920, and that the Government's alteration of the capital reserve requirements
in FIRREA was a sovereign act that could not trigger contractual liability, Winstar II, supra, at 550-553; Statesman,
supra, at 915-916. The Court of Federal Claims consolidated the three cases and certified its decisions for interlocutory appeal.
A divided panel of the Federal Circuit reversed, holding
that the parties did not allocate to the Government, in an
unmistakably clear manner; the risk of a subsequent change
in the regulatory capital requirements. Winstar Corp. v.
United States, 994 F. 2d 797, 811-813 (1993). The full court,
however, vacated this decision and agreed to rehear the case
en banc. After rebriefing and reargument, the en banc
court reversed the panel decision and affirmed the Court
of Federal Claims' rulings on liability. Winstar Corp. v.
United States, 64 F. 3d 1531 (1995). The Federal Circuit
found that FSLIC had made express contracts with respondents, including a promise that supervisory goodwill and
capital credits could be counted toward satisfaction of the
regulatory capital requirements. Id., at 1540, 1542-1543.
The court rejected the Government's unmistakability argument, agreeing with the Court of Federal Claims that that
doctrine had no application in a suit for money damages.
Id., at 1545-1548. Finally, the en banc majority found that
FIRREA's new capital requirements "single[d] out supervisory goodwill for special treatment" and therefore could not
be said to be a "public" and "general act" within the meaning
of the sovereign acts doctrine. Id., at 1548-1551. Judge
Nies dissented, essentially repeating the arguments in her

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

prior opinion for the panel majority, id., at 1551-1552, and
Judge Lourie also dissented on the ground that FIRREA
was a public and general act, id., at 1552-1553. We granted
certiorari, 516 U. S. 1087 (1996), and now affirm.
II
We took this case to consider the extent to which special
rules, not generally applicable to private contracts, govern
enforcement of the governmental contracts at issue here.
We decide whether the Government may assert four special
defenses to respondents' claims for breach: the canon of contract construction that surrenders of sovereign authority
must appear in unmistakable terms, Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social Security Entrapment, 477 U. S. 41,
52 (1986); the rule that an agent's authority to make such
surrenders must be delegated in express terms, Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265 (1908);
the doctrine that a government may not, in any event, contract to surrender certain reserved powers, Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814 (1880); and, finally, the principle that a
Government's sovereign acts do not give rise to a claim for
breach of contract, Horowitz v. United States, 267 U. S. 458,
460 (1925).
The anterior question whether there were contracts at all
between the Government and respondents dealing with regulatory treatment of supervisory goodwill and capital credits, although briefed and argued by the parties in this Court,
is not strictly before us. See Yee v. Escondido, 503 U. S.
519, 535 (1992) (noting that "we ordinarily do not consider
questions outside those presented in the petition for certiorari"); this Court's Rule 14.1(a). And although we may
review the Court of Federal Claims' grant of summary
judgment de novo, Eastman Kodak Co. v. Image Technical Services, Inc., 504 U. S. 451, 465, n. 10 (1992), we are in
no better position than the Federal Circuit and the Court
of Federal Claims to evaluate the documentary records of

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

the transactions at issue. Our resolution of the legal issues
raised by the petition for certiorari, however, does require some consideration of the nature of the underlying
transactions.
A
The Federal Circuit found that "[tihe three plaintiff thrifts
negotiated contracts with the bank regulatory agencies that
allowed them to include supervisory goodwill (and capital
credits) as assets for regulatory capital purposes and to amortize that supervisory goodwill over extended periods of
time." 64 F. 3d, at 1545. Although each of these transactions was fundamentally similar, the relevant circumstances
and documents vary somewhat from case to case.
1
In September 1981, Glendale was approached about a possible merger by the First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Broward County, which then had liabilities exceeding
the fair value of its assets by over $734 million. At the time,
Glendale's accountants estimated that FSLIC would have
needed approximately $1.8 billion to liquidate Broward, only
about $1 billion of which could be recouped through the sale
of Broward's assets. Glendale, on the other hand, was both
and well capitalized, with a net worth of $277 milprofitable
lion.' 2 After some preliminary negotiations with the regulators, Glendale submitted a merger proposal to the Bank
Board, which had to approve all mergers involving savings
and loan associations, see 12 U. S. C. §§ 1467a(e)(1)(A) and
(B); § 1817(j)(1); that proposal assumed the use of the purchase method of accounting to record supervisory goodwill
arising from the transaction, with an amortization period of
40 years. The Bank Board ratified the merger, or "Supervisory Action Agreement" (SAA), on November 19, 1981.
2
1

Glendale's premerger net worth amounted to 5.45 percent of its total
assets, which comfortably exceeded the 4 percent capital/asset ratio, or
net worth requirement, then in effect. See 12 CFR §563.13(a)(2) (1981).

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

The SAA itself said nothing about supervisory goodwill,
but did contain the following integration clause:
"This Agreement ... constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties thereto and supersedes all prior
agreements and understandings of the parties in connection herewith, excepting only the Agreement of Merger
and any resolutions or letters issued contemporaneously
herewith." App. 598-599.
The SAA thereby incorporated Bank Board Resolution
No. 81-710, by which the Board had ratified the SAA. That
resolution referred to two additional documents: a letter to
be furnished by Glendale's independent accountant identifying and supporting the use of any goodwill to be recorded on
Glendale's books, as well as the resulting amortization periods; and "a stipulation that any goodwill arising from this
transaction shall be determined and amortized in accordance
with [Bank Board] Memorandum R-31b." Id., at 607.
Memorandum R-31b, finally, permitted Glendale to use the
purchase method of accounting and to recognize goodwill as
an asset subject to amortization. See id., at 571-574.
The Government does not seriously contest this evidence
that the parties understood that goodwill arising from these
transactions would be treated as satisfying regulatory requirements; it insists, however, that these documents simply
reflect statements of then-current federal regulatory policy
rather than contractual undertakings. Neither the Court of
Federal Claims nor the Federal Circuit so read the record,
however, and we agree with those courts that the Government's interpretation of the relevant documents is fundamentally implausible. The integration clause in Glendale's SAA
with FSLIC, which is similar in all relevant respects to the
analogous provisions in the Winstar and Statesman contracts, provides that the SAA supersedes "all prior agreements and understandings.., excepting only.., any resolutions or letters issued contemporaneously" by the Board, id.,

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

at 598-599; in other words, the SAA characterizes the
Board's resolutions and letters not as statements of background rules, but as part of the "agreements and understandings" between the parties.
To the extent that the integration clause leaves any ambiguity, the other courts that construed the documents found
that the realities of the transaction favored reading those
documents as contractual commitments, not mere statements
of policy, see Restatement (Second) of Contracts §202(1)
(1981) ('Words and other conduct are interpreted in the light
of all the circumstances, and if the principal purpose of the
parties is ascertainable it is given great weight"), and we see
no reason to disagree. As the Federal Circuit noted, "[i]t
is not disputed that if supervisory goodwill had not been
available for purposes of meeting regulatory capital requirements, the merged thrift would have been subject to regulatory noncompliance and penalties from the moment of its
creation." 64 F. 3d, at 1542. Indeed, the assumption of
Broward's liabilities would have rendered Glendale immediately insolvent by approximately $460 million, but for Glendale's right to count goodwill as regulatory capital. Although one can imagine cases in which the potential gain
might induce a party to assume a substantial risk that the
gain might be wiped out by a change in the law, it would
have been irrational in this case for Glendale to stake its
very existence upon continuation of current policies without
seeking to embody those policies in some sort of contractual
commitment. This conclusion is obvious from both the dollar amounts at stake and the regulators' proven propensity
to make changes in the relevant requirements. See Brief
for United States 26 ("[I]n light of the frequency with which
federal capital requirements had changed in the past..., it
would have been unreasonable for Glendale, FSLIC, or the
Bank Board to expect or rely upon the fact that those requirements would remain unchanged"); see also infra, at
909-910. Under the circumstances, we have no doubt that

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

the parties intended to settle regulatory treatment of these
transactions as a condition of their agreement. See, e. g.,
The Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, 78 (1866) (refusing to
construe charter in such a way that it would have been "madness" for private party to enter into it). 13 We accordingly

have no reason to question the Court of Appeals's conclusion
that "the government had an express contractual obligation
to permit Glendale to count the supervisory goodwill generated as a result of its merger with Broward as a capital asset
for regulatory capital purposes." 64 F. 3d, at 1540.
2
In 1983, FSLIC solicited bids for the acquisition of Windom Federal Savings and Loan Association, a Minnesotabased thrift in danger of failing. At that time, the estimated
cost to the Government of liquidating Windom was approximately $12 million. A group of private investors formed
Winstar Corporation for the purpose of acquiring Windom
and submitted a merger plan to FSLIC; it called for capital
contributions of $2.8 million from Winstar and $5.6 million
from FSLIC, as well as for recognition of supervisory goodwill to be amortized over a period of 35 years.
The Bank Board accepted the Winstar proposal and made
an Assistance Agreement that incorporated, by an integration clause much like Glendale's, both the Board's resolution
approving the merger and a forbearance letter issued on the
date of the agreement. See App. 112. The forbearance letter provided that "[f]or purposes of reporting to the Board,
the value of any intangible assets resulting from accounting
for the merger in accordance with the purchase method may
be amortized by [Winstar] over a period not to exceed 35
13See also Appleby v. Delaney, 271 U. S. 403, 413 (1926) ("It is not reasonable to suppose that the grantees would pay $12,000 ... and leave
to the city authorities the absolute right completely to nullify the chief
consideration for seeking this property,... or that the parties then took
that view of the transaction").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOurER, J.

years by the straight-line method." Id., at 123. Moreover,
the Assistance Agreement itself contained an "Accounting
Principles" section with the following provisions:
"Except as otherwise provided, any computations made
for the purposes of this Agreement shall be governed
by generally accepted accounting principles as applied
on a going concern basis in the savings and loan industry, except that where such principles conflict with the
terms of this Agreement, applicable regulations of the
Bank Board or the [FSLIC], or any resolution or action
of the Bank Board approving or adopted concurrently
with this Agreement, then this Agreement, such regulations, or such resolution or action shall govern.... If
there is a conflict between such regulations and the
Bank Board's resolution or action, the Bank Board's resolution or action shall govern. For purposes of this section, the governing regulations and the accounting principles shall be those in effect on the Effective Date or
as subsequently clarified, interpreted, or amended by
the Bank Board or the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ("FASB"), respectively, or any successor organization to either." Id., at 108-109.
The Government emphasizes the last sentence of this clause,
which provides that the relevant accounting principles may
be "subsequently clarified ... or amended," as barring any
inference that the Government assumed the risk of regulatory change. Its argument, however, ignores the preceding sentence providing that the Bank Board's resolutions
and actions in connection with the merger must prevail over
contrary regulations. If anything, then, the accounting
principles clause tilts in favor of interpreting the contract
to lock in the then-current regulatory treatment of supervisory goodwill.
In any event, we do not doubt the soundness of the Federal
Circuit's finding that the overall "documentation in the Win-

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of

SOUTER, J.

star transaction establishes an express agreement allowing
Winstar to proceed with the merger plan approved by the
Bank Board, including the recording of supervisory goodwill
as a capital asset for regulatory capital purposes to be amortized over 35 years." 64 F. 3d, at 1544. As in the Glendale
transaction, the circumstances of the merger powerfully support this conclusion: The tangible net worth of the acquired
institution was a negative $6.7 million, and the new Winstar
thrift would have been out of compliance with regulatory
capital standards from its very inception, without including
goodwill in the relevant calculations. We thus accept the
Court of Appeals's conclusion that "it was the intention of
the parties to be bound by the accounting treatment for
goodwill arising in the merger." Ibid.
3
Statesman, another nonthrift entity, approached FSLIC in
1987 about acquiring a subsidiary of First Federated Savings
Bank, an insolvent Florida thrift. FSLIC responded that if
Statesman wanted Government assistance in the acquisition
it would have to acquire all of First Federated as well as
three shaky thrifts in Iowa. Statesman and FSLIC ultimately agreed on a complex plan for acquiring the four
thrifts; the agreement involved application of the purchase
method of accounting, a $21 million cash contribution from
Statesman to be accompanied by $60 million from FSLIC,
and (unlike the Glendale and Winstar plans) treatment of $26
million of FSLIC's contribution as a permanent capital credit
to Statesman's regulatory capital.
The Assistance Agreement between Statesman and
FSLIC included an "accounting principles" clause virtually
identical to Winstar's, see App. 402-403, as well as a specific
provision for the capital credit:
"For the purposes of reports to the Bank Board ....
$26 million of the contribution [made by FSLIC] shall
be credited to [Statesman's] regulatory capital account

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (196)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

and shall constitute *regulatory capital (as defined in
§ 561.13 of the Insurance Regulations)." Id., at 362a.
As with Glendale and Winstar, the agreement had an integration clause incorporating contemporaneous resolutions
and letters issued by the Board. Id., at 407-408. The
Board's resolution explicitly acknowledged both the capital
credits and the creation of supervisory goodwill to be amortized over 25 years, id., at 458-459, and the Forbearance Letter likewise recognized the capital credit provided for in the
agreement. Id., at 476. Finally, the parties executed a separate Regulatory Capital Maintenance Agreement stating
that, "[i]n consideration of the mutual promises contained
[t]herein," id., at 418, Statesman would be obligated to maintain the regulatory capital of the acquired thrifts "at the
level... required by §563.13(b) of the Insurance Regulations
...or any successor regulation .... " The agreement further provided, however, that "[f]or purposes of this Agreement, any determination of [Statesman's] Required Regulatory Capital... shall include... amounts permitted by-the
FSLIC in the Assistance Agreement and in the forbearances
issued in connection with the transactions discussed herein."
Id., at 418-419. Absent those forbearances, Statesman's
thrift would have remained insolvent by almost $9 million
despite the cash infusions provided by the parties to the
transaction.
For the same reasons set out above with respect to the
Glendale and Winstar transactions, we accept the Federal
Circuit's conclusion that "the government was contractually
obligated to recognize the capital credits and the supervisory
goodwill generated by the merger as part of the Statesman's
regulatory capital requirement and to permit such goodwill
to be amortized on a straight line basis over 25 years." 64
F. 3d, at 1543. Indeed, the Government's position is even
weaker in Statesman's case because the capital credits portion of the agreement contains an express commitment to
include those credits in the calculation of regulatory capital.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

The Government asserts that the reference to § 563.13 of
FSLIC regulations, which at the time defined regulatory
capital for thrift institutions, indicates that the Government's obligations could change along with the relevant regulations. But, just as in Winstar's case, the Government
would have us overlook the specific incorporation of the
then-current regulations as part of the agreement. 14 The
Government also cites a provision requiring Statesman to
"comply in all material respects with all applicable statutes,
regulations, orders of, and restrictions imposed by the
United States or... by any agency of [the United States],"
App. 407, but this simply meant that Statesman was required
to observe FIRREA's new capital requirements once they
were promulgated. The clause was hardly necessary to
oblige Statesman to obey the law, and nothing in it barred
Statesman from asserting that passage of that law required
the Government to take action itself or be in breach of its
contract.
B
It is important to be clear about what these contracts did
and did not require of the Government. Nothing in the documentation or the circumstances of these transactions purported to bar the Government from changing the way in
which it regulated the thrift industry. Rather, what the
Federal Circuit said of the Glendale transaction is true of the
Winstar and Statesman deals as well: "the Bank Board and
the FSLIC were contractually bound to recognize the supervisory goodwill and the amortization periods reflected" in
the agreements between the parties. 64 F. 3d, at 1541-1542.
We read this promise as the law of contracts has always
treated promises to provide something beyond the promi14 As part of the contract, the Government's promise to count supervisory goodwill and capital credits toward regulatory capital was alterable
only by written agreement of the parties. See App. 408. This was also
true of the Glendale and Winstar transactions. See id., at 112, 600.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

sor's absolute control, that is, as a promise to insure the
promisee against loss arising from the promised condition's
nonoccurrence.15 Holmes's example is famous: "[in the case
of a binding promise that it shall rain to-morrow, the immediate legal effect of what the promisor does is, that he takes
the risk of the event, within certain defined limits, as between himself and the promisee." Holmes, The Common
Law (1881), in 3 The Collected Works of Justice Holmes 268
(S. Novick ed. 1995).16 Contracts like this are especially appropriate in the world of regulated industries, where the risk
that legal change will prevent the bargained-for performance
is always lurking in the shadows. The drafters of the Restatement attested to this when they explained that, "[w]ith
the trend toward greater governmental regulation ... parties are increasingly aware of such risks, and a party may
undertake a duty that is not discharged by such supervening
governmental actions . . .. " Restatement (Second) of Con-

tracts § 264, Comment a. "Such an agreement," according
to the Restatement, "is usually interpreted as one to pay
15

To be sure, each side could have eliminated any serious contest about
the correctness of their interpretive positions by using clearer language.
See, e. g., Guaranty FinancialServices, Inc. v. Ryan, 928 F. 2d 994, 9991000 (CAll 1991) (finding, based on very different contract language, that
the Government had expressly reserved the right to change the capital
requirements without any responsibility to the acquiring thrift). The failure to be even more explicit is perhaps more surprising here, given the
size and complexity of these transactions. But few contract cases would
be in court if contract language had articulated the parties' postbreach
positions as clearly as might have been done, and the failure to specify
remedies in the contract is no reason to find that the parties intended no
remedy at all. The Court of Claims and Federal Circuit were thus left
with the familiar task of determining which party's interpretation was
more nearly supported by the evidence.
16See also Day v. United States, 245 U. S. 159, 161 (1917) (Holmes, J.)
("One who makes a contract never can be absolutely certain that he will
be able to perform it when the time comes, and the very essence of it is
that he takes the risk within the limits of his undertaking").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOuTER, J.

damages if performance is prevented rather than one to render a performance in violation of law." Ibid.17
When the law as to capital requirements changed in the
present instance, the Government was unable to perform its
promise and, therefore, became liable for breach. We accept
the Federal Circuit's conclusion that the Government
breached these contracts when, pursuant to the new regulatory capital requirements imposed by FIRREA, 12 U. S. C.
§ 1464(t), the federal regulatory agencies limited the use of
supervisory goodwill and capital credits in calculating respondents' net worth. 64 F. 3d, at 1545. In the case of
Winstar and Statesman, the Government exacerbated its
breach when it seized and liquidated respondents' thrifts for
regulatory noncompliance. Ibid.
In evaluating the relevant documents and circumstances,
we have, of course, followed the Federal Circuit in applying
17

See, e. g., Hughes Communications Galaxy, Inc. v. United States, 998
F. 2d 953, 957-959 (CA Fed. 1993) (interpreting contractual incorporation
of then-current Government policy on space shuttle launches not as a
promise not to change that policy, but as a promise "to bear the cost of
changes in launch priority and scheduling resulting from the revised policy"); Hills Materials Co. v. Rice, 982 F. 2d 514, 516-517 (CA Fed. 1992)
(interpreting contract to incorporate safety regulations extant when contract was signed and to shift responsibility for costs incurred as a result
of new safety regulations to the Government); see generally 18 W. Jaeger,
Williston on Contracts § 1934, pp. 19-21 (3d ed. 1978) ("Although a warranty in effect is a promise to pay damages if the facts are not as warranted, in terms it is an undertaking that the facts exist. And in spite of
occasional statements that an agreement impossible in law is void there
seems no greater difficulty in warranting the legal possibility of a performance than its possibility in fact ....

[Tihere seems no reason of policy

forbidding a contract to perform a certain act legal at the time of the
contract if it remains legal at the time of performance, and if not legal,
to indemnify the promisee for non-performance" (footnotes omitted)); 5A
A. Corbin, Corbin on Contracts § 1170, p. 254 (1964) (noting that in some
cases where subsequent legal change renders contract performance illegal,
"damages are still available as a remedy, either because the promisor assumed the risk or for other reasons," but specific performance will not
be required).

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion

of SOUTER, J.

ordinary principles of contract construction and breach that
would be applicable to any contract action between private
parties. The Government's case, however, is that the Federal Circuit's decision to apply ordinary principles was error
for a variety of reasons, each of which we consider, and reject, in the sections ahead.
III
The Government argues for reversal, first, on the principle
that "contracts that limit the government's future exercises
of regulatory authority are strongly disfavored; such contracts will be recognized only rarely, and then only when
the limitation on future regulatory authority is expressed in
unmistakable terms." Brief for United States 16. Hence,
the Government says, the agreements between the Bank
Board, FSLIC, and respondents should not be construed to
waive Congress's authority to enact a subsequent bar to
using supervisory goodwill and capital credits to meet regulatory capital requirements.
The argument mistakes the scope of the unmistakability
doctrine. The thrifts do not claim that the Bank Board and
FSLIC purported to bind Congress to ossify the law in conformity to the contracts; they seek no injunction against application of FIRREA's new capital requirements to them and
no exemption from FIRREA's terms. They simply claim
that the Government assumed the risk that subsequent
changes in the law might prevent it from performing, and
agreed to pay damages in the event that such failure to perform caused financial injury. The question, then, is not
whether Congress could be constrained but whether the doctrine of unmistakability is applicable to any contract claim
against the Government for breach occasioned by a subsequent Act of Congress. The answer to this question is no.
A
The unmistakability doctrine invoked by the Government
was stated in Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

Security Entrapment: "'[Slovereign power.., governs all
contracts subject to the sovereign's jurisdiction, and will remain intact unless surrendered in unmistakable terms."'
477 U. S., at 52 (quoting Merrion v. JicaritlaApache Tribe,
455 U. S. 130, 148 (1982)). This doctrine marks the point of
intersection between two fundamental constitutional concepts, the one traceable to the theory of parliamentary sovereignty made familiar by Blackstone, the other to the theory
that legislative power may be limited, which became familiar
to Americans through their experience under the colonial
charters, see G. Wood, Creation of the American Republic
1776-1787, pp. 268-271 (1969).
In his Commentaries, Blackstone stated the centuries-old
concept that one legislature may not bind the legislative authority of its successors:
"Acts of parliament derogatory from the power of subsequent parliaments bind not.... Because the legislature,
being in truth the sovereign power, is always of equal,
always of absolute authority: it acknowledges no superior upon earth, which the prior legislature must have
been, if it's [sic] ordinances could bind the present parliament." 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws
of England 90 (1765).18
In England, of course, Parliament was historically supreme
in the sense that no "higher law" limited the scope of legislative action or provided mechanisms for placing legally enforceable limits upon it in specific instances; the power of
American legislative bodies, by contrast, is subject to the
overriding dictates of the Constitution and the obligations
that it authorizes. See Eule, Temporal Limits on the Legislative Mandate: Entrenchment and Retroactivity, 1987 Am.
18See

also H. Hart, The Concept of Law 145 (1961) (recognizing that
Parliament is "sovereign, in the sense that it is free, at every moment of
its existence as a continuing body, not only from legal limitations imposed
ab extra, but also from its own prior legislation").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

Bar Found. Research J. 379, 392-393 (observing that the
English rationale for precluding a legislature from binding
its successors does not apply in America). Hence, although
we have recognized that "a general law... may be repealed,
amended or disregarded by the legislature which enacted it,"
and "is not binding upon any subsequent legislature," Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473, 487 (1905),1 9 on this side of
the Atlantic the principle has always lived in some tension
with the constitutionally created. potential for a legislature,
under certain circumstances, to place effective limits on its
successors, or to authorize executive action resulting in such
a limitation.
The development of this latter, American doctrine in federal litigation began in cases applying limits on state sovereignty imposed by the National Constitution. Thus Chief
Justice Marshall's exposition in Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cranch 87
(1810), where the Court held that the Contract Clause, U. S.
Const., Art. I, § 10, cl. 1, barred the State of Georgia's effort
to rescind land grants made by a prior state legislature.
Marshall acknowledged "that one legislature is competent to
repeal any act which a former legislature was competent to
pass; and that one legislature cannot abridge the powers of a
succeeding legislature." 6 Cranch, at 135. "The correctness
of this principle, so far as respects general legislation," he said,
"can never be controverted." Ibid. Marshall went on to
qualify the principle, however, noting that "if an act be done
under a law, a succeeding legislature cannot undo it. The
past cannot be recalled by the most absolute power." Ibid.
For Marshall, this was true for the two distinct reasons that
the intrusion on vested rights by the Georgia Legislature's
Act of repeal might well have gone beyond the limits of "the
19See also Reichelderfer v. Quinn, 287 U. S. 315, 318 (1932) ("[T]he will
of a particular Congress ...does not impose itself upon those to follow
in succeeding years"); Black, Amending the Constitution: A Letter to a
Congressman, 82 Yale L. J. 189, 191 (1972) (characterizing this "most familiar and fundamental principl[e]" as "so obvious as rarely to be stated").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

legislative power," and that Georgia's legislative sovereignty
was limited by the Federal Constitution's bar against laws
impairing the obligation of contracts. Id., at 135-136.
The impetus for the modern unmistakability doctrine was
thus Chief Justice Marshall's application of the Contract
Clause to public contracts. Although that Clause made it
possible for state legislatures to bind their successors by entering into contracts, it soon became apparent that such contracts could become a threat to the sovereign responsibilities
of state governments. Later decisions were accordingly
less willing to recognize contractual restraints upon legislative freedom of action, and two distinct limitations developed
to protect state regulatory powers. One came to be known
as the "reserved powers" doctrine, which held that certain
substantive powers of sovereignty could not be contracted
away. See West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507 (1848)
(holding that a State's contracts do not surrender its eminent
domain power).20 The other, which surfaced somewhat earlier in Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514 (1830), and
Proprietorsof Charles River Bridge v. Proprietorsof Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420 (1837), was a canon of construction
disfavoring implied governmental obligations in public contracts. Under this rule that "[aill public grants are strictly
construed," The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 225
(1874), we have insisted that "[n]othing can be taken against
the State by presumption or inference," ibid., and that "neither the right of taxation, nor any other power of sovereignty, will be held ...

to have been surrendered, unless

20 See also Stone v. Mississippi,101 U. S. 814 (1880) (State may not contract away its police power); Butchers' Union Slaughter-House & LiveStock Landing Co. v. Crescent City Live-Stock Landing & SlaughterHouse Co., 111 U. S. 746 (1884) (same); see generally Griffith, Local
Government Contracts: Escaping from the Governmental/Proprietary
Maze, 75 Iowa L. Rev. 277, 290-299 (1990) (recounting the early development of the reserved powers doctrine). We discuss the application of the
reserved powers doctrine to this case infra, at 888-889.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

such surrender has been expressed in terms too plain to be
mistaken." Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black 436,
446 (1862).
The posture of the government in these early unmistakability cases is important. In each, a state or local government entity had made a contract granting a private party
some concession (such as a tax exemption or a monopoly),
and a subsequent governmental action had abrogated the
contractual commitment. In each case, the private party
was suing to invalidate the abrogating legislation under the
Contract Clause. A requirement that the government's obligation unmistakably appear thus served the dual purposes
of limiting contractual incursions on a State's sovereign powers and of avoiding difficult constitutional questions about
the extent of state authority to limit the subsequent exercise
of legislative power. Cf. Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. v. Florida Gulf Coast Building & Constr.Trades Council, 485 U. S.
568, 575 (1988) ("[W]here an otherwise acceptable construction of a statute would raise serious constitutional problems,
the Court will construe the statute to avoid such problems
unless such construction is plainly contrary to the intent of
Congress"); Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U. S. 288, 348 (1936)
(Brandeis, J., concurring) (same).
The same function of constitutional avoidance has marked
the expansion of the unmistakability doctrine from its Contract Clause origins dealing with state grants and contracts
to those of other governmental sovereigns, including the
United States. See Merrion v. JicarillaApache Tribe, 455
U. S., at 148 (deriving the unmistakability principle from St.
Louis v. United Railways Co., 210 U. S.266 (1908), a Contract Clause suit against a state government).2' Although
21 United Railways is

in the line of cases stretcliing back to Providence

Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514 (1830), and Proprietorsof Charles River
Bridge v. Proprietorsof Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420 (1837). Justice Day's
opinion in United Railways relied heavily upon New Orleans City & Lake

R. Co. v. New Orleans, 143 U. S. 192 (1892), which in turn relied upon

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of

SOUTER, J.

the Contract Clause has no application to acts of the United
States, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation v. R. A.
Gray & Co., 467 U. S. 717, 732, n. 9 (1984), it is clear that the
National Government has some capacity to make agreements
binding future Congresses by creating vested rights, see,
e. g., Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330 (1935); Lynch v.
United States, 292 U. S. 571 (1934). The extent of that capacity, to be sure, remains somewhat obscure. Compare,
e. g., United States Trust Co. of N. Y v. New Jersey, 431 U. S.
1, 26 (1977) (heightened Contract Clause scrutiny when
States abrogate their own contractual obligations), with Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,supra, at 733 (contrasting less exacting due process standards governing federal
economic legislation affecting private contracts). But the
want of more developed law on limitations independent of
the Contract Clause is in part the result of applying the unmistakability canon of construction to avoid this doctrinal
thicket, as we have done in several cases involving alleged
surrenders of sovereign prerogatives by the National Government and Indian tribes.
First, we applied the doctrine to protect a tribal sovereign
in Merrionv. JicarillaApache Tribe, supra,which held that
long-term oil and gas leases to private parties from an Indian
Tribe, providing for specific royalties to be paid to the Tribe,
did not limit the Tribe's sovereign prerogative to tax the
proceeds from the lessees' drilling activities. Id., at 148.
classic Contract Clause unmistakabi'lity cases like Vicksburg S. & P. R. Co.
v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665 (1886), Memphis Gas Light Co. v. Taxing Dist. of
Shelby Cty., 109 U. S. 398 (1883), and Piqua Branch of State Bank of
Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 369 (1854). And Home Building & Loan Assm.
v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398 (1934), upon which Merrion also relied, cites
Charles River Bridge directly. See 290 U. S., at 435; see also Note, Forbearance Agreements: Invalid Contracts for the Surrender of Sovereignty,
92 Colum. L. Rev. 426, 453 (1992) (linking the unmistakability prificiple
applied in Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social Security Entrapment, 477 U. S. 41 (1986), to the Charles River Bridge/Providence Bank
line of cases).

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

Because the lease made no reference to the Tribe's taxing
power, we held simply that a waiver of that power could not
be "inferred... from silence," ibid., since the taxing power
of any government remains "unless it is has been specifically
surrendered in terms which admit of no other reasonable interpretation." Ibid. (internal quotation marks and citation
omitted).
In Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social Security
Entrapment, 477 U. S. 41 (1986), this Court confronted a

state claim that § 103 of the Social Security Amendments Act
of 1983, 97 Stat. 71, 42 U. S. C. §418(g) (1982 ed., Supp. II),
was unenforceable to the extent it was inconsistent with the
terms of a prior agreement with the National Government.
Under the law before 1983, a State could agree with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to cover the State's
employees under the Social Security scheme subject to a
right to withdraw them from coverage later. When the 1983
Act eliminated the right of withdrawal, the State of California and related plaintiffs sought to enjoin application of the
new law to them, or to obtain just compensation for loss of
the withdrawal right (a remedy which the District Court interpreted as tantamount to the injunction, since it would
mandate return of all otherwise required contributions, see
477 U. S., at 51). Although we were able to resolve the case
by reading the terms of a state-federal coverage agreement
to reserve the Government's right to modify its terms by
subsequent legislation, in the alternative we rested the decision on the more general principle that, absent an "unmistakable" provision to the contrary, "contractual arrangements,
including those to which a sovereign itself is a party, 'remain
subject to subsequent legislation' by the sovereign." Id., at
52 (quoting Merrion, supra, at 147). We thus rejected the
proposal "to find that a 'sovereign forever waives the right
to exercise one of its sovereign powers unless it expressly
reserves the right to exercise that power in' the contract,"
Bowen, supra, at 52 (quoting Merrion, supra, at 148), and

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

held instead that unmistakability was needed for waiver,
not reservation.
Most recently, in United States v. Cherokee Nation of
Okla., 480 U. S. 700 (1987), we refused to infer a waiver of
federal sovereign power from silence. There, an Indian
Tribe with property rights in a riverbed derived from a Government treaty sued for just compensation for damage to its
interests caused by the Government's navigational improvements to the Arkansas River. The claim for compensation
presupposed, and was understood to presuppose, that the
Government had conveyed to the Tribe its easement to control navigation; absent that conveyance, the Tribe's property
included no right to be free from the Government's riverbed
improvements. Id., at 704. We found, however, that the
treaty said nothing about conveying the Government's navigational easement, see id., at 706, which we saw as an aspect
of sovereignty. This, we said, could be "'surrendered [only]
in unmistakable terms,"' id., at 707 (quoting Bowen, supra,
at 52), if indeed it could be waived at all.
Merrion, Bowen, and Cherokee Nation thus announce
no new rule distinct from the canon of construction adopted
in Providence Bank and Charles River Bridge; their collective holding is that a contract with a sovereign government
will not be read to include an unstated term exempting the
other contracting party from the application of a subsequent
sovereign act (including an Act of Congress), nor will an ambiguous term of a grant or contract be construed as a conveyance or surrender of sovereign power. The cases extending
back into the 19th century thus stand for a rule that applies
when the Government is subject either to a claim that its
contract has surrendered a sovereign power 22 (e. g., to tax or
2' "Sovereign power" as used here must be understood as a power that
could otherwise affect the Government's obligation under the contract.
The Government could not, for example, abrogate one of its contracts by
a statute abrogating the legal enforceability of that contract, Government contracts of a class including that one, or simply all Government con-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

control navigation), or to a claim that cannot be recognized
without creating an exemption from the exercise of such a
power (e. g., the equivalent of exemption from Social Security obligations). The application of the doctrine thus turns
on whether enforcement of the contractual obligation alleged would block the exercise of a sovereign power of the
Government.
Since the criterion looks to the effect of a contract's enforcement, the particular remedy sought is not dispositive
and the doctrine is not rendered inapplicable by a request
for damages, as distinct from specific performance. The
respondents in Cherokee Nation sought nothing beyond
damages, but the case still turned on the unmistakability
doctrine because there could be no claim to harm unless
the right to be free of the sovereign power to control navigation had been conveyed away by the Government. 3 So, too,
in Bowen: the sole relief sought was dollars and cents, but
the award of damages as requested would have been the
tracts. No such legislation would provide the Government with a defense
under the sovereign acts doctrine, see infra,at 891-899.
2 The Government's right to take the Tribe's property upon payment of
compensation, of course, did not depend upon the navigational servitude;
where it applies, however, the navigational easement generally obviates
the obligation to pay compensation at all. See, e. g., United States v. Kansas City Life Ins. Co., 389 U. S. 799, 808 (1950) ("When the Government
exercises [the navigational] servitude, it is exercising its paramount power
in the interest of navigation, rather than taking the private property of
anyone"); Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 163 (1900) ("Whatever the
nature of the interest of a riparian owner in the submerged lands in front
of his upland bordering on a public navigable water, his title is not as full
and complete as his title to fast land which has no direct connection with
the navigation of such water. It is a qualified title ... to be held at all
times subordinate to such use of the submerged lands and of the waters
flowing over them as may be consistent with or demanded by the public
right of navigation"). Because an order to pay compensation would have
placed the Government in the same position as if the navigational easement had been surrendered altogether, the holding of Cherokee Nation is
on all fours with the approach we describe today.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

equivalent of exemption from the terms of the subsequent
statute.
The application of the doctrine will therefore differ according to the different kinds of obligations the Government may
assume and the consequences of enforcing them. At one end
of the wide spectrum are claims for enforcement of contractual obligations that could not be recognized without effectively limiting sovereign authority, such as a claim for rebate
under an agreement for a tax exemption. Granting a rebate, like enjoining enforcement, would simply block the exercise of the taxing power, cf. Bowen, 477 U. S., at 51, and
the unmistakability doctrine would have to be satisfied.2
At the other end are contracts, say, to buy food for the army;
no sovereign power is limited by the Government's promise
to purchase and a claim for damages implies no such limitation. That is why no one would seriously contend that enforcement of humdrum supply contracts might be subject to
the unmistakability doctrine. Between these extremes lies
an enormous variety of contracts including those under
which performance will require exercise (or not) of a power
peculiar to the Government. So long as such a contract is
reasonably construed to include a risk-shifting component
that may be enforced without effectively barring the exercise of that power, the enforcement of the risk allocation
raises nothing for the unmistakability doctrine to guard
against, and there is no reason to apply it.
24The dissent is mistaken in suggesting there is question begging in
speaking of what a Government contract provides without first applying
the unmistakability doctrine, see post, at 929. A contract may reasonably
be read under normal rules of construction to contain a provision that

does not satisfy the more demanding standard of unmistakable clarity. If
an alleged term could not be discovered under normal standards, there
would be no need for an unmistakability doctrine. It would, of course,
make good sense to apply the unmistakability rule if it was clear from the
start that a contract plaintiff could not obtain the relief sought without
effectively barring exercise of a sovereign power, as in the example of the
promisee of the tax exemption who claims a rebate.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

The Government argues that enforcement of the contracts
in this case would implicate the unmistakability principle,
with the consequence that Merrion, Bowen, and Cherokee
Nation are good authorities for rejecting respondents'
claims. The Government's position is mistaken, however,
for the complementary reasons that the contracts have not
been construed as binding the Government's exercise of authority to modify banking regulation or of any other sovereign power, and there has been no demonstration that
awarding damages for breach would be tantamount to any
such limitation.
As construed by each of the courts that considered these
contracts before they reached us, the agreements do not purport to bind the Congress from enacting regulatory measures, and respondents do not ask the courts to infer from
silence any such limit on sovereign power as would violate
the holdings of Merrion and Cherokee Nation. The contracts have been read as solely risk-shifting agreements and
respondents seek nothing more than the benefit of promises
by the Government to insure them against any losses arising
from future regulatory change. They seek no injunction
against application of the law to them, as the plaintiffs did in
Bowen and Merrion, cf. Reichelderfer v. Quinn, 287 U. S.
315 (1932), and they acknowledge that the Bank Board and
FSLIC could not bind Congress (and possibly could not even
bind their future selves) not to change regulatory policy.
Nor do the damages respondents seek amount to exemption from the new law, in the manner of the compensation
sought in Bowen, see 477 U. S., at 51. Once general jurisdiction to make an award against the Government is conceded,
a requirement to pay money supposes no surrender of sovereig power by a sovereign with the power to contract. See,
e. g., Amino Bros. Co. v. United States, 178 Ct. Cl. 515, 525,
372 F. 2d 485, 491 ("The Government cannot make a binding
contract that it will not exercise a sovereign power, but it
can agree in a contract that if it does so, it will pay the other

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

contracting party the amount by which its costs are increased by the Government's sovereign act"), cert. denied,
389 U. S. 846 (1967).25 Even if respondents were asking that
the Government be required to make up any capital deficiency arising from the exclusion of goodwill and capital
credits from the relevant calculations, such relief would
hardly amount to an exemption from the capital requirements of FIRREA; after all, Glendale (the only respondent
thrift still in operation) would still be required to maintain
adequate tangible capital reserves under FIRREA, and the
purpose of the statute, the protection of the insurance fund,
would be served. Nor would such a damages award deprive
the Government of money it would otherwise be entitled to
receive (as a tax rebate would), since the capital require2 See also Hughes Communications Galaxy, Inc. v. United States, 998
F. 2d, at 958 (finding the unmistakability doctrine inapplicable to "the
question of how liability for certain contingencies was allocated by the
contract"); Sunswick Corp. v. United States, 109 Ct. Cl. 772, 798, 75
F. Supp. 221, 228 ("We know of no reason why the Government may not
by the terms of its contract bind itself for the consequences of some act
on its behalf which, but for the contract, would be nonactionable as an act
of the sovereign. As shown in United States v. Bostwick, 94 U. S.53, 69
[(1877)], the liability of the Government in such circumstances rests upon
the contract and not upon the act of the Government in its sovereign
capacity"), cert. denied, 384 U. S.827 (1948); see generally Eule, Temporal
Limits on the Legislative Mandate: Entrenchment and Retroactivity, 1987
Aim Bar Found. Research J. 379, 424 (observing that limiting the Government's obligation to "compensating for the financial losses its repudiations

engender ...

affords the current legislature the freedom to respond to

constituents' needs, while at the same time protecting those whose contractual interests are impaired"); Note, A Procedural Approach to the
Contract Clause, 93 Yale L. J. 918, 928-929 (1984) ("A damage remedy is
superior to an injunction because damages provide the states with the
flexibility to impair contracts retroactively when the benefits exceed the
costs. So long as the victims of contract impairments are made whole
through compensation, there is little reason to grant those victims an injunctive remedy").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

ments of FIRREA govern only the allocation of resources to
26
a thrift and require no payments to the Government at all.
We recognize, of course, that while agreements to insure
private parties against the costs of subsequent regulatory
change do not directly impede the exercise of sovereign
power, they may indirectly deter needed governmental regulation by raising its costs. But all regulations have their
costs, and Congress itself expressed a willingness to bear the
costs at issue here when it authorized FSLIC to "guarantee
[acquiring thrifts] against loss" that might occur as a result
of a supervisory merger. 12 U. S. C. § 1729(f)(2) (1988 ed.)
(repealed 1989). Just as we have long recognized that the
Constitution "'bar[s] Government from forcing some people
alone to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice,
should be borne by the public as a whole,"' Dolan v. City of
Tigard, 512 U. S. 374, 384 (1994) (quoting Armstrong v.
United States, 364 U. S. 40, 49 (1960)), so we must reject the
suggestion that the Government may simply shift costs of
legislation onto its contractual partners who are adversely
affected by the change in the law, when the Government has
assumed the risk of such change.
The Government's position would not only thus represent
a conceptual expansion of the unmistakability doctrine beyond its historical and practical warrant, but would place the
doctrine at odds with the Government's own long-run interest as a reliable contracting partner in the myriad workaday
transaction of its agencies. Consider the procurement con26 This

point underscores the likelihood that damages awards will have

the same effect as an injunction only in cases, like Bowen, where a private

party seeks the return of payments to the Government. The classic examples, of course, are tax cases like St. Louis v. United Railways Co., 210
U. S. 266 (1908). Because a request for rebate damages in that case would
effectively have exempted the plaintiffs from the law by forcing the reimbursement of their tax payments, the dissent is quite wrong to suggest,
see post, at 928-929, that the plaintiffs could have altered the outcome by
pleading their case differently.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

tracts that can be affected by congressional or executive
scale backs in federal regulatory or welfare activity; or contracts to substitute private service providers for the Government, which could be affected by a change in the official philosophy on privatization; or all the contracts to dispose of
federal property, surplus or otherwise. If these contracts
are made in reliance on the law of contract and without specific provision for default mechanisms,2 should all the private contractors be denied a remedy in damages unless they
satisfy the unmistakability doctrine? The answer is obviously no because neither constitutional avoidance nor any
apparent need to protect the Government from the consequences of standard operations could conceivably justify applying the doctrine. Injecting the opportunity for unmistakability litigation into every common contract action
would, however, produce the untoward result of compromising the Government's practical capacity to make contracts,
which we have held to be "of the essence of sovereignty"
itself. United States v. Bekins, 304 U. S. 27, 51-52 (1938).2
From a practical standpoint, it would make an inroad on this
power, by expanding the Government's opportunities for contractual abrogation, with the certain result of undermining
the Government's credibility at the bargaining table and increasing the cost of its engagements. As Justice Brandeis
27

See Posner & Rosenfield, Impossibility and Related Doctrines in Contract Law: An Economic Analysis, 6 J. Legal Studies 83, 88-89 (1977) (noting that parties generally rely on contract law "to reduce the costs of
contract negotiation by supplying contract terms that the parties would
probably have adopted explicitly had they negotiated over them").
28See also Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social Security Entrapment, 477 U. S., at 52 ("[Tihe Federal Government, as sovereign, has
the power to enter contracts that confer vested rights, and the concomitant duty. to honor those rights . . ."); Perry v. United States, 294 U. S.
330, 353 (1935) ("[T]he right to make binding obligations is a competence
attaching to sovereignty"); cf Hart, The Concept of Law, at 145-146 (noting that the ability to limit a body's future authority is itself one aspect
of sovereignty).

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

recognized, "[p]unctilious fulfillment of contractual obligations is essential to the maintenance of the credit of public
as well as private debtors." Lynch v. United States, 292
U. S., at 580.2
The dissent's only answer to our concern is to recognize
that "Congress may not simply abrogate a statutory provision obligating performance without breaching the contract
and rendering itself liable for damages." Post, at 929 (citing
Lynch, supra,at 580). Yet the only grounds that statement
suggests for distinguishing Lynch from the present case is
that there the contractual obligation was embodied in a statute. Putting aside the question why this distinction should
make any difference, we note that the dissent seemingly does
not deny that its view would apply the unmistakability doctrine to the vast majority of governmental contracts, which
would be subject to abrogation arguments based on subsequent sovereign acts. Indeed, the dissent goes so far as to
argue that our conclusion that damages are available for
breach even where the parties did not specify a remedy in
the contract depends upon "reading of additional terms into
the contract." Post, at 930. That, of course, is not-the law;
damages are always the default remedy for breach of contract.30 And we suspect that most Government contractors
would be quite surprised by the dissent's conclusion that,
where they have failed to require an express provision that
2 See also Logue, Tax Transitions, Opportunistic Retroactivity, and the
Benefits of Government Precommitment, 94 Mich. L. Rev. 1129, 1146 (1996)
("If we allowed the government to break its contractual promises without
having to pay compensation, such a policy would come at a high cost in
terms of increased default premiums in future government contracts and
increased disenchantment with the government generally").
30 See, e.g., Restatement (Second) of Contracts §846, Comment a (1981)
("Every breach of contract gives the injured party a right to, damages
against the party in breach" unless "[t]he parties ... by agreement vary
the rules"); 3 E. Farnsworth, Contracts § 12.8, p. 185 (1990) ("The award
of damages is the common form of relief for breach of contract. Virtually
any breach gives the injured party a claim for damages").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

damages will be available for breach, that remedy must be
"implied in law" and therefore unavailable under the Tucker
Act, ibid.
Nor can the dissenting view be confined to those contracts
that are "regulatory" in nature. Such a distinction would
raise enormous analytical difficulties; one could ask in this
case whether the Government as contractor was regulating
or insuring. The dissent understandably does not advocate
such a distinction, but its failure to advance any limiting
principle at all would effectively compromise the Government's capacity as a reliable, straightforward contractor
whenever the subject matter of a contract might be subject
to subsequent regulation, which is most if not all of the
time.31 Since the facts of the present case demonstrate that
the Government may wish to further its regulatory goals
through contract, we are unwilling to adopt any rule of construction that would weaken the Government's capacity to
do business by converting every contract it makes into an
arena for unmistakability litigation.
In any event, we think the dissent goes fundamentally
wrong when it concludes that "the issue of remedy for...
breach" can arise only "[i]f the sovereign did surrender its
power unequivocally." Post, at 929. This view ignores the
31 The dissent justifies its all-devouring view of unmistakability not by
articulating any limit, but simply by reminding us that "'[mien must turn
square corners when they deal with the Government."' Post, at 987
(quoting Rock Island, A & L. R. Co. v. United States, 254 U. S. 141, 143
(1920) (Holmes, J.)). We have also recognized, however, that "'[ilt is no
less good morals and good law that the Government should turn square
corners in dealing with the people than that the people should turn square
corners in dealing with their government."' Heckler v. Community
Health Services of Crawford Cty., Inc., 467 U. S. 51, 61, n. 13 (1984) (quoting St. Regis Paper Co. v. United States, 368 U. S. 208, 229 (1961) (Black,
J., dissenting). See also FederalCrop Ins. Corp.v. Merrill,332 U. S. 380,
387-388 (1947) (Jackson, J., dissenting) ("It is very well to say that those
who deal with the Government should turn square corners. But there is
no reason why the square corners should constitute a one-way street").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

other, less remarkable possibility actually found by both
courts that construed these contracts: that the Government
agreed to do something that did not implicate its sovereign
powers at all, that is, to indemnify its contracting partners
against financial losses arising from regulatory change. We
accordingly hold that the Federal Circuit correctly refused
to apply the unmistakability doctrine here. See 64 F. 3d, at
1548. There being no need for an unmistakably clear "second promise" not to change the capital requirements, it is
sufficient that the Government undertook an obligation that
it subsequently found itself unable to perform. This conclusion does not, of course, foreclose the assertion of a defense
that the contracts were ultra vires or that the Government's
obligation should be discharged under the common-law doctrine of impossibility, see infra, at 888-891, 904-910, but
themselves raises a
nothing in the nature of the contracts
32
bar to respondents' claims for breach.
3JUSTICE SCAmA offers his own theory of unmistakability, see post, at
919-922, which would apply in a wide range of cases and so create some
tension with the general principle that the Government is ordinarily
treated just like a private party in its contractual dealings, see, e. g., Perry
v. United States, 294 U. S., at 352, but which would be satisfied by an
inference of fact and therefore offer a only a low barrier to litigation of
constitutional issues if a party should, in fact, prove a governmental promise not to change the law. JUSTICE SCALIA seeks to minimize the latter
concern by quoting Holmes's pronouncement on damages as the exclusive
remedy at law for breach of contract, see post, at 919-920, but this ignores
the availability of specific performance in a nontrivial number of cases, see,
e. g., Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 357-359, including the Contract
Clause cases in which the unmistakability doctrine itself originated. See,
e. g., Carterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317, 322 (1885) (stating that "the only
right secured" by the Contract Clause is "to have a judicial determination,
declaring the nullity of the attempt to impair [the contract's] obligation");
Note, Takings Law and the Contract Clause: A Takings Law Approach to
Legislative Modifications of Public Contracts, 36 Stan. L. Rev. 1447, 1462
(1984) (suggesting that "analysis under the contract clause is limited to
declaring the statute unconstitutional. The provision does not authorize
the courts to award damages in lieu of requiring the state to adhere to
the original terms of the contract"); cf C. Fried, Contract as Promise 117-

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

B
The answer to the Government's unmistakability argument also meets its two related contentions on the score of
ultra vires: that the Bank Board and FSLIC had no authority
to bargain away Congress's power to change the law in the
future, and that we should in any event find no such authority conferred without an express delegation to that effect.
The first of these positions rests on the reserved powers doctrine, developed in the course of litigating claims that States
had violated the Contract Clause. See supra, at 874. It
holds that a state government may not contract away "an
essential attribute of its sovereignty," United States Trust,
431 U. S., at 23, with the classic example of its limitation
on the scope of the Contract Clause being found in Stone v.
Mississippi, 101 U. S.814 (1880). There a corporation bargained for and received a state legislative charter to conduct
lotteries, only to have them outlawed by statute a year later.
This Court rejected the argument that the charter immunized the corporation from the operation of the statute, holding that "the legislature cannot bargain away the police
power of a State." Id., at 817.3
The Government says that "[t]he logic of the doctrine...
applies equally to contracts alleged to have been made by
the federal government." Brief for United States 38. This
118 (1981) (arguing that "Holmes's celebrated dictum... goes too far, is
too simple"). Finally, we have no need to consider the close relationship
that JUSTICE ScALiA sees between the unmistakability and sovereign acts
doctrines, see post, at 923-924, because, even considered separately, neither one favors the Government in this case.
"'See also Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S.548, 558
(1914) ("[T]he power of the State to establish all regulations that are reasonably necessary to secure the health, safety, good order, comfort, or
general welfare of the community... can neither be abdicated nor bargained away, and is inalienable even by express grant"); West River
Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507 (1848) (State's contracts do not relinquish
its eminent domain power).

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

may be so but is also beside the point, for the reason that
the Government's ability to set capital requirements is not
limited by the Bank Board's and FSLIC's promises to make
good any losses arising from subsequent regulatory changes.
See supra, at 882-883. The answer to the Government's
contention that the State cannot barter away certain elements of its sovereign power is that a contract to adjust the
risk of subsequent legislative change does not strip the Gov34
ernment of its legislative sovereignty.
The same response answers the Government's demand for
express delegation of any purported authority to fetter the
exercise of sovereign power. It is true, of course, that in
Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.,
at 273, we said that "[t]he surrender, by contract, of a power
of government, though in certain well-defined cases it may
be made by legislative authority, is a very grave act, and the
surrender itself, as well as the authority to make it, must
be closely scrutinized." Hence, where "a contract has the
effect of extinguishing pro tanto an undoubted power of
government," we have insisted that "both [the contract's]
existence and the authority to make it must clearly and
unmistakably appear, and all doubts must be resolved in
favor of the continuance of the power." Ibid. But Home
Telephone & Telegraph simply has no application to the pres'" To the extent that JUsTIcE SCALIA finds the reserved powers doctrine
inapplicable because "the private party to the contract does not seek to
stay the exercise of sovereign authority, but merely requests damages for
breach of contract," post, at 923, he appears to adopt a distinction between
contracts of indemnity and contracts not to change the law similar to the
unmistakability analysis he rejects. He also suggests that the present
case falls outside the "core governmental powers" that cannot be surrendered under the reserved powers doctrine, but this suggestion is inconsistent with our precedents. See Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814, 817
(1880) ("[T]he legislature cannot bargain away the police power of a
State"); Veix v. Sixth Ward Building & Loan Assn. of Newark, 310 U. S.
32, 88 (1940) (recognizing that thrift regulation is within the police power).

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTJER, J.
ent case, because there were no contracts to surrender the
35
Government's sovereign power to regulate.
There is no question, conversely, that the Bank Board and

FSLIC had ample statutory authority to do what the Court
of Federal Claims and the Federal Circuit found they did do,
that is, promise to permit respondents to count supervisory
goodwill and capital credits toward regulatory capital and to
pay respondents' damages if that performance became impossible. The organic statute creating FSLIC as an arm of
the Bank Board, 12 U. S. C. §1725(c) (1988 ed.) (repealed
1989), generally empowered it "[t]o make contracts, '' 36 and

§ 1729(f)(2), enacted in 1978, delegated more specific powers
in the context of supervisory mergers:
"Whenever an insured institution is in default or, in
the judgment of the Corporation, is in danger of default,
the Corporation may, in order to facilitate a merger or
consolidation of such insured institution with another insured institution.., guarantee such other insured institution against loss by reason of its merging or consolidating with or assuming the liabilities and purchasing
the assets of such insured institution in or in danger of
default." 12 U. S. C. §1729(f)(2) (1976 ed., Supp. V) (repealed 1989).
Nor is there any reason to suppose that the breadth of this
authority was not meant to extend to contracts governing
treatment of regulatory capital. Congress specifically rec3 See Speidel, Implied Duties of Cooperation and the Defense of Sovereign Acts in Government Contracts, 51 Geo. L. J. 516, 542 (1963) ("[W]hile

the contracting officers of Agency X cannot guarantee that the United
States will not perform future acts of effective government, they can
agree to compensate the contractor for damages resulting from justifiable
acts of the United States in its 'sovereign capacity"' (footnotes omitted)).
- See also 1 R. Nash & J. Cibinic, Federal Procurement Law 5 (3d ed.
1977) ("The authority of the executive to use contracts in carrying out
authorized programs is ...generally assumed in the absence of express
statutory prohibitions or limitations").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of

SOUTER, J.

ognized FSLIC's authority to permit thrifts to count goodwill toward capital requirements when it modified the National Housing Act in 1987:
"No provision of this section shall affect the authority of the [FSLIC] to authorize insured institutions to
utilize subordinated debt and goodwill in meeting reserve and other regulatory requirements." 12 U. S. C.
§ 1730h(d) (1988 ed.) (repealed 1989).
See also S. Rep. No. 100-19, p. 55 (1987) ("It is expected...
that the [Bank Board] will retain its own authority to determine... the components and level of capital to be required
of FSLIC-insured institutions"); NLRB v. Bell Aerospace
Co., 416 U. S. 267, 275 (1974) ("[S]ubsequent legislation declaring the intent of an earlier statute is entitled to significant weight"). There is no serious question that FSLIC
(and the Bank Board acting through it) was authorized to
make the contracts in issue.
IV
The Government's final line of defense is the sovereign
acts doctrine, to the effect that "'[w]hatever acts the government may do, be they legislative or executive, so long as they
be public and general, cannot be deemed specially to alter,
modify, obstruct or violate the particular contracts into
which it enters with private persons."' Horowitz v. United
States, 267 U. S., at 461 (quoting Jones v. United States, 1 Ct.
Cl. 383, 384 (1865)). Because FIRREA's alteration of the
regulatory capital requirements was a "public and general
act," the Government says, that act could not amount to a
breach of the Government's contract with respondents.
The Government's position cannot prevail, however, for
two independent reasons. The facts of this case do not warrant application of the doctrine, and even if that were otherwise the doctrine would not suffice to excuse liability under
this governmental contract allocating risks of regulatory
change in a highly regulated industry.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

In Horowitz, the plaintiff sued to recover damages for
breach of a contract to purchase silk from the Ordnance
Department. The agreement included a promise by the Department to ship the silk within a certain time, although the
manner of shipment does not appear to have been a subject
of the contract. Shipment was delayed because the United
States Railroad Administration placed an embargo on shipments of silk by freight, and by the time the silk reached
Horowitz -the price had fallen, rendering the deal unprofitable. This Court barred any damages award for the delay,
noting that "[lt has long been held by the Court of Claims
that the United States when sued as a contractor cannot be
held liable for an obstruction to the performance of the particular contract resulting from its public and general acts as
a sovereign." 267 U. S., at 461. This statement was not,
however, meant to be read as broadly as the Government
urges, and the key to its proper scope is found in that portion
of our opinion explaining that the essential point was to put
the Government in the same position that it would have enjoyed as a private contractor:
"'The two characters which the government possesses
as a contractor and as a sovereign cannot be thus fused;
nor can the United States while sued in the one character be made liable in damages for their acts done in the
other. Whatever acts the government may do, be they
legislative or executive, so long as they be public and
general, cannot be deemed specially to alter, modify, obstruct or violate the particular contracts into which it
enters with private persons.... In this court the United

States appear simply as contractors; and they are to be
held liable only within the same limits that any other
defendant would be in any other court. Though their
sovereign acts performed for the general good may work
injury to some private contractors, such parties gain
nothing by having the United States as their defend-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

ants."' Ibid. (quoting Jones v. United States, supra,
at 384).
The early Court of Claims cases upon which Horowitz relied anticipated the Court's emphasis on the Government's
dual and distinguishable capacities and on the need to treat
the Government-as-contractor the same as a private party.
In Deming v. United States, 1 Ct. Cl. 190 (1865), the Court
of Claims rejected a suit by a supplier of army rations whose
costs increased as a result of Congress's passage of the Legal
Tender Act. The Deming court thought it "grave error" to
suppose that "general enactments of Congress are to be construed as evasions of [the plaintiff's] particular contract."
Id., at 191. "The United States as a contractor are not responsible for the United States as a lawgiver," the court said.
"In this court the United States can be held to no greater
liability than other contractors in other courts." Ibid.
Similarly, Jones v. United States, supra, refused a suit by
surveyors employed by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
whose performance had been hindered by the United
States's withdrawal of troops from Indian country. "The
United States as a contractor," the Claims Court concluded,
"cannot be held liable directly or indirectly for the public acts
of the United States as a sovereign." Id., at 385.
The Government argues that "[t]he relevant question
[under these cases] is whether the impact [of governmental
action] . . . is caused by a law enacted to govern regulatory
policy and to advance the general welfare." Brief for
United States 45. This understanding assumes that the
dual characters of Government as contractor and legislator
are never "fused" (within the meaning of Horowitz) so long
as the object of the statute is regulatory and meant to accomplish some public good. That is, on the Government's reading, a regulatory object is proof against treating the legislature as having acted to avoid the Government's contractual
obligations, in which event the sovereign acts defense would

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

not be applicable. But the Government's position is open to
serious objection.
As an initial matter, we have already expressed our doubt
that a workable line can be drawn between the Government's
"regulatory" and "nonregulatory" capacities. In the present
case, the Government chose to regulate capital reserves to
protect FSLIC's insurance fund, much as any insurer might
impose restrictions on an insured as a condition of the policy.
The regulation thus protected the Government in its capacity analogous to a private insurer, the same capacity in which
it entered into supervisory merger agreements to convert
some of its financial insurance obligations into responsibilities of private entrepreneurs. In this respect, the supervisory mergers bear some analogy to private contracts for
reinsuranceY On the other hand, there is no question that
thrift regulation is, in fact, regulation, and that both the supervisory mergers of the 1980's and the subsequent passage
of FIRREA were meant to advance a broader public interest. The inescapable conclusion from all of this is that the
Government's "regulatory" and "nonregulatory" capacities
were fused in the instances under consideration, and we
suspect that such fusion will be so common in the modern
regulatory state as to leave a criterion of "regulation" without much use in defining the scope of the sovereign acts
8
doctrine.3
37 Nor is there any substance to the claim that these were contracts that
only the Government could make. The regulatory capital or net worth
requirements at issue applied only to thrifts choosing to carry federal deposit insurance, see Federal Home Loan Bank System, A Guide to the
Federal Home Loan Bank System 69 (5th ed. 1987), and institutions choosing to self-insure or to seek private insurance elsewhere would have been
free to make similar agreements with private insurers.
3 Moreover, if the dissent were correct that the sovereign acts doctrine
permits the Government to abrogate its contractual commitments in "regulatory" cases even where it simply sought to avoid contracts it had come
to regret, then the Government's sovereign contracting power would be
of very little use in this broad sphere of public activity. We rejected a

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

An even more serious objection is that allowing the Government to avoid contractual liability merely by passing
any "regulatory statute" would flout the general principle
that, "[w]hen the United States enters into contract relations, its rights and duties therein are governed generally
by the law applicable to contracts between private individuals." Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S., at 579.39 Careful attention to the cases shows that the sovereign acts
doctrine was meant to serve this principle, not undermine
it. In Horowitz, for example, if the defendant had been
a private shipper, it would have been entitled to assert
the common-law defense of impossibility of performance
against Horowitz's claim for breach. Although that defense
is traditionally unavailable where the barrier to performance
arises from the act of the party seeking discharge, see Restatement (Second) of Contracts §261; 2 E. Farnsworth, Contracts § 9.6, p. 551 (1990); cf. W. R. Grace & Co. v. Rubber
Workers, 461 U. S.757, 767-768, n. 10 (1983), Horowitz held
that the "public and general" acts of the sovereign are not
virtually identical argument in Perryv. United States, 294 U. S. 330 (1935),
in which Congress had passed a resolution regulating the payment of obligations in gold. We held that the law could not be applied to the Government's own obligations, noting that "the right to make binding obligations
is a competence attaching to sovereignty." Id., at 353.
s9 See also ClearfieldTrust Co. v. United States, 318 U. S.363, 369 (1943)
("'The United States does business on business terms'") (quoting United
States v. National Exchange Bank of Baltimore,270 U. S. 527,534 (1926));
Perry v. United States, supra, at 352 (1935) ("When the United States,
with constitutional authority, makes contracts, it has rights and incurs
responsibilities similar to those of individuals who are parties to such instruments. There is no difference except that the United States cannot
be sued without its consent" (citation omitted)); United States v. Bostwick,
94 U. S.53, 66 (1877) ("The United States, when they contract with their
citizens, are controlled by the same laws that govern the citizen in that
behalf"); Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S.389, 398 (1875) (explaining that
when the United States "comes down from its position of sovereignty, and
enters the domain of commerce, it submits itself to the same laws that
govern individuals there").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

attributable to the Government as contractor so as to bar
the Government's right to discharge. The sovereign acts
doctrine thus balances the Government's need for freedom to
legislate with its obligation to honor its contracts by asking
whether the sovereign act is properly attributable to the
Government as contractor. If the answer is no, the Government's defense to liability depends on the answer to the
further question, whether that act would otherwise release
the Government from liability under ordinary principles of
contract law.40 Neither' question can be answered 'in the
Government's favor here.
A
If the Government is to be treated like other contractors,
some line has to be drawn in situations like the one before
us between regulatory legislation that is relatively free of
Government self-interest and therefore cognizable for the
purpose of a legal impossibility defense and, on the other
hand, statutes tainted by a governmental object of self-relief.
Such an object is not necessarily inconsistent with a public
purpose, of course, and when we speak of governmental
"self-interest," we simply mean to identify instances in which
the Government seeks to shift the costs of meeting its legitimate public responsibilities to private parties. Cf. Armstrong v. United States, 364 U. S., at 49 (The Government
may not "forc[e] some people alone to bear public burdens
40

See Jones v. United States, 1 Ct. Cl. 383, 385 (1865) ("Wherever the
public and private acts of the government seem to commingle, a citizen or
corporate body must by supposition be substituted in its place, and then
the question be determined whether the action will lie against the supposed defendant"); O'Neill v. United States, 231 Ct. Cl. 823, 826 (1982)
(sovereign acts doctrine applies where, "[wiere [the] contracts exclusively
between private parties, the party hurt by such governing action could
not claim compensation from the other party for the governing action").
The dissent ignores these statements (including the statement from Jones,
from which case Horowitz drew its reasoning literally verbatim), when it
says, post, at 931, that the sovereign acts cases do not emphasize the need
to treat the government-as-contractor the same as a private party.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

which . . . should be borne by the public as a whole").
Hence, while the Government might legitimately conclude
that a given contractual commitment was no longer in the
public interest, a government seeking relief from such commitments through legislation would obviously not be in a
position comparable to that of the private contractor who
willy-nilly was barred by law from performance. There
would be, then, good reason in such circumstance to find the
regulatory and contractual characters of the Government
fused together, in Horowitz's terms, so that the Government
should not have the benefit of the defense4 l
Horowitz's criterion of "public and general act" thus reflects the traditional "rule of law" assumption that generality
in the terms by which the use of power is authorized will
tend to guard against its misuse to burden or benefit the few
See, e. g., Hurtado v. California,110 U. S.
unjustifiably.
516, 535-536 (1884) ("Law... must be not a special rule for
a particular person or a particular case, but... '[t]he general
law.. .' so 'that every citizen shall hold his life, liberty, property and immunities under the protection of the general
41

Our Contract Clause cases have demonstrated a similar concern with
governmental self-interest by recognizing that "complete deference to a
legislative assessment of reasonableness and necessity is not appropriate
because the State's self-interest is at stake." United States Trust Co. of
N. Y v. New Jersey, 431 U. S. 1, 26 (1977); see also Energy Reserves Group,
Inc. v. Kansas Power & Light Co., 459 U. S. 400, 412-413, and n. 14 (1983)
(noting that a stricter level of scrutiny applies under the Contract Clause
when a State alters its own contractual obligations); cf. Perry, supra, at
350-351 (drawing a "clear distinction" between Congress's power over private contracts and "the power of the Congress to alter or repudiate the
substance of its own engagements").
4 The generality requirement will almost always be met where, as in
Deming,the governmental action "bears upon [the Government's contract]
as it bears upon all similar contracts between citizens." Deming v.
United States, 1 Ct. Cl. 190, 191 (1865). Deming is less helpful, however,
in cases where, as here, the public contracts at issue have no obvious
private analogs.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

rules which govern society"' (citation omitted)).4 Hence,
governmental action will not be held against the Government for purposes of the impossibility defense so long as the
action's impact upon public contracts is, as in Horowitz,
merely incidental to the accomplishment of a broader governmental objective. See O'Neill v. United States, 231 Ct.
Cl. 823, 826 (1982) (noting that the sovereign acts doctrine
recognizes'that "the Government's actions, otherwise legal,
will occasionally incidentally impair the performance of contracts").4 The greater the Government's self-interest, however, the more suspect becomes the claim that its private
contracting partners ought to bear the financial burden of
the Government's own improvidence, and where a substan-

tial part of the impact of the Government's action rendering
performance impossible falls on its own contractual obligations, the defense will be unavailable. Cf. Sun Oil Co. v.
United States, 215 Ct. Cl. 716, 768, 572 F. 2d 786, 817 (1978)
(rejecting sovereign acts defense where the Secretary of the
Interior's actions were "'directed principally and primarily
at plaintiffs' contractual right'").4
4 The dissent accuses us of transplanting this due process principle into
alien soil, see post, at 931-932. But this Court did not even wait until the
Term following Hurtado before applying its principle of generality to a
case that, like this one, involved the deprivation of property rights. See
Hagarv. Reclamation Dist. No. 108, 111 U. S. 701, 708 (1884). More importantly, it would be surprising indeed if the sovereign acts doctrine,
resting on the inherent nature of sovereignty, were not shaped by fundamental principles about how sovereigns ought to behave.
14 See also Speidel, 51 Geo. L. J., at 539-540 (observing that "the commonly expressed conditions to the availability of the sovereign acts defense" are not only that "the act.., must have been 'public and general,"'
but also that "the damage to the contractor must have been caused indirectly"); c Exxon Corp.v. Eagerton,462 U. S. 176, 191-192 (1983) (distinguishing between direct and incidental impairments under the Contract
Clause).
45
Cf also Resolution Trust Corporationv. FederalSavings and Loan
Insurance Corporation,25 F. 3d 1493, 1501 (CA10 1994) ("The limits of
this immunity [for sovereign acts] are defined by the extent to which the

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

The dissent would adopt a different rule that the Government's dual roles of contractor and sovereign may never be
treated as fused, relying upon Deming's pronouncement that
"'[tihe United States as a contractor are not responsible for
the United States as a lawgiver."' Post, at 931 (quoting 1
Ct. Cl., at 191). But that view would simply eliminate the
"public and general" requirement, which presupposes that
the Government's capacities must be treated as fused when
the Government acts in a nongeneral way. Deming itself
twice refers to the "general" quality of the enactment at
issue, 1 Ct. Cl., at 191, and notes that "[t]he statute bears
upon [the governmental contract] as it bears upon all similar
contracts between citizens, and affects it in no other way."
Ibid. At the other extreme, of course, it is clear that any
benefit at all to the Government will not disqualify an act as
"public and general"; the silk embargo in Horowitz, for example, had the incidental effect of releasing the Government
from its contractual obligation to transport Mr. Horowitz's
shipment. Our holding that a governmental act will not be
public and general if it has the substantial effect of releasing
strikes a
the Government from its contractual obligations
46
extremes.
two
these
between
middle course
government's failure to perform is the result of legislation targeting a
class of contracts to which it is a party"); South LouisianaGrainServices,
Inc. v. United States, 1 Cl. Ct. 281, 287, n. 6 (1982) (rejecting sovereign
acts defense where the Government agency's actions "were directed specifically at plaintiff's alleged contract performance"). Despite the dissent's predictions, the sun is not, in fact, likely to set on the sovereign
acts doctrine. While an increase in regulation by contract will produce
examples of the "fusion" that bars the defense, we may expect that other
sovereign activity will continue to occasion the sovereign acts defense in
cases of incidental effect.
46
A different intermediate position would be possible, at least in theory.
One might say that a governmental action was not "public and general"
under Horowitz if its predominant purpose or effect was avoidance of the
Government's contractual commitments. The difficulty, however, of ascertaining the relative intended or resulting impacts on governmental and

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

B
In the present case, it is impossible to attribute the exculpatory "public and general" character to FIRREA. Although we have not been told the dollar value of the relief
the Government would obtain if insulated from liability
under contracts such as these, the attention given to the regulatory contracts prior to passage of FIRREA shows that a
substantial effect on governmental contracts is certain. The
statute not only had the purpose of eliminating the very accounting gimmicks that acquiring thrifts had been promised,
but the specific object of abrogating enough of the acquisition contracts as to make that consequence of the legislation
a focal point of the congressional debate.47 Opponents of
FIRREA's new capital requirements complained that "[i]n
its present form, [FIRREA] would abrogate written agreepurely private contracts persuades us that this test would prove very difficult to apply.
47We note that whether or not Congress intended to abrogate supervisory merger agreements providing that supervisory goodwill would count
toward regulatory capital requirements has been the subject of extensive
litigation in the Courts of Appeals, and that every Circuit to consider the
issue has concluded that Congress did so intend. See Transohio Say.
Bank v. Director,Office of Thrift Supervision, 967 F. 2d 598, 617 (CADC
1992); CarteretSay. Bank v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 963 F. 2d 567,
581-582 (CA3 1992); Security Say. & Loan v. Director,Office of Thrift
Supervision, 960 F. 2d 1318, 1322 (CA5 1992); Far West Federal Bank v.
Director,Office of Thrift Supervision, 951 F. 2d 1093, 1098 (CA9 1991);
Guaranty Financial Services, Inc. v. Ryan, 928 F. 2d 994, 1006 (CAll
1991); FranklinFederal Say. Bank v. Director,Office of Thrift Supervision, 927 F. 2d 1332, 1341 (CA6), cert. denied, 502 U. S. 937 (1991); cf.
Resolution Trust Corporation,supra,at 1502 (observing that "FIRREA's
structure leaves little doubt that Congress well knew the crippling effects
strengthened capital requirements would have on mergers that relied on
supervisory goodwill," but concluding that Congress sought to mitigate
the impact by giving OTS authority to exempt thrifts until 1991); Charter
FederalSay. Bank v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 976 F. 2d 203, 210 (CA4
1992) (accepting the conclusions of the other Circuits in dictum), cert. denied, 507 U. S. 1004 (1993).

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of

SOUTER,

J.

ments made by the U. S. government to thrifts that acquired
failing institutions by changing the rules in the middle of
the game." 135 Cong. Rec. 12145 (1989) (statement of Rep.
Ackerman). Several Congressmen observed that, "[s]imply
put, [Congress] has -reneged on the agreements that the government entered into concerning supervisory goodwill."
House Report, at 498 (additional views of Reps. Annunzio,
Kanjorski, and Flake).4 A similar focus on the supervisory
merger contracts is evident among proponents of the legislation; Representative Rostenkowski, for example, insisted
that "the Federal Government should be able to change requirements when they have proven to be disastrous and con48

See also House Report, at 534 (additional views of Reps. Hiler, Ridge,
Bartlett, Dreier, McCandless, Saiki, Baker, and Paxon) ("For the institutions with substantial supervisory goodwill, the bill radically changes the
terms of previously negotiated transactions"); id., at 507-508 (additional
views of Rep. LaFalce) ("Those institutions which carry intangible assets
on their books do so generally under written agreements they have entered into with the U. S. government, agreements which generally state
that they cannot be superseded by subsequent regulations"); id., pt. 5, at
27 (additional views of Rep. Hyde) ("[Thrifts] were told that they would
be able to carry this goodwill on their books as capital for substantial
periods of time.... The courts could well construe these agreements as
formal contracts. Now,... Congress is telling these same thrifts that
they cannot count this goodwill toward meeting the new capital standards"); 135 Cong. Rec. 12063 (1989) (statement of Rep. Crane) (FIRREA
"would require these S&Ls to write off this goodwill in a scant 5 years.
This legislation violates the present agreements that these institutions
made with the Federal Government"). Although there was less of a focus
on the impact of FIRREA on supervisory goodwill in the Senate, at least
two Senators noted that the new capital requirements would have the
effect of abrogating government contracts. See id., at 9563 (statement
of Sen. Hatfield) ("The new tangible capital standards in the legislation
specifically exclude supervisory goodwill, and in doing so effectively abrogate agreements made between the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, on
behalf of the U. S. Government, and certain healthy thrift institutions");
id., at 18874 (statement of Sen. D'Amato) (asking "whether any future
transactions involving failed or failing institutions will be possible after
this bill sanctions a wholesale reneging of Federal agency agreements").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

trary to the public interest. The contracts between the savings and loan owners when they acquired failing institutions
in the early 1980's are not contracts written in stone." 135
Cong. Rec., at 12077. 49
This evidence of intense concern with contracts like the
ones before us suffices to show that FIRREA had the
substantial effect of releasing the Government from its
own contractual obligations. Congress obviously expected
FIRREA to have such an effect, and in the absence of any
evidence to the contrary we accept its factual judgment that
this would be so.5° Nor is Congress's own judgment neutralized by the fact, emphasized by the Government, that
FIRREA did not formally target particular transactions.
Legislation can almost always be written in a formally gen49

See also House Report, at 545 (Supplemental Views of Reps. Schumer,
Morrison, Roukema, Gonzalez, Vento, McMillen, and Hoagland) ("[A]n
overriding public policy would be jeopardized by the continued adherence
to arrangements which were blithely entered into by the FSLIC"); 135
Cong. Rec., at 12062 (statement of Rep. Gonzalez) ("[Iun blunt terms, the
Bank Board and FSLIC insurance fund managers entered into bad dealsI might even call them steals"); id., at 11789 (statement of Rep. Saxton)
("In short[,] goodwill agreements were a mistake and as the saying goes
.. 'Two wrongs don't make a right' "). These proponents defeated two
amendments to FIRREA, proposed by Reps. Quillen and Hyde, which
would have given thrifts that had received capital forbearances from thrift
regulators varying degrees of protection from the new rules. See Transohio Say. Bank v. Director,Office of Thrift Supervision, supra, at 616617; see also 135 Cong. Rec. 12068 (1989) (statement of Rep. Price) ("[Tihe
proponents of [the Hyde] amendment say a 'Deal is a Deal' ....

But to

claim that Congress can never change a regulator's decision ... in the
future is simply not tenable"); Franklin FederalSay. Bank v. Director,
Office of Thrift Supervision, supra, at 1340-1341 (reviewing the House
debate and concluding that "[niobody expressed the view that FIRREA
did not abrogate forbearance agreements regarding supervisory goodwill"
(emphasis i' original)).
-"Despite the claims of the dissent, our test does not turn upon "some
sort of legislative intent," post, at 933. Rather, we view Congress's expectation that the Government's own obligations would be heavily affected
simply as good evidence that this was, indeed, the case.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

eral way, and the want of an identified target is not much
security when a measure's impact nonetheless falls substantially upon the Government's contracting partners. For like
reason, it does not answer the legislative record to insist,
as the Government does, that the congressional focus is
irrelevant because the broad purpose of FIRREA was to
"advance the general welfare." Brief for United States 45.
We assume nothing less of all congressional action, with
the result that an intent to benefit the public can no more
serve as a criterion of a "public and general" sovereign act
than its regulatory character can. 51 While our limited enquiry into the background and evolution of the thrift crisis
leaves us with the understanding that Congress acted to protect the public in the FIRREA legislation, the extent to
which this reform relieved the Government of its own contractual obligations precludes a finding that the statute is a
"public and general" act for purposes of the sovereign acts
52

defense.

51We have, indeed, had to reject a variant of this argument before. See
Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S.571, 580 (1934) (acknowledging a public
need for governmental economy, but holding that "[t]o abrogate contracts,
in the attempt to lessen governmental expenditure, would be not the practice of economy, but an act of repudiation"); see also Speidel, 51 Geo. L. J.,
at 522 (noting that even when "the Government's acts are motivated or
required by public necessity... [tihe few decisions on point seem to reject
public convenience or necessity as a defense, particularly where [the Government's action] directly alters the terms of the contract").
'2The dissent contends that FIRREA must be a "public and general"
act because it "occupies 372 pages in the Statutes at Large, and under 12
substantive titles contains more than 150 numbered sections." Post, at
934. But any act of repudiation can be buried in a larger piece of legislation, and if that is enough to save it then the Government's contracting
power will not count for much. To the extent that THE CMEF JUSTICE
relies on the fact that FIRREA's core capital requirements applied to all
thrift institutions, we note that neither he nor the Government has provided any indication of the relative incidence of the new statute in requiring capital increases for thrifts subject to regulatory agreements affecting
capital and those not so subject.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.

Opinion of SOUTER, J.

C
Even if FIRREA were to qualify as "public and general,"
however, other fundamental reasons would leave the sovereign acts doctrine inadequate to excuse the Government's
breach of these contracts. As Horowitz makes clear, that
defense simply relieves the Government as contractor from
the traditional blanket rule that a contracting party may not
obtain discharge if its own act rendered performance impossible. But even if the Government stands in the place of a
private party with respect to "public and general" sovereign
acts, it does not follow that discharge will always be available, for the common-law doctrine of impossibility imposes
additional requirements before a party may avoid liability
for breach. As the Restatement puts it,
"[w]here, after a contract is made, a party's performance
is made impracticable without his fault by the occurrence of an event the non-occurrence of which was a
basic assumption on which the contract was made, his
duty to render that performance is discharged, unless
the language or the circumstances indicate the contrary." Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 261.
See also 2 Farnsworth on Contracts § 9.6, at 543-544 (listing
four elements of the impossibility defense). Thus, since the
object of the sovereign acts defense is to place the Government as .contractor on par with a private contractor in the
same circumstances, Horowitz, 267 U. S., at 461, the Government, like any other defending party in a contract action,
must show that the passage of the statute rendering its performance impossible was an event contrary to the basic assumptions on which the parties agreed, and must ultimately
show that the language or circumstances do not indicate that
the Government should be liable in any case. While we do
not say that these conditions can never be satisfied when
the Government contracts with participants in a regulated
industry for particular regulatory treatment, we find that

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

the Government as such a contractor has not satisfied the
conditions for discharge in the present case.
For a successful impossibility defense the Government
would have to show that the nonoccurrence of regulatory
amendment was a basic assumption of these contracts. See,
e. g., Restatement (Second) of Contracts §261; 2 Farnsworth,
supra, §9.6, at 549-550. The premise of this requirement is
that the parties will have bargained with respect to any risks
that are both within their contemplation and central to the
substance of the contract; as Justice Traynor said, "[i]f [the
risk] was foreseeable there should have been provision for it
in the contract, and the absence of such a provision gives
rise to the inference that the risk was assumed." Lloyd v.
Murphy, 25 Cal. 2d 48, 54, 153 P. 2d 47, 50 (1944). 53 That
5 See also TransatlanticFinancing Corp. v. United States, 363 F. 2d
312, 315 (CADC 1966) (requiring that the contingency rendering performance impossible be "'something' unexpected"); Companhia de Navegacao
Lloyd Brasilierov. C. G. Blake Co., 34 F. 2d 616, 619 (CA2 1929) (L. Hand,
J.) (asking "how unexpected at the time [the contract was made] was the
event wliich prevented performance"); see also Kel Kim Corp. v. Central
Markets, Inc., 70 N. Y. 2d 900, 902, 524 N. E. 2d 295, 296 (1987) ("[Tlhe
impossibility must be produced by an unanticipated event that could not
have been foreseen or guarded against in the contract"); Barbarossa&
Sons, Inc. v. Iten Chevrolet, Inc., 265 N. W. 2d 655, 659 (Minn. 1978) (asking
"whether the risk of the given contingency was so unusual or unforeseen
and would have such severe consequences that to require performance
would be to grant the promisee an advantage for which he could not be
said to have bargained in making the contract"); Mishara Construction
Co. v. Transit-Mixed Concrete Corp., 365 Mass. 122, 129, 310 N. E. 2d 363,
367 (1974) ("The question is ...[w]as the contingency which developed
one which the parties could reasonably be thought to have foreseen as a
real possibility which could affect performance?"); Krell v. Henry, 2 K. B.
740, 752 (1903) ("The test seems to be whether the event which causes the
impossibility was or might have been anticipated and guarded against"); 18
W. Jaeger, Williston on Contracts §1931, p. 8 (3d ed. 1978) ("The important
question is whether an unanticipated circumstance has made performance
of the promise vitally different from what should reasonably have been

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

inference is particularly compelling, where, as here, the contract provides for particular regulatory treatment (and, a
fortiori, allocates the risk of regulatory change). Such an
agreement reflects the inescapable recognition that regulated industries in the modern world do not live under the
law of the Medes and the Persians, and the very fact that
such a contract is made at all is at odds with any assumption
of regulatory stasis. In this particular case, whether or not
the reach of the FIRREA reforms was anticipated by the
parties, there is no doubt that some changes in the regulatory structure governing thrift capital reserves were both
foreseeable and likely when these parties contracted with
the Government, as even the Government agrees. It says
in its brief to this Court that "in light of the frequency with
which federal capital requirements had changed in the past
...

,

it would have been unreasonable for Glendale, FSLIC,

or the Bank Board to expect or rely upon the fact that those
requirements would remain unchanged." Brief for United
States 26; see also id., at 3, n. 1 (listing the changes). 54 The
Federal Circuit panel in this case likewise found that the
regulatory capital requirements "have been the subject of
within the contemplation of both parties when they entered into the contract. If so, the risk should not fairly be thrown upon the promisor").
Although foreseeability is generally a relevant, but not dispositive, factor,
see 2 E. Farnsworth, Contracts § 9.6, at 555-556; Opera Company of Boston, Inc. v. Wolf Trap Foundationfor the Performing Arts, 817 F. 2d
1094, 1101 (CA4 1987), there is no reason to look further where, as here,

the risk was foreseen to be more than minimally likely, went to the central
purpose of the contract, and could easily have been allocated in a different
manner had the parties chosen to do so, see id., at 1099-1102; 18 Williston
on Contracts, supra, § 1953, at 119.

The Government confirmed this point at oral argument. When asked
whether FIRREA's tightening of the regulatory capital standards was
"exactly the event that the parties assumed might happen when they made
their contracts," the Government responded, "Exactly. Congress had
changed capital standards many times over the years." Tr. of Oral Arg. 9.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

numerous statutory and regulatory changes over the years,"
5
and "changed three times in 1982 alone." 994 F. 2d, at 801. 1
Given these fluctuations, and given the fact that a single
modification of the applicable regulations could, and ultimately did, eliminate virtually all of the consideration provided by the Government in these transactions, it would be
absurd to say that the nonoccurrence of a change in the regulatory capital rules was a basic assumption upon which these
contracts were made. See, e. g., Moncrief v. Williston
Basin Interstate Pipeline Co., 880 F. Supp. 1495, 1508 (Wyo.
1995); Vollmar v. CSX Transportation,Inc., 705 F. Supp.
1154, 1176 (ED Va. 1989), aff'd, 898 F. 2d 413 (CA4 1990).
2
Finally, any governmental contract that not only deals
with regulatory change but allocates the risk of its occurrence will, by definition, fail the further condition of a successful impossibility defense, for it will indeed indicate that
the parties' agreement was not meant to be rendered nugatory by a change in the regulatory law. See Restatement
- See, e. g., Garn-St Germain Depository Institutions Act of 1982, Pub.
L. 97-320, 96 Stat. 1469 (eliminating any fixed limits to Bank Board discretion in setting reserve requirements); Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-221, 94 Stat. 132, 160
(conferring discretionary authority on the Bank Board to set reserve requirements between 3 and 6 percent); 47 Fed. Reg. 3543 (lowering the
reserve ratio from 4 to 3 percent); id., at 31859 (excluding certain "contraasset" accounts from reserve calculations); id., at 52961 (permitting thrifts
to count appraised equity capital toward reserves); see also CharterFederal Say. Bank v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 976 F. 2d, at 212 (noting
that because "[clapital requirements have been an evolving part of the
regulatory scheme since its inception," the Bank Board "would have expected changes in statutory requirements, including capital requirements"); CarteretSay. Bank v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 963 F. 2d, at
581 (observing that "[i]n the massively regulated banking industry,. . . the
rules of the game change with some regularity").

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
Opinion of SOUTER, J.

(Second) of Contracts § 261 (no impossibility defense where
the "language or the circumstances" indicate allocation of the
risk to the party seeking discharge).56 The mere fact that
the Government's contracting agencies (like the Bank Board
and FSLIC) could not themselves preclude Congress from
changing the regulatory rules does not, of course, stand in
the way of concluding that those agencies assumed the risk
of such change, for determining the consequences of legal
change was the point of the agreements. It is, after all, not
uncommon for a contracting party to assume the risk of an
event he cannot control, 57 even when that party is an agent
of the Government. As the Federal Circuit has recognized,
"[Government] contracts routinely include provisions shifting
financial responsibility to the Government for events which
might occur in the future. That some of these events may
be triggered by sovereign government action does not render the relevant contractual provisions any less binding than
those which contemplate third party acts, inclement weather
- See also Hughes Communications Galaxy,Inc. v. United States, 998
F. 2d, at 957-959 (rejecting sovereign acts defense where contract was
interpreted as expressly allocating the risk of change in governmental
policy); Posner & Rosenfield, 6 J. Legal Studies, at 98 (noting that, subject
to certain constraints, "[tihe contracting parties' chosen allocation of risk"
should always be honored as the most efficient one possible).
57
See, e. g., Chicago, M. & St. P.R. Co. v. Hoyt, 149 U. S. 1, 14-15 (1893)
("There can be no question that a party may by an absolute contract bind
himself or itself to perform things which subsequently become impossible,
or to pay damages for the nonperformance"). This is no less true where
the event that renders performance impossible is a change in the governing law. See, e. g., 4 R. Anderson, Anderson on the Uniform Commercial
Code §2-615:34, p. 286 (3d ed. 1983) ("Often in regard to impossibility due
to change of law... there would be no difficulty in a promisor's assuming
the risk of the legal possibility of his promise"); 6 A. Corbin, Corbin on
Contracts § 1346, p. 432 (1962) ("Just as in other cases of alleged impossibility, the risk of prevention by courts and administrative officers can be
thrown upon a contractor by a provision in the contract itself or by reason
of established custom and general understanding").

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
Opinion of

SOUTER, J.

and other force majeure." Hughes Communications Galaxy, Inc. v. United States, 998 F. 2d 953, 958-959 (CA Fed.
1993). 5s
As to each of the contracts before us, our agreement with
the conclusions of the Court of Federal Claims and the Federal Circuit forecloses any defense of legal impossibility, for
those courts found that the Bank Board resolutions, Forbearance Letters, and other documents setting forth the accounting treatment to be accorded supervisory goodwill generated
by the transactions were not mere statements of thencurrent regulatory policy, but in each instance were terms in
an allocation of risk of regulatory change that was essential
to the contract between the parties. See supra,at 861-864.
Given that the parties went to considerable lengths in procuring necessary documents and drafting broad integration
clauses to incorporate their terms into the contract itself, the
Government's suggestion that the parties meant to say only
that the regulatory treatment laid out in these documents
5 See generally Hills Materials Co. v. Rice, 982 F. 2d 514, 516, n. 2 (CA
Fed. 1992) ("[Tlhe [sovereign acts] doctrine certainly does not prevent the
government as contractor from affirmatively assuming responsibility for
specific sovereign acts"); D & L ConstructionCo. v. United States, 185 Ct.
Cl. 736, 752, 402 F. 2d 990, 999 (1968) ("It has long been established that
while the United States cannot be held liable directly or indirectly for
public acts which it performs as a sovereign, the Government can agree
in a contract that if it does exercise a sovereign power, it will pay the
other contracting party the amount by which its costs are increased by
the Government's sovereign act, and that this agreement can be implied
as well as expressed"); Amino Brothers Co. v. United States, 178 Ct. Cl.
515, 525, 372 F. 2d 485, 491 (same), cert. denied, 889 U.S.846 (1967); Gerhardt F. Meyne Co. v. United States, 110 Ct. Cl. 527, 550, 76 F. Supp. 811,
815 (1948) (same). A common example of such an agreement is mandated
by Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.222-43, which requires Government
entities entering into certain fixed price service contracts to include a
price adjustment clause shifting to the Government responsibility for cost
increases resulting from compliance with Department of Labor wage and
fringe benefit determinations. 48 CFR §52.222-43 (1995).

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
BREYER, J.,

concurring

would apply as an initial matter, subject to later change at
the Government's election, is unconvincing. See ibid. It
would, indeed, have been madness for respondents to have
engaged in these transactions with no more protection than
the Government's reading would have given them, for the
very existence of their institutions would then have been in
jeopardy from the moment their agreements were signed.

We affirm the Federal Circuit's ruling that the United
States is liable to respondents for breach of contract. Because the Court of Federal Claims has not yet determined
the appropriate measure or amount of damages in this case,
we remand for further proceedings.
It is so ordered.
concurring.
I join the principal opinion because, in my view, that opinion is basically consistent with the following understanding
of what the dissent and the Government call the "unmistakability doctrine." The doctrine appears in the language of
earlier cases, where the Court states that
"sovereign power, even when unexercised, is an enduring presence that governs all contracts subject to the
sovereign's jurisdiction, and will remain intact unless
surrenderedin unmistakable terms." Merrion v. Jicarilla Apache Tribe, 455 U. S. 130, 148 (1982) (emphasis
added).
JUSTICE BREYER,

See also United States v. Cherokee Nation of Okla., 480 U. S.
700, 706-707 (1987); Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to
Social Security Entrapment, 477 U. S. 41, 52-53 (1986).
The Government and the dissent believe that this language
normally shields the Government from contract liability
where a change in the law prevents it from carrying out its
side of the bargain. In my view, however, this language,

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
BREYER, J.,

concurring

while perhaps appropriate in the circumstances of the cases
in which it appears, was not intended to displace the rules of
contract interpretation applicable to the Government as well
as private contractors in numerous ordinary cases, and in
certain unusual cases, such as this one. Primarily for reasons explained in the principal opinion, this doctrine does
not shield the Government from liability here.
Both common sense and precedent make clear that an "unmistakable" promise to bear the risk of a change in the law
is not required in every circumstance in which a private
party seeks contract damages from the Government. Imagine, for example, that the General Services Administration
or the Department of Defense were to enter into a garden
variety contract to sell a surplus commodity such as oil,
under circumstances where (1) the time of shipment is critically important, (2) the parties are aware that pending environmental legislation could prevent the shipment, and (3) the
fair inference from the circumstances is that if the environmental legislation occurs and prevents shipment, a private
seller would incur liability for failure to ship on time.
Under ordinary principles of contract law, one would construe the contract in terms of the parties' intent, as revealed
by language and circumstance. See The Binghamton
Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, 74 (1866) ("All contracts are to be construed to accomplish the intention of the parties"); Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 202(1) (1979) ('Words and other
conduct are interpreted in the light of all the circumstances,
and if the principal purpose of the parties is ascertainable it
is given great weight"). If the language and circumstances
showed that the parties intended the seller to bear the risk
of a performance-defeating change in the law, the seller
would have to pay damages. See id., § 261 (no liability
where "a party's performance is made impracticable without
his fault by the occurrence of an event i. e., the new environmental regulation] the non-occurrence of which was a basic
assumption on which the contract was made ... unless the

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
BREYER, J.,

concurring

language or the circumstances indicate the contrary" (emphasis added)).
The Court has often said, as a general matter, that the
"rights and duties" contained in a Government contract "are
governed generally by the law applicable to contracts between private individuals." Lynch v. United States, 292
U. S. 571, 579 (1934); see Perry v. United States, 294 U. S.
330, 352 (1935) (same); Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700,
719 (1879) ("The United States are as much bound by their
contracts as are individuals. If they repudiate their obligations, it is as much repudiation, with all the wrong and reproach that term implies, as it would be if the repudiator had
been a State or a municipality or a citizen"); United States
v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, 144 (1872) (same); United States v.
Gibbons, 109 U. S. 200, 203-204 (1883) (where contract language "susceptible of two meanings," Government's broader
obligation was "sufficiently plain" from "the circumstances
attending the transaction"); see also, e. g., Russell v. Sebastian, 233 U. S. 195, 205 (1914) (public grants to be given
a "fair and reasonable" interpretation that gives effect to
what it "satisfactorily appears" the government intended to
convey).
The Court has also indicated that similar principles apply
in certain cases where courts have had to determine whether
or not a government seller is liable involving contracts resembling the ones before us. In Lynch, supra, for example,
the Court held that the Federal Government must compensate holders of "war risk insurance" contracts, the promises
of which it had abrogated through postcontract legislation.
In the "gold clause" case, Perry,supra, the Court held that
subsequent legislation could not abrogate a Government
bond's promises to pay principal and interest in gold. In
neither case did the Court suggest that an "unmistakable"
promise, beyond that discernible using ordinary principles of
contract interpretation, was necessary before liability could
be imposed on the Government.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
BREYER, J.,

concurring

This approach is unsurprising, for in practical terms it ensures that the government is able to obtain needed goods
and services from parties who might otherwise, quite rightly,
be unwilling to undertake the risk of government contracting. See, e. g., Detroitv. Detroit Citizens' Street R. Co., 184
U. S. 368, 384 (1902) (rejecting as "hardly... credible" the
city's suggestion that the fare rate agreed on with railroad
company, which "amounted to a contract," would be "subject
to change from time to time" at the city's pleasure); Murray
v. Charleston, 96 U. S. 432, 445 (1878) (A government contract "should be regarded as an assurance that [a sovereign
right to withhold payment] will not be exercised. A promise
to pay, with a reserved right to deny or change the effect of
the promise, is an absurdity"); New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S.
104, 116-117 (1877) (same). This is not to say that the government is always treated just like a private party. The
simple fact that it is the government may well change the
underlying circumstances, leading to a different inference as
to the parties' likely intent-say, making it far less likely
that they intend to make a promise that will oblige the government to hold private parties harmless in the event of a
change in the law. But to say this is to apply, not to disregard, the ordinary rule of contract law.
This approach is also consistent with congressional intent,
as revealed in Congress' determination to permit, under the
Tucker Act, awards of damages and other relief against the
United States for "any claim . . . founded . . . upon any
express or implied contract." 28 U. S. C. § 1491(a)(1). The
thrifts invoked this provision in their complaints as the basis
for jurisdiction to adjudicate their claims in the lower courts,
see App. 8 (Winstar), 137 (Statesman), and 546 (Glendale);
and, as the principal opinion explains, ante, at 858-859, the
lower courts held that each proved the existence of an express promise by the Government to grant them particular
regulatory treatment for a period of years. For my purposes, the provision is relevant only to show that Congress

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
BREYER, J.,

concurring

clearly contemplated the award of damages for breach
against the Government in some contexts where the Government's promises are far from "unmistakable" as the Government defines that term. While in this case, the lower courts
found the promises to be "express," this Court has in other
cases interpreted § 1491(a)(1) to permit claims for relief
based on an "implied in fact" promise, which can be a promise "founded upon a meeting of minds, which, although not
embodied in an express contract, is inferred, as a fact, from
conduct of the parties showing, in the light of the surrounding circumstances, their tacit understanding." Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 592, 597 (1923); see
Hercules, Inc. v. United States, 516 U. S. 417, 424 (1996).
These interpretations, as well as the statutory language,
lend further support to the view that ordinary government
contracts are typically governed by the rules applicable to
contracts between private parties.
There are, moreover, at least two good reasons to think
that the cases containing special language of "unmistakability" do not, as the Government suggests, impose an additional "clear-statement" rule, see Brief for United States 19,
that shields the Government from liability here. First, it is
not clear that the "unmistakability" language was determinative of the outcome in those cases. In two of the three cases
in which that language appears (and several of the older
cases from which it is derived), the private parties claimed
that the sovereign had effectively promised not to change
the law in an area of law not mentioned in the contract at
issue. In Merrion v. JicarillaApache Tribe, 455 U. S., at
148, for example, the contracts were leases by a sovereign
Indian Tribe to private parties of rights to extract oil and
gas from tribal lands. The private party claimed that the
leases contained an implicit waiver of the power to impose a
severance tax on the oil and gas. The Court pointed out
that the leases said nothing about taxes, thereby requiring
an inference of intent from "silence." Ibid. Though the

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
BREYER, J., concurring

opinion contains language of "unmistakability," the Court
was not called upon in Merrion to decide whether a sovereign's promise not to change the law (or to pay damages if it
did) was clear enough to justify liability, because there was
no evidence of any such promise in the "contracts" in that
case. Yet, that is the effect the Government asks us to give
the "unmistakability" language in Merrion here.
The Court in Merrioncited Home Building & Loan Assn.
v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398 (1934), and St. Louis v. United
Railways Co., 210 U. S. 266 (1908), which in turn referred to
a line of cases in which the Court held that a government's
grant of a bank charter did not carry with it a promise not
to tax the bank unless expressed "in terms too plain to be
mistaken." Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black 436,
446 (1862). These cases illustrate the same point made
above: Where a state-granted charter, or franchise agreement, did not implicate a promise not to tax, the Court held
that no such promise was made. See Providence Bank v.
Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 560, 561 (1830) (promise not to tax
"ought not to be presumed" where "deliberate purpose of the
state to abandon" power to tax "does not appear"); St. Louis,
supra, at 274 (right to tax "still exists unless there is a distinct agreement, clearly expressed, that the sums to be paid
are in lieu of all such exactions"). But, where the sovereign
had made an express promise not to tax, the Court gave that
promise its intended effect. See Jefferson, supra, at 450;
PiquaBranch of State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 369,
378 (1854) (same); New Jersey v. Yard, supra, at 115-117
(same).
Similarly, in the second "unmistakability" case, United
States v. Cherokee Nation of Okla., 480 U. S., at 706-707, a
Government treaty granted the Tribe title to a riverbed, but
it said nothing about the Government's pre-existing right to
navigate the river. The Court held that it was most unlikely
that a treaty silent on the matter would have conveyed the
Government's navigational rights to the Tribe, particularly

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
BREYER, J.,

since "[t]he parties

..

.

concurring

clearly understood that the [Govern-

ment's] navigational" rights were "dominant no matter how
the question of riverbed ownership was resolved." Id., at
706.
The remaining case, Bowen v. PublicAgencies Opposed to
Social Security Entrapment,477 U. S. 41 (1986), concerned
an alleged promise closely related to the subject matter of
the contract. A State and several state agencies claimed
that Congress, in enacting a statute that gave States flexibility to include or withdraw certain employees from a federal social security program, promised not to change that
"withdrawal" flexibility. But in Bowen, the statute itself
expressly reserved to Congress the right to "alter, amend,
or repeal" any of the statute's provisions. See id., at 55.
Hence, it is not surprising to find language in Bowen to the
effect that other circumstances would have to be "unmistakable" before the Court could find a congressional promise to
the contrary.
A second reason to doubt the Government's interpretation
of the "unmistakability" language is that, in all these cases,
the language was directed at the claim that the sovereign
had made a broad promise not to legislate, or*otherwise to
exercise its sovereign powers. Even in the cases in which
damages were sought (e. g., Bowen, Cherokee Nation), the
Court treated the claimed promise as a promise not to
change the law, rather than as the kind of promise more normally at issue in contract cases, including this one-namely,
a promise that obliges the government to hold a party harmless from a change in the law that the government remains
free to make. See, e. g., Bowen, supra, at 52 (lower court
decision "effectively... forbid[s] Congress to amend a provision of the Social Security Act"); Cherokee Nation, supra, at
707 (refusing to conclude that the Tribe "gained an exemption from the [Government's navigational] servitude simply
because it received title to the riverbed interests"). It is
difficult to believe that the Court intended its "unmistaka-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
BREYER, J., concurring

bility" language in these unusual cases to disable future
courts from inferring, from language and circumstance under
ordinary contract principles, a more narrow promise in more
typical cases-say, a promise not to abrogate, or to restrict
severely through legislation and without compensation, the
very right that a sovereign explicitly granted by contract
(e. g., the right to drill for oil, or to use the riverbed).
The Government attempts to answer this objection to its
reading of the "unmistakability" language by arguing that
any award of "substantial damages" against the government
for breach of contract through a change in the law "unquestionably carries the danger that needed future regulatory
action will be deterred," and thus amounts to an infringement on sovereignty requiring an "unmistakable" promise.
Brief for Petitioner 21. But this rationale has no logical
stopping point. See, e. g., United States Trust Co. of N. Y
v. New Jersey, 431 U. S. 1, 24 (1977) ("Any financial obligation
could be regarded in theory as a relinquishment of the
State's spending power, since money spent to repay debts is
not available f6r other purposes .... Notwithstanding these
effects, the Court has regularly held that the States are
bound by their debt contracts"). It is difficult to see how
the Court could,, in a principled fashion, apply the Government's rule in this case without also making it applicable to
the ordinary contract case (like the hypothetical sale of oil)
which, for the reasons explained above, are properly governed by ordinary principles of contract law. To draw the
line-i. e., to apply a more stringent rule of contract interpretation-based only on the amount of money at stake, and
therefore (in the Government's terms) the degree to which
future exercises of sovereign authority may be deterred,
seems unsatisfactory. As the Government acknowledges,
see Brief for United States 41, n. 34, this Court has previously rejected the argument that Congress has "the power
to repudiate its own debts, which constitute 'property' to the
lender, simply in order to save money." Bowen, supra, at

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
BREYER, J.,

concurring

55 (citing Perry,294 U. S., at 350-351, and Lynch, 292 U. S.,
at 576-577).
In sum, these two factors, along with the general principle
that the government is ordinarily treated like a private
party when it enters into contracts, means that the "unmistakability" language might simply have underscored the special circumstances that would have been required to convince
the Court of the existence of the claimed promise in the cases
before it. At most, the language might have grown out of
unique features of sovereignty, believed present in those
cases, which, for reasons of policy, might have made appropriate a special caution in implying the claimed promise.
But, I do not believe that language was meant to establish
an "unmistakability" rule that controls more ordinary contracts, or that controls the outcome here.
The Government attempts to show that such special circumstances, warranting application of an unmistakability
principle, are present in this case. To be sure, it might seem
unlikely, in the abstract, that the Government would have
intended to make a binding promise that would oblige it to
hold the thrifts harmless from the effects of future regulation (or legislation) in such a high-risk, highly regulated context as the accounting practices of failing savings and loans.
But, as the principal opinion's careful examination of the
circumstances reveals, that is exactly what the Government
did. Th6 thrifts demonstrate that specific promises were
made to accord them particular regulatory treatment for a
period of years, which, when abrogated by subsequent legislation, rendered the Government liable for breach of contract. These promises affect only those thrifts with preexisting contracts of a certain kind. They are promises that
the banks seek to infer from the explicit language of the contracts, not ones they read into contracts silent on the matter.
And, there is no special policy reason related to sovereignty
which would justify applying an "unmistakability" principle
here. For these reasons, I join the principal opinion.

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
SCALIA, J.,

JUSTICE

SCALIA,

concurring in judgment

with whom JUSTICE KENNEDY and

THOMAS join, concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the principal opinion that the contracts at
issue in this case gave rise to an obligation on the part of
the Government to afford respondents favorable accounting
treatment, and that the contracts were broken by the Government's discontinuation of that favorable treatment, as required by FIRREA, 12 U. S. C. § 1464(t). My reasons for
rejecting the Government's defenses to this contract action
are, however, quite different from the principal opinion's, so
I must write separately to state briefly the basis for my vote.
The principal opinion dispenses with three of the four
"sovereign" defenses raised by the Government simply by
characterizing the contracts at issue as "risk-shifting agreements" that amount to nothing more than "promises by the
Government to insure [respondents] against any losses arising from future regulatory change." Ante, at 881. Thus
understood, the principal opinion explains, the contracts purport, not to constrain the exercise of sovereign power, but
only to make the exercise of that power an event resulting
in liability for the Government-with the consequence that
the peculiarly sovereign defenses raised by the Government
are simply inapplicable. This approach has several difficulties, the first being that it has no basis in our cases, which
have not made the availability of these sovereign defenses
(as opposed to their validity on the merits) depend upon the
nature of the contract at issue. But in any event, it is questionable whether, even as a matter of normal contract law,
the exercise in contract characterization in which the principal opinion engages is really valid. Virtually every contract
operates, not as a guarantee of particular future conduct, but
as an assumption of liability in the event of nonperformance:
"The duty to keep a contract at common law means a prediction that you must pay damages if you do not keep it,.and nothing else." Holmes, The Path of the Law (1897), in
3 The Collected Works of Justice Holmes 391, 394 (S. Novick
JUSTICE

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment

ed. 1995). See Horwitz-Matthews, Inc. v. Chicago, 78 F. 3d
1248, 1250-1251 (CA7 1996).
In this case, it was an unquestionably sovereign act of
government-enactment and implementation of provisions
of FIRREA regarding treatment of regulatory capital-that
gave rise to respondents' claims of breach of contract.
Those claims were premised on the assertion that, in the
course of entering into various agreements with respondents, the Government had undertaken to continue certain
regulatory policies with respect to respondents' recently acquired thrifts; and the Government countered that assertion,
in classic fashion, with the primary defense that contractual
restrictions on sovereign authority will be recognized only
where unmistakably expressed. The "unmistakability" doctrine has been applied to precisely this sort of situationwhere a sovereign act is claimed to deprive a party of the
benefits of a prior bargain with the government. See, e. g.,
Merrion v. JicarillaApache Tribe, 455 U. S. 130, 135-136,
145-148 (1982).
Like THE CHIEF JUSTICE, see post, at 924-931, I believe
that the unmistakability doctrine applies here, but unlike
him I do not think it forecloses respondents' claims. In my
view, the doctrine has little if any independent legal force
beyond what would be dictated by normal principles of
contract interpretation. It is simply a rule of presumed
(or implied-in-fact) intent. Generally, contract law imposes
upon a party to a contract liability for any impossibility of
performance that is attributable to that party's own actions.
That is a reasonable estimation of what the parties intend.
When I promise to do x in exchange for your doing y, I impliedly promise not to do anything that will disable me from
doing x, or disable you from doing y-so that if either of our
performances is rendered impossible by such an act on my
part, I am not excused from my obligation. When the contracting party is the government, however, it is simply not
reasonable to presume an intent of that sort. To the con-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
SCALIA, J.,

concurring in judgment

trary, it is reasonable to presume (unless the opposite clearly
appears) that the sovereign does not promise that none of
its multifarious sovereign acts, needful for the public good,
will incidentally disable it or the other party from performing one of the promised acts. The requirement of unmistakability embodies this reversal of the normal reasonable
presumption. Governments do not ordinarily agree to curtail their sovereign or legislative powers, and contracts must
be interpreted in a commonsense way against that background understanding.
Here, however, respondents contend that they have overcome this reverse presumption that the Government remains
free to make its own performance impossible through its
manner of regulation. Their claim is that the Government
quite plainly promised to regulate them in a particular fashion, into the future. They say that the very subject matter
of these agreements, an essential part of the quid pro quo,
was Government regulation; unless the Government is bound
as to that regulation,an aspect of the transactions that reasonably must be viewed as a sine qua non of their assent
becomes illusory. I think they are correct. If, as the dissent believes, the Government committed only "to provide
[certain] treatment unless and until there is subsequent action," post, at 935, then the Government in effect said "we
promise to regulate in this fashion for as long as we choose
to regulate in this fashion"--which is an absolutely classic
description of an illusory promise. See 1 R.Lord, Williston
on Contracts § 1:2, p.. 11 (4th ed. 1990). In these circumstances, it is unmistakably clear that the promise to accord
favorable regulatory treatment must be understood as (unsurprisingly) a promise to accord favorable regulatory treatment. I do not accept that unmistakability demands that
there be a further promise not to go back on the promise to
accord favorable regulatory treatment.
The dissent says that if the Government agreed to accord
the favorable regulatory treatment "in the short term, but

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
SCALiA, J., concurring in judgment

made no commitment about ...the long term, respondents
still received consideration." Post, at 935. That is true
enough, but it is quite impossible to construe these contracts
as providing for only "short term" favorable treatment, with
the long term up for grabs: Either there was an undertaking
to regulate respondents as agreed for the specified amortization periods, or there was no promise regarding the future
at all-not even so much as a peppercorn's worth.
In sum, the special role of the agencies, and the terms and
circumstances of the transactions, provide an adequate basis
for saying that the promises that the trial court and the
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit found to have been
made in these cases were unmistakable ones. To be sure,
those courts were not looking for "unmistakable" promises,
see post, at 936, but unmistakability is an issue of law that
we can determine here. It was found below that the Government had plainly made promises to regulate in a certain
fashion, into the future; I agree with those findings, and I
would conclude, for the reasons set forth above, that the
promises were unmistakable. Indeed, it is hard to imagine
what additional assurance that the course of regulation
would not change could have been demanded-other than,
perhaps, the Government's promise to keep its promise.
That is not what the doctrine of unmistakability requires.
While it is true enough, as the dissent points out, that one
who deals with the Government may need to "'turn square
corners,' post, at 937 (quoting Rock Island, A. & L. R. Co.
v. United States, 254 U. S. 141, 143 (1920)), he need not turn
them twice.
The Government's remaining arguments are, I think,
readily rejected. The scope and force of the "reserved powers" and "express delegation" defenses-which the principal
opinion thinks inapplicable based on its view of the nature of
the contracts at issue here, see ante, at 888-890-have not
been well defined by our prior cases. The notion of "reserved powers" seems to stand principally for the proposi-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
SCAUIA, J., concurring in judgment

tion that certain core governmental powers cannot be surrendered, see, e. g., Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814 (1880);
thus understood, that doctrine would have no force where,
as here, the private party to the contract does not seek to
stay the exercise of sovereign authority, but merely requests
damages for breach of contract. To the extent this Court
has suggested that the notion of "reserved powers" contemplates, under some circumstances, nullification of even monetary governmental obligations .pursuant to exercise of "the
federal police power or some other paramount power,"
Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S. 571, 579 (1934), I do not
believe that regulatory measures designed to minimize what
are essentially assumed commercial risks are the sort of "police power" or "paramount power" referred to. And whatever is required by the "express delegation" doctrine is to
my mind satisfied by the statutes which the principal opinion
identifies as conferring upon the various federal bank regulatory agencies involved in this case authority to enter into
agreements of the sort at issue here, see ante, at 890-891.
Finally, in my view the Government cannot escape its obligations by appeal to the so-called "sovereign acts" doctrine.
That doctrine was first articulated in Court of Claims cases,
and has apparently been applied by this Court in only a single case, our 3-page opinion in Horowitz v. United States,
267 U. S. 458, decided in 1925 and cited only once since, in a
passing reference, see Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S. 317,
327 (1935). Horowitz holds that "the United States when
sued as a contractor cannot be held liable for an obstruction
to the performance of [a] particular contract resulting from
its public and general acts as a sovereign." 267 U. S., at 461.
In my view the "sovereign acts" doctrine adds little,
if anything at all, to the "unmistakability" doctrine, and
is avoided whenever that one would be-i. e., whenever it is
clear from the contract in question that the Government was
committing itself not to rely upon its sovereign acts in asserting (or defending against) the doctrine of impossibility,

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

which is another way of saying that the Government had
assumed the risk of a change in its laws. That this is the
correct interpretation of Horowitz is made clear, I think, by
our two principal cases of this century holding that the Government may not simply repudiate its contractual obligations, Lynch v. United States, supra, and Perry v. United
States, 294 U. S. 330 (1935). Those cases, which are barely
discussed in the principal opinion, failed even to mention
Horowitz. In both of them, as here, Congress specifically
set out to abrogate the essential bargain of the contracts
at issue-and in both we declared such abrogation to amount
to impermissible repudiation. See Lynch, supra, at 578580; Perry,supra, at 350-354.
For the foregoing reasons, I concur in the judgment.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE GINS-

BURG joins as to Parts I, III, and IV, dissenting.
The principal opinion works sweeping changes in two related areas of the law dealing with goveinment contracts.
It drastically reduces the scope of the unmistakability doctrine, shrouding the residue with clouds of uncertainty, and
it limits the sovereign acts doctrine so that it will have-virtually no future application. I respectfully dissent.

I
The principal opinion properly recognizes that the unmistakability doctrine is a "special rule" of government
contracting which provides, in essence, a "canon of contract
construction that surrenders of sovereign authority must appear in unmistakable terms." Ante, at 860. Exercises of
the sovereign authority include of course the power to tax
and, relevant to this case, the authority to regulate.
The most recent opinion of this Court dealing with the
unmistakability doctrine is United States v. Cherokee Nation
of Okla., 480 U. S. 700 (1987). That case quoted language
from Bowen v. Public Agencies Opposed to Social Security

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
REHNquisT, C. J., dissenting

Entrapment, 477 U. S. 41 (1986), which relied on Merrion v.
JicdrillaApache Tribe, 455 U. S. 130, 148 (1982), and Merrion, in turn, quoted the much earlier case of St. Louis v.
United Railways Co., 210 U. S. 266 (1908). St. Louis involved an agreement by the city to grant street railway companies use and occupancy of the streets, in exchange for specified consideration which included an annual license fee
of $25 for each car used. Id., at 272. When the city later
passed an ordinance amending the license tax and imposing
an additional tax based on the number of passengers riding
each car, the railway companies challenged that amendment
as a violation of the Contracts Clause. The Court there said
that such a governmental power to tax resides in the city
"unless this right has been specifically surrendered in terms
which admit of no other reasonable interpretation." Id.,
at 280.
Merrion,supra, was similar, but involved the sovereignty
of an Indian Tribe. The Tribe had allowed oil companies to
extract oil and natural gas deposits on the reservation land
in exchange for the usual cash bonus, royalties, and rents to
the Tribe. The Court found that, in so contracting, the
Tribe had not surrendered its power to impose subsequently
a severance tax on that production. Merrion explains that
"[w]ithout regard to its source[-be it federal, state, local
government, or Indian-]sovereign power, even when unexercised, is an enduring presence that governs all contracts
subject to the sovereign's jurisdiction, and will remain intact
unless surrendered in unmistakable terms." 455 U. S., at
148.
Next, Bowen, supra, addressed Congress' repeal of a law
that had once allowed States which contracted to bring their
employees into the Federal Social Security System, to terminate that agreement and their participation upon due notice.
Bowen, therefore, considered not the imposition of a tax as
St. Louis and Merrion, but an amendment to a statutory
provision that existed as a background rule when and under

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

which the contracts were formed-much like this case. The
Bowen Court repeated the quoted language from Merrion,
and reminded that "contractual arrangements, including
those to which a sovereign itself is a party, 'remain subject
to subsequent legislation' by the sovereign." Bowen, supra,
at 52 (quoting Merrion, supra, at 147).
Finally, we have Cherokee Nation, supra, in which the
Court applied the unmistakability doctrine to a treaty, rather
than a typical contract. Under the treaty the United States
had granted to an Indian Tribe fee simple title to a riverbed.
The Tribe claimed that the United States had not reserved
its navigational servitude and hence that the Government's
construction of a navigational channel that destroyed the
riverbed's mineral interests was a taking under the Fifth
Amendment without just compensation. The Court ruled
that the treaty had not provided the Tribe an exemption
from the navigational servitude, quoting from Bowen and
Merrion the statement that "[s]uch a waiver of sovereign
authority will not be implied, but instead must be "'surrendered in unmistakable terms.""' Id., at 707.
These cases have stood until now for the well-understood
proposition just quoted above-a waiver of sovereign authority will not be implied, but instead must be surrendered in
unmistakable terms. Today, however, the principal opinion
drastically limits the circumstances under which the doctrine
will apply by drawing a distinction never before seen in our
case law. The principal opinion tells us the unmistakability
doctrine will apply where a plaintiff either seeks injunctive
relief to hold the Government to its alleged surrender of sovereign authority (which generally means granting the plaintiff an exemption to the changed law), or seeks a damages
award which would be "the equivalent of" such an injunction
or exemption. Ante, at 879-880. But the doctrine will not
apply where a plaintiff seeks an award for damages caused by
the exercise of that sovereign authority. We are told that if
the alleged agreement is not one to bind the Government to

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

refrain from exercising regulatory authority, but is one to
shift the risk of a change in regulatory rules, the unmistakability doctrine does not apply. And, perhaps more remarkable,
the principal opinion tells us that the Government will virtually always have assumed this risk in the regulatory context,
by operation of law. Ante, at 869-870, 905-906.
The first problem with the principal opinion's formulation is
apractical one. How do we know whether "the award of damages" will be "the equivalent of [an] exemption," ante, at 879880, before we assess the damages? In this case, for example,
"there has been no demonstration that awarding damages
for breach would be tantamount" to an exemption to the regulatory change, ante, at 881; and there has been no demonstration to the contrary either. Thus we do not know in this
very case whether the award of damages would "amount to"
an injunction, ante, at 882. If it did, under the principal opinion's theory, the unmistakability doctrine would apply, and
that application may preclude respondents' claim.
But even if we could solve that problem by determining
the damages before liability, and by finding the award to be
some amount other than the cost of an exemption, we would
still be left with a wholly unsatisfactory distinction. Few, if
any, of the plaintiffs in the unmistakability-doctrine cases
would have insisted on an injunction, exemption, or their
damages equivalent if they had known they could have
avoided the doctrine by claiming the Government had agreed
to assume the risk, and asking for an award of damages for
breaching that implied agreement. It is impossible to know
the monetary difference between such awards and, as the
principal opinion suggests, the award for a breach of the
risk-shifting agreement may even be more generous.
The principal opinion's newly minted distinction is not only
untenable, but is contrary to our decisions in Cherokee Nation and Bowen. The Cherokee Nation sought damages and
compensation for harm resulting from the Government's navigational servitude. Cherokee Nation, 480 U. S., at 701.

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

Indeed, one of the Tribe's arguments, upheld*by the Court
of Appeals, was that the United States could exercise its
navigational servitude under the treaty, but that the Tribe
had a right to compensation for any diminution in the value
of its riverbed property.
Likewise, some of the plaintiffs in Bowen sought damages.
They sought just compensation for the revocation of their
alleged contractual right to terminate the employees' participation in the Social Security Program. The District Court
in the decision which we reviewed in fact commented, as this
Court reported, that it found that the "'only rational compensation would be reimbursement by the' United States to
the State or public agencies, of the amount of money they
currently pay to the United States for their participation."'
Bowen, 477 U. S., at 51 (quoting Public Agencies Opposed
to Social Security Entrapment v. Heckler, 613 F. Supp.
558, 575 (ED Cal. 1985)). It was only because the District
Court concluded that awarding this "measure of damages"
was contradictory to the will of Congress that the court refrained from making such an award and instead simply
declared the statutory, amendment unconstitutional. 477
U.S., at 51. Neither Cherokee. Nation nor Bowen hinted
that the unmistakability doctrines applied in their case because the damages remedy sought "amount[ed] to" an injunction. Ante, at 882.
In St. Louis v. United Railways Co., 210 U. S. 266 (1908),
the plaintiff railway companies did seek to enjoin the enforcement of the tax by the city, and perhaps that case fits
neatly within the principal opinion's scaled-down version of
the unmistakability doctrine. But sophisticated lawyers in
the future, litigating a claim exactly like the one in St. Louis,
need only claim that the sovereign implicitly agreed not to
change their tax treatment, and request damages for breach
of that agreement. There will presumably be no unmistakability doctrine to contend with, and they will be in the same
position as if they had successfully enjoined the tax. Such

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
REHNQUIST, C.J., dissenting

a result has an Alice in Wonderland aspect to it, which suggests the distinction upon which it is based is a fallacious one.
The principal opinion justifies its novel departure from
existing law by noting that the contracts involved in the
present case-unlike those in Merrion,Bowen, and Cherokee
Nation--"do not purport to bind the Congress from enacting
regulatory measures." Ante, at 881. But that is precisely
what the unmistakability doctrine, as a canon of construction, is designed to determine: Did the contract surrender
the authority to enact or amend regulatory measures as to
the contracting party? If the sovereign did surrender its
power unequivocally, and the sovereign breached that agreement to surrender, then and only then would the issue of
remedy for that breach arise.
The second reason the principal opinion advances for its
limitation on the unmistakability doctrine is that if it were
applied to all actions for damages, it would impair the Government's ability to enter into contracts. But the law is well
established that Congress may not simply abrogate a statutory provision obligating performance without breaching the
contract and rendering itself liable for damages. See Lynch
v. United States, 292 U. S. 571, 580 (1934); Bowen, supra, at
52. Equally well established, however, is that the sovereign
does not shed its sovereign powers just because it contracts.
See ProvidenceBank v. Billings,4 Pet. 514, 565 (1830). The
Government's contracting authority has survived from the
beginning of the Nation with no diminution in bidders, so far
as I am aware, without the curtailment of the unmistakability doctrine announced today.
The difficulty caused by the principal opinion's departure
from existing law is best shown by its own analysis of the
contracts presently before us. The principal opinion tells us
first that "[n]othing in the documentation or the circumstances of these transactions purported to bar the Government from changing the way in which it regulated the thrift
industry." Ante, at 868. But, it agrees with the finding of

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

the Federal Circuit, that "'the Bank Board and the FSLIC
were contractually bound to recognize the supervisory goodwill and the amortization periods reflected' in the agreements between the parties." Ibid.* From this finding, the
principal opinion goes on to say that "[w]e read this promise
as the law of contracts has always treated promises to provide something beyond the promisor's absolute control, that
is, as a promise to insure the promisee against loss arising
from the promised condition's nonoccurrence." Ante, at
868-869. Then, in a footnote, the opinion concedes that "[t]o
be sure, each side could have eliminated any serious contest
about the correctness of their interpretive positions by using
clearer language." Ante, at 869, n. 15.
But if there is a "serious contest" about the correctness of
their interpretive positions, surely the unmistakability doctrine-a canon of construction-has a role to play in resolving that contest. And the principal opinion's reading of additional terms into the contract so that the contract contains
an unstated, additional promise to insure the promisee
against loss arising from the promised condition's nonoccurrence seems the very essence of a promise implied in law,
which is not even actionable under the Tucker Act, rather
than a promise implied in fact, which is. See Hercules, Inc.
v. United States, 516 U. S. 417, 423 (1996).
At any rate, the unmistakability doctrine never comes into
play, according to the principal opinion, because we cannot
know whether the damages which could be recovered in later
proceedings would be akin to a rebate of a tax, and therefore
the "equivalent of" an injunction. This approach tosses to
the winds any idea of the unmistakability doctrine as a canon
of construction; if a canon of construction cannot come into
play until the contract has first been interpreted as to liabil*Of course it must be remembered that the Federal Circuit had also
said that the unmistakability doctrine does not apply where damages are

being sought, an approach that even the principal opinion cannot expressly endorse.

Cite as: 518 U.-S. 839 (1996)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

ity by an appellate court, and remanded for computation of
damages, it is no canon of construction at all.
The principal opinion's search for some unifying theme for
somewhat similar cases from Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cranch 87,
in 1810, to the present day is an interesting intellectual exercise, but its practical fruit is inedible.
II
The principal opinion also makes major changes in the existing sovereign acts doctrine which render the doctrine a
shell. The opinion formally acknowledges the classic statement of the doctrine in Horowitz v. United States, 267 U. S.
458 (1925), quoting: "'[i]t has long been held by the Court of
Claims that the United States when sued as a contractor
cannot be held liable for an obstruction of the performance
of the particular contract resulting from its public and general acts as a sovereign."' Ante, at 892 (quoting 267 U. S.,
at 461). The principal opinion says that this statement cannot be taken at face value, however, because it reads "the
essential point" of Horowitz to be "to put the Government
in the same position that it would have enjoyed as a private
contractor." Ante, at 892; see also ante, at 893 (Horowitz
emphasized "the need to treat the Government-as-contractor
the same as a private party"). But neither Horowitz, nor
the Court of Claims cases upon which it relies, confine themselves to so narrow a rule. As the quotations from them in
the principal opinion show, the early cases emphasized the
dual roles of Government, as contractor and as sovereign.
See, e. g., Deming v. United States, 1 Ct. Cl. 190, 191 (1865)
("The United States as a contractor are not responsible for
the United States as a lawgiver"). By minimizing the role
of lawgiver and expanding the role as private contractor,
the principal opinion has thus casually, but improperly, reworked the sovereign acts doctrine.
The principal opinion further cuts into the sovereign acts
doctrine by defining the "public and general" nature of an

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

dissenting

act as depending on the government's motive for enacting it.
The new test is to differentiate between "regulatory legislation that is relatively free of Government self-interest" and
"statutes tainted by a governmental object of self-relief."
Ante, at 896. We are then elevated to a higher jurisprudential level by reference to the general philosophical principles
enunciated in Hurtado v. California,110 U. S. 516, 535-536
(1884), that "[law... must be not a special rule for a particular person or a particular case, but... 'the general law...'
so 'that every citizen shall hold his life, liberty, property and
immunities under the protection of the general rules which
govern society."' Surely this marks a bold, if not brash, innovation in the heretofore somewhat mundane law of government contracts; that law is now to be seasoned by an
opinion holding that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment did not make applicable to the States the
requirement that a criminal proceeding be initiated by indictment of a grand jury.
The principal opinion does not tell us, nor do these lofty
jurisprudential principles inform us, how we are to decide
whether a particular statute is "free of governmental selfinterest," on the one hand, or "tainted by" a government
objective of "self-relief," on the other. In the normal sense
of the word, any tax reform bill which tightens or closes tax
loopholes is directed to "government self-relief," since it is
designed to put more money into the public coffers. Be the
act ever so general in its reform of the tax laws, it apparently
would not be a "sovereign act" allowing the Government to
defend against a claim by a taxpayer that he had received
an interpretation from the Internal Revenue Service that
a particular type of income could continue to be treated in
accordance with existing statutes or regulations.
But we are told "self-relief" is not, as one might expect,
necessarily determined by whether the Government benefited financially from the legislation. For example, in this
case the principal opinion acknowledges that we do not know

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

dissenting

"the dollar value of the relief the Government would obtain"
if respondents had to comply with the modified capitalinfusion requirements. Ante, at 900. Rather the opinion
concludes that FIRREA, the law involved in this case,
was "tainted by" self-relief based on "the attention" that
Congressmen "[gave] to the regulatory contracts prior to
passage" of the Act. Ibid.
Indeed, judging from the principal opinion's use of comments of individual legislators in connection with the enactment of FIRREA, it would appear that the sky is the limit
so far as judicial inquiries into the question whether the
statute was "free of governmental self-interest" or rather
"tainted" by a Government objective of "self-relief." It is
difficult to imagine a more unsettling doctrine to insert
into the law of Government contracts. By fusing the roles
of the Government as lawgiver and as contractor-exactly
what Horowitz warned against doing-the principal opinion
makes some sort of legislative intent critical in deciding
these questions. When it enacted FIRREA was the Government interested in saving its own money, or was it interested in preserving the savings of those who had money invested in the failing thrifts?
I think it preferable, rather than either importing great
natural-law principles or probing legislators' intent to modify
the sovereign acts doctrine, to leave that law where it is.
Lynch stands for the proposition that the congressional repeal of a statute authorizing the payment of money pursuant
to a contractual agreement is a breach of that contract. But,
as the term "public and general" implies, a more general regulatory enactment-whether it be the Legal Tender Acts involved in Deming, supra, or the embargo on shipments of
silk by freight involved in Horowitz-cannot by its enforcement give rise to contractual liability on the part of the
Government.
Judged by these standards, FIRREA was a general regulatory enactment. It is entitled "[a]n [a]ct to reform, recapi-

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

talize, and consolidate the Federal deposit insurance system,
to enhance the regulatory and enforcement powers of federal
financial institutions regulatory agencies, and for other purposes." 103 Stat. 183. As the principal opinion itself explains, "FIRREA made enormous changes in the structure
of federal thrift regulation by (1) abolishing FSLIC and
transferring its functions to other agencies; (2) creating a
new thrift deposit insurance fund under the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation; (3) replacing the Bank Board with the
Office of Thrift Supervision... ; and (4) establishing the Resolution Trust Corporation to liquidate or otherwise dispose of
certain closed thrifts and their assets." Ante, at 856 (emphasis added). The Act occupies 372 pages in the Statutes at
Large, and under 12 substantive titles contains more than 150
numbered sections. Among those sections are the ones involved in the present case. Insofar as this comprehensive enactment regulated the use of goodwill, it did so without respect
to how closely the savings association was regulated; its provisions dealt with the right of any thrift association, after the
date of its enactment, to count intangible assets as capital.
See 12 U. S. C. §§ 1464(t)(1)(A), (2), (3), (9). And by these provisions, the capital standards of thrifts were brought into line
with those applicable to national banks. See § 1464(t)(1)(C).
The principal opinion does not dispute that Congress, through
this mammoth legislation, "acted to protect the public."
Ante, at 903.
III
JUSTICE SCALIA finds that the unmistakability doctrine
does apply to the contracts before us. He explains that
when the government is a contracting party, "it is reasonable

to presume . .. that the sovereign does not promise that
none of its multifarious sovereign acts ... will incidentally

disable it or the other party from performing," under the
contract, "unless the opposite clearly appears." Ante, at
921. In other words, the sovereign's right to take subsequent action continues "unless th[e] right has been specifi-

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

cally surrendered in terms which admit of no other reasonable interpretation." St. Louis, 210 U. S., at 280. JUSTICE
SCALIA finds that the presumption has been rebutted here;
he, like JUSTICE BREYER, finds that the Government had
made a promise that its subsequent action would not frustrate the contract. JUSTICE SCALIA, however, finds that
obligation is contained implicitly within the "promis[e] to
regulate... in a particular fashion," and the Government's
consideration. Ante, at 921.
But that is hardly what one normally thinks to be "unmistakable terms." Indeed, that promise plus consideration is
no different from what JUSTICE SCALIA says applies to private parties. Ante, at 920. The Government has "promise[d] to do x in exchange for [respondents] doing y," and in
so doing "impliedly promise[d] not to do anything that
[would] disable [the Government] from doing x, or disable
[respondents] from doing y-so that if either of [the parties'] performances is rendered impossible by such an act on
[the Government's] part, [the Government is] not excused
from [its] obligation." Ibid. (emphasis added). But more
than this is required for Government contracts, as JUSTICE
SCALIA had seemed to acknowledge.
His point about quid pro quo adds little, for it necessarily
assumes that there has been a promise to provide a particular regulatory treatment which cannot be affected by
subsequent action, as opposed to a promise to provide that
treatment unless and until there is subsequent action.
Ante, at 921. But determining which promise the Government has made is precisely what the unmistakability doctrine is designed to determine. If the Government agreed
to treat the losses acquired by respondents as supervisory
goodwill in the short term, but made no commitment about
their regulatory treatment over the long term, respondents
still received consideration. Such consideration would be
especially valuable to an unhealthy thrift because it would
provide "a number of immediate benefits to the acquiring

UNITED STATES v. WINSTAR CORP.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

thrift" that would stave off foreclosure.

Brief for United

States 27.

In addition, JUSTICE SCALIA does not himself make the
findings necessary for respondents to prevail, but relies on
the findings of the trial court and the Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit with respect to what the Government
actually promised. Ante, at 922. But both the trial court
and the Court of Appeals held the unmistakability doctrine
did not apply here. Therefore, even under JUSTICE
SCALIA'S own premises, these findings are insufficient because they were made under a mistaken view of the applicable law.
IV
JUSTICE BREYER in his separate concurrence follows a different ioute to the result reached by the principal opinion.
But even under his own view of the law, he omits a necessary
step in the reasoning required to hold the Government liable.
He says that "the lower courts held that each [respondent]
proved the existence of an express promise by the Government to grant them particular regulatory treatment for a
period of years." Ante, at 913. But the Government could
have made that promise and not made the further promise
to pay respondents in the event that the regulatory regime

changed. JUSTICE BREYER concludes that second promise
did exist as a matter of fact, but he never makes that finding
himself. Instead, he says that the "principal opinion's careful examination of the circumstances reveals" that the Government did "inten[d] to make a binding promise.., to hold
the thrifts harmless from the'effects of future regulation (or
legislation)." Ante, at 918. But the principal opinion does
not treat this as a question of fact at all, as JUSTICE BREYER
does, but instead as something which occurs by operation
of law.
JUSTICE BREYER

relies on this illusory factual finding

while at the same time commenting how implausible it would
be for the Government to have intended to insure against a

Cite as: 518 U. S. 839 (1996)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

change in the law. He notes that "it might seem unlikely"
for the Government to make such a promise, ibid., and further comments that because the contracting party is the
Government, it may be "far less likely that [the parties] intend/ed] to make a promise that will oblige the Government
to hold private parties harmless in the event of a change in
the law," ante, at 913.
The short of the matter is that JUSTICE BREYER and JusTICE SCAUA cannot reach their desired result, any more than
the principal opinion can, without changing the status of the
Government to just another private party under the law of
contracts. But 75 years ago Justice Holmes, speaking for
the' Court in Rock Island, A. & L. R. Co. v. United States,
254 U. S. 141, 143 (1920), said that "[m]en must turn square
corners when they deal with the Government." The statement was repeated in Federal Crop Ins. Corp.v. Merrill, 332
U. S. 380, 385 (1947). The wisdom of this principle arises,
not from any ancient privileges of the sovereign, but from
the necessity of protecting the federal fisc-and the taxpayers who foot the bills-from possible improvidence on the
part of the countless Government officials who must be authorized to enter into contracts for the Government.
V
A moment's reflection suggests that the unmistakability
doctrine and the sovereign acts doctrine are not entirely separate principles. To the extent that the unmistakability
doctrine is faithfully applied, the cases will be rare in which
close and debatable situations under the sovereign acts doctrine are presented. I do not believe that respondents met
either of these tests, and I would reverse the judgment of
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit outright or remand the case to that court for reconsideration in light of
these tests as I have enunciated them.

