OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Per Curiam

CALDERON, WARDEN v. MOORE
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-1612.

Decided June 17, 1996

Respondent Moore was convicted of first-degree murder in a California
state court and sentenced to death. The Federal District Court
granted habeas relief, thereby vacating the conviction and ordering petitioner warden to release Moore from custody after 60 days unless the
State granted him a new trial. The State filed an appeal, but after its
applications to stay the order were denied, it set Moore for retrial and
simultaneously pursued its appeal. The Ninth Circuit dismissed the
appeal as moot, observing that the State had granted Moore a new trial.
Heldk The case is not moot. An appeal should be dismissed as moot when
a court of appeals cannot grant any effectual relief whatever in favor of
an appellant. Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651, 653. -Howvever, the availability of a partial remedy is sufficient to prevent mootness. Such a
remedy is available to the State because a decision in its favor would
release it from the burden of providing a new trial for Moore. Thus,
the Ninth Circuit is not prevented from granting any effectual relief.
Certiorari granted; reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent Charles Edward Moore, Jr., was convicted of
first-degree murder in a California state court, and sentenced to death. The District Court granted habeas relief,
concluding that the state court had denied 'Moore his right
to self-representation under Farettav. California,422 U. S.
806 (1975). The District Court thus vacated the judgment
of conviction and ordered the warden, petitioner here, to "release Moore from custody after the expiration of 60 days unless, within 60 days hereof, the State of California grants
Moore the right to a new trial." App. A to Brief in Opposition A65.
The State filed a notice of appeal and sought a stay of the
District Court's order pending appeal, but its various stay

CALDERON v. MOORE

Per Curiam

applications were respectively denied by the District Court,
the Ninth Circuit, 56 F. 3d 39 (1995), and by JUSTICE O'CONNOR, in her capacity as Circuit Justice for the Ninth Circuit.
The State accordingly set Moore for retrial, and simultaneously pursued its appeal of the District Court's order on the
merits to the Ninth Circuit. The Court of Appeals, observing that the "State of California has granted petitioner
Charles Edward Moore, Jr., a new trial," dismissed the
State's appeal as moot. App. A to Pet. for Cert.
It is true, of course, that mootness can arise at any stage
of litigation, Steffel v. Thompson, 415 U. S. 452, 459, n. 10
(1974); that federal courts may not "give opinions upon moot
questions or abstract propositions," Mills v. Green, 159 U. S.
651, 653 (1895); and that an appeal should therefore be dismissed as moot when, by virtue of an intervening event, a
court of appeals cannot grant "any effectual relief whatever"
in favor of the appellant, ibid. The available remedy, however, does not need to be "fully satisfactory" to avoid mootness. Church of Scientology of Cal. v. United States, 506
U. S. 9, 13 (1992). To the contrary, even the availability of a
"partial remedy" is "sufficient to prevent [a] case from being
moot." Ibid.
In this case, to say the least, a "partial remedy" necessary
to avoid mootness will be available to the State of California
(represented here by petitioner). While the administrative
machinery necessary for a new trial has been set in motion,
that trial has not yet even begun, let alone reached a point
where the court could no longer award any relief in the
State's favor. Because a decision in the State's favor would
release it from the burden of the new trial itself, the Court
of Appeals is not prevented from granting "any effectual relief whatever" in the State's favor, Mills, supra, at 653, and
the case is clearly not moot. We therefore grant respondent's motion to proceed in forma pauperis, grant petition
for a writ of certiorari, reverse the judgment of the Court

Cite as: 518 U. S. 149 (1996)

151

Per Curiam

of Appeals, and remand the case for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

