OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
SyUabus.

208 U. S.

representatives, have not resumed work upon the claim after
failure and before such location." The trial court found that
the work had been resumed before the attempted adverse
location. After reciting the conflict of testimony in the trial
court as to whether the work had been resumed within the
meaning of the statute, so as to prevent such adverse location,
the Supreme Court said: "It was for the trial court to determine this-conflict, which it has done by the finding in question,
and its determination is conclusive upon this appeal."
In thus deciding the Supreme Court of the State did not,
within the meaning of §709, Rev. Stat., decide any right of
Federal otigin adversely to the plaintiffs in error. It simply
held that there was a conflict of testimony in the record upon
this subject, and that the conclusion of the court below upon
this matter of fact was conclusive upon the appellate court.
This does not amount to a denial of a Federal right, concerning which the plaintiff in error had especially set up his claim
so as to give the right of review of the decision of the state
Supreme Court in this court. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658, and cases therein cited.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 90.

Submitted December 16. 1007.-Decided January 6, 1908.

Under §§ 1098 and 1261, Rev. Stat., and the opening clause of the Navy
Personnel Act of March 13, 1899, 30 Stat. 1004, a naval officer assigned.
to duty on the personal staff bf an admiral as flag lieutenant, without any
other designation, is an aid to such admiral and entitled to the additional
pay of $200 allowed to an aid of a major general in the Army.
41 C. Ci. 400, affirmed on this point.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
.208 1.8.

Opinion of th Court.

Under 11262 and the act of June 30, 1882, 22 Stat. 118, an aid to an admiral
is not entitled to; have his longevity pay calculated upon the additional
pay which. he receives as aid, that being under 51261, Rev. Stat., an
allowance in addition to, and not a part of, the pay of his rank.
41 C. Cl. 400, reversed on this point.

facts, which involve the construction of §§ 1098 and
1261 of the Revised Statutes, and the opening clause of the
Navy Personnel Act, of March 13, 1899, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel and Mr. John
Q.. Thompson, Special Attorney, for appellant.
Mr. George A. King and Mr. William. B. King, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is an action in the Court of Claims brought by
William G. Miller, a lieutenant in the Navy, and who served
as flag lieutenant on the personal staff of Rear Admiral Kautz
fr6m July 1, 1899, to March 2, 1900,;for which period he claims
that he is entitled to recover pay at the additional rate of $200
a year, as an aid to the rear admiral, and, secondly, an additional sum for longevity increase, based upon this additional
allowance. The facts were found by the Court of Claims and
judgment rendered in favor of the claimant upon both branches
of his claim, 41 C. Cl. 400. From this judgment the United
States appeals.
It is the contention of counsel for the appellee, claimant
below, that this case is ruled by the decision of this. court in
United States v. Crosley, 196 U. S. 327, upon both branches.
From the findings of fact it appears that the claimant was
a lieutenant'in the Navy from July 1, 1899, to March 2, 1900,
of more than fifteen years- service. On October 15, 1898, he
reported, by order of the Secretary of the Navy, to Rear
Admiral Kautz, commander-in-chief of the Pacific Division.
*

voi.. ccviii-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

for such duty as might be assigned him on the flagship. On
that day he was assigned to duty on the personal staff of the
commander-in-chief as flag lieutenant, where he continued to
serve. until March 2,1900. During that time the. personal staff
of Rear Admiral Kautz consisted of two officers, one, the
claimant, Miller, designated as flag lieutenant, and the other
flag secretary or clerk.
In the findings of fact the duties.of the officers constituting
'the personal staff are set forth in a letter from the Secretary
of the Navy, which we shall have occasion to notice later.
The claim for additional pay; as aid to Rear Admiral Kautz,
waspredicated upon § 1098 and 1261 of the Revised Statutes,
providing aids to major generals, and fixing an allowance of
$200
a year in addition to the pay of the rank of such aid, and
the opening
clause of the Navy Personnel Act of March
13,
1899, c.. 413; 30 Stat. 1004, giving to commissioned officers of
the line of the Navy and of the Medical and Pay Corps the
same pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be
provided for officers of corresponding rank in the Army. These
sections of the statutes were considered in United States v.
Crosley, supra, and it was held that the allowance of extra
pay was due to the aid of the rear admiral, corresponding to
the extra pay allowed to the aid of the major general in the
Army.: The difference in this respect between the Crosley case.
and the one now under consideration .is, that the claimant in
that case. was designated as an aid, while in the present case
the claimant was assigned to duty on the personal staff of the
commander-in-chief as flag lieutenant, it is therefore claimed
that he is not entitled to the extra compensation due only to
an aid to the rear admiral. This argument is predicated on
§§ 343, 344 and 345 of the Regulations for the Government of
the Ndvyi 1896, which are as follow,s:
"SEC. 343. The chief of staff, flag lieutenant, clerk, and aids.:
shall constitute the personal staff of a flag.officer.
"SEc. 344. (1) A flag officer, when ordered to a command
afloat, may, at .!is discretion, nominate to the Secretary of the

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Navy a line officer not above the rank of lieutenant to serve
on his staff as flag lieutenant, and a line officer not above the
rank of lieutenant, junior grade, to serve as clerk.
"(2) The flag lieutenant, in addition to his other duties,
shall be the fleet signal officer.
"SEc. 345. (1) A flag officer may select any officer of his
command to serve as flag lieutenant or clerk, provided his
grade accords with the'rules laid down in article 344.
"(2) He may also, when necessary, select other line officers
junior to the flag lieutenant, to serve on his personal staff as
aid , but shall not assign naval cadets to such duty." (Regulations for the Government of the Navy of the United States,
1896-1897.)
It is the contention of the counsel for the Government that
this language clearly indicates that a flag lieutenant on the
staff of a rear admiral, designated in paragraph 1, § 345, is
to be distinguished from aids junior to the flag lieutenant
designated in paragraph 2 of the section. But we think it
would be giviug a too narrow interpretation of the purpose of
Congress to give naval officers the same pay as officers of corresponding rank in the Army to construe this regulation to
deny such pay to a flag lieutenant because he may not have
been technically designated as an. aid. And taking the regulation literally, it does not necessarily follow that because the
rear admiral may select a junior to the flag lieutenant to serve
on his personal .staff as aid, that the one designated as flag
lieutenant or clerk might not also be regarded as an aid. Be
this as it may, we think the statute shduld be construed so as.
to effect the purpose of Congress, and that a determination of
who are aids should be arrived at by a consideration of the
nature and character of the duties of the officers constituting
the personal staff of a flag officer. Referring to the letter of
the Secretary of the Navy, embodied in the finding of facts
we find:
"As in the case of a general officer of the Army, these officers,.
including the flag lieutenant, are, in every acceptation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
208 U. &

Opinion of the Court.

word, aids for assisting the commander-in-chief in the performance of his duties... The number of officers thus assigned is
limited only by the actual necessities of the case. In very large
fleets, where the, staff work is especially heavy, two or three
so-called aids may be necessary in addition to the flag lieutenant
and the secretary. They are all, from flag lieutenant to the
lowest aid id point of rank, aids in every sense of the term to
the flag officer. The senior aid of the flag officer is, in ninetynine cases out of a hundred, chosen by the flag officer personally as a flag lieutenant. The term 'flag lieutenant' in itself
by no.means indicates'all the duties which the officer so ap
pointed performs. Different flag officers distribute their duties
among the members of the personal staff in different ways.
Some have charge of one thing, or set. of things, another has
charge of other things;. but, from time immemorial, in other
naval services as well as our own, it has been customary to
term the senior aid of the flag officer the 'flag lieutenant' because, from time immemorial also, that aid has been placed
in charge, as one of his duties only, of the signal work of the
fleet or squadron in which he may happen to be serving.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It will be seen from thisthat the flag lieutenant is in every
respect the aid, peculiarly, of the flag officer, and his duties,
in comparison .withthose of an aid to a general officer, more
nearly conform to those performed by a military, aid than do
those of any other officer on the personal.staff of a flag officer."
In view of the character of the duties thus required of a
flag lieutenant, who is to all intents an aid to the rear admiral,
we are of opinion that the Court of Claims did not err in its
decision on this branch of the case, that the claimant was
entitled to the increased pay awarded to the aid of a major
general, at the rate of $200 a year.
As to the contention that longevity pay should be computed
on the whole amount of the claimant's pay, including this
allowance as aid,. we think the Court of Claims was in error.
indeed, there is a strong indication in the opinion of the learned

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
208 U. S.

87

Opinion of the Court,

judge, delivering the opinion in that court that this allowance
would not have been made but for the supposed ruling iaUnited States v. Crosley, supra. It is true that in Crosicy's
case the longevity pay, as computed, was based upon the $200
additional allowance on account of services as aid, but the
corr ctness of this method of computation was not disputed.
Two questions were made in that casei first As to the right of
the claimant to the extra $200 allowed to the aid of a major
.general in the Army; second, as to whether he was entitled
to "mounted pay" allowance to major generals' aids. Upon.
well-settled principles the case could not be authority for a
point neither made nor discussed nor directly decided and only
incidentally involved' therein.
Considering the question as one of first impression, we think
the statute makes it perfectly plain that longevity pay is not
to be based upon the increased allowance to an aid. The
Revised Statutes, § 1262, provides:
"There shall be allowed and paid to each commissioned
officer below the rank of brigadier general, including chaplains
and others having assimilated rank or pay, ten per centum
of their current yearly pay for each term of five years of
service."
In the case of United States v. Tyler, 105 U. S. 244, this
court held that current yearly pay upon which longevity increase was to be computed should include previous longevity
increases, and. in United States v. Mills, 197 U. S. 223, it was
held that the ten per cent increase upon "pay proper" of the
compensation of officers serving beyond the continental limits
should be computed upon the total amount which the officer.
was entitled to receive at the time of such service, both for
longevity pay and the pay provided by § 1261 of the Revised
Statutes. But we have to Jeal in this case with the statute
of June 30, 1882, c, 254, 22 Stat. 117, 118, which provides:
"That from and after the first day of July, eighteep hundred
and eighty-two, the ten per centum increase for length of
Service allowed to certain officers by section twelve hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Sylabus.

208 U. S.

and sixty-two of the Revised.Statutes shall be computed on
the yearly pay of the grade fixed by sections twelve hundred
and sixty-one and twelve hundred and seventy-four of the
Revised Statutes."
This statute was doubtless passed 'to prevent the computation of longevity pay by compounding previous pay for that
purpose, which had the effect to give the increase on the pay
of the grade, and also on the previous longevity increase.
This amendatory act distinctly limits the computation . of
increase pay for length of service to yearly pay of the grade
or rank of the officer entitled thereto. The allowance of $200
a year under § 1261, Rev. Stat., in "addition to the pay of
his rank," is manifestly not the yearly pay of the grade. The
purpose of the additional allowance is to compensate the
officer during the time he is designated for a special service
as-aid. His longevity pay is to be computed on the yearly pay
affixed by law to the grade or rank to which .the officer belongs.
The judgment of the Court of Claims, based upon computation of longevity pay upon -the additional allowance for pay
as aid, cannot be sustained, in view of the statutory provision,
and to that extent the judgment of the Court of Claims must
be modified, and, as so modified,
Affirmed.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. ADELBERT COLLEGE OF THE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 40.

Argued November 6, 7, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

Where the Federal questions are clearly presented. by the answer in the
state court, and the decree rendered could not have been made ivithout
adversely deciding them, and, as in this case, they are substantial as
involving the jurisdictioh of the Circuit Court over property in its possession and the effect to be given to its decree, this court has jurisdiction.

and the writ of c'rror will not be dismissed.

