RANKIN
208 U. S.

t.

CITY NATIONAL BANK..
Opinion of the Court.

RANKIN, RECEIVER OF THE CAPITOL NATIONAL
BANK OF GUTHRIE, OKLAHOMA, v. CITY NATIONAL
BANK OF KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued November 12, 18, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

In a transaction between two banks the president of one gave his personal
note to the other, accompanied by an agreement of his bank, signed by
himself as president, that the proceeds of the note should be placed to the
credit of his bank by, and remain with, the discounting bank until the
note was paid; while there were certain transfers of checks between him
and his own bank the record did not shoW that the maker of the note
personally received the proceeds thereof, and no contention was made
that the agreement was illegal. Held. that:
Under the circumstances of this case, the discounting bank was entitled to
hold the procee.; of the note, as represented by the credit given on its
books therefor, as collateral security for the payment of the note and to
chargc the note against such credit, and relieve itself from further responsibility therefor.
The receiver of a bank stands in no better position than the bank stood as
a going concern.
144 Fed. Rep. 587, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. B. Ames, With whom

fr. D. T. Flynn and Mr.

W. C. Scarrittwere on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John A. Eaton for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the receiver of the' Capitol Na-

tional Bank of Guthrie, Oklahoma Territory, which we shall
call the Guthrie Bank, to recover the amount of an alleged
deposit in the City National Bank of Kansas City, Missouri,
I Originally docketed as Cherry, Receiver, v. City National Bank; by order
of the court George C; Rankin, successor of the former receiver, was substituted as plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

which we shall call the City Bank. At a trial without a jury
in the Circuit Court the facts were found and judgment was
given for the defendant, which judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Cherr, Receiver, v. City National
Bank, 144 Fed. Rep. 587; S. C., 75 C. C. A. 343. We give an
abridgment of the findings of the Circuit Court.
The bank examiner had complained of excessive loans by
the Guthrie Bank and especially.of three notes for ten thousand
dollars each, made; respectively, by the Missouri, Kansas and
Oklahoma Company, the Wild West Show Company, and the
Western Horse Show Company, and had directed them to be
reduced. Thereupon one Billingsley, its president, who managed its business with the defendant, wrote to the defendant's
cashier, saying "I want you to take my note of 30,000.00 and
Cr. my Bank with like amount in a special account with the
understanding that said account is not to be checked against.
My reason for wanting this is that I have that amount of excessive loans that the Department is kicking about.
You will not be out any money and loan and deposit will offset
each other on your books." The Guthrie Bank had a general
deposit with the City Bank, but this on its face was a scheme
for a separate paper transaction. The proposal was accepted,
Billingsley sent his note, and wrote saying that he had given
the Guthrie Bank his check on the City Bank for the amount,
adding: "andit is agreed that said [Guthrie Bank] is to keep
this 30 Th with you until note is retired together with as large
a balance as possible. . . . Chas. E. Billingsley, Pres't."
Billingsley gave the above-mentioned check to the Guthrie
Bank, which credited it to his personal account, in which the
bank's money was 1ept, as will be stated-later. The same day
he gave tq the bank a cheek against his personal account for
*the same svm, which was charged to that account and credited
to bills receivable, and thereupon the three notes objected to
*by the bank examiner were taken out of the bank's assetsand
possession. What became c,f them does not appear. It was
argued from several circumstances not necessary to mention

RANKIN v.CITY NATIONAL BANK.
208 U.S.

543

Opion of the Court.

that they were paid by Billingsley, but that fact is not found.
Billingsley does not seem to have been personally liable upon
them, and all that can be said is that the scheme to get them
off the books was carried out. The cashier of the City Bank
was away when the letter with Billingsley's note arrived, and
there were telegrams; after which the City Bank on September 10 or 11, 1903, charged the note, to bills receivable, the
check to Billingsley, and credited the Guthrie Bank with
$30,000 on general account. On September 14, the cashier,
having returned, transferred $30,000 to a special account according to the -plan. Billingsley was notified and all transactions in this matter thereafter were entered by the City Bank
on this special account.
On November 9, 1903, Billingsley's note falling due, the
account was charged with the amount and interest. The same
day a letter from Billingsley was received asking an extension.
The cashier replied that they had charged his account with the
note, but would renew it on satisfactory collateral, and returned
the note. Billingsley answered, enclosing a note for $30,000,
and requesting that the former arrangement be continued. In'
answer to this the president of the City Bank wrote that they
preferred a demand note, and that to satisfy the comptroller
they would rather that it should be for $25,000 instead of
$30,000. On November 30, 1903, Billingsley enclosed his note
for $25,000 in a letter to the president, requesting that the
proceeds be placed as a special deposit to the credit of the bank,
and repeating the-old agreement: "It being expressly understood and agreed that this fund is not'subject to check but is
to remain with the City National Bank for the payment of
the note, and you are hereby authorized to charge this note
to said account. at any time you desire." Originally the note
was signed "Chas. E. Billingsley Pt." and the letter with his
name without addition. On December 12, the president of the
City Bank Wrote-that the note should be signed individually
and the letter as president, and enclosed the letter for the
change. Billingsley admitted the mistake, added "Prest." to

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

his signature and returned the letter, at the same time authorizing the City Bank to strike off the "Pt." from the
signature on the note, which was done.
On November .30, 1903, in order to make the balance of the
City Bank account on the .books of the Guthrie Bank correspond with the books of the City Bank, Billingsley gave the
teller of the Guthrie Bank his check upon it in favor of the
City Bank for $5,000, which was stamped paid, and the amount
'credited to the City Bank on the books of the Guthrie Bank.
On December 7, the City Bank credited the Guthrie Bank with
$25,000 on the special account. It credited two per cent interest at the end of each month while the account was open,
and there was a small deduction as the result of the first stage
for interest on the $30,000 note, so that on April 4, 1904, the
special credit to the Guthrie Bank was $24,994.54. On that
day the City Bank, having no knowledge that the Guthrie
Bank was in a failing condition, charged the note to the account, returned the same duly cancelled, and closed the account.
Later on the same day the Guthrie Bank failed and went into
the hands of a receiver. The receiver notified the City Bank
that the note was not a liability of the Guthrie Bank and that
the City Bank would be held.
There are few other facts needing mention. Statements of
account were made monthly by the banks to each other up to
February 1, 1904, and after that daily reconcilements were
made. The statements of the City Bank showed the special
or No. 2 account as well as the general one, and these were
entered in the Guthrie Bank reconcilement book as No. 1 and
No. 2. The Guthrie Bank also recognized the existence of the
special account in corrections sent to the City Bank. But the
whole amount appeared in its general account. It should be
added that the Guthrie Bank was in the habit of borrowing
money by issuing notes and crediting the proceeds to Billings-.
ley's personal account, the notes being paid by.Billingsley's
checks. Billingsleyslso entered his personal deposits and drew
his personal checks upon the same account. It should be added

RANKIN v. CITY NATIONAL BANK.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

further that in the Circuit Court both counsel agieed that it was
not contended that the contract was illegal because it enabled.
a false showing to be made of the condition of the Guthrie Bank.
The plaintiff, the receiver of the Guthrie Bank, argues that
the foregoing transaction was really a loan to Billingsley with
an attempted pledge of a deposit of the Guthrie Bank in the.
City Bank, and is shown to have been so by the facts that he
gave his personal note, that he gave his check on the City
Bank for the amount. to the Guthrie Bank, and that by means
of another corresponding check the three notes objected to by
the bank examiner were taken out of its assets and possession.
It is added that 'Billingsley was interested in two at least of
these notes, as he was vice president of the companies that made
them, and that the entries oh the books and other facts show
that they were paid. But, as we have said, neither legal in-terest on Billingley's part nor payment is found, and we cannot
find those facts here. Getwres v. Campbell, 11 Wall. 193. Leaving them on one side, the argument for the plaintiff stands
mainly on the technicality that Billingsley, instead of merely
writing the letter in which the agreement was embodied, and
having the credit on. special account issued without more to the
Guthrie Bank, gave his check on the City Bank as the means
of getting the credit on to the Guthrie Bank's books. -We will.
deal with these arguments in our own order and way.
This suit it will be remembered is to recover an alleged deposit, and the first thing to notice is that the whole business,
from beginning to. end, was and was intended to be a mere
juggle with books and paper to deceive the bank examiner.
The City Bank never received anything from the Guthrie Bank,
the Guthrie Bank never parted with anything to the City Bank,
or with anything for the loss of which the City Bank is responsible, if it parted with anything at all. It would stretch
the findings to say that the Guthric Bank does not still own
the three notes. But if it does not the City Bank had nothing
to do with its giving them up. The supposed 'surrender was
not a consideration to the City Bank, and so for as appears
VOL. ccviii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

never was known by it to have taken place. It was a transaction wholly between Billingsley and his own bank. So far as the
surrender of the notes goes, the parties stand exactly as if that
had taken place without a check, in consideration of Billingsley
making the note on which the credit was given to the Guthrie
Bank. It is said that the Guthrie Bank got the money, but
did not get the benefit of the loan. As between the banks no
got any money, and the only benefit of the loan in fact or
one
contemplation was a swindle upon the bank examiner.
If the
City Bank should be held it would be held without ever having
received a quid pro quo except in the most -narrowly technical
sense. The consideration would be the delivery of Billingsley's
note by the Guthrie Bank.
Again, the alleged deposit was a parol contract made by
the letters of-which we have given extracts. There is no other
contract but the one so made. But by those letters the City
Bank did not promise to hold $30,000, or at the later stage$25,000, to the credit of the Guthrie Bankout and out.. On the
contrary, it merely agreed to credit these sums against the
notes which it held, on -the express condition that no checks
should be drawn against them, and that when the first note
matured, or, after the second, wheiiever the: bank pleased, the
notes should be charged against the accoufib and extinguish it.
We perceive no sufficient ground for substituting a fiction for
the. only promise the City Bank ever really made. If the
Guthrie Bank had.sued while it was a going concern it could
not have recovered, and the receiver stands no better than the
bank.
This-promise, however, the City Bank made to the Guthrie
Bank at the first step of the transaction, and not to Billingsley.
The plan was proposed as a plan for the help of the Guthrie
Bank. It provided from the start for a credit to the Guthrie
Bank. At the moment when the agreement waa reached and
Billingsley sent his note he signed a promise as president, embodying the terms. He corrected the letter with his second
note to an official promise in like form. This meant a promise:

RANKIN v. CITY NATIONAL BANK.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Guthrie Bank, and shows that the Guthrie Bank, not
Billingsley, was the other partly to the bargain. It is true that
Billingsley's personal obligation w.-7 given to the City Bank,
but the only reasonable interpretation is that he lent his credit
to the bank of whichli he was the leading spirit, to help it to
perpetrate its fraud. It seems to us too plain for further argument that the contract concerning the credit was made between the banks at the beginning and governs all that happened later.
The only material thing that happened was Billingsley's
drawing his check on the City Bank for the amount of the loan
and depositing it to his credit in his own Guthrie Bank. Even
if this, as in other-cases, was regarded as a deposit of the bank's
money, still it was not quite logically consistent with his contract that Billingsley should make his check upon the City
Bank for money which it had agreed with the Guthrie Bank
to credit to it. But the check was only a documentary form
to justify the entry of a deposit. To the City Bank it was im-'
material, as the result no legs was the credit to the Guthrie
Bank upon the special account and subject to the terms to
which both parties had agreed. The subsequent check on the
Guthrie Bank to the Guthrie Bank was another documentary
form to give a plausible justification for getting the three notes
out of the assets. But with that, as we have said, the City
Bank had nothing to do.
In view of the statement of counsel, at the argument, to the
circuit judge, that they did not contend that the contract was
illegil, a disclaimer repeated to us, and in view of the possibility that the facts were found as they were with that agreement in view, we -shall not consider that aspect of the case.
It would not help the plaintiff. McMullen v. Hoffman, 174
U. S. .639. We are of opinion upon the facts that we have set
forth that the courts below were right.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.'JUSTICE WIITE

and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent.

