OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for the Petitioner.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
STATES.

208 U. S.

UNITED

ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIW
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT:
No. 491. Argued January 7, 190.-Decided February 24, 1906.

The provisions of 113, Rev. Stat., that the repeal of any statute shall not
have the effect- to release or extinguish any penalty. incumed under the
statute repealed, are to be treated as if incorporated in, and as a part of,
subsequent enactments of Congress, and, under. the general principle of
construction requiring effect to be given to all parts of a law, that section
must be eiforced as forming part of such subsequent enactments. except
in those instances where, either by express declaration or necessary implication such enforcement would nullify the legislative intent.
The act of Congress of June 29, 1906, c. 359, 34 Stat. 584, known as the Hepburn law, as construed in the light. of 1 13, Rdv. Stat., as it must be conA6trued, did not repeal the act of February 10, 10. c. 708, 32 Stat. 847.
known as the Elkins law; .so as to deprive the Government of the right to
prosecute for- violations of the Elkins law committed prior to the enactment of the Hepburn law; nor when so construed does the Hepburn law
under the doctrine of incluaio.unius exduaio alteriua exclude the right of
the Government to prosecute for past offenses not then pending in the
courts because pending causes are enumerated in, and saved by, §'1oof
the Hepburn law.
In citing approvingly, an to the particular point involved in this case, cases
recently decided in the 'lower Federal courts, this court exprsses no.
.opinion upon any other subjects involved in such cases, and does not even
indirectly leave room for any implication that any. opinion has been expressed'as to such other issues which 'niy hereafter come before'it. for.
decision.
Although a-ground for demurrer to indictment may be sufficiently broad to
embrace a contention raised before this court, if it appears that such contention was disclaimed, and was not urged, in the'trial court, and in the
Circuit Court of Appels, and was not referred to in any of: the opinions
below or in the petition for certiorari or the brief id support thereof, this
couit, will, without intimating any opinion in regard to its merits, de-.
chine to consider it.
150 Fed. Rep. 945, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William R. Begg for petitioner:
(1) The indictment herein does not charge.an offenseunder

GREAT NORTHERN RY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 453
208 U.8.

Argument for Petitioner.

§ 1 of the act of February 19, 1.903 (the Elkins law), because
itfails to allege that the concessions from tariff were either
willfully or knowingly granted.
The indictment charges petitioner and the individual defendants jointly, with one and the same offense. The individual defendants could be guilty only of the offense defined
in the third sentence of § 1.
The indictment charges only that petitioner and the- other
defendants unlawfully granted the concessions. Concessions
- from tariff granted under mistake are unlawful. Railway Co. v..
Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Railway Co. v. Hefy, 158 U. S. 98; Railway Co. v. Harris n,.119 Alabama, 539; S. C., 24 So. Rep. 552.
The last half of the second sentence of § 1 makes any concession, however made, unlawful. Criminal intent must be
necessary to convert this unlawful act into a crime. The concession, to be a crime, must be either knowingly or willfully
granted. If a criminal intent is necessary to the crime, it must
be charged in the indictment. United States v. Carl, i05 U. S.
611, 612; Eva' v.UniWd States, 153 U. S. 584, 587; Armour
PackW Co. v. United States, 153 Fed. Rep. 1, 23, 24.
It is only by virtue of the Elkins law that the corporation may
be guilty of the crime. CommissiM' v. Railway Co., 145 U. S.
263, 281;. United States v. Hanley,. 71 Fed. Rep. 672, 674, 676.
(2) That part of § 1 of the Elkins law, which defined the
crimes charged in the indictment and prescribed punishment.
therefor, had been before the indictment was returned, repealed by § 2 of the act of June 29, 1906, commonly known as
the Hepburn act.
The prosecution claims that under the Elkibs law it was not
necessary that to be a crime the. concession from tariff be
knowingly granted,.and the indictment here involved does not
.charge a.concession knowingly granted. Under the amendment
made by the Hepburn act the departure, 'tO be criminal, must
be knowingly made, and the indictmentmust so allege:. The
element of scienter is injected.
The pu ishment is changed. Under the Elkins law the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

208 U. S.

.punishment prescribed was a fine. Under the amendment
the punishment is a fine and also imprisonment for not to
exceed two years, of other than corporate offenders.
Such radical changes in the ingredients 'of the crime and in
the punishment therefor necessarily under the decisions, of
this and other courts, work the repeal .of the part of the Elkins
law-above quoted. Norris v. Crocker, 13 How. 429, 439; United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 92; United States v. Claflin, 97
U. S. 546, 550, 552; United States v. Fisher, 109,U. S. 143, 145;
Bank v. United States, 107 U. S."445; Districtof Col. v. Hdton,
143 U.' S. 18, 26; People v. Tisdale, 57 California, 104, 106;
* Telegraph'Co. v. Brown, 8 N. E. Rep. 171; 172; Lindsey v.
State, 5 So. Rep. 99, 100; State v. Allen, 44 Pac. Rep. 121, 122;
,'State v. Ingersoll, 17 Wisconsin, 651, 655; Mulen v. People, 31
Illinois , 444,- 445; Mongeon v. People, 55 N. Y. 613, 615;
State v. Massey (N. C.), 4 L. R. A. 308, 311;. Wharton v. State,
5 Coldw. I;S.C., 94 Am. Dec. 214; State v. Smith, 62 Minnesota,
540; 2 Lewis' Sutherlan'd Stat. Constr. 482.
Th@ rule that'-the, repeal and simultaneous reenactment,
literally orsubstantially, of a statute, continues it, has no application to the case at bar. This court, as well ab others, has
rejected the rule where thereenactment is a complete revision
of and substitute for the-earlier statute. Murdock v. Memphis,
20 Wall. 590, 616; Paia'v:Bowler, 107'U. S. 529, 538 Murphy
tter; 186 U. 95, 10. 105; Tracy v. Tuffly, 134 U. S' 206,
tv.
223; Baitk v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; 'Red Rock v. Henry,
106 U. S. 596; The Paquete Habana*175 U. S. 677, 685; State
v. King, 12 La. An. 593, 594; Coffin v. Rich, 45 Maine, 507,"
512, 513; Goodno v. Oshkosh, 31 Wisconsin, 127, 129; Wilson
v. Railway Co., 29 Pa. Rep.. 869.
The rle,cannot apply to the case at bar because there is no
substantial reenactmentof the earlier law.
The Circuit Court of Appeals applied the'rule on the authority
.of Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450, 458; IrrigationCo. v.
Garland, 164 U. S. 1; Campbell V. California, 200 U. S. 87;.
Lamb v. Power Co., 65 C. C. A.. 570; Wright v. Oakley, 5 Mete.

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 455
208 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

(Mass.) 400; Associationv. Benshimol, 130 Massachusetts, 325;
t.
Louiv v. Alexander, 23 Missouri, 483; Ely v. Holton, 15 N. Y.
595; Anding v. Levy, 57 Mississippi, 51; Fullerton v. Spring, 3
Wisconsiu, 588; Glntz v. State, 38 Wisconsin, 549; Burwell v.
Tullis, .12 Minnesota, 572; Gaston v. Merriam, 33 Minnesota,
271; State v. Baldwin, 45 Connecticut, 134; People v. Board,
20 Colorado, 220; Moore v. Kenockee, 75 Michigan, 332; Capron v. Strout, 11 Nevada, 304; McMullen v. Guest, 6 Texas,
275; Holden v. State, 137.U. S. 483; Comlmonwealth v. Herrick,
6 Cush. 465; State v. Gumber, 37 Wisconsin, 298; State v. Wish,
15 Nebraska, 448; State v. Miller, 58 Indiana, 399; Sage
v. State, 127 Indiana, 15; State v. Kates, 149 Indiana, 46; State
v. Herzog, 25 Minnesota, 490; State v. Prouty, 115 Iowa, 657;
State v; Williams, 117 N. Car. 753; State v. Brewer, 22 La. Ann.
273; Territory v. Ruval, 84 Pac. Rep. (Ariz.) 1096; Junction
Ciy v. Webb, 44 Kansas, 71;
Of the cases cited the first eighteen in..the .list involved
-private rights, and the remaining thirteen liability to punishments under stat..es claimed to have been repealed. Al' the
cases, except St. Louis v. Alexander; Moore v. Kenockee; Ca:pron %i.Strout, and McMullen v. Guest, support the abstract
rule. It seems to us that none of them support the court's
application of it.
The part of the Elkins law, applicable to this case, necessarily ceased to exist at the instant the Hepburn act took
effect, because two repugnant laws covering the same subject
matter cannot, coexist; and also because that part of the
Elkins law was omitted from the reenactment and a new and
different provision substituted.
The repeal of the part of.the Elkins law quoted was complete.
The Elkins law was repealed at least as to all concessions
-from tariff granted or received, whether knowingly or not,
by others than corporations. The act or crime of the officer
or agent alone constitutes an act or crime of the corporation.
To hold that the Elkins laW remains in force only as to the
corporation is to penalize it, and through it.
innocent. stock-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument'for Petitioner.

208 U. S.

holders, while permitting the guilty officer to escape. Congress
•eannot have intended this.
The repeal cannot be severed. The part of the Hepburn act
quoted in connection with § 10, repealed in toto the part of the
Elkins law quoted. Goodno v. Oshkcosh, 31 Wisconsin, 127, 130.
Congress,* by' § 10, of the Hepburn act, has manifested its
intent that only penalties and forfeitures incurred under the
repealed parts of the Elkins law for which prosecutions were
pending at, the date of the passage of the Hepburn act should
be saved,, and that, penalties and forfeitures for which prosecutions had not at that date been instituted should be remitted.
By § 13, Rev. Stat., in the absence of a special saving clause
in the repealing act all penalties previously incurred under the
act repealed are saved. United States v. Reisinger, 128 U. S.
398; Lang v. United States, 133 Fed. Rep. 204; People v. England, 91 Hun, 152; State v, Smith, 62 MinnesotA, 540, 543;
Kleckner V. Turk, 63 N. W. Rep. 469.
In the absence of a statute to the contrary, where the repealing act saves. rights accrued and penalties incurred-under
.the previous law 4nd at the sarme time modifies the procedure
by whic"l the right is to be enforced or the penalty recovered,
the procedure in.
an action or prosecution to enforce the right
or recover the penalty must be in accordance with the later act.
.Railway Co v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398; Railroad Co. v. Oglesby; 76
N. E. Rep. 165, 166; Taylor v. Strayer, 78 N. E. Rep. 236, 238;
Palmerv. City of Danville, 46 N. E. Rep.,629; Holcomb v. Boynto.', 37 N. E. Rep. 1031.
Section 10 can have no effect other than to save penalties,
forfitures -and liabilities incurred under the repealed laws,
because a statute affecting substantial rights is usually construed to have only a prospective operation.
The word "causes " as used in the- section .includes criminal
cases.- Blyew v. United States, .13 Wall. 58, 591; Erwin v.
United Statei, 3.7 Fed. Rep. 471,. 479; Taylor v. United States,
45 Fed. Rep.531, 539; State v. Hancock (N. J.), 24 Ati. Rep.
•726, 728.,

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 457
208 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Section 13 is ineffectual to prevent the courts from giving
effect by their decrees to the intent of a subsequent Congress, as
that intent may be discovered from the subsequent enactment.
The judiciary is an independent department. To construe
the law is of the essence of its duty. Cases cited supra and
Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506, 520; Gordon v. Unih d States,
117 U. S. 697; United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, 147; Marbury v. Madison, I Cranch, 137, 176;'District o1 Columbia v.
Hutton, 143 U. S. 18, 27; United States v. Claflin, 97 U. S. 546,
548; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 697.
The Attorney General and Mr. Milton D. Purdy, Assistant
to the Attorney General, for respondent:
The concluding portion of § 10 of the Hepburn act. was intended by Congress 4o preserve existing methods of procedure
with respect -to causes pending in courts of the United States
at the time of the passage of the act, and it should not be construed as exthiguishing penalties, forfeitures and liabilities
which had accrued under the old law but were not then before
the courts for judicial determination.
Section 10. of the Hepburn act must be read in connection
with § 13 of the Revised Statutes, which is'" a law prescribing
rules for.the: construction of acts and resolutions of Congres.:
.United States v. Reisinger, 128 U. S. 398; United States v. Bdrr,
4 Sawyer, 254; 'United States v. Ulrici, 3 Dillon, 532; United
States v. Four Cases of Lastings, 10 Benedict,, 371; Sims v.
United states, 121 Fed. Rep. 515. Combining the two the
result would be as follows: "That all laws and parts of laws in
conflict with the provisions of this 'act are hereby
repealed,
but this repeal shall not have the effect torelease or extinguish
any penalty,, forfeiture, o" liability incurred under said laws,
and such laws shall be treated as still remaining in force for
the purpose of' sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
,the -enforcement of such -penalty, forfeiture, or liability, but
the armendments herein provi led for shall not affect causes now
'pending in courts of the United States, but such causes shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Respondent.

208 U. S.

be prosecuted to a conclusion in the manner heretofore provided by law."
The only. implication to' be drawn froi. the language employed is that all causes then pending before the Interstate
Commerce Commission,, together with all rights of action not
then initiated under the old law, shall be proceeded with in
accordance with the modified procedure provided for by the
new law. This is shown by the histury of the enactment of
the causes which led to its adoption and a consideration of
the law itself in its .entirety.
The debates in Congress while this law was under consideration were perhaps the most notable in recent years, especially.
in the Senate, and it is worthy of note that at no time was the
idea expressed or even' suggested that penalties, forfeitures
and liabilities which had accrued under the old law, but which
were not pending before the courts for. determination, should
be extinguished. Neither was it intimated that the old law
forbidding rebating was considered or thought to be harsh oi
unjust in any particular. On the contrary, the one dominating idea seems to have been that the old law should be strengthened,'and that at'leaqt, with respect to individuals offending
against that law, the court should .be empowered. to punish.
by imprisonment in addition to the imposition of a fine'
*-Infact, there is abundant reason for claiming that the Congress considered the old law .as -not sufficiently "drastic" to
ut a'stop to those practices which. apparently had been going
-on in utter defiance of the Elkins act.
To sustain the petitioners! contention the doctrine of repeal by implication must be invoked and applied. The rule
of law that repeals by implication are. not favored is so well
recognized by the courts as to render a citation of authorities
uinecessary. If, therefore, it is possible to construe the lan-.
-gage employed in § 10 of the'Hepburn law. in such a manner
as to avoid the implication that §13, Rev. Stat., has been repealed in so far as it would operate to save penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities which had accrued at the time this lawj

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 459
208U. a.

Opinion of the Court.

was passed, it would certainly be the duty of the courts to
adopt such a construction.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The act of Congress, commonly referred to as the Hepburn
law, was enacted June 29, 1906. 34 Stat,, chap. 3591, p. 584.
In November, 1906, In a District Court of the United States
for Minnesota, the Great Northern Railway Company and
several of its officials were indicted for violations of the act
of February 19, 1903, commonly known as the Elkins act.
32 Stat., chap. 708, p. 847. There were fifteen counts, all re.
lating to acts done in May, June, July and August, 1905.
Except as to vaxying dates of shipment and the sum of the
concessions, the counts were alike. A reference to the first
count will therefore make clear all the charges which the, indictment embraced. After alleging the corporate existence of
the railway company, the capacity of its named officials and
agents and the fixing and publishing of rates, there was set out
the, carriage of certain grain by the railway company from
Mir ieapolis, Minnesota, to Seattle, Washington, for account
of the W.'P. Devereux Company, a corporation. It was then
alleged that by the tariff and schedule of rates as established,
published and filed in conforniity to the act to regulate. commerce the legal charge was fifty cents for each one hundred
pounds of grain carried from Minneapolis to Seattle, "but the
grand jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid, do present
within' the jurisdiction of this
and charge that
'the said Great Northern Railway" (and the
court, .
officers and agents named) "did'unlawfully grant and give to
a concession of
.
the said W. P. Devereux Company .
upon every
as
aforesaid
twenty cents (20c.) of the said rate
one hundred pounds of the property so transported.
as aforesaid, whereby. the said property was by. said corporation common krrier transported in., said interstate* comat a less compensation .and rate than that
merce . ...
named therefor in. said tariff and schedules so as aforesaid

40

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion'of the Couit.

'
208 U. B.

published and filed by the said common carrier and in force

at the- time upon its said route."
The indictment, was demurred .to-by all the accused upon
the following grounds:.''
"1.. That neither the said indictment nor any count in the
said indictment stated sufficient facts or grounds to constitute
against the said'defendants, or either of them, an offense against
the'laws of the United States, nor any offense.
That the. statute of. the Unted- States creating the
offense, or offenses.pretended to be charged in the said indictment, and undIer 'which- said indictment Was found,. was duly
repealed and was' not ini force. at the time when the said in-.
dictment was .found."
The demurrer. in. this. case. was -evidently heard along with
demurrers in .cases against others presumed to present like
questions.. The demurrer was overruled for reasons stated -in
an opinion, deemed controlling not only of this but also of the
otlier cases. Sub noinine United States v. Chicago;St. P., M. &
0.,Ry. Co., 151 Fed. 'Rep. 84. By consent there was a severance
between the railway company and the individual defendants.
On- the-trial, after the jury had been'sworn and when the"tak-,
ing of ,testimo.n'y was about to begin, the bill of e'ce'ptions'.
states. that the counsel for the company declared that he
desired, on behalf of the defendant, "in order to save our rights
uuder the law questions involved, to fhake objection to the
introduction of any evidence. And .1 desire to have it under-,
stood and agreed between, the Government and the' defendant
that I may now enter this objection with the same force and
* ffect, as if- a witiess had been already called and sworn to
testify on behalf of the 'Government,".,. On:this being assented
to -by the Government, objection was made to*the introduction
grodnds which had been:.
f any evidece based -upon the two
previously urged to support;fthe demurrer. The following
occurred:
"TheCouIT:. I understand that last- ground. Let-us see the
first ground.

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 461
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Mr. BROWN: The first ground is the general ground of the
insufficiency of the indictment. The second is the same thing,

only more ppecific.
"I think the objection. will be sufficient if confined to the
first one.
"The COuRT: The point that you wish to make is that there
can be no prosecution here, no matter what the evidence is,
because of the repeal of this Elkins act by the Hepburn act.
"Mr. BROWN: That is right.
"The COURT: The objection will be overruled.
"Mr. BROWN: I would ask an exception to the ruling of the
court.
"The COURT: An exception is allowed."
Thereupon the counsel for, the company stated that there
was an agreement with the Government that the company
should make an admisz.'on as to the facts alleged in the indictment, subject to the right of the company to make "such
objections and motions and to take such action, either in this
court or upon appeal, as shall be deemed necessary and proper
to have determined the question of the sufficiency of .the indictment to state an offense, and the sufficiency of the facts
admitted to state an- offense; and it -is further agreed that
neither such admissions, nor the fact that they had been made
in this trial, shall be used as evidence or otherwise upon any
other trial of this case, or upon the trial of any case." To this
the prosecution assented. The establishment and publication
of the tariff rates, the shipments of grain as alleged in the indictment, etc., were then admitted by the accused, and it was
further admitted as follows:.
"That in case of the several shipments specified in the several
.counts of the indictment herein the concessions stated in the
several counts respectively in the said indictment were given
to W. P. Devereux Company by the direction and with the
consent of the said defendant, the, Great Northern Railroad
Company."
Both parties then rested. The company requested an in-

462

-OCTOBER TERMi 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

strubtion in its favor, -based on the grounds upon which it had
demurred, for whichit'had objected to any.evidence, and upon
"the 'additional 'ground "that the facts shown by the eidencel
are not sufficient -to constitute against the defendant any
offense against the laws of the United States, nor any offense.'!
Upon this request the following colloquy between the court
and the counsel occurred:
"The Coui r: You admit all the material facts alleged in the.
indictment?.
"Mr. BROWN: We do.

"The CouRT: And practically admit that they are proved?
"Mr. BRowN: We can't say that. We admit the facts that

are stated here-the Government has gone over-and.I understand they are the facts of the indictment.
"The COURT: For the purposes of this case, we will say that
you admitthose facts.
"The motion will be denied, and an exception allowed-thedefendant."'
The court then instructed the jury,as follows:
.."The defendant has admitted by its 'counsel that all the
material allegations of the several.counts-are true, and if -you
do not believe these allegations are proven you are obliged to
1fid the defendant not guilty. I suppose it is proper for the
court to say that it can hardly see how you can find any other
verdict than that of guilty, 'but that is for you to say. If you
do not believe these allegations are proven you can find, the
defendant not guilty."
An exception was allowed the defendant to that part. Of the
charge instructing that if the facts stated in the indictment
were believed to be true, that the defendant should be found
guilty. The following then- occurred:
"The CouRT:. That is equivalent to saying that the indictment.itself is insufficient.
"MR. BROWN: Might I have that exceptioh?
"The .COURT: You may..

"Mr. BRoWN: May I have it appear on the, record that the

-GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v..UNITED STATES. 463
208 U.&

Opinion of theCourt.

grounds of my exception are the same three grounds named
as the basis of my motion to instruct a verdict, to wit:
"1.That neither the indictment, on which this piosecution
is based, nor any count- in the said indictment, states sufficient facts or grounds to constitute against the defendant an
offense against the laws of the United. States, nor any offense;
"2. That the statute, or statutes, of the United States creating the offense or offenses, pretended. to be charged in the
indictment, and in each ciount' thereof, and upon which statutes the said indictment and each count thereof is based, had
been duly repealed and were not in force, as to any of the
offenses in the said indictment'pretended to be charged, at
the time when the said indictment was found;
"3. On the ground that the. facts shown by the evidence are
not sufficient to constitute against the defendant an offense
against the laws of the United States, nor any offense.
"The COURT: You may."
There was a verdict of guilty, and the grounds upon which
the exceptions previously taken had been rested'were made
the basis for a motion in arrest, which was overruled andexcepted to. From the verdict and sentence thereon the ease
was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, where the judgment was affirmed (155 Fed. Rep. 945),
and the case is here because of the allowance of a writ of
certiorari.
There is a contention in the bri ef of counsel for the petitioner,
that the'demurrer to the indictment should have been sustained and that the motion.to arrest as well as the exceptions
to the charge should have prevailed, because the indictment
in all its counts was insuficient to state an offense Under the
Elkins act, even if that act. had not been repealed or modified'
by the Hepburn law.
We postpone presently determining whether this contention
open, is meritorious," in order to
is open on the record, or', .if
come at once to.the important question for decision, .which is:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

1. Did the Hepburn law repeal the Elkins act so as to deprive the Government of the right to prosecute for violations
of' the Elkins act committed before the Hepburn law was
passed? The conflicting contentions -on these subjects are
these: It is insisted on behalf of the railway company that
the Elkins act was amended and re nacted by § 2 of -the
Hepburn law, and that thereby a repeal of the Elkins act was.
accomplished, and that the express terms bf the Hepburn law
manifest the intention of Congress that no 'offense theretofore
committed against the Elkins act should be prosecuted, unless
a prosecution was then pending. The Government whilst not
challenging the doctrine that where a criminal statute is repealed and a right to prosecute for a prior offense is not saved,
such right is extinguished, yet insists that the principle has no
.application to this case, because the reenactment of the Elkins
act by § 2 of the Hepburn law did not amount to a repeal of
the Elkins act to the extent of preventing prosecutions for
offenses against that act committed prior to the adoption of the
Hepburn law. And it is urged that this result is demonstrated
not only by the clause of the Hepburn law reenacting the Elkins
act, but also by other provisions of the Hepburn law interpreted in the light of the principles of construction. which are
made applicable by operation of the general law, that is, Rev.
Stat. § 13.
In considering these contentions in their ultimate aspect it
.is clear that to dispose of them requires us, in any event, to
interpret the Hepburn law and to determine how far the reenactment by that law'of the -provisions of the Elkins act
operates to prevent prosecutions for offenses committed prior
to the date when the..Hepburn law was enacted. We come
therefore at once to that question. . In doing so,' to disembarrass the analysis from what may'be an irrelevant and certainly a confusing consideration, we concede for the sake of
argument only that the effect of the amendment and reenactment of the Elkins act by § 2 of the Hepburn law was
to repeal the Elkins act, and in .the light of this concession we

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO.. v. UNITED STATES. 465
208 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

propose to determine whether,the right to prosecute for any
prior offense committed ,before the going. into effect of the
Hepburn law was lost by reason of the adoption Of that'law.
We must read the Hepburn'law in, the light of § 13 ofthe
Revised Statutes,. which provides as follows:
"S.Ec. 13. The repeal of any statute shall not have the. effect
to release or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability
incurred Under such statute, unless the repealing act shall so expressly *provide, and'such statute shall be treated.as.still
remaining in force. for the purpose of sustaining any proper
action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty,,
forfeiture, or liability."
This provision but embodies' § 4 of, the act approved February 25, 1871, c. 71, 16 Stat.'431, which was entitled "An
Act prescribing the -Form of the enacting and resolving Clauses
of Acts and Resolutions of Congress, and rules for the 'construction thereof." As the section of the Revised Statutes in
question has only the force of a statute, its provisions cannot
justify a disregard ' of the will of Congress as manifested either
expressly or by''necessary implication in a subsequent enactment. But. while this is true the provisions of §.13 are to be
treated as if incorporated in and' as a part of subsequent enactments, and therefore under the'general principles of construction requiring, if possible, that effect be given to all the parts
of a law the section 'must be enforced'unless either by express
declaration or necessary implication, arising from the terms of
the law, as a whole, it results that the legislative mind will be
set at naught by giving effect to the provisions of § -13. For
the' sake of brevity we do not stop to refer to the many'cases
from state courts of last resort dealing with the operation of
general state statutes like unto § 13, Rev. Stat., because we
think the views just stated are -obvious and their correctness
is established by a prior decision of this court concerning that
-section. Uted States v. Reisinger, 128 U. S. 398.
Tie Hepburn law is entitled "An Act to amend an Act
entitled 'An Act to regulate commerce,' approved FebruVOL. jv' 111-30

OCTOBER. TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

ary fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, and all Acts
amehdatory thereof and to enlarge the powers of the Interstate- Commerce Commission." The law is comprehensive.
It undoubtedly, as we have said, in the second section, amends
and r'enacts the Elkins act and enlarges in important.particulars the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission,. and
changes the procedure in various ways essential to the conduct of controversies before the commission. Besides,. the act
in some respects modifies the meaas of enforcing the orders of
the commission in the courts of the United States, the right of
appeal, the judgment as to costs, attorneys' fees, etc. The
crucial portion of the act, for the purposes of the present inquiry, is § 10, which provides: "That all laws and parts of. laws
in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed,
but the amendments herein provided for shall not affect causes
now pending in the courts of the United States, but such causes
shall, be prosecuted to a conclusion in the manner heretofore
provided by law."
Clearly, the mere repeal of conflicting laws is in -no way
repugnant to the provisions of § 13 of the levised Statutes,
and,. therefore, standing alone, leaves no room for contending
that tA enactment of the Hepburn law destroyed the effect
of § 13. The difficulty of construction, if any, arises from the
words following the general repealing clause- "but the amendments herein provided for shall not affect causes now pending
in the courts of the United States, but such causes shall be
prosecuted to conclusion in the manner heretofore provided
by law." These words, we think, do not, expressly or by fair
implication, conflict with- the general rule established by § 13,
Rev. Stat., since by their very terms they are concerned with
the application to proceedings pending in the courts of the
United States of the new methods of procedure created by the
Hepburn law. Any other. construction would necessitate
expunging the words "shall be prosecuted to a conclusion in
the manner heretofore provided by' law." This follows; because if it were to be held that the intent :aad object of the

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.. 467
208 U. S.

Opinion of te Couf.

lawmaker in dealing with cases "pending in the courts of the
United States," was solely to depait as to all but such pending
cases from, the general rule of Rev. Stat. § 13, then the provision as to future proceedings would be unnecessary, because
the old and unrepealed as well as the newly enacted remedies
would be applicable, as far as pertinent, to such pending-causes.
The provision'commanding that the new remedies should not
be applicable to causes then pending in the courts of- the
United States gives significance to the whole clause and serves,
to. make, clear the fact that the legislative mind was concerned
with the confusion and uncertainty which might be begotten
from applying the new remedies to causes then pending in the
courts, and demonstrates 'therefore that this subject, and this'
subject alone, was the matter with which the provision in
question was intenled to deal.. In other words, when the object contemplated by the provision is accurately fixed the
subject is freed from difficulty, and not only the letter but the
spirit of the provision becomes clear; that is to say, it but
mnanifests the purpose of Congress to leave cases pending in
the courts to be prosecuted. under. the prior remedies, thus
causing the new remedies created to be applicable to all controversies not at the time of the passage of the act pending in
the courts. And. all the arguments relied upon to sustain thq
theory- that the power to prosecute for past offenses not then
pending in the courts was abrogated by the Hepburn law rest
in substance upon the disregard of the true significance of the
provision of § 10. Thus the argument that by the application
of the .elementary rule by which the inclusion of one must be
considered as the exclusion of the other, it follows that the
power to further prosecute all but cases then pending in the
courts was destroyed by the Hepburn law, because pending'
causes are enumerated in. § 10,. and are hence not saved by
Rev. Stat. § 13, simply assumes that the provision of.§ 10 was
intended to save the right to further prosecute the cases then
pendirg in the courts, and disregards the fact that the provision
as to pending causes was solely addressed to the remedies to

.OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

be applied in the future carrying on of such cases. Again, the
contention that un!es5 the provision as to pending causes in
§ 10 be construed as relating tothe further right to prosecute
such cases, it becomes meaningless, but overlooks the fact that•
the purpose of the provision was, by express enactment, to
prevent the application of the new remedies to the causes then
pending in the courts of the United States, a result which would
not necessarily have followed without the direction in question.
The purpose of Congress in enacting § 10 is aptly illustrated
by previous legislation Concerning the reenactment of the
Interstate Commerce Law, and may well have been deemed to
be advisable in consequence of the decision of this court in
Missouri Pacific Railway v. United States, 189 U. S. 274. The
construction which we have given § 10, resulting from its plain
language, is fortified by a considerati6n of the context of the
Hepburn law. Thus conceding for the sake of argument that
the word "pending cases," as used in § 10, embraces criminal
prosecutions, it clearly also relates to civil controversies.
Now, § 16 of the prior act to regulate commerce, as amended
and reenacted by § 5 of th Hepburn law, prescribes a limitation of two years "from the time the cause of action accrues"
as to "all complaints for the recovery of damages" before the
commission, and establishes a limitation of one year for the
filing of a petition in the Circuit Court for the enforcement
of an order of the commission for the payment of money. But
the section contains a proviso saving the right to present claims
accrued prior to the passage of the act, provided the petition
be filed within otie year. If it were true that § 10 abrogated,
as asserted, the right to prosecute all claims not pending in the
courts at the time of the passage of the Hepburn law, it-would
follow that that law destroyed the very rights which it specifically provides should be. saved if prosecuted within a year.
Moreover, as the clause of § 10 which is relied upon in terms
embraces only cases pending in the courts of the United States,
itwould follow, if the contention here made were true, that the

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 469
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Hepburn law, while saving pending cases in the "courts, yet
destroyed all claims pending at the time of the passage of that
act before the commission. As no reason is suggested why,
if the purpose of § 10 was to save pending causes, that section
should have destroyed the right to further prosecute all causes
pending before the commission, it would seem that the inclusion in § 10, only of causes pending in courts of the United
States, could only have been. the result of a purpose on the part
of Congress not to distinguish without reason between pending.
causes by saving one class arid destroying the other, but was
solely based on the desire of Congress not to interfere with
proceedings then pending in the courts, but to leave such proceedings to be carried to a finality, in accordance with the
remedies existing at the time of their initiation.' There are
various other provisions of tl, Hepburn law which we think
additionally irresistibly demonstrate the correctness of the
construction which we affix to § 10, but we do not, for the sake
of brevity, refer to them, as we think the reasoning hitherto
stated adequately shows the unsoundness of the proposition
that that section manifests in any respect the intention of
Congress to depart from the general principle expressed in
Rev' Stat. § 13. We say, however, that the view we.have
taken has in various forms of statement been upheld by a line
of decisions in the lower Federal courts. United States v.
Standard Oil Company, 148 Fed. Rep. 719; United States v.
Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Railway Company et al., 151 Fed.
Rep. 84; United States v. Delaware, Lackawanna. & Western
Railway Company, 152 Fed. Rep. 269; United States v. New
York Central & Hudson River Railroad Company, 153 Fed.
Rep. 630. In citing the cases in question we do not wish to be
considered as implying that we express any opinion as to the
doctrines which they may announce upon other subjects than
the one now before us. We say this, because it may be that
some of the other subjects with which some .of the cited cases
deal may hereafter come before us for decision, and therefore
we prefer not prematurely, even by indirection, to leave room

470 ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907. '
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

*for the slightest implication that we express an opinion as to
such other issues.
2. This brings us to the contention which we at the- outset
.passed over, which is that the indictment was insufficient to
state an offense under the Elkins act,: although that 'act was
not repealed. The proposition is, that as the indictment only
charged that the concessions on the- established rate were
unlawfully given, it was insufficient because in order to cause
a concession to be a crime under the' Elkins act, as it stood
before the Hepburn law, such concession must have been
"either knowingly or willfully. granted. If a criminal intent
is necessary to the crime, it must be charged in the indictment."
It is undoubted that the first ground of the demurrer filed to
'the indictment was broad' enough to embrace this contention
if it had been urged. That it was not urged on the hearing of
the demurrer persuasively results from the fact that it was not.
noticed in the elaborate opinion filed by the court in disposing
of the demurrer. It moreover results from the proceedings had
at the trial after the jury was sworn. The judge who presided
at that trial was the same judge before whom the demurrer
was heard. When in stating the objection to the admissibility
of any ev'idence on the part of the Government, the counsel
for the accused restated both" grounds, a. expressed..in the
demurrer, the only contention which the court understood to
be urged was the repeal of the Elkins act, since the court said:
"I understand that last ground" (the one referring to the repeal of the Elkins act). "Let us see the first ground." It is
clear that.the counsel did not then consider that the first ground
embraced the proposition now made, since in answer to the
question of the court he said: "The first ground is the general
ground of the insufficiency of the. indictment. The second
is the same thing, only more specific." That the court under.
stood this declaration as indicating that the. only question
raised was the repeal of the Elkins act, beyond controversy
appears from the statement then made by the court: "The
point-you wish to make is that there can be no prosecution

GREAT NORTHERN RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 471
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

here, no matter what the evidence is, because of the repeal of
the Elkins act by the Hepburn act." To. which counsel, answered: "That is right." True also is it that the general
language of the exceptions subsequently taken are also broad
enough to embrace the point now made, but consistently with
that candor and directness of conduct which we should attribute
to counsel, and which we do attribute, we cannot consider that
the subsequent exceptions were intended by counsel, without
notice to the court, to embrace a contention which had been
expressly disclaimed and which could not be in the case consistently with the previous statement of counsel as to the one
.and sole point which they desired to raise. And this conclusion
is moreover rendered necessary by the nature of the admission
made, which expressly conceded that "the concessions stated
in the several counts respectively in the said indictment were
given . . . by the direction and withi the consent of the
said defendant, the Great Northern Raihway Company." And
particularly is this so in view of the express declaration made
by counsel to the court after his admission as to the facts of the
case, viz.: "I understand that they [the admissions] are the
facts of the indictment'
In addition to this not a syllable in
the elaborate opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals refers to
the question now tirged. On the contrary, that opinion contains affirmative statements by the court concerning concessions made by counsel for both parties in argument which exclude the possibility that the contention we are considering
was ever directly urged or even indirectly called to the attention of that court. Finally, in the petition filed for certiorari,
counsel, after stating the bringing of the indictment, the demurrer, the admissions and the exceptions made at the trial,
summed up and precisely stated all the contentions which arose
from the dediurrer and the exceptioni without a single reference to the point now relied upon, and that point was not
referred to or rioticed in the brief submitted in support of the
petition for certiorari. Certain is it that the proposition now
urged, in vie* of the admission made below, is of a purely

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the' Case.

208 U. S.

technical character. Because we decline to consider the contention under the circumstances stated, we must not be Understood as intimating any opinion whatever upon it. Into that
question we-have not deemed that we are called upon to enter.
Affin-ed.

PHILLIPS v. CITY OF MOBILE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 113.

Argued January 17, 1J08.-Decided February 24, 1908.

An ordinance imposing a license on persons selling beer by the barrel is
an exercise of the police power of the State, and as such is authorized
by the Wilson Act, 26 Stat. 313, notwithstanding such liquors were
introduced into the State in original packages.
The police power of the State is very extensive and is frequently exercised
where it also results in.
raising revenue, and in this case an ordinance
imposing a license tax on a class of dealers in intoxicating liquor was
held to be a police regulation notwithstanding it also produced a revenue.
Where a license tax on dealers in a particular article is exacted without
reference as to whether the article was manufactured within or without
the State, the ordinance imposing it' creates no discrimination against
manufacturers outside of the State within the meaning of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
146 Alabama, 158, affirmed.

plaintiff in error herein seeks to reverse a judgment
of the Supreme Court of Alabama which reversed a judgment in his favor given by the City Court of Mobile.
The action was brought in the City Court by the city of
Mobile, by'a written complaint, wherein the city sought to
recover from the plaintiff in error (defendant ii that court)
the sum of fifteen dollars, the amount of the fine imposed upon
him by the recorder for -the violation of what is termed the
license ordinance of the city, approved March 14, 1904, by
failing to obtain and pay for a license under the twenty-eighth
THE

subdivision of the second section of that ordinance, relating

to the selling of beer in that city. The defendant filed a plea,.
setting up.what he alleged was a defense.

