OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

378

Syllabus.

208 U. S.

are the employds and servants of the court, and not of the
parties. Their wages are in no sense costs of the litigation; and,
although incurred during the progress of the suit, they are not
incurred in the suit. They are neither expenses of the plaintiff,
nor of the defendant, and are not fees or costs which can be
charged against the successful party to the litigation, as is
sought to be done in this case."
Without further elaboration, or further citation of authorities, we adjudge that the final orders of the Circuit Court and
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, whereby the Trust Company
•was held liable to make good the deficiency found to exist in
the funds required for the expenses of the receivership, were
erroneous. Those orders must be set aside, and the petition of
the receiver,.so far as it seeks to impose such liability on the
plaintiff, must be dismissed. To that end the decree is reversed
and the cause remanded for such proceedings as will be consistent with this opinion and. be in conformity with law.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA did not sit in this case.

COSMOPOLITAN CLUB v. COMMONWEALTH OF
VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
No. 130.

Argued January 23, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

The charter of a private corporation may be forfeited or annulled for the
misuse of its corporate privileges and franchises, and its forfeiture or annulment; by appropriate judicial proceedings, for such a reason would not
impair the obligation of the contract, if any, arisling between the State and
the corporation out of the mere granting of the charter. The charter
ganted to a club, held, in this case, not to amount to such a contract

COSMOPOLITAN CLUB v. VIRGINIA.
208 U. S.

Argument for Appella i.

that the club could disregard the valid laws subsequently enacted by the
State, regulating the Bale of liquor.
The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction of Virginia, made after
a hearing, that a corporation of that State had violated the liquor laws of
the State, and that in pursuance of 'statutory provisions the charter
rights and franchises of the club ceased without further proceedings, held,.
in this case not to have violated any right belonging to the club under the
contract or due process clauses of the Constitution of the United States.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. Randolph Hicks for appellant:
Charters of incorporation are within the protection of the
contract clause of the Constitution. Dartmouth College Case,
4 Wheat. 518..
The judgment complained of annulled the charter of appellant, and unless the State of Virginia retained the. right, by
some constitutional provision or legislative act, of repealing,
forfeiting or modifying the charter of appellant the judgment
is erroneous. The constitution in effect in Virginiaon the date
of the granting of appellant's charter contained no such reservation, though such a provision does appear in theconstitution of. Virginia adopted in'the year 1903, and which is now in.
force. Section 1173, Code, is the only section in which the
legislature retained the right of repealing, altering or modifying
the charter of any bank and likewise retained the right of repealing, Altering or modifying the provisions of chapter. 47 of
the Code of Virginia: Said section nowhere reserved to the
legislature the right,of.repealing, altering or modifying charters
granted under the provisions of § 1145 of said .Code. In order
to vest in the legislature this. right, the court must write into
§1173 the-words "charters granted-under" in front of the
words "the'provisions 'f chapter 47." The reservation of the
right . to repeal, alter or modify the provisions of chapter 47
does not give the right to alter or, modify or amend a charter
granted under ithose., provisions. Courts cannot supply words
in a statute where there is no ambiguity and the meaning of
the language is plain. Maillard v. Lawrence, 16 How. 261;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

208 U. S.

United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 399; Levy v. McCartee, 6
Pet. 102; United States v. Weltberger, 5 Wheat. 94; Denn v.
Reives, 10 Pet. 527.
When the meaning of a statute is plain, consequences and
motives are not to be considered and though the literal interpretation may defeat the object of the act, still it must be
adopted.. King v. Barnham, 15 E. C. L.J.57. See also St. Paul
v. Phelps, 137 U. S. 528;. Bate v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1; Hadden v. Collector, 5 Wallace, 107; Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4
Wheat. 202.
In the case' at bar the privilege of selling intoxicating liquors
was granted by a subsequent act-of the legislature. The rights
thus conferred might, at any time, be withdrawn and the
legislature might have prescribed a fine or. imprisonment for
a misuse of this privilege, but the legislature could not take
away the contractual rights as set out in the charter of incorporation as a punishment for the misuse of this privilege when
those contractual rights were perfectly innocent, not inhibited
by the statute, nor even subject to inhibition by the legislature..
Washington Bridge Co. v. State, 18 Connecticut, 53; Bailey v.
Phila. R. R. Co., 4 Harr. 389; State v. Noyes, 47 Maine, 189;
Pingry v. Washburn, 1 Aiken, 264; Miller v. New York & R.R.
Co., 21 Barb. 513; People v. Jackson & Michigan Plank Road
Co., 9 Michigan, 285-.307; Sloan v. PacificR. R. Co., 61 Missouri,
24; Attorney General v. Chicago & C. R. R. Co., 35 Wisconsin,
425.

If this conclusion is not correct, then the legislature may at
any time destroy any charter by prohibiting some one power
'in the charter which is properly a subject of police regulation
and imposing as a punishment the destruction of all the other
* innocent rights and thus do indirectly what it cannot do-directly. Undoubtedly the contract evidenced in the charter
may be forfeited like any other contract by nonuser or misuser,
in regird to matters which are of the essence of the contract
between the corporation and the State. Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat. 658. State v. Council Bluffs, 11 Nebraska

COSM(:I.OLITAN CLUB o. VIRGINIA.
208 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

356; S. C., 9 N. W. Rep. 564; Commonwealth v. Commercial
Bank, 28 Pa.. St. 389; Hodsdon v. Courtland, 16 Maine, 314.
But this misuser must be a misuser or nonuser of
the
rights granted in the charter, which was not the case with
appellant. As far as the record shows there has been neither
misuse nor nonuse of any contractual right granted in the
charter of incorporation.
Mr. William A. Anderson, Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE .IARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

-Complaint having been made in due form that the Cosmopolitan Club, a corporation .of Virginia, formed to promote
social intercourse, athletic and physical culture, and to encourage manly sports, had violated and evaded the laws of
that c6mmonwealth regulating the licensing and sale of liquors,..
the corporation court of the city of Norfolk, where the club had
its domicil, gave notice that it would, on a named. day, inqiuire
into the truth of the charge.
The proceeding was based on a statute of Virginia passed
March 12, 1904,1 amendatory of a previous statute, and providing that- "upon complaint of any person that any such
corporation so chartered 'as a social club is being conducted, or
has been conducted, for the purpose of violating or evading the
laws of this State regulating the .licensing and sale of liquors,
and after service of such complaint on such' corporation, at'
least ten days before the hearing of Said complaint, the cir-cuit court of the county or the coiporation court of the city
wherein is located its place of-business or meeting, or. the judge'
thereof in vacation, shall inquire int6: the truth of said cornI Chapter 116. An act to apend and reenact § 142 ofn act of the General
Assembly -of Virgifiia,. entitled "An Act to amend and reenact I § 75-147,
inclusive, of an act approved April 16, 1903," and to provide how social
clubs c' artered since April 16,1903, shall obtain licenses to sell ardent spirits,
etc. Acts of Assembly, 1904, p. 214.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

208 U. S.

plaint; and if the court, or judge in vacation, shall adjudge that
the said corporation is being conducted, or has been conducted,
'for the purpose -of violating or evading the laws .of the Stat
regulating the licensing and sale of liquors, the chartered rights
and franchises of said corporation shall cease and be void
without any further proceedings,' and the stid corporation and
all persons concerned in the violatiojn or evasion of said law
shall be subject to the penalties prescribed herein."
At the hearing of the case the club, by its counsel, moved to
dismiss the complaint on the ground that under' the constitutions of Virginia and of the United States the court had no
power .to entertain it and that the act under which it was filed
was contrary to those constitutions. The motion to dismiss
was overruled and the parties introduced their evidence. The
result was a judgment by the corporation court that the club
had been conducted for the purpose of violating and evading
the laws of Virginia regulating the licensing and sale of liquors.
'The defendant then applied to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia for a writ of error and supersedeas. The latter
court, upon inspection of the record, refused the application
upon the ground that the judgment was plainly right. The
president of that court allowed a writ of error for the review
of its judgment by this court.
It is contended by the plaintiff in error that the judgment
against it was inconsistent with the contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States. The charter of the club,
it is insisted, was a contract between it and Virginia, which
could not be amended or annulled unless at the time it was
granted, the State, by constitutional provision or by legislative
act, had retained or reserved the right of repealing, forfeiting
•or modifying it. Neither the state constitution nor any statute, it was alleged-and we assume such to be the fact-contained any such reservation at the time the club's charter was
granted.
Assuming that the charter of the club constituted a contract
between it and the State, it would not follow 'that the statute

COSMOPOLITAN CLUB v. VIRGINIA.
208 U.S.

Opinion of'the Court.

of Virginia, enacted in 1904, after the granting of such chatter,
was inconsistenit with the clause of the Constitution forbidding
a State from passing any law impairing the obligation, of a
contract. The principle is well established that the charter of'
a private corporation may be forfeited or annulled for the
misuse of its corporate privileges and franchises, -and that its
forfeiture or annulment, by appropriate judicial proceedings,
for such a reason, would not impair the obligation of the. contract arising between the State and the corporation out of the
mere granting. of the charter. In Chicago 'Life Ins. Co.' v.
Needles, 113 U..S. 574, 580, an insurance company contested
the validity, under the contract cause of the Constitution, of
a' statute.of Illinois prescribing certain regulations (not in force
when the company's charter was granted) in reference to the
conduct of 'life insurance business in that State. This court
overruled the contention, observing: "The right of the plaintiff in error to exist as a corporation, and its authority, in that
capacity, to conduct the particular business for which it was
created, were granted, subject to the condition that the privileges and franchises conferred upon it should not be abused, or
so employed as to defeat the ends for which it was established,
and that, when so abused or misemployed, they might be withdrawn. or reclaimed 'by the State, in such way and by such
modes of procedure-as were consistent with law. Although no
such 'condition is expressed in the company's charter, it is
necessarily implied' in'every 'grant of cotporate existence.
Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, 51; Angell & Ames on Corporations (0th ed.), .§774, note. Equally implied, in our judgment,
is the condition that the corporation shall be subject to such
reasonable regulations, in respect to the general conduct of its
affairs, as the -legislature may, from time to time, prescribe,
which do not materially interfert with or. obstruct the substantial enjoyment of the privileges the State has granted, and.
serve only to secure the'ends -for which the corporation was
created. 'Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700; Commonwealthy.
Farciers'.& Mechanics' Bank, 21 Pick. 542; Commereial Bank v.

. OCTOBER TERM, .1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

MiesissidPpi, 4 Sm. & Marsh, 439, 497, 503. If this condition
be not necessarily implied, then the creation of corporations,
with rights and franchises which do not belong to individual
citizens, may become dangerous to the public welfare through
the ignorance, or misconduct, or fraud of those to whose management their affairs are intrusted. It would be extraordinary
if the legislative department of a government, charged with 'the
duty of enacting such laws as may promote the health, the
morals, and the prosperity of the people, might not, when unrestrained by. constitutional limitations upon its authority, provide, by reasonable. regulations, against the misuse of special
corporate privileges which it has granted, and which could not,
except by its sanction, express or implied, have been exercised
at all."
These principles were expressly reaffirmed, upon a review of
the adjudged cases, in New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana,
185 U. S. 336, 347.
It must, therefore, be held that the contract between, the
club and the State did not authorize the club, to disregard the
valid'law of the State regulating the licensing and sale of
liquors. Such a course upon the part of the club was alleged
to be a misuse of its corporate privileges and franchises. The
distinct charge against the club in the corporation court was
that it was being conducted for the purpose of violating and
evading the statute regulating the licensing and sale of liquorsa statute which the commonwealth could rightfully enact under
its power to.care for the health and morals of its, people. And
the court adjudgedthat the charge against the club 'wa sustained-the' result'being that, by the statute, -the chartered
rights and franchises of the 'club ceased without any further
proceedings. Even if this, court could re~ixamine the judgment
of the corporation court on the facts, the present record would
.not jU~tify us in holding that error was committed'
Was this result consisterit with the due process enjoined by
the Constitution? This question must be a-wer-idi-the-affirmative. The proceedings against the club were had in a

COSMOPOLITAN CLUB v. VIRGINIA.
U.s.

385

Opinion of the Court.

court. competent under the constitution and laws of 'Virginia
to determine the 'questions raised by the complaint against the
club.' This must be assumed to be the case after the highest
courtof Virginia refused-'a writ of error upon the ground that
the judgment Qf the corporation court was plainly right. The
mode of proceeding against the club was not unusual in such
cases.' As early as Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch,'43, 51, this coivrt
said: "A private corporation created- by the legislature may
lose its franchises by a misuser or nonuser of them;. and they
may be resumed by the government tinder a judicial judgment
upon quo warranto, to ascertain and enforce the forfeiture."
So in New Orleans Waterworks v. Louisiana, above eited, the
first of several questions raised there was that since the charter
of 'acertain waterworks company prescribed mandamus as the
remedy to maintain a lawful tariff of water rates,.was not th6
substitution by the writs of forfeiture of charter as aremedy,
for the maintenance of unlawful rates, a breach of the contract,.
and a depriyation of the property without due process of law,
and a denial of the equal 'protection of the laws? The court
answered-the question by saying (p. 351): "The answer to the
first question, as to mandamus being'the exclusive remedy for'
illegal rates,, is that the 'state court his otherwise construed'
,the charter, and has held that: mandamus is not the. only
remedy, but that the company .was: liable to be. proceeded
against by. quo warranto 'at the' suit of the State through its
attorney general. The, claim that by so proceeding there is'
any impairment of.the obligation of 'a contract by any subsequent legislation, or that there has thuA' been a deprivation of.
propertyw.ithout. due process of law, or a denial of the equal
protection of the laws, has no. colorable foundation.' An exarfiination of..this question, among others, was made by the
state court after full hearing by all parties,, and all that can
*possib ly be claimed on the part of the plaintiff in error is that.
such court erroneously, decided the law. -That constithtes no
-Federal question." .
It thus appears that the club, ceased to exist as a corpoVOL.' CoVIII-25

. OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

ratioin by virtue of a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction all the parties being before it and given full opportunity
to be heard.. Such a judgment cannot be held to have violated
any right belonging to the club under the, contract or other
clause of the, Federal Constitution. Foster v. Kansas, 112
U. S. 201, 206; Kennard v. Louisiana,92 U, S. 480; Louisiana
Waterorks Co. v. Louisiana, above cited.
Judgment affirmed.

BASSING v. CADY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 426.

Argued January 8,1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

On appeal or writ of error to this .'court,-papers or documents used in the
court below cannot in strictness be examined here unless by bill of exceptions or other proper mode they are made part of the record.
The mere arraignment and pleading to an indictment does not put the ac- cused in judicial jeopardy, nor does the second .surrender of the same
person by one State to another amount to putting Ithat person in second
jeopardy because* the -requisition of the demanding State is based on an
indictment for the same offense for which the accused hadbeen formerly
indicted and surrendered but for'which he had never been tried.
One charged with crime and who was in the place.where, and at the time
when, the crime was committed, and who. thereafter leaves the State, no
matter for what re.son,.is a fugitive from justice within the meaning of
the interstate rendition provisions of the Constitution, and of § 5278, Rev.
Stat., and this none the less if he leaves theState with the knowledge knd
without the objection of its authorities..

THE facts are stated in the opinion.,.

Mr, Edward D. Bassett for plain'tiff in error:
The plaintiff in error is not a fugitive from' justice within the
meaning of. Art. IV, § 2, Const. of.the U. S. and § 5278, Rev.
Stat. Dennison v.Kenthcky,.24 'How. 66; Robb. v.. Conolly,

