WABASH RAILROAD CO. . ADELBERT COLLEGE. 609
208 U.S.

Statement of the Cas.

We. have considered the elaborate argument of counsel that
the track was not intended for the use of the public generally,
and that it could not, in fact, be so used, and are not convinced
by it. The, judgment is

Affirmed.
WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v.- ADELBERT COLL)EGE OF-THE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 40. Petition for rehearinik and motion to modify Judsment. Submitted January381.
1908.-Decided March 9, 1908.

Petition for rehearing and motion to modify judgment in this case, anls,.
p.-38, denied and further held in this case that:
Where property is in possession and under the control of the Federal court,
the declaration of a lien upon that property is a step toward the invasion
of the court's possession thereof and is equally beyond the jurisdiction of

the state court as an order for the sale of the property to satisfy the lien
would be.
In a proceeding in the state court, the ascertainment of the amount due,
whether judgment can berendered, and the issuing of execution against
a corporation, whose property is under the control of the Federal court,
are questions exclusively for the state bourt and may be regarded as
independent of the proceedings for the enforcement of the lien.
Where claims are presented for adjudication to the Circuit Court against

property in its possession and there are conflicting decisions of the state
and Federal courts as to the rights of the parties, the Circuit 'Court must

first determine which decision it will follow. This court cannot pass upon
that question until it is properly before it.
AFTER the decision in this case, reported 208 U. S. 38, the
defendants in error petitioned for a rehearing and moved, if
that were denied, that the judgment be modified: The substance of the motion was stated by counsel to be that the judgment should, be modified "by specifically directing that the
Supreme Court of Ohio affirm so much of the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Lucas County, Ohio, as finds and adjudicates
the rights of these defendants in error, and each of them,
VOL. OCVii-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

against the property and parties in said cause, as set forth in
the judgment entry, respecting the equities of the cause and
right of recovery, the ownership and the lien of the equipment
bonds, and the sums due thereon to the parties, respectively,
with interest and costs; and by further specifi.ally directing
that said Ohio Supreme Court reverse the judgment of said
Circuit Court so far as it directs a seizure and sale of the property held by the plaintiff in error in Ohio and affected by such
'lien, and limit the rights of the defendants in error to the recovery on: such modified judgment in the Federal Circuit Court
found by this court to have jurisdiction of the property."
Mr. Rush Taggart for plaintiff in error, in opposition to the
petition and motion.
Mr. John W. Warrington, Mr. John C. F. Gardner, Mr.
Thomas P. Paxton, Junior, and Mr. Murray Seasongood for
defendant in error, in support of the petition and motion.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE Moon,

In the original decision of this cause we treated the proceeding in the state court as one whose sole direct purpose was to
procure a sale of the railroad property in satisfaction of the
lien which the holders of the equipment bonds asserted against
it. We assumed that the judgment of the state court was one
for the sale of the property, and that the adjudication of the
amounts due the plaintiffs below, and of the existence of the
lien claimed, were merely incidental and preliminary to the
judgment ordering the sale. Believing, for the reasons given
in the opinion, that such a ju'dgment was beyond the jurisdiction of the state eburt, we, reversed it. That such a conception of the proceeding and judgment was not unnatural
or strained appears quite clearly from a passage-in the brief
of the learned counsel for the defendant in error filed in support of this motion. There it is said: "No one can read the

WABASH RAILROAD CO. v. ADELBERT COLLEGE. 611
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

foregoing abstract of the petition, or the petition itself, without observing its purpose to set up the lien of the equipment
bonds with all other liens, also, to have the amount found due
on the .equipment bonds sued on and to enforce payment
through sale of the property, subject only to. the liens of the
two prior Ohio. mortgages and two prior Indiana mortgages;
also, to have an accounting and marshalling of liens and a
distribution of the proceeds. Plainly then the action contemplated the ultimate seizure and sale of all the property now in
question, subject only to two underlying mortgage liens."
It is, however, urged that the judgment of the court below
should be directed to stand so far as it found the amount due
to the several plaintiffs in respect of the equipment bonds
held by them, and so far as it declared that those bonds were
entitled to a lien upon the property to secure payment. But,
after renewed consideration of the cause, we decline to modify
our general judgment of reversal. For the purpose, however,
of avoiding misunderstanding and in the hope that this prolonged litigation may be hastened to an end, we think it fitting,
without extended discussion, to add a few observations to. what
was said in the former opinion,
1. The declaration of a lien on the property is a step toward
the invasion of its possession, which we have held to be beyond
th jurisdiction of the state court. It was sought, not for itself, since it would have no significance except as a basis for
the order of.sale of the property affected by it, but only as an
essential part .of the order itself. The declaration of the lien
must stand or fall with the order of sale;'and is, therefore, with
that order, beyond the power of the state court.
2. The ascertainment of the amount due to the plaintiffs and
the issue of an' execution against the Toledo, Wabash and
Western Railway Company may be regarded as independent
of the proceedings for the enforcement of' the lien. Whether
such a judgment can be rendered upon a proceeding of this nature (Giddings v. Barney, 31 Ohio St. 80) is a question exclusively for the state court.

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

3. If the claims of the defendant in error should be presented to the Circuit Court of the United States, the question
would arise whether that court, in determining the rights of
the bondholders against the property, should follow the decision of this court (Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway Co. v.
Ham, 114 U. S. 587), or the decision of the state court (Compton v. Railway Company, 45 Ohio St. 592). That question is
not here, has not been argued by counsel, and we cannot now
properly decide it. We do not express or intimate any opinion
upon it. 'It must in the first instance be passed upon by the
Circuit Court.
The petition for rehearing and the motion .to modify the
judgment are
Denied.

