OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

1891, whereby no other question can be considered, our jurisdiction is. exclusive, American Sugar Refining Company v.
New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, but this is not necessarily so as to
the other classes bf cases enumerated in that section. And as
to these classes it has been repeatedly held that the act of 1891
did not contemplate several separate appeals or writs of error
on the merits in the same case and at the same time to two
appellate courts. McLish v. Roft, 141 U. S. 661; Robinson v.
Caldwcll, 165 U. S. 359; Columbus Construction Company v.
Crane Company, 174 U. S. 600; Cincinnati,Hamilton & Dayton
Railroad Company v. Thiebaud, 177 U. S. 615; Loeb v. Columbia Toumship Trustees, 179 U. S. 472.
Inasmuch as in our opinion the controversy here did not
involve the jurisdiction of the District Court as a Federal court,
the case was appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
the writ of error from this court directly cannot be maintained.

Writ of error dismissed.

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
RROR TI

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF IDAHO.

No. 62. Submitted December 3, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

X*hile a State, upon its admission to the Union, is on an equal footing with
every other-State and, except as restrained by the Constitution, has full
and complete jurisdiction over all persons and things within its limits,
Congress has power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, and such
power is superior and paramount to the authority .of the State' within
whose limits are Indian tribes.
Where fundamental principles of the Constitution are of equal dignity,
neither must be-so enforced as to nullify or sidbstantially impair the other.
While the prohibition of ' 2139, Rev. Stat., as amended in 1892, against
introducing intoxicating liquors into Indian country does not embrace.
any body of territory in which the Indian title has been unconditionally
extinguished, that statute must be interpreted' in connection with whatever special agreement may have been made between the United States

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

841

Statement of the Case

and the Indians in regard to the extinguishment of the title and the retention of control over the land ceded by the United States.
It is within the power of Congress to retain control, for police purposes, for
a reascnable and linjited period, over lands, the Indian title to which is ex,
tinguished, and which are allotted in severalty, notwithstanding that the
Indians may be citizens and the land may bewithin the limits of a State;
and twenty-five years is not an unreasonable period.
Under the agrebment of May 1, 1893, ratified, 28 Stat. 286, 326, between
the United States and the Nez Perce Indians, the United, States retained
control over the lands ceded for the purpose of controlling the use of liquor
therein for twenty-five years, and during that period 1 2139, Rev, Stat.,
remains in force, notwithstanding such lands are within the State of Idaho.

By indictment returned in the District Court of:the United
States for the District of Idaho, the plaintiff in error, Dick, was
charged with the offense cf haing unlawfully and feloniously:
introduced intoxicating liquor, whiskey, into the Indian country, to wit, into and upon the Nez Perce Indian Reservation,
in the county of Nez Perce, State of Idaho.
. The indictment was based upon § 2139 of the Revised Stat,utes as amended and reenacted by the act of July 23, 1892,
27 Stat. 260, c. 234. That amended section reads: "No ardent
spirits, ale, beer, wine or intoxicating liquor or liquars of. whatever kind shall be introduced, under any pretense, into the
Indian country. Every person who selfs, exchanges, gives, barters or disposes of ai)y ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine or intoxicating liquors of any kind to any Indian under charge of any
Indian superintendent or agent, or introduces or attempts to
introduce any ardent spirits, ale, wine, beer, or intoxicating
liquor of any kind into the Indian country shall be punished-by
imprisonment for not more than two years, and by fine of not
more than three hundred dollars for each offense. But it shall
be a sufficient defense to any charge of introducing or attempting, to introduce ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine or intoxicating
liquors into the Indian. country. that the acts charged were
done under authority in writing from the War Department, or
any officer duly authorized thereunto by the War Department.

"

The accused demurred to the indictment .upon the following

'"OCTOBER TERM,- 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

among other grounds: That at the time charged in the indictment there was no Indian country within the county of Nez
Perce or within the District of Idaho, known or designated as
the Nez Perce Indian Reservation; that the jurisdiction of the
United States over all the country and territory. embraced
within the. former reservation known and designated as the
Nez Perce Indian Reservation was, by the act admitting Idaho
as a State into the Union, relinquished to the State of Idaho,
excepting only that jurisdiction was retained in the United
States over such Indian reservation until the Indians' title to
the lands included within the boundary of such reservation
should be extinguished; that the Indian or tribal title to the
lands therein contained has, since the admission of the State,
been extinguished by the allotment of the lands in severalty
to the' individual Indians and by the purchase of the balance
thereof by the United States, and that such allotments and
purchase have been ratified by the public laws and acts of Congress; and further, that the former reservation known and
designated as the Nez Perce Indian Reservation had, prior to'
the time of the commission of the acts mentioned in the in•:dictment, been opened for occupation, settlement and disposal
under the general land laws of the United States by an act of
Congress, and that the same had been, as a matter of general
and public knowledge, prior to the time mentioned in the indictment, settled and appropriated by citizens of the State;
that various townsites within the boundaries of the former
reservation had been settled by citizens and that title thereto
transferred from the United States to the inhabitants, and that
municipal governments, namely, villages, had been organized
and were in existence within the boundaries of the former
reservation, and that the same, nor any part thereof, is not,
and was not, at the times mentioned in the indictment, Indian
country, or lands reserved for the use and occupation of Indians
or occupied by any Indian maintaining tribal relations or by
any Indians or persons whomsoever over which the United
States .is exercising, or attempting to exercise, any of the au-

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

.343

Statement of the Case.

thority or control in nature of the guardianship of the person.
Other grounds of demurrer were assigned, but they need not
be here set out.
The demurrer was overruled, and the case went to trial, the
accused pleading not guilty. At the close of the evidence he
asked the court to direct a verdict of not guilty, -but that request was denied and the result of the trial was a verdict of
guilty. Motions for arrest of judgment and for a new trial
having been denied, the defendant.was, on May 16, 1905, sentenced to pay a fine of $100 and costs and to be imprisoned in
the penitentiary for the term of one .year and ten days.
In order that the grounds of the demurrer may be clearly
apprehended it. is necessary to bring into view certain legislation by Congress and an agreement or treaty made between
the United States and the Nez Perce Indians..
By the act of Congress of February 8, 1887, c. 119, providing
for the allotment of lands in severalty to Indians on the various
Indian reservations, and to extend the protection of the laws
of the United States and the Territories over the Indians, it
was provided: "That upon the approval of the allotments provided for in this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall'
cause. patents to issue therefor in the name of the. allottees,
which patents shall be of the legal effect, and declare that the
United States does and will hold the land thus allotted, for
the period of twenty-five years, in trust for the sole use and
benefit of -the Indian to whom such allotment shall have been
made, or, in case -of his decease, of his heirs according to' the
laws of the State or Territory where such land is located, and
that at the expiration of said period the United States will con.vey the same, by patent,to said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust and free'of all charge or
incumbrance whatsoever: Provided, that the President of the
United States may in any case, in his discretion, extend the
period. And if any conveyance shall be made of the lands set
apart and allotted as herein provided, or any contract made
touching the same, before the expiration of the time above

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

mentioned, such conveyance or contract shall be absolutely
null and void: Provided, that the law of descent and partition
in force in the State or Territory where such lands are situate
shall apply thereto after patents therefor have been executed
and delivered, except as herein otherwise provided; .
.
24 Stat. 389, § 5.
Section 6 of that act is as follows: "That upon the completion of said allotments and the patenting of the lands to said
allottees, each and every member of the respective bands or
tribes of Indians to whom allotments have been made shall
have the benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State or Territory in which they may reside;
and no Territory shall pass or enforce any law denying any
such Indian within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
law. And every Indian born within the territorial limits of
the United States to whom allotments shall have been made
under the provisions of the act, or under any law or treaty,
and every Indian born within the territorial limits of the
United States who has voluntarily taken up, within said limits,
his residence separate and apart from any tribe of Indians
therein, and has adopted the habits of civilized life, is hereby
declared to be a citizen of the United States, and is entitled to
all the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens,
whether said Indian has been or not, by birth or otherwise, a
member of any tribe of Indians within the territorial limits
of the United States without in any manner impairing or otherwise affecting the right of any such Indian to tribal or other
property."
Idaho was admitted into the Union in 1890, act of July 3,
c. 656, 26 Stat. 656, the act of admission containing no provision about Indian lands or reservations. But the constitution
of. Idaho, which Congress accepted, ratified and confirmed, contained this provision: "And the people of the State of Idaho
do agree. and declare that we forever disclaim all right and title
to the unappropriated public lands lying within the boundaries thereof, and to all lands lying within said limits owned or

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

345

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

held by any Indians or Indian tribes; and, 'until the title
thereto shall have been extinguished by the United States, the
same shall be subject to the disposition of the United States,
and said Indianlands shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the Congress of the United States."
In the act of August 25, 1894, c. 290, 28 Stat. 286, 326, 327,
330, making appropriations for current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department and fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes; will be found the provisions
of an agreement between the Nez Perce tribe of Indians upon
the Lapwai Reservation in Idaho, from which it appears that.
in making that agreement the parties proceeded under the authority of the above act of 1887. By that agreement the In'dians ceded, sold, relinquished and conveyed to the United
States all their claim, title and interest in and to all the unallotted lands within the limits of that reservation, except'
certain specified. tracts,. which they retained. The parties
stipulated that the land so ceded should not be open for public
settlement until trust patents for the allotted lands had been
duly issued and recorded and the first, payment made to the
Indians. Article IX of that agreement has a particular bearing upon this case. It reads: "It is further agreed that the
lands by this agreement ceded, those retained, and those allotted to the said Nez Perce Indians, shall be subject for a
period of twenty-five years to all the laws of the United States
prohibiting the introduction of intoxicants into the Indian
country, and that the Nez Perce Indian allottees, whether
under the care of an Indian agent or not, shall, for a like period,
be subject to all the laws of the United States prohibiting the
sale or other disposition of intoxicants to Indians." The
agreement by its terms was not to take effect and be in force
until ratified by Congress. It was accepted, ratified and confirmed by the above act of August 25, 1894, c. 290.
Mr. Frank E. Fogg for plaintiff in error:
The United States has no jurisdiction for the purposes of

346

3 OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

local police control over territory within a State owned in fee
by white citizens ofsuch State, and not reserved for use and
occupancy by Indians, nor for any government purpose whatsoever. In the present case the sale of liquor was made in a
municipal territory clearly Within the jurisdiction of the State
and outside the jurisdiction of the United States. In. these
police matters there is no such thing as a divided sovereignty
and jurisdiction is vested entirely either in the State or the
Nation, and not divided between the two. See In re Heff,
197 U. S.505, which controls this case, in which there exist
even stronger reasons for denying to the United States jurisdiction in the premises, because even if the statute in question
could be held constitutional, the acts charged do not constitute
an offense under the statute.
The acts of Congress under which plaintiff in error was indicted exclude entirely lands that the Government had -patented to white citizens without any restrictions whatsoever.
By the very terms of the act under which the plaintiff in error
was charged, even if the same could be held constitutional,
the lands included within the village of Culdesac, the title to
which had passed from the United States without restriction,
are excluded from the term "Indian country," as contained
in said act.
Congress by the act of ratifying the agreement with the Nez
Perces, could not place any restrictions upon future legislation,
amending or even abrogating the existing law in reference to
the prohibition of the introduction of liquor.
The plenary power of Congress over tribal relations and
lands .cannot be limited by provisions of treaty so as to preclude future enactments, giving-effect to the government pol*icy in relation. thereto. Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187.U. S.553..
The effect and purpose of the agreement of May 1, 1893,
with the Nez Perces was to break up the tribal relations; in fact,
the United States, by the act of ratifying the said agreement
With the Nez Perces, not only renounced its guardianship of
the person and general property of every Indian of the former

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff M"Error.

Nez Perce tribe, but practically destroyed the very machiiery
by which the Indians could govern thembelves. Unless the
sixteen hundred Indians immediately become full citizens of
the State of Idaho, and, in fact, subject to all its laws, both
civil and criminal, upon the acceptance of land in severalty, as
provided by the act of February 8, 1887, then they are without
government or means of government; their political and civil
status is an anomaly suspended in the air between the sovereignty of the State and the sovereignty of the Nation:
There is no such thing as qualified citizenship, for Congress
cannot confer upon the Indians such citizenship as would entitle them to all the rights of citizens of the State where they
were located, and at the same time deny to the State the right
to. subject them to the same complete and exclusive police
control that it has over its other citizens. In re Celestene,
114 Fed. Rep. 551-553; In re Now-goe-Zhuck, 76 Pac. Rep.
877--880.
The contention of the Government that the United States has
jurisdiction because of a clause in the treaty or agreement with
the Nez Perce Indians ratified May 1, 1893, providing that the
laws of the United States prohibiting the introduction of liquor
into the Indian country shall remain in force over the land
ceded for a period of twenty-five years, is entirely untenable.
Congress was without constitutional authority to authorize
such-an agreement with the Indians or to ratify the clause in
question. The effect of such an agreement would be to establish a divided sovereignty of certain definite. territory and deprive the State of full police control of its own citizens within
its own territory. It would seem, further, that in so fi- as it
attempted to provide for the future police control of the territory ceded, that the clause is void for the additional reason,
that it amounts to the Government bartering with its own
citizens to place a limitation upon its future policy in regard
to matters of mere police regulation. Boyd v. Alabama, 94
U. S. 650; New York & N. E. E. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 567;
golden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 392.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

208 U. S.

The Attorney General and Mr. William R. Harr, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for defendant in error:
'The Hefi Case, 197 U. S. 488, is not controlling. The question there was as to the authority of Congress, after an Indian
allottee had been made a citizen and put under the jurisdiction
of the State, to exercise certain police jurisdiction over'him.
Here the question is as to the authority of Congress before that
took place-if it has. ever taken place-to reserve a limited
jurisdiction over the ceded territory.. In this case the matter
of citizenship and subjection to state authority, and not the.
jurisdiction retained by Congress, is really in issue.
It was competent for Congress to stipulate that the lands
ceded by the Nez Perces should be subject for a definite period
to the laws of the United States regulating the introduction of.

liquor into the Indian country.
At the time the agreement of May 1,.1893 was made and
ratified the Nez Perce Indian Reservation, being lands to which
the Indian title had not been extinguished, was clearly Indian
country within the meaning of-the laws of the United States.
By article IX of the agreement it is, in effect, declared that
it shall continue to be Indian country for a period of twentyfive years. The authority of Congress so to provide is settled
by the decisions of this court. Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204;
United States v. Forty-three Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 197,
198.
Even though the Nez Perces, having since received their
allotments, should be held to be, by virtue of the act of February 8, 1887, citizens of the United States and subject to the
laws of the State of Idaho, that fact does not necessarily impair
the jurisdiction expressly retained by Congress to regulate the
introduction of intoxicants upon the ceded lands for a specified
period.
The .stipulation in the agreement to that effect being within
the cofiipetency of Congress, under the dec.ision in the case
last cited, notwithstanding the lands were embraced within
the limits and general jurisdiction of the State, a subsequent

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

change in the political status of one or all of the Indians should
not impair the validity of the stipulation or relieve the United
States from its obligation or power to enforce it.
The power of Congress to make treaties with the Indian
tribes is coextensive with its power to make treaties with
foreign nations. United Statesv. Forty-threeGallons o1 Whiskey,
93 U. S. 197, 198.
It is true that in the present case we have not a treaty made
by the President by and with the consent of the Senate, but
simply an agreement negotiated in pursuance of and ratified
by act of Congress approved by the President. That fact seems,
however, immaterial. The power of the United States to deal
with the Indians is the same whether exercised by law or treaty.
A treaty has no superior force or sanctity to an act passed in
pursuance ol the Constitution. Both are equally declared to
be the supreme law of the land, anything in the constitution or
laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. An act
of Congress may repeal a' treaty, and vice versa. Foster v.
Neilson, 2 Pet. 253; Chae Chan Ping v. United States, 130 U. S.
581.
Congress may provide for the dissolution of Indian tribal
governments and the incorporation of the Indians as citizens
of the United States. In so doing it may attach conditions to
its grant of citizenship. Its power in this respect is as broad
and untrammeled as the power to admit new States into the
Union. Qualified citizenship is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution. United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.
432; In re Hefi, 197 U. S.. 509.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making

the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
From the above statement it appears:
That the lands allotted in severalty.to Indians in conformity
with the act of February 8, 1887, were- to be held for the period
of twenty-five years by the United States in trust for the sole

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208'U. S.

use and benefit of the Indian allottee or his heirs, when a formal patent was to be issued by the United States to the Indian
or his heirs in fee, free from all charge or incumbrance whatever-such period subject to be extended by the President in:
his discretion;
That upon the completion of the allotments and patenting
of the lands to the allottees, as. in that act provided, every
member of the respective bands or tribes of Indians to whom
allotments have been made was to have the benefit of and be
subject to the laws, both civil ' and criminal, of the State or
Territory in which he resided; also, that every Indian born
within the United States, to whom an allotment was made
under the act of 1887 or under any treaty, and every Indian
born within the United States who had voluntarily taken up
within such limits his residence separate and apart from any
Indian tribe and adopted the habits of civilized life,, was declared to be a citizen of the United States and entitled to all
the rights, privileges or immunities of such citizens; and,
That by the agreement of 1893 with the Indians the lands.
thereby ceded, those retained, and those allotted to the, Nez
Perce Indians, were to be subject for the period of twenty-five
years to all the laws of the United States prohibiting the introduction of intoxicants into the Indian country, and that the
Nez Perce Indian allottees, whether under the care of an Indian
agent or not, should for a like period be subject to all the laws
of the United States prohibiting the sale or other disposition of
intoxicants to the Indians. It also appears that at the date of
such agreement it was made an offense against the United
States, punishable by fine and imprisonment, for any one
either-to sell, exchange, give, barter or dispose of ardent spirits,
ale, beer, wine or intoxicating liquor of any kind to any Indian under charge of an Indian superintendent or agent, or to
introduce or attempt to introduce ardent spirits, ale, beer,
wine or intoxicating liquor of any kind into the Indian country.
There are certain facts which the accused insists are decisive
in his favor. They are as follows:

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
2W U. 8.

351

Opinion of the Court

1. That the 'village of Culdesac, although within the boundaries of the Nez Perce Reservation as established before Idaho
was admitted into the Union, was, at the time specified in the
indictment, an organized village or town of that State.
2. The accused, Dick, is a Umatilla Indian who, at the date
of the offense, held and for three years had held an allotment
in severalty and also what is called a trust patent. On or about
the thirteenth of March, 1905, he purchased at. Culdesac five
bottles of whiskey, the contents of two bottles of which he
and some other Indians drank up. Part of the money paid for
the whiskey was furnished by Te-We-Talkt, a Nez Perce Indian, living on the Nez Perce Reservation and holding an
allotment and also a :preliminary trust patent. Dick gave one
bottle of the whiskey to Te-We-Talkt, but afterwards it was
taken from the latter by the superintendent and acting agent
of the Nez Perce Indians. The purchasing of the whiskey, the
giving of the one bottle to Te-We-Talkt and the taking of that
bottle from the latter all occurred within the limits of the village of Culdesac. Nothing happened in relation to thl transaction outside of the village. The superintendent of the Nez
Perce Indians testified: "I do not know of any reservation or
any part of the reservation used for Government purposes or
for Indian purposes within the boundary of the village of Culdesac. I have no idea there is any such reservation within such
village. Culdesac is seven or eight miles from the exterior
boundaries of the Indian school reservation."
"
3. The lands upon which -the village of Culdesac is located
were'part of those ceded to the United States by .the agreement
of 1893 with the Indians, and before the above transaction in
that village about whiskey occurred the title to such lands had
passed by patent from the United States under the townsite
laws to the probate judge of Nez Perce County,. in trustfor
the inhabitants of the village." 141 Fed. Rep. 5, 7.
We need not stop t eonsider the scope, ineaning or validity
of that part of amended § 2139 of tlhe Revised Statutes, which
makes it an offense against the United States to sell, exchange,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

give, barter or dispose of ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine or intoxicating liquors "to any Indian under charge of any Indian
superintendent or agent." No case is here for trial under that
clause of the statute; for, the only charge in the indictment is
that the accused unlawfully and feloniously introduced intoxicating liquors into the "Indian country."
Section 2139, as amended and reenacted in 1892, makes it
an offense against the United States for any one to introduce
intoxicating liquors into the "Indian country," and the offense
charged against Dick was the introduction -by -him of whiskey
-into that country on the fifteenth day of March, 1905. The
transactioft out of which the present prosecution. arose occurred, as we have seen, within the village of Culdesac, a municipal organization existing under and.by -virtue of the. laws
of Idaho,. and the parties involved in it were Dick and Te-WeTalkt, who were at that time Indian allottees in severalty and
holders of trust patents, and therefore, according to t'he decision in Matter of Heft,. 197 U. S. 488, citizens of the United
States. -If this case depended alone upon the Federal liquor
statute forbidding the introduction of intoxicating drinks into
the Indian country, we should feel obliged, to adjudge that the
trial court erred in not directing a verdict for the -defendant;
for that statute, when enacted, did not'intend by the words
"Indian country" to embrace any body'of territory in "which,
at the -time, the Indian title had been extinguished, and over
,which and over the inhabitants of which (as was the case of..
Culdesac) the jurisdiction of the State, for all purposes of government, was full and complete. Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204;
Ex parte Crow Dog, 109. U. S. 556, 561.
But this case does not depend upon the construction of the
Federal liquor, statute, .considered alone. That statute must
be interpreted in connectibn with the 'agreement of 1893 between the United States and the Nez Perce Indians: By that.
agreement,. as we have seen, the United States stiptilated. that
the lands ceded by 'the Nez Perce Indians, and those retained
as well, as those. allotted to the Indians (which embraced aU

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

353

Opilion of the Court.

the lands in the original Reservation), should be subject, for
the lir:.ited period of twenty-five years, to all Federal laws
prohibiting the introduction of intoxicants into the ,Indian
country.
NdW, the principal contention of the: accused is that the
United ,States has no jurisdiction for purposes of local police
control over lands within a State which are owned in fee by
white citizens of. such, State, alth(?ugh they. may have been
once the property of an Indian .tribe .and were acquired by
the United States subiect-to the condition that the acts of
Congress, relating to a named subject, should remain in force,'
for -a prescribed. period, over such territory., We could not
allow this view to control our decision without. overruling
former decisions, the correctness of, which, so far, as. we are
aware, has 'never been .questioned.- In determining the extent
of the power of Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian
tribes; we are confronted by certain principles that are deemed
fundamental in. our governmental systpm. "One is that a State',
upon its admission into the Union, is thereafter upon an equal
footing with every other. State and has full and complete juris-diction over all. persons. and things within its limits, except as
it may be restrained by the provisions of the Federal Constitu-'
tion or by its own constitution. .Another, generl 'principle,
based on the express. words of the Constitution, is that Con•gress 'has power to regulate commerce with the Indian: tribes,
,and such power .is superior- and paramount to the authority
of any. state within whose limits' are Indian tribes. These
.fundamental principles are of equal dighity, ahd neither must
be so enforced as to nullify or substantially impair the other.
In. regulating commerce with Indian tribes Congress must have
regard ,to the general authority which. the State has' over all
persons and things within its jurisdiction. So, the authority
of'.the State cannot be'.so exerted as to impair the power of
Congress .to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.
At the date of the agreement of 1893 with the Nez Perce.
Indians the' Reservation upon which they lived 'was their
VOL.: Cev11123

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

property, and they and their. lands were subject to Federal
jurisdiction, although the lands of that Res6rvation were
within the limits of the State of Idaho which had been previously admitted into the Union upon an equal footing with other
States. The future of those lands was a matter to be determined primarily between the Indians owning them and the.
United States under whose exclusive jurisdiction, at that time,
were both the Indians and their lands. The Indians-such is
the fair interpretation of the agreement-desired to retain
some of their lands, but were willing to cede a part of them
to the United States. to be allotted in severalty to men of their
tribe, provided the lands 'then constituting the reservationi,
"those ceded, those retained, and those allotted" to the Nez
Perce, India ns, were protected by the Federal laws prohibiting
the introduction of intoxicants into the Indian country. We
may assume that they particularly had in mind the lands
allotted in severalty, because the allottees, after receiving
preliminary trust patents, would'become citizens of the United
States, and it was necessary that the Indians, remaining on
the unallotted and retained lands, should be protected against
the pernicious influences that would come from having the
allotted lands used by citizens of' the United States as a storehouse for intoxicants. Only the authority of the United
States could have adequately controlled the conduct of such.
citizens.; If intoxicants could be kept upon the lands of the
allottees in severalty, it iseasy to perceive what injury would
be done to the Indians living on the other lands, who, in order
to obtain intoxicating liquor, could go regularly or frequently
to the places near by, on some allotted lands, where intoxicants
were stored for sale or exchange. Therefore, the provision in
the agreement, .by which the lands allotted in severalty, as
well as those retained and ceded, were made subject (not for
all.time, but only for a limited period, reasonable in duration)
to any Federal statute forbidding the introduction of intoxicant6 into the Indian country, was one demanded by the high- '
est considerations of public policy, Whether we look to the

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.8.

385

Opinion of the Court.

proper government of the Indian tribes by the United States
or.to the safety and happiness of the Indians themselves.
This question, as to the validity of Article IX of the agreement of 1893, is. we think, concluded by principles*announced.
in former decisions in this court. A leading case is that of
United States v. Forty-thiee Gallons of Whiskey'&c., 93 U. S.
188,. 193, 195, 197. That was a libel of information by the
United States against a lot of whiskey seized and sought to be
forfeited by virtue of an act of Congress, approved June 30,
1834,. and amended March 15, 1864. The liquors were introduced into an organized village' of. the State of Minnesota,
which village was located upon territory that.had been ceded
to.the United States by a treaty made in 1863 and .proclaimed
in 1864 with certain bands of Indians. The case proceeded
upon the ground that the carying of the whiskey into the
Minnesota village was in violation of an existing act of Congreps, making it a.crime to introduce spirituous liquors or
wines into the "'Indian country." The treaty with the Indians,
which was involved in that case, provided that the statutes of
the United States prohibiting the introduction and sale of
spirituous liquors into the Indian country should be the law
throughout all the country ceded, until otherwise directed by
Congress or the President, In that case the contention. was
.that the place where the whiskey was found was not Indian
country; that' it ceased to be. such when th6 territory was
transferred to .the United States; and that the extension, by
force alone of the Indian treaty, of th6 Federal laws relating
to lands in an organized county of- the State was an infringement of the State's lawful jurisdiction and an invasion of its
sovereignty, the State having been admitted into .the Union
upon an equal footing with the original States.
Thi. court said: "The Red. Lake and Pembina bands of
.Chippewa -Indians ceded to the Unit.ed States, by treaty, concluded October- 2, 1863, a portion of the lands occupied by
them, reserving enough for their. own use. The seventh article
is in these words 'The laws of the United States now in force,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S..

,orthat may hereafter be enacted, prohibiting the introduction
and Sale of-spirituous liquors.in the Indian country, shall be
in full force and effect throughout the country 'hereby ceded
until, otherwise directed by Congress or the'.President of .the
United States.'. 'The ceded country is now part.of an organized
county of the State of Minnesota; and- the. question is, whether
-the iicorporation of this article in the treaty was a rightful
exercise of power. Ifit was, then. the proceedings -to seize and
libel the property introduced for sale in contravention of the
,treaty were proper, and must be sustained. .Few of the. recorded decisions of this court are of greater interest and importance than those pronounced in The Cherokee Nation V:
The 'State. oj Georgia, 6 Pet. 1, and Worcester v. The State ol
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515. Chief Justice Marshall, in 'these cases, with
a force'of reasoning and an extent of learning rarely equalled,
stated and explained the condition of the Indians in their.
relation to the United States and to the States within' whose
boundaries they lived; and his exposition was based on the.
power to make treaties and regulate commerce with the Indian
tribes. Under-the Articles of Confederation, .the United States
had the power of regulating'the trade and managing all affairs
with the Indians not members of' afy.6f the States; provided
-that the legislative.right of'a State within -its own limits .be not
inf ringed or violated. -Of necessity, these limitations rendered
the power of no practical value. This was seen by the convention which framed the Constitution; and Congress'now has the
exclusive and absolute power to regulate. commerce with the
Indian tribes-a power.as broad and as.free frdm restrictions
as that to regulate commerce with. foreignonations. The only.
efficient way of dealing with the Indian tribes was to place
them under the protection of the general government. .Their
peculiar habits and character' required this; and the history
of the -country.shows the necessity of keeping them 'separate,'
subordinate,.. and. dependent.' Accordingly, treaties have been.
made and .laws passed separating Indian territory from'that.
of the States, and providing that- intercourse and. trade with'

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. B.

357.

Opinion of the Court.

the Indians should be carried on solely under the authority of
the United States. Congress very early passed laws relating
to the subject of. Indian commerce, which were from time to
time modified by the lessons of experience...
This
power is in nowise.affected by the magnitude of 'the.traffic or
the extent of the intercourse. As long as these Indians remain
a distinct people, with an existing tribal organization, recognized by the political depaitment of the Government, Congress
has the power to say with whom, and on what terms, they shall
deal and what articles shall be contraband.-. If liquor is injurious to them inside of a reservation, it is equally so outside
of it, and why cannot Congress forbid its intioduction into a
place near by, which they would .be likely to frequent? It is easy
to see that the love of liquor would tempt them to stray.beyond
their borders to obtain it, and that bad white men, knowing
this, would carry on the traffic in adjoining localities, rather
than venture upon forbidden ground. If Congress has the
power, as the case we have last cited decides, to punish the
sale of liquor anywhere to an individual member of an 'Indian
tribe, why cannot. it also.subject to forfeiture liquor introduced for an unlawful purpose into territory. in proximity to
that where the Indians live? There is no reason for the distinction;, and, as there can be no divided authority on the
.subject,. our duty to- them, our regard for .their material and
moral well-being, would require us to impose further legislative:restrictions, should country adjacent to their. reservations be
used to carry on the liquor ttaffic with them."
After referring to United Statcs v; Hlliday, 3, Wall, 409, in
which it was held that Congress could regulate commerce with'
the individual members of Indian tribes, the court proceeded:
"The chiefs doubtless saw,, from the curtailment of their
reservation and the. consequent restriction of the limits of the
'Indian country' that the ceded lands would be used to store
liquors for sale tc the young .men of the tribe; and they well
knew that, if there was no cession, they were already sufficiently
protected by the extent of their reservation. Under'such cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

cumstances it was natural that they should be unwilling to
sell until assured that the commercial regulation respecting
the introduction of spirituous liquors should remain in force
in the ceded country, until otherwise directed by Congress or
the President. This stipulation. was not only reasonable in
itself, but was justly due-from a strong Governmient to a weak
people it had engaged to protect. It is not -easy to see how it
infringes upon, the position of equality which Minnesota holds
'with the other States. The principle that Federal jurisdiction
must be everywhere the same, under the same circumstances,
has not been departed from. The prohibition rests on grounds
which, so far from making a distinction between the States,
apply to them all alike. The fact that the ceded.territory is
within the limits of Minnesota is a mere incident; for the act of
Congress imported into the treaty applies alike to all Indian
tribes occupying a particular country, whether within or without state lines. Based, as it is, exclusively on the Federal authority over the subject-matter, there is no disturbance of the
principle of state equality."
The result in that case was that the whiskey was forfeited
because illegally introduced in violation of the treaty with the
Indians, and this notwithstanding the place at which it was
found and seized was within a State.
In Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S.204, 208, 209, the court said that
Indian'lands ceased, without any further act of Congress, to
be Indian country after the Indian title had been extinguished,
but it took. care to add the qualifying words, "unless by the.
treaty by which the Indians parted with their title, or by some
act of Congress, a different rule was made applicable to the
case.". Referring to the treaty involved in the case of the
Forty-three Gallons ol Whiskey, the court further said "Vhen
this treaty was made, in 1864, the land ceded was within the
territorial limits of the State of Minnesota. The opinion h6lds
that it was Indian countiy before the treaty, and did not cease
to be so when the treaty was made, by reason of the st.cial,
clause to the contrary in the treaty, though within the boundaries

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of a State. It follows from this that all the country described
by the act of 1834 as Indian country -remains Indian- country
as long as the Indians retained their original title to the soil,
and ceases to be Indian country whenever they lose that title,
in the absence of any diflerent prozision by treaty or by'ac of
Congress." See also Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561.
Following our former decisions, we adjudge that the agreement between the United States and the Nez Perce Indians,'
whereby the Indian lands ceded, retained and allotted to the
Nez Perce Indians, should be subject (not without limit as to
time, but only for twenty-five years) to any Federal statutes
prohibiting the introduction of intoxicants into the Indian'
country, was not liable to objection on constitutional grounds;
in which case the demurrer to the indictment was properly
.overruled, and the plaintiff in error rightfully convicted.
In view of some contentions of counsel and of certain general observations in the case'of Forty-three Gallons of Whiskey,
above cited, not necessary to the decision of that case, but upon
which some stress has been laid, it is well to add that we'do
not mean, -byanything now said, to indicate what, in our judgment, is.the full scope of th treaty-making power of Congress,
nor how far, if at all, a treaty maypermanently displace valid
state laws or regulations. We go no further in this case than
to say that the requirement, in the agreement of .1893, that
the Federal liquor statutes protecting the Indian, cduntry
against the introduction of intoxicants into it should; for the
limited period of twenty-five years, be the law for the lands
ceded and. retained by, as well-as the lands allotted to, the
"Nez Perce Indians, was a valid regulation based upon the
trcaty-making power of the United States and upon the power
of Congress .to regulate commerce with those Indians, and
was not inconsistent, in any substantia[ sense, With the constitutional principle that a new State comes into the Union
upon-entire equality with the original States. The judgment
must, for the reasons stated, be affirmed.
It isso ordeed.

