OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the' Case.

208 U. S.

technical character. Because we decline to consider the contention under the circumstances stated, we must not be Understood as intimating any opinion whatever upon it. Into that
question we-have not deemed that we are called upon to enter.
Affin-ed.

PHILLIPS v. CITY OF MOBILE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 113.

Argued January 17, 1J08.-Decided February 24, 1908.

An ordinance imposing a license on persons selling beer by the barrel is
an exercise of the police power of the State, and as such is authorized
by the Wilson Act, 26 Stat. 313, notwithstanding such liquors were
introduced into the State in original packages.
The police power of the State is very extensive and is frequently exercised
where it also results in.
raising revenue, and in this case an ordinance
imposing a license tax on a class of dealers in intoxicating liquor was
held to be a police regulation notwithstanding it also produced a revenue.
Where a license tax on dealers in a particular article is exacted without
reference as to whether the article was manufactured within or without
the State, the ordinance imposing it' creates no discrimination against
manufacturers outside of the State within the meaning of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
146 Alabama, 158, affirmed.

plaintiff in error herein seeks to reverse a judgment
of the Supreme Court of Alabama which reversed a judgment in his favor given by the City Court of Mobile.
The action was brought in the City Court by the city of
Mobile, by'a written complaint, wherein the city sought to
recover from the plaintiff in error (defendant ii that court)
the sum of fifteen dollars, the amount of the fine imposed upon
him by the recorder for -the violation of what is termed the
license ordinance of the city, approved March 14, 1904, by
failing to obtain and pay for a license under the twenty-eighth
THE

subdivision of the second section of that ordinance, relating

to the selling of beer in that city. The defendant filed a plea,.
setting up.what he alleged was a defense.

PHILLIPS v.MOBILE.
208 U.S8.

473

Statement of the Cas.

Upon the trial in the City Court the parties agreed upon a
statement of facts.
From such statement it appears that the city council, as
authorized by the state legislature, had, prior to the complaint
in question, adopted-an ordinance, section one of which imposed a license tax for the fiscal year beginning March 15, 1904,
"on each person, firm, corporation or association doing business or trading or carrying on. any business, trade, or profession, by agent or otherwise, within the limits of the city of
Mobile, . . . and such licenses. are hereby fixed for such
business, trade or profession. . . . as follows."
"
Subsection 28 of § 2 fixes the amount, upon the . payment
of which the license may be granted in such a case as this, as

follows:
"28. Breweries, each person, firm, corporatior, dealer,
brewer, brewery, agent or handler for a brewery, selling beer
by -the barrel, half barrel or quarter barrel, this clause is not
to include license for wholesale or retail vinous or spirituous
liquois, $200.00."
The statement of facts as agreed upon then continues as
follows:
"That the defendant herein is an individual who resides in
Mobile, Alabama, and that he is engaged in the business of
being a retail beer dealer, for which, under ..
the exhibit hereto,
he has paid the amount of his license, as required by said ordinance for and during the fiscal year, beginning March 15, 1904,
and ending March 14, 1905; and that said payment having
been made, a license therefor was duly issued by the prioper
authorities of the city .of Mobile, authorizing the defendant to
carry on the business of retail beer dealer during said time;
that the defendant, in addition to his other liquor business,
carried on under the authbrity of said paid license under said
ordinance, has likewise but at the same place and with the
same employd§ before the institution of this prosecution in
the Recorder's Court, and since March 15, 1904, been engaged
in the business of buying and selling beer in kegs, but only

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cme.

208 U. S.

under the following circumstances: That the defendant would,
by letter or telegram sent from Mobile, Alabama, order from
a brewery or breweries owned and conducted by residents and
citizens of States other than Alabama, certain quantities of
lager beer, which, pursuan to said orders, would be shipped
by continuous interstate transportation by said non-residentsi
to the defendant at Mobile, Alabama, in kegs, which kegs were,
without other packing, loaded into railroad freight box cars
and transported by the railroad companies from said breweries
in other States to the defendant at.Mobile, Alabama. The said
purchases by the defendant were outright, and that the defendant by and through said purchases be6ime the owner of
said lager beer, to do with as he pleased; that he paid for it
usually after its arrival, but never until a bill of lading for each
such shipment so paid for, had been received by the defendant
at Mobile; that the packages .inwhich said beer came were
invariably kegs of the ordinary, usual and customary commercial sizes, in which the same is packed for sale and shipment, and that in such usual commercial original. packages the
same was taken from the car upon arrival at Mobile and stored
in the storehouse or warehouse of th6 defendant in the city of
Mobile until sold by the defendant; that the defendant made
sales of said kegs in quantities of one or more to-his various
customers in and about the city of Mobile and the yicinity
thereof, and that such sales were made in contemplation by
defendant of deliveries by the defendant in said kegs as original
packages, and that the deliveries were thereafter made by
delivery wagons owned and operated by the defendant in the
city of Mobile 'to such customers -in such original packages.
That from the time of the packing and shipment of said beer
* at the breweries in other States than Alabama until after sale
and delivery thereof by the defendant to his various customers

in the city of Mobile and the vicinity thereof, none of said kegs
as original packages ever became broken or open, but the
deliveries by the defendant to his respective" customers of said
beer was always in the same, original, usual, commercial pack-

PHILLIPS v. MOBILE.
208 U. S.

475

Argument for Plaintiff in'Error.

ages in which the same was packed'and shipped\ from the
breweries in said foreign States. That each and all of 'the kegs
herein mentioned contained more than one quart of beer.
That this mode of business has been bonducted by the defendant since March.15, 1904, and still continues, and thate cept
as is herein above stipulated, the defendant, neither. as a
brewery, person, firm, corporation,, dealer, brewer, brewery
agent or handler has ever sold beer., by the barrel, half barrel
or quarter barrel in the city of Mobile, Alabama, since March 15,
1904. That nearly fifty per cent of all the offenses against the
ordinances of the city of Mobile ordained to secure peace and\
order is brought about by the use of intoxicating liquors.
Neither the license sued for nor the fine assessed by the recorder has been paid."
The case was submitted to the jury upon this agreed statement.
The plaintiff, thc city of Mobile, asked the court to charge
the jury that if they believed the evidenge they must find for
the plaintiff. The defendant also asked the court to charge
the jury if they believe the evidence in this case they ought
to find for the defendant.
The court chai'ged the jury in accordance with the request
of the defendant, and a verdict was.thereupon rendered in his
favor.
On appeal from the judgment to the Supreme Court it was
reversed, the.court holding that the trial court should have
refused the request of the defendant, and directed the jury to
find a verdict for the plaintiff. 'The case was therefore remanded
with §uch directions.
Mr. Richard William Stoutz, with whom Mr. Walter A.
White was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in this case and
in No. 112 argued simultaneously herewith:
The business 'of buying and selling original packages of goods,
traded in as conunerce between the States, is not taxable by
1 Richard v. City ol Mobile, post, p. 480.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argunment for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U.S.

the States. Lyng v. Michigan,. 135 U.' S. 166; Leisy v. Hardin,.
135 U. S. 100; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 363, 364; N. &
W. R. R. ,v. Sims, 19i U. S. 449, 450..
Beer in kegs is in the original packages. Keith v. State, 91
Alabama' 2; Lyn4 v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 166; Leisy -v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 351; Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. .419; Commonwealthv. Schollenberger,.171.'

U.S. 1.
Even if the, occupation tax is directed against individuals
within the taxing State, who are' themselves the owners-of the
goods, as original interstate importers, so long as the goods
remain in the original pacliages the business of selling them
cannot be taxed before they are sold.
The right to order beer from breweries in other States. and
bring it here in kegs, constituted importing the same, and gave.
the interstate importers a right to sell the beer in the original
package, free of any state or -municipal taxation on such business not exacted under the police power, and that, until said
sale had taken place after importation and was an accomplished fact, the keg'or kegs of beer forming the subject matter
of the sale, did not become mingled with a mass of property in
the State so that the business of selling same could be taxable
therein. Keith v. State, 91 Alabama, 6.
If the property was sold in the original package it did not
become mingled with the property in the State until after the
sale, and it makes no difference to whom the sale might be
made, whether to wholesaler, jobber, retailer or consumer.
The test is original package, and that only. See Schollenberger
v. Pennsylvania, 121 U. S. 22, in which the sale of a ten pound
package of oleomargarine in the original tub was protected
by the original package doctrine, even though the sale was by
the importer to the consumer.
The purpose of the Wilson Act was simply to give to the
State police power, and that alone, over, liquors which come
under the head of inter-tate commerce. 3 Fed. Stat. Ann.
854; Reyman B. Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S. 455; In re Rahrer,

PHILLIPS v. MOBILE.
208 U. S.

Argument for Defendant inError.

140 U. S. 545, Vance v. Vandercook, 170 U. S. 438; Pabst B.
Co. v. Terre Haute, 98 Fed. Rep. 330; State v. Bengsh, 170
Missouri, 81; S. C., 70 S. W. Rep. 710, 720; F. Miller B. Co.
v. Stevens, 102 Iowa, 60; S. C", 71 N. W. Rep. 186; Stevens v.
State, 61 Ohio St. 597; S. C., 56 N. E. Rep. 178; Tinker v.
State, 90 Alabama, 640.
But the act gives no right to levy a tax on the business of
dealing in such liquors while the same retains its interstate

import character, pdrely for purposes of revenue or taxation.
The police power cannot be put forward as an excuse for oppressive and unjust legislation, not under the police power.
Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 349, citing Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S.366, 392; Pabst Brewing Co. v. Terre Haute, 98 Fed.
Rep. 330.
The ordinance of the city of Mobile of which the abovequoted provisions are a part, is purely a revenue ordinance
and is not a police ordinance in any respect. Stratford v. Montgomery, 110 Alabama, 626; Leloup v. Mobile, 76 Alabama, 401,
403, reversed by S. C., 127 U. S. 644; Pabst Brewing Co. v.
Terre Haute, 98 Fed. Rep. 334; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.
289, 301, 302; Swords v., Daigle, 32 So. Rep. 94 (La.). The
cases of Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S.60, and American Steel
Wire Co v. Speed, 192 U. S.500, discussed and distinguished.
Mr. Burwell Boykin Boone for defendant in error in this case
and in No. 112:
The license complained of makes no distinction between
residents and non-residents, nor does it discriminate between
breweries in the State of Alabama and breweries in other
States. The business conducted by plaintiff in error within
the city of Mobile was domestic business, which was not protected, from the imposition of a license; by the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution. Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60;
American Steel & Wire; Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 519.
The facts in this case bring it clearly within the provisions
of the Wilson Act, the purpose of which is to give to the States

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.s.

full authority, for the purpose of prohibition as well as regulation and restriction, with reference to the sale of intoxicating
liquors in original -packages when so introduced into one
State from other States. Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198
U. S. 30; Delamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 98.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The .plaintiff in error asserts that a license tax, such as is
provided in this ordinance, is a tax upon the seller of the goods
under the license, and therefore a tax upon the goods themselves (Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60), and as they were
brought into the State from another State they cannot be
taxed in their original packages, even under the Wilson Act,
August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313. The 'rdinance, it is said,
is in the nature of a revenue act, and was not enacted in the
exercise of the police powers of the State through the city.
The Wilson Act provides that the liquors, upon arrival in a
State or Territory to which the liquor may be sent, shall be
subject to the operation and effect of the laws of the State or
Territory, enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to the
same extent and in the same manner as though such liquids
or liquors had been produced in such State or Territory, and
shall not be exempt -therefrom by reason of being introduced
therein in original packages or otherwise.
. It is insisted that Congress, by the passage of the Wilson
Act, merely removed the impediment to the ,States reaching
the interstate liquor through. the police power, and that it
intended to, and did, keep in existence any other impediment
to -state interference with interstate commerce in original
packages.
But we are of opinion that this section of the ordinance was
clearly. an 'exercise of the police power of the State, and as
such authorized by the act of Congress.' The fact that the city
derives more or less revenue from the ordinance in question
does not tend to prove that this section Was not adopted in
U

PHILLIPS- . MOBILE.
208 U..

479

Opinion of the Court.

the exercise of the police power, even though it might also be
an exercise of the power to tax. The police power is a,Very
extensive one, and is frequently exercised where it also results in raising a revenue. The police powers of a State form
a portion of that immense mass of legislation which embraces
everything within the territory of a State not surrendered to
the General Government; all which may be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves. Inspection laws,
quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as well as
laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State, and
those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, 6tc., are component
parts of this mass. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1-203; City
of New York v. Miln,i1 Pet. 102, 139, 141; Barbierv. (onnolly,
113 U: S. 27, 31.
The sale of liquors is confessedly a subject of police regulation. Such sale may be absolutely prohibited, or the business
may be controlled and regulated by the imposition of license
taxes, by which those only who obtain licenses are permitted
to engage in it. Taxation is frequently the very best and most
practical -means of regulating this kind of business. The higher
the license, it is sometimes said, the better the regulation, as
the effect of a high license is to keep out-from the business those
who are undesirable and to keep within reasonable limits the
number of those who may engage in it. We regard the ques* tion in this case as covered in substance by prior decisions of
this court. See Vance v. Vandercook Company (No. 1), 170
U. S. 438; 446; Reymann Brewing Company v. Brister,. 179
U. S.445; Pabst Brewing Co. v: Crenghaw, 198 U. 9. 17, 25;
Delamaterv. South Dakota, 205 U. S.93. Even where the subject of transportation is not intoxicating liquor this court has
held that goods brought in the original packages from another
State, having arrived at their destination and being at -rest
there, may be taxed, without discrimination,.like other-property
within- the State,- even while in the original'packages in which
they were brought from another State. American Steel & Wire
Co.v. Speed, 192 U, S. 500,

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of ithe Court.

208 U. a

This license tax is exacted without reference to the question as to where the beer was maiiufactured, whether within
or. without the State, and hence there is no discrimination in
the case.
. It is unnecessary to continue the discussion. As we have
said, the cases above cited are-conclusive in favor of the correctness of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama.

Judgment affirmed.

RICHARD v. CITY OF MOBILE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 112. Argued January.17. 1908.-Decided February 24. 1908.
Decided on the authority of Philps v. Cty of Mobite, ante, p. 472.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Richard William Stoutz, with whom Mr. Walter A.
White was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Burwell Boykin Boone for defendant in error.1
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dolivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, sus'tainng the demurrer of the City of Mobile to a bill filed by
the appella;nts, and dismissing the same. It appears that, the
appellants sought to obtain' an injunction to restrain the city.
from collecting the amount of* the license tax imposed under
the ordinance of the city upon those who were engaged in selling beer in the city by the barrel, half barrel or quarter barrel.
I For abstract of arguments see ano, v. 475.

