OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Sylabus.

208 U. S.

and sixty-two of the Revised.Statutes shall be computed on
the yearly pay of the grade fixed by sections twelve hundred
and sixty-one and twelve hundred and seventy-four of the
Revised Statutes."
This statute was doubtless passed 'to prevent the computation of longevity pay by compounding previous pay for that
purpose, which had the effect to give the increase on the pay
of the grade, and also on the previous longevity increase.
This amendatory act distinctly limits the computation . of
increase pay for length of service to yearly pay of the grade
or rank of the officer entitled thereto. The allowance of $200
a year under § 1261, Rev. Stat., in "addition to the pay of
his rank," is manifestly not the yearly pay of the grade. The
purpose of the additional allowance is to compensate the
officer during the time he is designated for a special service
as-aid. His longevity pay is to be computed on the yearly pay
affixed by law to the grade or rank to which .the officer belongs.
The judgment of the Court of Claims, based upon computation of longevity pay upon -the additional allowance for pay
as aid, cannot be sustained, in view of the statutory provision,
and to that extent the judgment of the Court of Claims must
be modified, and, as so modified,
Affirmed.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. ADELBERT COLLEGE OF THE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 40.

Argued November 6, 7, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

Where the Federal questions are clearly presented. by the answer in the
state court, and the decree rendered could not have been made ivithout
adversely deciding them, and, as in this case, they are substantial as
involving the jurisdictioh of the Circuit Court over property in its possession and the effect to be given to its decree, this court has jurisdiction.

and the writ of c'rror will not be dismissed.

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U. S.

39

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The taking possession by a court of competent jurisdiction of property
through its officers withdraws that property from the jurisdiction of
all other courts, and the latter, though of concurrent jurisdiction, cannot disturb that possession, during the continuance whereof the court
originally acquiring jurisdiction is competent to hear and determine
all questions respecting the title, possession and control of the property.
Under this general rule ancillary jurisdiction of the Federal courts exists
over subordinate suits affecting property in their posession although the
diversity of citizenship necessary to confer jurisdiction in an independent
suit does not exist.
The possession of property in the Circuit Court carries with it the exclusive
jurisdiction to determine all judicial questions concerning it, and that*
jurisdiction continues after the property has passed out of its possession
by a sale under its decree to the extent of ascertaining the rights of, and
extent of liens asserted by, parties to the suit and which are expressly
reserved by the decree and subject to which the purchaser takes title;
and any one asserting any of such reserved matters as against the pioperty must pursue his remedy in the Circuit Court and the state court
is without jurisdiction.
It will be presumed that the Circuit, Court, in determining the validity of
liens affecting property in its possession, will consider the decisions of
the courts of the State in which the property is situated with that rpspect
which the decisions of this court require.
A suit brought by the holder of some of a-series of bonds, the -complaint in
which alleges that the suit is brought on complainant's behalf and also
on behalf of all, others of like intertit joining therein and contributing
to the expenses, and of which no other notice of its pendency is given to
the other bondholders, is not a representative or class suit the judgment
in which bipds those not joining therein or not privies to those who do.
Compton v. Jeaup, 68 Fed. Rep. 263, concurred in.
See also p. 6099 post.
THis is a writ of error directed to the Supreme Court of the

-Sta'I of Ohio. In that court the defendants in error obtained
a decree declaring that certain negotiable notes held by them,
which had been made by. the Toledo and Wabash Railroad
Company, were entitled to a'lien on property once owned by

that company and now. owned by the plaintiff in, error, and
ordering a sale in satisfaction of that lien. The Federal suestions presented and such facts as are deemed material to their
decision are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rush Taggartfor plai'ntiff in error:

The Wabash Railroad Company claims that the prior and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

exclusive jurisdiction of all the property involved in this case
.was in the Federal court from the time of the appointment of
the receivers in May, 1884, and that as the Federal court has
never relinquished such jurisdiction, the -state court could
have no jurisdiction to determine the questions presented in
this case; also that the state court completely failed to give
due force and effect to the decree of foreclosure entered in
the Federal court on March 23, 1889.
The provisions of the decree of March 23, 1889, indicate a clear
intention on the part of the Federal court to retain the final
adjudication of all existing questions respecting this property,
and there can be no question as to the power of the court to
render a decree with such reservations. Julianv. Central Trust
Company, 193 U. S. 93.
Under the reservations in the decree relating to the claim
of James Compton, in view of the facts, it is'perfeetlyclear that
this property is still within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Federal court, and that while there, no state court could take
jurisdiction for. the .purpos6 of ascertaining claims against it.
Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; Williams v. Benedict, 8 How. 107,'
112; Peale v. Phipps, 14 How. 375; Yonley v. Lavender, 21 Wall.
276; Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S. 126; Wiswall v. Simpson, 14
How. 126; Pulliam v. Osborne, 17 How. 471; Freeman v. Howe,
24 How. '450; People's Bank v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256; Porterv.
Sabin, 149 U. -S. 473; Bispham's Equity, § 413; French, Trustee, v. Hay, 22 Wall. 250.
The Wabash Railroad Company, the plaintiff in error, has
fully preserved all the questions under the decree, by its pleadings in this cause. The Federal questions of the prior and
exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal courts, resulting from the
-litigations in the Federal courts, and the decree of March 23,
1889, were presented upon the pleadings at every stage of the
case to the state court, and were by the state court denied, and
therefore the questions are fully presented upon the record
justifying their consideration by this court.
The state court failed to give due force to the decree of the

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208.U. S.

41

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Circuit Court for the District of Indiana in the case of Ham
v. Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway, which decree was a
final and conclusive adjudication of all the issues in this case.
This Ham suit in Indiana, in July, 1880, whatever may have
been its character prior to that time, became, in view of the
allegations of the amended and supplemental bill then filed,
distinctively a class suit on behalf of all the holders of equipment bonds.
The decree of the Circuit Court in the Ham suit, entered in
accordance with the mandate'of this court, was not a voluntary
dismissal of the bill without prejudice on complainant's motion, nor is it an involuntary non-suit simply, but is a decree
upon the merits of the contention, a decree in favor. of the defendants against the complainant in that suit, finding authoritatively the absence of equity in the complainant's case, and
concluding the complainants, and all of the class represented
by them as to the merits of the questionb involved in that litigation. Such is the properform of a final decree in equity. It
finds the equity of the case with the defendants, and dismisses
the plaintiff's -bill with costs to the defendants. 3 Daniel,
Chy. Pldgs. (5th ed.), 2355, 2356; Ordinances of Lord Bacon,
No. 13; Barton's Suit in Equity (p. 207); Swan Land & Cattle
Co. v. Frank, 148 U. S. 603; Kendig v. Dean, 97 U. S. 423,
426.
Mr. John W. Warrington,with whom Mr. John C. F. Gardner,
Mr. Thomas B. Paxton; Junior, and Mr. Murray Seasongood
were on the brief, for defendants in error:
Since this case is brought here upon a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of a State, "there must be some fair ground for
asserting the existence of a Federal question." It is not enough
to show that the claim of a Federal. question was set up. New
OrleansWater Works Co. v. Louisiana,185 U. S. 336.
The Federal question asserted must have merit. Swafiord v.
Templeton, 185 U. S. 487.
No question was made by the lienors as to the validity of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

208 U. S

the foreclosure decree or the deed made in pursuanjce of it,
or as to the regularity of the proceedings under which the order
and deed were made, and it is admitted that the purchasers
took all the title that the defendants in the foreclosure suit
possessed. The -judgments of the Ohio courts go no further
than the claim made by defendants inerror. The most that
was claimed or decided in Ohio, was that the Federal court decree could notbe so made as to impair or affect the lien of defendants in error, because they- were not parties to the suit.
Avery
Popper, 179 U. S. 305, 314.
. The v.reference
to Compton's claim in the decree did not show
a purpose to. retain jurisdiction for all purposes. This court has
decided that Compton's claim was really dizposed of in the
above mentioned decree. Compton v, Jesup, 167 U. S. 1, 31, at
p. 31; Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93, discussed
and
distinguished.
As to the contention that a Federal question arises because
the Ohio courts did not, as alleged, give due effect to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States in the Ham suit
it need only be said'that before any question could arise here
as to what effect the Ohio courts in this cause gave to the judgment of dismissal in the, Ham case, this court would have to
determine whether the iam suit was a class case. It is a question of general law, not a Federal matter, whether the Ham case
was a class suit. If it was not, then the defendants in error
could not lie bound by it at all; nor were the courts of Ohio
obliged to acquiesce in the judgment of,dismissal of the Federal
court in Indiana. Winona & St. Peter Railroad v. Plainiiew,
143 U. S. 371, at 390.
The receivership.and foreclosure proceedings in the Federal
courts from 1884 to July, 1889, have no effect upon the case at
bar*, which was begun in the Ohio courts prior thereto, and the
issues were not finally made up or trial had of the case in the
-state court until after .the receivership and foreclosure proceedings had ended and the property been conveyed and delivered to the plaintiff in error. Farmers'Loan &c. Co. v. Lake

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U.S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

Street &c. Co., 177 U. S. 51, 61; Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott
(1904), 130 Fed. Rep. 820, at p. 824, per Lurton, Severens and
Richards, JJ.; Zimmerman v. So Relle (1897), 80 Fed. Rep. 417,
at p. 420, per Sanborn, Thayer and Lochren, JJ.
The possession and exclusive control of the Wabash property ended in the United States courts when the property was
conveyed by the master commissioners to the purchasing committee and the receivers were discharged.
The Adelbert College and the cross-petitioners, defendants
in error, were not parties to the Ham suit; said suit was never
a representative suit, and the result of said suit is not a bar to
the assertion and validity of the claims of defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1862 the Toledo and Wabash Railway Company owned
and operated a railroad in Ohio and Indiana, and was incorporated under the laws of both States. That part of the
property situated in Ohio was then incumbered by two mortgages, one to. the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company for
$900,000, and one to Edwin D. Morgan, Trustee, for $1,000,000.
That part of the property situated in Indiana was then incumbered by two mortgages, one to the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company for $2,500,000, and one.to Edwin D. Morgan, Trustee,
for $1,500,000. In that year the company issued and sold
unsecured sealed negotiable notes to the amount of $600,000,
called equipment bonds. In 1865 this company consolidated
with certain Illinois railroad corporations, thus creating the
Toledo, Wabash and Western Railway Company. This consolidation was authorized by and in part effected under a statute of Ohio. The holders of the equipment bonds have contended that the result of this consolidation was to give to these
hitherto unsecured obligations an equitable lien upon the property of the corlporation Which issued them, and that the equity
of redemption of that propertywent into the hands of the consolidated corporation ii-cumbered by that lien. Upon this

44'

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

question this court and the Supreme Court of Ohio have, in
the past, arrived at opposite conclusions; this court holding
(Wabash, St. Louis & Pac. Ry. v. Ham, 114 U. S. 587), that the
equipment bonds remained unsecured, and the Ohio court
holding (Compton. v. Railway Co.; 45 Ohio St. 592), that the
effect of the consolidation was to create the lien claimed. This
suit was brought by the defendants in error, holders of some of
the equipment bonds, in the courts of Ohio for the purpose of
enforcing the lien stated. They prevailed by the judgment of
the Supreme CourIt of the State, which iffirmed a decree of a.
lower court establishing the indebtedness upon the bonds, declaring a lien to secure the payment of that indebtedness upon
the property owned, subject to the mortgages hereinbefore
stated, by the Toledo and Wabash Railway Company in 1865,
and directing a sale of such of that property as was within the
State of Ohio in satisfaction of the lien.
The case i's
here upon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
.Ohio to review this judgment. There are two Federal questions,
it is contended, which were erroneously decided in the court
below. The plaintiff in error insists: First, that the Ohio court
had no jurisdiction to render the decree entered in the case,
because the property affected by-that decree was in the possession of a Circuit Court of the United States, and the questions
litigated irk
this case were within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the latter court. Second, that the decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Indianain the case of
Ham V. Wabash, St. Louis.& Pacific Railway Company was a
final adjudication of the issues in the case at bar, binding upon
the defendants.in error,- and conclusive against their right to
maintain this suit. The defendants in error contend that these
questions were not properly raised in the court below, or, if
properly raised, that they are so unsubstantiai. as-to be frivolous, and therefore move that the writ of error be dismissed.
But the questions were clearly presented by the answer in the
Ohio .courts, the decree rendered -could not have been made
without deciding them against the contention of the railroad

WABASH RAILROAD. v.ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U. B

45

Opinion of the Court.

company, and we think that they are substantial and important.. The motion to dismiss is therefore overruled, and we
proceed to the discussion of the merits of the questions.
1. The first question is whether a Circuit Court of the United States had exclusive- jurisdiction of the issues determined
by the Ohio court in the case at bar. Before beginning the
discussion of that question it is necessary to state the facts
out of which it arises. The Toledo, Wabash and Western Railway Company, whose property was incumbered, as we have
seen, by mortgages of the Toledo and Wabash, for $5,900,000,
and by the claim of lien of the equipment bonds, and by other
mortgages upon the property of other corporations which entered into the consolidation, itself executed two mortgages
upon all its property. By the foreclosure of one of these mortgages the property became vested in the Wabash Railroad
Company. This company, after executing a mortgage on its
property,. consolidated with another railway company, creating
the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company. This
company executed in 1880,a mortgage on its property to the
Central Trust Company of New York and *James Cheney for
$50,000,000.- On May 27, 1884, the Wabash, St. Louis and
Pacific Railway Company, having fallen into finartcial diffi-'
culties, filed a bill in the Federal courts in six States, alleging
its insolvency and asking'the appointment of receivers. Thereupon receivers were appointed, tualified and took possession
of the property. Thereafter the Central Trust.Company and
Cheney began proceedings in several state courts for the foreclosure of their mortgage of $50,000,000. These proceedings
were removed to the Federal courts, and upon them .a sale,
under the direction of those courts, was made in 1886 to a purchasing committee. Before this sale, however, on October 17,.
1884, the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
Division of the Northern District of Ohio dismissed the bills
for receivership and for the foreclosure of the Cheney mnortgage as to all parties who 6laimed liens prior to that mortgage.
After the sale upon the foreclosure of the Cheney mortgage,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

proceedings for foreclosure of several other mortgages prior
to it were begun in the Circuit Courts of the United States,
consolidated, and resulted in decrees for foreclosure and sale
under all' the mortgages- These decrees were entefed in the
various Circuit Courts on March 23, 1889. In the meantime
the property. remained in the possession of the Circuit Courl.
through its receivers. The sale under these decrees was made
to a purchasing committee, by whom it was conveyed to a new
corporation, the Wabash Railroad Company, the plaintiff in
error. By order of the Circuit Court for. the Northern District
of Ohio, made on June 18, 1889, possession of the property was
delivered by the receiver to the purchasing cbmmittee, and
he was discharged.. Since Augustj 1889, the plaintiff in error,
the' Wabash Railroad Company, has been in :'posession of the
property under the terms of the decrees of March 23, which
presently will be stated. None of the defendants in error were
parties to the proceedings in the Circuit Courts of- the. Uni-.
ted States, and an attempt to remove this case from the-Ohio
courts to-the Circuit Court of the United States, resisted by
the defendants in. error, failed. Joy v.. A&lbert.. College, 146
U. S. 355.
It apprears -from this statement that the, railroad property
affected by this controversy was in the actual possession,
through receivers, of Circuit Courts of the United States from
'h- date of the appointment of receivers, May 27, 1884, to
the date of their discharge and the. deliverr of theproperty
to the purchasing committee, which was ordered on June.,18,
1889, and Was accomplished about July 1, 1889. .It cannot
be and apparently is not disputed that,, during that period,
the property was .in the possession of the Circuit Courts of the
United States, and that that possession carried with it the
exclusive jurisdiction to determine all judicial questions concerning the property. But it is earnestly contended that,
when .the property -passed out of the actual- possession of the
United States courts, in conformity with their decrees, into
the hands of the purchasers under the decrees, the'exclusive

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
*208

U. S.

47

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the United States courts came,to an end. The
applicability of this contention to. the case at bar will appear
upon a fuller statement of the origin and progress of the. case
at bar in the courts of Ohio. The suit was begun on April 28,
1883, by Adelbert College alone, which was the owner of two
of the equipment bonds, each of the par value of $500, and
prayed for the decree, which, with, some variations, not material to be stated, was finally given. Nothing of moment,
beyond the service of process and the filing of pleadings, occurred until 1889, when several other holders of the equipment bonds joined in the suit as co-plaintiffs, by filing, with
leave of court, what is denominated an answer and cross petition, in which they prayed relief similar to that sought by the
original plaintiff. This petition was verified on January 2,1889,
but the date of its filing does not appear in the record. Later
other similar cross petitions were filed by leave of court.
Pleadings continued to be filed from time to time by the different parties to the suit, the last appearing in the record
being one verified March 9, 1896, thirteen years after the
beginning of the suit and seven years after the discharge of
the receiver by the Federal court. The cause was then heard
by the Court of Common Pleas and judgment was rendered
for the bondholders in July, 1897, which, after affirmance
by an intermediate court, was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State. It appears, therefore, that the trial and judgment in the state courts were long after the Federal courts
had transferred the railroad property to the purchasers under
the decrees for foreclosure, and had discharged the receiver.
Since the Federal courts had parted with the physical possession of the property, they obviously could no longer exercise
an exclusive jurisdiction respecting it, unless there was something in the decrees under which the property was sold and
conveyed, which preserved to :the courts the control of the
property for the purpose. of giving full effect to its 'udgments.
We are brought then to the consideration of the terms 'of those
decrees. Upon their proper interpretation and true effect our

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

decision must rest. For
correct understanding of the
decrees, and especially of the reservations contained in them,
it is necessary to ascertain the progress and present status of
still another litigation. James Compton, an owner of some of
the equipment bonds, in a suit brought upon them in the Ohio
courts in 1880, obtained .a decree by the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State, ascertaining the amount due him
in respect of the bonds and accrued interest, declaring that
he was entitled to an equitable lien on the property owned
by the Toledo and Wabash Railway Company at the time of
the consolidation of 1865, subject to the mortgages upon that
property then existing, and ordering, in default of payment of
the sum found due, a sale of that part of the property which
was within the State of Ohio. Compton v. Railway Company,
45 Ohio St., 592. The entry of judgment on the mandate of
the Supreme Court was made in the Court of Common Pleas
.in October, 1888. Thereupon the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Western Division, made Compton a party
to the consolidated foreclosure suit, and ordered him to appear
and plead, answer or demur. Compton appeared specially and
set up his Ohio judgment' Various proceedings have been had
with respect to his claim, including a judgment in this court
in May, .1897, Compton v. Jesup, 167 U. S.1, affirming Compton's lien and right to a sale in satisfaction of it. After the
decision of this court, Compton's claim was sent to a master,
who, after some ten years, made a report, which is now pending on exceptions in the Circuit Court. At the time of the
decrees of foreclosure of March, 1889, the questions concerning Compton's claim were, of course, undecided, and account
of them had to be taken in these decrees.
The decree of March 23, 1889, is very elaborate. The parts
of it material here may be stated with comparative brevity.
It ordered the foreclosure of all the mortgages upon the railroad property in the possession of the court, and the sale of
the property, and the disposition of the proceeds among those
adjudged to be rightfully entitled to it. After reciting that

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U. S.

49

Opinion of the Court,

the property is in the possession of the court through its re
ceiver, the decree directs that, in default of payment within
ten days of mortgage bonds and their coupons, scrip certificates, funded debt bonds and their coupons, amounting altogether to some fourteen millions of dollars, the property should
be sold at public auction to the highest bidder. It was ordered that the separate divisions should first be offered for
sale separately, that afterward the whole property should be
offered for sale as a unit, and that the method of sale which
resulted in the better price should stand. The special masters
appointed to. conduct the sale were directed, on confirmation
of the sale and payment of the purchase price, to execute a
deed or deeds which "shall vest in the grantee or grantees all
the right, title, estate, interest, property and equity of redemption, except as hereby reserved, of, in and to " the property
in fee simple. The decree then proceeds to define what is
"hereby reserved." The part of the decree which expresses
the reservation is so vital in the determination of the case that
it is printed in full in the margin.' In ascertaining its true
I All other questions arising under the pleadings or proceedings herein not
hereby disposed of or determined are hereby reserved for future adjudication; including the claim for unearned interest on bonds not yet due.
And the defendant James Compton having in open court on the final hearing herein objected to the rendering or'entry of any decree in this cause at
this time on the ground that the issues raised by the amendment to the
complainants' amended and supplemental ancillary bill and to the crossbill of the cross-complainants Solon Humphreys and Daniel. A. Lindley,
trustees, and the answers of the defendant James Compton to be filed herein
have not been tried and determined, the court overrules such objection and'
the def*e dant James Compton duly excepts to such ruling and the-entry
of this decree. But it is adjudged and decreed in the premises that the
rendering and entry of this decree in advance of the trial and determination
of such issues is upon.and subject to the following conditions, to wit:
If upon the determination of such issues it shall be adjudged by this court
that the decree rendered by the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio in the
suit brought by said James Compton against the Wabash, St. Louis and'
Pacific Railway Company and others, referred to in the pleadings herein,
and the lien thereby declared and adjudicated in his favor continue in full
force and effect, then the purchaser or purchasers at any sale or sales had
hereunder of that portion of the property sold, covered and affected by the

VOL.

CCviii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

meaning and effect the whole situation, as it could be and
doubtless was seen by the court, must be kept in view. The
property had been in the possession of the court and managed
said lien, or the successors in the title of said purchaser or purchasers shall
pay to said James Compton or his solicitors herein, within ten days after
the entry of the decree herein in favor of said James Compton, the sum of
three hundred and thirty-nine thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars
and forty cents, with interest thereon at six per cent per annum from May 1,
1888, being the amount found due on the equipment bonds by him owned,
by the Supreme Court of Ohio, in his said suit, upon the surrender by him
of the bonds and coupons owned by him, referred to in his petition in such
suit; c.nd in default of such payment this court shall resume possession of
the property covered and affected by'the said lien of the defendant James
Compton, and enforce such decree as it may render herein in his favor by a
resale of such property or otherwise, as this court may direct.
And it is further ordered and adjudged, that notwithstanding the entry
of this decree the said issue concerning the claim and interest of said Compton
shall proceed -to a final determination and decree in accordance with the
rules and practice of this court, and any decree rendered thereupon shall
bind the purchaser or purchasers at any sale or sales had hereunder, and all
persons and corporations deriving any title to or interest in said property
affected by such lien from or through them or any of them, and nothing in
this decree contained shall be construed as an adjudication of any matter
or thing as against the said James Compton, or to prejudice, annul or abridge
any right, claim, interest or lien which the said James Compton may have
in, to or upon the premises hereby directed to be sold or any part thereof,
or in, to or upon any property whatsoever embraced in this decree; it being
the intention to hereby preserve the rights of said Compton in the relation
in which he now stands towards the mortgagees pirties hereto.
Any sale, conveyance or assignment of the railway and property hereinabove described made under this decree shall not have the effect of discharging any part of said property from the payment or contribution to
the payment of claims or demands chargeable against the same, whether
for costs and expenses, the expenses of the receivership of aid property
and the full paynwnt of all the debts and liabilities of the receivers.of the
Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, namely, Solon Humphreys
and Thomas E. Tutt, Thomas M. Cooley and Gen. John McNulta, or upon
intervening chtims allowed or to be allowed, or, upon any other claims or
allowances that have been or may hereafter be charged against the property
of the Wabash; St Louis and Pacific Railway Company, or any part thereof,
or said receivers or either of them, or the adjustment of any equities arising
out of the same between the parties hereto, or their successors, either by,
this court or by the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, or by any United States Circit Court exercising either
original or ancillary jurisdiction over said property of the Wabash, St. Louis

WABASH RAILROAD. v.ADELBhRT COLLEGE.
208 U.S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

through its receiver for five years. It was desirable that it
should pass into the hands of responsible owners, freed, as far
and Pacific Railway Company, or any part thereof, or by any United States
Circuit Court to which any of the parties in the consolidated cause of the
Central Trust Company of New York and others against the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company and others in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, including the
receivers, have been by the said Circuit Court of the United States remitted
in proceedings or actions ancillary to the jurisdiction of said last-named
court or otherwise.
Nor shall any such sale, conveyance, transfer or assignment made under
and pursuant to this decree withdraw' any of said railroad property or
interests to be sold under this decree as hereinbefore directed* from the
jurisdiction of this and the other courts aforesaid, but the same shall remain
in the custody of the receiver until such time as the court shall on motion
directsaid property in whole orfrom time to time in part to be released to
the purchaser or purchasers thereof or any of them, and shall afterwards
he subject to be retaken and, if necessary, resold if the sum so charged or
to be charged against said property or any part*thereof or said receivers
as aforesaid shall not be paid within a reasonable time after being required
by order of-this or said other courts.
The conveyance and transfer of said property sold under this decree shall
be subject to the powers and jurisdiction of the said courts and the pur:
chasers of the property sold under this decree or any part thereof, and the
parties hereto or their successors shall thereby become and remain subject
to said jurisdiction of said courts so far as necessary to the enforcement
of this provision of this decree, and such jurisdiction shall continue until
all the claims and demands that have been or may be allowed against said
property .of the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific. Railway Company or any
part thereof, or said receivers, by order of said courts shall be fully paid and
*

discharged.

The provisions aforesaid shall apply to the purchasers of. the same under
this decree, and all persons taking such property through or under them,
but the foregoing provisions shall not nor shall any reservation in this decree
contained have the effect or be construed, nor are they or any of them. intended to give to any claims that may exist any validity, character or
status superior to what they now have, nor to decide or imply that any such
claims exist.
The effect of said provisions and reservations shall be to prevent this
decree operating as an additional defense to claims, if any there are, prior
in tight to the liens of the moitgages upon said property heretofore and
hereby foreclosed and to preserve the prior right and lien of such claims
and all allowances if found and decreed to exist.
And the court reserves the right to make such further order and direction
at the foot of this decree as may seem proper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

as possible, from all prior liens and incumbrances. The quesion whether Comptonhad a lien and right of sale to satisfy
it was unsettled, and would naturally be so for some time to
come. He was a party to the suit. Many other holders of the
equipment bonds, whose primary rights were like his, were
seeking in the Ohio courts to obtain the same judgment which
had there been awarded to him. None of them were parties
to the suit in'the United States courts, but their claims and
therelief which the state court might give them could not be
overlooked by a discerning court or a prudent purchaser.
These facts and the considerations which arose out of themcalled upon the court to continue its grasp upon the property
and its control of exclusive jurisdiction over it, both for the
sake of those who had just claims upon it and for the sake of
those who might purchase under the decree. A sale could not
properly or safely be made upon any other conditions. The
decree reserves: 1. All questions arising under the pleadings
and proceedings for further adjudications. 2. The -rights of
Compton, which, when determined, may3 be enforced, after a
resumption of possession by the court, by a resale of the propeity or otherwise. 3. The costs, expenses, debts and liabilities
of the receivers, which are made a charge upon the property,
to be enforced by a retaking and sale of the property. All the
foregoing reservations are clearly and unmista-kably -made,
the purchasers are warned that they must take title subject
to the rights thereafter to be ascertainel, to which the reservations relate, and the jurisdiction of the court. over the questions and the right of the court to retake and resell the property is in terms preserved. Moreover, we are of the opinion
that the decree, fairly interpreted in the light of the circumstances, made a. still broader reservation. It is ordered that
"any sale . . .. of the railway and property
shall not have the effect of discharging any part of said property from the payment, or contribution to the payment,
upon intervening claims allowed, or to be allowed, or upon any
other claims or allowances that have been, or may hereafter

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U. S.

53

Opinion of the Court.

be, charged against the property;" and that the "jurisdiction
shall continue, until all the claims and demands that have been
or may be allowed against said property.

shall, be

fully paid;" and that the reservations shall not have the effect
"to give to any claims that may exist any validity, character
or status superior to what they now have, nor to decide or
imply that any such claims exist;" and that "The effect of
said provisions and reservations shall be to prevent this decree
operating as an additional defense to claims, if any'there are,
prior in right to the liens of the mortgages upon said-property
heretofore and hereby foreclosed, and to preserve the prior
right and 'lien of such claims and all allowances if found and
decreed to exist." This sweeping language, colored as it is by
the last paragraph quoted, with its reference to claims which
are liens 'prior in right to the mortgages, must be. held to
include claims under the equipment bonds. Such a reservation would be natural, in view of the facts that the rights under
the equipment bonds were uncertain, and' their holders n,:"
parties to the suit, and therefore not 'affected by the foreclosure. Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52, 67; United Lines
Tel. Co. v. Boston Trust Co., 147 U. S. 431, 448; Pittsburg &c.
Railway v. Loan & Trust Co., 172 U. S. 493, 515. The effect
of the decree is -to say to any purchaser under it, you must
take this propertY subject to all claims which this court §hall
hereafter adjudge' to be lawful, and you may be assured that
you will be held to 'pay none other, and for the purpose of
mking this statement 'good the court reserves jurisdiction
over the property and claims in respect to it, and the right to
take it again into possession and exercise again the power of
sale. It is obvious, therefore, that the court has parted with
the possession of the property only conditionally,. and that it
has preserved complete control over it, and full jurisdiction
over the claims which might be made against it. Wei nay now
consider the question whether the state court had the jurisdiction to reler the judgment in the .case at bar, as and when
it was rendered.

54

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

-

208 U. S.

When a court of competent jurisdiction has, by appropriate
proceedings, taken property into its possession through its
officers, the property is thereby' withdrawn from the jurisdiction of all other courts. The latter courts, though of concurrent
jurisdiction, are without power to render any judgment which
invades or disturbs the possession of the property while it is
in the custody of the court which has seized it. For the purpose of avoiding injustice which otherwise might result, a court
during the continuance of its possession has, as incident thereto
and as ancillary to the suit in which the possession was acquired, jurisdiction to hear and determine all .questions respecting the title, the possession or the control of the property.
In the courts of the United States this incidental and ancillary
juriidiction exists, although. in the subordinate suit there is
no jurisdiction arising out of diversity of citizenship or thenature of the controversy. Those principles are of general
application and not peculiar to the relations of the courts of
the United States to the courts of the States; they are, however, of especial importance' with respect to the relations of
those courts, which exercise independent jurisdiction. in the
same territory, often over the same property, persons, and controversies; they are not based upon any supposed superiority
of one court over the others, but serve to prevent a conflict
over the possession of property, which would be unseemly
and subversive of justice; and have been applied by this court
in many cases, some of which are cited, sometimes in favor of
the jurisdiction of the courts of the States and sometimes
in favor of the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States,
but always, it is believed, impartially and with a spirit of respect for the just authority of the States of the Union. Hagan
v Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; Williams v. Benedict, 8 How. 107; Wiswal v. Sampson, 14 How. 52; Peale v. Phipps, 14 How. 368;
Pulliam V. Osborne, 17 How. 471;.Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How.
583; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.
334; Yonley v. Lavender, 21 Wall. 276; People's Bank v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256; Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S. 126; Krippen-

WABASH RAILROAD v. ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U. S.

55

Opinion of the C-urt.

dorl v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276; Pacific R. R. of Missouri v. Missouri
Pacific Railway, 111 U. S. 505; Covell v.. Heyman, 111 U. S.
176; Heidritter v. Elizabeth Oil Cloth Company, 112 U. S. 294;.
Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 131; Johnson v. Christian, 125
U. S. 642; Morgan's Co. v. Texas Central .Railway, 137 U. S.
171; Porter v. Sabin, 149 U. S. 473.
The state courts in the case at bar, in deference, it is said
by counsel, to these well-established principles, deferred action until after the property had been conveyed to the purchasers under the decree of foreclosure and the receiver discharged. Upon the termination of the receivership, it is urged,
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Circuit Court ended, and the
right of the state court to resume its normal jurisdiction revived. As this suit was begun before the property was taken
into the possession of the Circuit Court, and when therefore
the state court had jurisdiction over it, and remained dormant,
except for the addition of parties and the filing of pleadings
and service of process, until after the receivers had been discharged and the property. conveyed to the purchager, this
would be true, if, as in Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168, the
possession of the Circuit Court and its relation to the res had
come to an end. But the Circuit Court attempted, in the
decree of March 23, to prolong its control of the property,
beyond the conveyance to the purchasers and the discharge
of the receivers, up to the point of time when the claims therein
stated should be ascertained and the just remedy for them
applied, and to reserve the right to retake the property for
those purposes. The effect of reservations in a decree of foreclosure, which to say the least were no broader than those
in this decree, was before the court in Julian v. Central Trust
Co., 193 U. S. 93. The reservations in that case are stated on
page 110, and of them the court said; p. 111: "It is obvious
that by this decree of sale and confirmation it was the intention
and 'purpose of the Federal court to retain jurisdiction over
the cause so far as was necessary to determine all liens and
demands to be paid by the purchaser;" and again, p. 112:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

"The Federal court by its decree, reserved the right to determine what liens or claims should be charged upon the title
conveyed by the court;" and again, p. 113: "the Circuit Court
by the oider made retained jurisdiction of the case to settle
all claims against the proper.ty and to determine what burdens
should be borne .by the purchaser as a condition of holding
the title conveyed." Here was a clear determination by this
court that the exclusive jurisdiction of claims against a res,
which had arisen out of the possession of the res in judicial
proceedings for foreclosure of mortgages, might be continued
after sale and conveyance of the property for the purpose of
deciding what claims were legally chargeable against it. This
is precisely what the Circuit Court attempted to do with respect to the property nowbef6re us, and its right to do it is
clearly supported by the decision in the Julian case. Under
the reservations iri
that case the Circuit Court was held to have
power to protect the property sold by its order from sale on
an execution issued by a state court. The state court was
thought to be without power to direct such a sale even though
its judgment was based upon a claim arising after the conveyance
of the property, because, under the peculiar facts of the case,
the judgment and execution in effect annulled the Federal
decree. The principle underlying that case, however, which
is material here, is that the jurisdiction over the res could be
continued by reservations, after the physical possession of
the property had been abandoned. This court there said,
p. 112: "The Federal court, in protecting the purchaser under
such circumstancesi was acting in pursuance of the jurisdiction
acquired when the foreclosure proceedings were begun." It
needs but a moment's consideration of the facts in the case at
bar to convince that if the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal court were denied every evil, which that doctrine was
designed to avert, would be let in. Some time, it is to be supposed,'there will be a sale by order of the Federal court to
satisfy Compton's lien. If the sale by the state court of the
same property to satisfy other lienholders of equal rank with

WABASH RAILROAD v.ADELBERT COLLEGE.
208 U. S.

57

Opinion of the Court.

Compton is allowed to proceed, which sale will convey the
better title? Who- would be bold enough to determine for
himself'that question? How much longer would the litigation
with respect to this property continue if two persons could be
found to purchase at.the two sales? It is no answer to these
questions that Compton has been made a party to this suit
in the state court. He is still a party to the proceedings in
the Federal court, and-he must find satisfaction for his claim
there. We, are of the opinion that by the effect of the reservation in -the decree of March 23, 1889, the exclusive jurisdiction
of the Federal court over the property therein dealt with has
continued, notwithstanding the conditional. conveyance and
that it still exists. The defendants, in error must pursue their
remedy .inthat court, which doubtless will consider the decisions of the state courts on questions of state law with the
respect which the decisions of this court require. It follows,
therefore, that the state court was without power to decree a
sale of-the property, and its judgment must be reversed.
2. There remains for decision the question whether the court
below erred in declining to hold that the case of Ham v. Wabash,
St. Louis & Pacific Railway Company conclusively adjudicated
the merits of the claims of the defendants in error.
The record in that case must now be examined. A suit
brought in a state court in 1878 by David J. Tysen, a holder
of equipment bonds, against the Wabash Railway Company,
then the owner of this railroad property, was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana.
The suit was heard on a supplemental bill filed by Benjamin F. Ham and several other persons, who together owned
equipment bonds of the par value of $113,500. The complainants alleged that the suit was brought "on their own behalf,
as well as in behalf of all those in likE interest who may come
in and contribute to the expenses of and join in the prosecution
of this suit." No notice of the pendency of the suit was given
to the other holders of the bonds other than by this allegation
in the bill. The Circuit Court, after due hearing, entered a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opin on of the Couit.

208 U. S.

decree declaring that the bonds were entitled to a hen on the
property, owned by the Toledo and Wabash Railroad Com-:
pany at the time of the consolidation of 1865, to secure the
payment of principal and interest, and ordering, in default
of payment, a sale of the property in satisfaction of the lien..
This decree was reversed by this court. Wabash &c. Railway v.
Ham, 114 U. S. 587. Thereafter the bill was dismissed for want
of equity by the Circuit Court. It is contended that the judgment in this case is a.bar to the claim for lien of all the holders
of the equipment bonds, whether they were parties or privies
to that suit or not. Accordingly the .judgment in the Ham case
was pleaded in the state court in this case as a bar to the suit.
The theory of the plea in bar is that the Ham suit was a representative or class suit, and that the judgment in it boind all
of the class, even if they were not parties or privies to it. It
was held otherwise by the Circuit Court of Appeals with respect
to this very judgment, Compton v. Jesup, 68 Fed. Rep. 263,
and in that opinion we concur. We do not deem it necessary
to follow the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error in his
elaborate discussion of the nature of representative suits, and
the effect of judgments in them upon those who are not parties
or privies. Nor is it.necessary to go beyond the facts of this
case, or to consider what suits may be of such a*nature and
effect. In this suit Ham might have proceeded alone, as
Compton did, or with others who chose to join with him. The
allegation that the suit is brought in behalf of all who should
join and share in the expense cannot make the judgment
binding on those who do not join. Some may have preferred
another jurisdiction, some perhaps could not join without
destroying the diversity of citizenship, upon which alone the
jurisdiction was based, or some possibly had never heard of
the pendency of the-suit. It ii clear if such suits in the Circuit
Courts of the United States could have the effect here claimed
for them, and the judgments in them were binding in all courts
against all other persons of the sanic class, that injustice might
result, and even collusive suits might be encouraged. We find

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILRQAD.
208 U. S.

59

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

no controlling authority which leads us to such a conclusion.
We think that the Ham suit was not a representativ3 suit in
the sense that the judgment in it bound the defendants in error

who were not parties to it. But for the reasons already given
the judgment must be

Reversed.'

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent from
that part of the judgment which decides that the jurisdiction

of the Federal court was exclusive after the delivery, of the
property to the purchaser under the foreclosure decree, and
the discharge of the receiver.

WINSLOW

v.

BALTIMORE AND
COMPANY.

IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OHIO

RAILROAD

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 59.

Argued December 9, 10, 1907.-Decided Jan'uary 6, 1908.

The

objection, taken by a property owner in a condemnation proceeding
for a part of his property, that, under the statute, his entire property
must be condemned, is waived and cannot be maintained on appeal, if
he accepts the award made by the commissioners in the conderpnation
proceeding ard paid in by the condemnors for the parcel actually condenned. After an award has been made and accepted the proceeding

is InctuS off&ico.
28 App. D. C. 126, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Williamn G. Johnson for plaintiffs in error'
The acceptance of the fund allowed for the land actually
taken is not inconsistent with the claims of the obligation of
the company also to acquire and pay for the residue.
The proceedings are informal and no form of pleadings.are
provided. See '§§ 648, 663, Rev. Stats., relating to District of
For opinion of the court on motion for rehearing and modification of the
decree, see post, p. 609.

