8

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

208 U. S.

CHIN YOW v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN -DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 76. Submitted December 13, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.
The conclusiveness of the decision of the Commissioner of Immigration,
denying a person the right to enter the United States under the immigration laws, must give way to the right of a citizen to enter and also
to the right of a person seeking to enter, and alleging that he is a citizen,
to prove his citizenship, and it is for the courts to finally determine the
right@ of such person.
A Chinese person seeking to enter the United States and alleging citizenship is entitled to a fair hearing, and if, without a fair hearing or being
allowed to call his witnesses, he is denied admission and delivered to the
steamship company for deportation, he is imprisoned without the process
of law to which he is entitled; and although he has not established his
right to enter the. country, the Federtu court has jurisdiction to determine on habeas corpus whether he was denied a proper hearing and if
so, to determine the merits; but unless and until it is proved that a proper
hearing was denied the merits are not open. United States v. Ju Toy,
198 U. S.253, distinguished.
Denial .of a hearing -by due process cannot be established merely by
:proving that the decision on the hearing that was had was wrong.

TH facts are stated1 in the opinion..
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, for appellant:
A United States District Court cannot refuse to grant a writ
of habeas corpw upon a petition alleging that the applicant is
a citizen of the United States, and asserting facts showing that
he was ordered deported from his country by the arbitrary
action of the immigration officers and the abuse of their discretion and powers.
Where,. as in this case, the petitioner alleges facts which
.. show an abuse of the power and discretion vested in-the im-

CHIN YOW v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. a.

9

Argument for Appellee,

migration officer who heard his case, and gives in his petition
the names of a number of persons, who, -as he alleges, could
easily have shown conclusively that he was a citizen of the
United States, and further states in his petition, that he was
prevented by the immigration officer from producing these
witnesses before him, and that his attorneys were not permitted to see and read the evidence which had been taken
before the immigration officer upon the investigation, of his
case, then,. in such a case, the rules laid down by this court.
in the case of United States V. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, do not.
apply.
The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus cannot be denied
to a man who insists that he is a citizen of the United States,
and that he is excluded by the arbitrary action of, and the
abuse of the powers and discretion reposed in, the immigration officers,, and is to be deported from his country without
an opportunity in the courts to show whether what he says
with reference to an abuse of the discretion -and power by the
immigration officials is true.
The rights of a citizen are very different from the rights of
an alien. United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 653.
The Japanese Immigrant Case, 189 U. S. 86, Lem Moon Sing
v. United States, 158 b. S. 538, and Fok Yong Yo v. United
States, 185 U. S. 296, and other immigration cases discussed
and distinguished.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cooley, for appellee:
This. court has no jurisdiction of the appeal herein. The
lack of the certificate required by the act of March. 3, 1891,
c. 517, § 5, 26-'Stat. 826, or. some equivalent thereof, is fatal
to .theappeal. Courtney v. Pradt,"196 U. S. 89, 91, 92.
,The petition does not expressly assert any right or privilege
under the Constitution, Whatever may be sought to be implied, it certainly cannot be said that it appears from the
petition, "by a statement in legal and logical form, such as is
required in good pleading, that the* suit is one which does

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as
to a right which depends on the construction of the Constitution or'some law or treaty of the United States." Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor' R. R. Co., 178 U. S. 244;
American Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 281;
Carey v. Houston and Texas Central Ry. Co., 150 U. S.170,.181.
:The constitutionality of the rules and regulations of the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor, referred to in the petition,
was upheld by this court in the cases of United States v. Sing
Tuck, 194 U' S.161, and United States v* Ju Toy, 198 U. S.
253. That. is no longer an open 'question, and cannot be made
the basis of .an appeal to this court, even if it were properly
raised.
The averment of. the petition that, had the "petitioner been
given -opportunity t6 have an attorney, and to communicate.
with his friends and other persons, he could have produced
abundant and overwhelming evidence to show that he was
born in the United States, and remained within the United
States, until 1904, when he departed to China on a temporary
*visit," was insufficient to show that he would have been able to
prove that he wis a citizen of the United States. Under the
Wong Kim Ark case, 169 U. S.. 649, 705, birth alone of a Chinese
child in the United States is not sufficient to make him a
citizen, but it must further appear that his parents at the time
of his birth had a permanent domicil and residence in the
United Staies and were not employed in any diplomaic or
official capacity under the Chinese Government. The allegations of the petition do not meet these requirements.
MR.JUSTICE. HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for habeas corpus by a Chinese person,
alleging that he is detained unlawfully by the General Manager
of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company on the ground that he
is not entitled to enter the United States. The petition alleges
that the petitioner is a resident and citizen of the United

CHIN YOW v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, born in San Francisco of parents domiciled there, but
-it discloses that the CommissioneFof Immigration at the port
of San Francisco, after a hearing, denied his right to land,
and that the Department of Commerce and Labor affirmed
the decision on appeal. The petitioner thereupon was placed
in custody of the steamship company to be sent to China.
So far the case is within United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S.
253, and the petition was dismissed for want of jurisdiction
(presumably on the ground of that decision), as 'sufficiently
appears from the record, the reasons assigned for the appeal
and the order allowing the same. But the petition further
alleges that the petitioner was prevented by the officials of
the Commissioner from obtaining testimony, including that
of named witnesses, and that had he been given a proper opportunity he could have produced overwhelming evidence that
he was born in the United States and remained there until
1904, when he departed to China on a temporary visit. We
do not scrutinize' the allegations as if they were contained
in a criminal indictment before the court upon a special demurrer, but without further detail read them as importing
that the petitioner arbitrarily was denied such a hearing and
such an opportunity to prove his right to enter the country
as the statute meant that he should have. The question is
whether he is entitled to a writ of habeas corpus on such a case
as that.
Of course if the writ is granted the first issue to be tried is
the truth of the allegations last mentioned. If the petitioner
was not denied a fair opportunity to produce the evidence
that he desired, or a fair though summary, hearing, the case
can proceed no farther. Those facts are the foundation of the
jurisdiction of the District Court, if it has any jurisdiction at
all. It must not be supposed that the mere allegation of the
facts opens the merits of the case, whether those facts are
proved or not. And, by way of caution, we "may add- that
jurisdiction would not be established simply by proving that
the Commissioner and tlhe Department of Commerce and

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court,

208 U. S.

Labor did not accept. certain sworn statements as true, even
.though no contrary or impeaching testimony was adduced.
*Bdit, supposing that it- could be 'shown to the satisfaction of.
the District Judge that thL petitioner had been allowed noth•ing but the semblance of a hearing, as we assume to be alleged,
the question is, we repeat, whether habeas corpus may not be
used to give the petitioner the hearing that he has been denied.
The statuteb purport to exclude aliens only. They create
or recognize, for present purposes it does not matter which, the
right of citizens ouftide the jurisdiction t6 return to the United
States. if one alleging himself to be a citizen is not allowed
a chance to establish his right in the mode provided by those
statutes, although that mode is intended to be exclusive, the
statutes cannot be taken to require him to be turned back
without, more. The decision .of the Department is final, but
that is on the presupposition that the decision was after a
heafing in good faith, however summary in form. As between
* the substantive right of citizens .to enter and of persons alleging themielves to be citizens to have a chance to prove their
allegation on the one side and the conclusiveness -of the Commissioner's fiat on the other, when one or the other must give
way, the latter must yield. In such a case something must be
-done, and it naturally falls to be done by the courts. In order
to decide what we must analyze- a Jittle.
If we regard the petitioner, as in Ju Toy's case it was said
that he should be regarded, as if he had been stopped and kept
at the limit of our jurisdiction, 198 U. S. 263, still it would be
difficult to say that he was not imprisoned, theoretically as
well as practically, when to turn him back meant that he must
get into a vessel against his wish and be carried to China. The
case would not be that of a person simply prevented from going
in one direction that he desired and had a right to take, all
others being left open to him, a case in which the judges were
not unanimous in Bird v. Jones, 7 Q. B. 742. But we need not
speculate upon niceties. It is true that the petitioner gains no
additional right of entrance "by being allowed to pass the

CHIN YOW v.'UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

frontier in custody for the determination of his case. But on
the question whether he is wrongly imprisoned we must look
at the actual facts. De facto he is locked up until carried out
of the cruntry against his will.
The petitioner then is imprisoned for deportation without
the process of law to which he is given a right. Habeas corpus
is the usual remedy for unlawful imprisonment. But on the
other hand as yet the petitioner has not established his right
to enter the country. He is imprisoned only to prevent his
entry and an unconditional release would make the entry
complete without the requisite proof. The courts must deal
with the matter somehow, and there seems to be no way so
convenient as a trial of the meri. before the judge. If the
petitioner proves his citizenship a longer restraint would be
illegal. If he fails the order of deportation would remain in
force.
We recur in closing to the caution stated at the beginning,
and add that while it is not likely, it is possible that the officials
misinterpreted Rule 6 as restricting the right to obtain witnesses which the petitioner desired to produce, or Rule 7,
commented on in United States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161,
169, 170, as giving them some control'or choice as to the witnesses to be heard. But unless and until it is proved to the
satisfaction of the judge that a hearing properly so called was
denied, the merits of the case are not open, and, we may-add,
the denial of a hearing cannot be established by proving that
the decision was wrong.
Order reversed.
Writ of habeas corpus to issue.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER concurs in the result.

