OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U. S.

ELDER v. WOOD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME C(5URT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 95. Argued January 9, 1908.-Decided January 27, 1908.
A valid subsisting mining location, such as the Comstock Lode, or an interest
therein, is property distinct from the land itself, vendible, inheritable and
taxable as such, by the State, notwithstanding the land may be unpatented by the United States.
When the collection of a tax on such an interest is enforced by sale, the
tax deed tonveys merely the right of possession and does not affect any
interest of the United States, and the construction of the state statutes,
and the conformity thereto of the tax levy and sale, are matters exclusively for the state court to' determine, and this court is without jurisdiction to review its decision.
Sections 340, 341 of the laws of Colorado of 1881, taxing interests in tinpatented mining claims and making the right of possession the subject
of levy and sale, are not in conflict with § 4 of the Colorado enabling act
of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 474,. providing that no tax shall be imposed
on lands or property of the United States.
Where the Federal question below was whether a tax sale deprived the
owner of his property without due process of law because the notice,
being published on Sunday, was insufficient, and the state court did not
pass on that question but sustained the tax title under the state statutes
making tax deeds prima facie evidence and of limitations, the non-Federal
grounds are adequate to support the judgment and this court is without
jurisdiction to review it on writ of error under § 709, Rev. Stat.
37 Colorado, 174, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a State to tax the
possessory right in unpatented mining claims, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. George 1. Elder for plaintiffs in error:
The judgment of reversal denied the rights claimed by
plaintiffs in error under two clauses of the Constitution of the'
United States and the similar clause of the constitution of
Colorado, and the judgment of reversal could not be entered
without finding, in opposition to the- enabling act of Congress

ELDER v. WOOD.
208 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

and the decision of the District Court below, that United
States land, whose title had not vested in the locator by
purchase, was taxed. These were claims at the foundation
of the entire case and were decided adversely to the rights of
plaintiffs in. error. The prohibitions of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United States,
as well as § 25 of Art. 2, constitution of Colorado, extend to
any action of the State through its constituted authorities,
and therefore include any divestiture of property through tax
assessments, levies and tax sales, made without due process
of law.
Under the following authorities this court should-take jurisdiction to pass upon this writ of error. Proprietorsof Bridges
v. Hoboken Land & Imp. Co:, 1 Wall. 116; Roby v. Colehour,
146 U. S. 153-159; De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216;
Brown v..Atwell, 92 U. S. 327; Wilson v. Blackbird Creek
Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Chicago Lic' Insurance Co. v. Needles,
113 U. S. 574; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; C., B. & Q.
R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Bells Gap Ry..Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232.
An advertisement of, tax notice upon Sunday exclusively
was not a legal notice and due process of law. Schwed v.
Hartwitz, 23 Colorado, 189; Scammon v. City of Chicago, 40
Illinois, 146; Blackwell, Tax Ti'tle (2d ed.), § 210; Blackwell,
.Tax Titles (5th ed.), § 440; Ormsby v. Louisville, 7.9 Kentucky,
199; Sawyer v. Cargile, 72 Georgia, 290; Brannin v. Louisville,.
4 Ky. Law Rlep. 384; MALaughlin v. Wheeler, 2 S. -Dak. 379;
Shaw v. Williams, .87 Indiana, 158.
The United States still owning the fee to the land while the
entry remained cancelled, it could not be taxed and sold.
While part of the claim was still owned by the United States
after the.gancelladti6n, the incorporation- of illegal taxes upon
this part with other' taxes levied upon the other part of the
claim, rendered the whole sale void in to.
The 'Government, through .its Land Department, 'has never
completely changed 'the ownership of this Comstock lode

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

208 U. S.

from itself to the holders of the possessory title. It still retains the entire title, at its own disposition, to be finally patted
with after the several contests before the land officers and the
courts are at last decided.
There has been no proper segregation of the area of the
Comstock lode and issuance of such a muniment of title by
the Land Department of the United States to bring it within
the purview of the taking power of the State of Colorado,
"certainly not up to the'twenty-first day of September, 1896,
the date of the partial re-instatement of the entry.
The refusal ilf the Land Department of the Government to
confirm the mineral entry of the Comstock lode in its entirety
from its first order of cancellation May 2, 1887, up to and
until September 21, 1896, a period of nine years and four
months, is proof positive that no full equitable title passed
to the grantees by those proceedings and that the Government through its Land .Department still held full control of
the land and by its various rulings established the fact that
the right to patent in the location claimants was incomplete.
Kansas P. Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Union.Pac. R. R.
Co. v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444; Northern Pac. R. R. Co. v. Traill
Co., 115 U. S. 600; Hunnewell v. Cass Co., 22 Wall. 464; Central
Colo. I. Co. v. Pueblo Co., 95 U. S. 259; Lamborn v. Dickinson
Co., 971U. S. 181; Union Pac. R. R. Co. v. Dodge Co., 98 U. S.
541; People v. Shearer, 30 California, 645; Central P. R. R. &
Co. v. Howard, 51 California, 229; Long v. Culp, 14 Kansas,
412; White v. B. & M. R. R. Co., 5 Nebraska, 393; Elling v.
Thexton, 7 Montana, 330; Musser v. McRae, 38 Minnesota, 409;
Van Brocklin-v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Wisconsin Cent.
R. R. Co. v. Price Co., 133 U. S. 496; Hussman v. Durham,
165 U. S. 145; Campbell v. Spears, 120 Iowa, 670; Duncan v.
Newcomer, 9 S. Dak. 375; Pitts v. Clay, 27 Fed. Rep. 635.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne for defendants in error. Mr. Charles
Cavender was on the brief:
If it be contended that there was a Federal question vhich

ELDER v. WOOD.
208 U.S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

might have been raised, still it will be found, from an examination of the opinion of the 2',preme Court of the State of Colorado, Wood v. McCombe, 37 Colorado, 174; S. C., 86 Pac. Rep.
319, that the decision ig based on a local statute and the
construction thereof, and no Federal question was involved
therein nor necessarily decided. This court will not review
such a decision. N. Y. Cent. R. R. Co. v. City of New York,
186 U. S. 269;Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291;
S. C., 63 L. R. A. 33, and the notes to said case; Apex Transportation Co. v. Garbad; 32 Oregon, 582; S. C., 62 L. R. A.
513; Gillis v. Stinchfield, 159 U. S. 658
Rev. Stat. §§ 319-2324 vest, in the locator of valid mining claims, the absolute property in the same. And see § 910,
Rev. Stat.
By-statute the real title and ownership is in the locator,
and not in the United States. Such property is real estate
and belongs to, and the title is in the locator, although the
paramount title might not have passed from the Government,
and is capable of conveyance, inheritance and protection at
law and in equity, and is also subject to tax levy and sale.
It is expressly so declared by the statutes of Colorado and
other States in which such property is. situated, and is so
recognized by state and Federal courts in repeated decisions.
Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 767; Belk v. Meagher, 104 I. S. 283;
Manuel v. Wolff, 152 U. S. 505, 511; St. Louis M. Co. v Montana M. Co, 171 U. S. 655; McFeters v. Pierson, 15 Colorado,
201; Roseville Co. v. Iowa Gulch Co., 15 Colorado, 29; Butte Co.
v. Frank, 65 Pa' Rep. 1; Bakersfield Co. v. Kern Co., 77 Pac.
Rep. 892.
It necessarily follows that the title held by the locator, and
the possessory right acquired thereby, are subject to taxation, subject, of course, to the paramount title of the United
States, which is not divested by the tax sale, but simply passes
the possessory title to the purchaser thereat.
The statute with reference to tax. sales, with reference to
notice, and the statute of limitations are Colorado statutes and

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

have been passed upon by the highest court of the State, which
has held, as appears from the decision in this case, that the
purpose of the statute of limitations was to cure -just such
defects as are asserted by. the plaintiff herein; and that after
five years they cannot be availed of. This court is bound by
the construction placed upon a local statute by a local court.
U. S. Rev. Stat. § 721; Townsend v. Todd et al., 91 U. S. 452;
Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 How. 317;'Allen v. Massey,
17 Wall. 351; Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Reed, 80 Fed. Rep.
239; S. C:, 49 U. S. App. 421 (Eighth Circuit); Lloyd v. Fulton,
91 U. S. 479; Jerome v. Carbonate Nat. Bank of Leadville, 22
Colorado,'37; Perkins v. Adams, 16 Colo. App. 96.
MR. JusTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error brought this action in a District Court
of the State of Colorado to recover from the defendants in
error the possession of an undivided interest in the Coinstock
Lode mining claim, situated in that State. Both parties
claimed title under Wilhehnina Gude, who was agreed to have
been the owner of the interest in dispute; the defendants under
a sale for taxes assessed upon her interest, made August 5,
1889, and a deed in pursuance of the sale made August 8, 1892,
and recorded August 11, 1892; the plaintiffs under a quitclaim
deed of her interest made April 5, 1894, and duly recorded.
The tax title was the earlier, and possession of the interest in
dispute was held by those claiming under that title for more
than five years, which is the period of the statute of linitations
of Colorado applicable to such a case. The plaintiffs, however,
insisted that the tax title was void, and the judge of the trial
court so found, and entered judgment for the plaintiffs, which
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State and judgment
for the defendants ordered, sub nomine, Wood v. McCbmbe,
37 Colorado, 174. The case is here upon writ of error to the
latter court.
The plaintiff's contention is that the tax title was void for
two reasons: first, because the property was not subject to

ELDER v. WOOD.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

state taxation, as the title to the land was in the United States,
and therefore the levy of the tax was a nullity; second, be'cause
the notice of the sale for taxes was published only in a Sunday
newspaper, and therefore, the sale was a nullity. The further
contention is then made that the tax deed for these reasons
was void and did not afford color of title sufficient for the
purpose of the statute of limitations.
The judgment under review, however, determined that the
interest of Wilhelmina Gude was liable to taxation under the
laws of the State, although the land on which it was located
had not been patented to her or entered for patent by her;
that the possession was the subject of the assessment, and that
the right of possession passed by the tax sale; that a tax
deed was by a state statute prima Jacie evidence inter alia
"that the property was duly and lawfully advertised for sale;"
that the tax deed was not void uponi its face, and that it constituted a-sufficient color of title to satisfy the statute of limitations; and, finally, that as this action was not brought within
fiye years after the delivery of the tax deed it was barred by
that statute, which provided that "no action for. the recovery
of land sold for taxes shall lie unless the same be brought
within five years after the execution and delivery of the deed
therefor by the treasurer."
The question for decision here is only wrhether this judgment
denied to the plaintiffs any Federal rights duly claimed by
them in the state court, and we have ho right to inquire further.
1. The title to the land on which this mining claim was
located was in the Ulited States. It was a part of the public
lands, and although proceedings had been begun by the owners
of the claim for the acquisition of the title to the land by
patent, they .were not concluded at the time of the assessment
of the tax, and apparently no patent has ever been issued.
Obviously the land was.not taxable as the property of Wilhelmina Gude. The act by which the people of the Territory of
Colorado were enabled to form a State (§ 4,.of act approved
March 3, 1875, c. 139, 18 Stat. 474) provided that no taxes

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.

should 6ver be imposed upon. lands or property of the United
.States. The claim of 'a Federal right- was based upon this
statute.- -But, assu2iAg that .under this statute a Federal
question is raised, there vas no taxation of the land in the case
at bar. A statute of Colorado authorized" the taxation of mining claims, whether, patexited or entered for patent-or not, in'
these words: "In case -the mine or mining claim -shall not be
patented, or entered. for patent," but -shall be assessable and.
taxable under this act, on account -of producing gross proceeds, then,.and in. that case, the possession shall be the subjeit of the assessment, and if sid mining property be sold for
taxes levied, the sale for such taxes shall pass .the title and
right of possession to the purchaser, under the laws of Colorado." Laws 1887, §§ 340-341, Mills' Ann. Stat. J§ 3222-3225.
The -construction of this statute and the conformity to it of
the proceedings of the taxing officials were questions exclusively for the Supreme Court of the State, and we have no
authority to review its determination of them. 'That court
-held. thaf what was assessed was not the land on which the
mining claim Was located, but the claim itself, that is to'say,
the right of possession of the land for mining purposes. It is
agreed that the Comstock Lode was a "valid subsisting mining
location," and at the time of the assessment of the tax. Wilhelm.nina Gude was the owner.of the undivided interest in it which
is in controversy here. Such an interest from early times has
been held to be property, distinct from the land itself, vendible,
inheritable and taxable.' Forbes v. Gfacey, 94 U. S. 762; Bell
v. Meagher, 104 U. S. 279, 283; Manuel v. Wulff, 152 U. S.
505, 510; St. Louis-Mining Co. v. Montana Mining (o., 171
U. S. 650, 655;.1 Lindley on. Mines, §§V5-542, inclusive.
The State therefore had the power to tax this interest in the
mining claim and enforce the collection of the tax by sale.
The tax deed conveyed merely the right of possession, and
affected no inte~ms *f -the United States.
2. The tax d,.-- Under 'which the defendant'in error.Wood
claims title was executed in pursuance of a sale made upon

ELDER v. WOOD.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

a notice published only in a Sunday newspaper. This fact
does not appear from the deed itself, as an analogous infirmity
appeared in the tax deed before the court in Redfield v. Parks,
132 U. S. 239. The deed upon its face was a valid instrument,
and could be impeached only by evidence aliunde. The state
court did not deem it necessary to consider whether such a
notice was sufficient, because it held that a state statute made.
Ssuch a deed prima /acie evidence of the sufficiency .of the
notice, and that possession under such a deed for the prescribed
period met the requirements of the state statute of limitations.
The decision therefore did not reach the only Federal question -which can be imagined with respect to this part of the
case, namely, that a sale upon such a notice was wanting in
due process of law, but rested upon entirely adequate grounds
of a non-Federal nature. Whether the decision of the question
of state law was right or wrong, we may not consider. It is
enough that the judgment procee'ded solely upon the state
law, and that the state law was adequate .to dispose of the
case without reaching any Federal question. Leathe v. Th6mas,
207 U. S. 93. • We need not, therefore, consider whether this
Federal question was properly raised in the court below, or
whether a sale upon such a notice would be a denial of due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution.
The plaintiffs in error have shown no, violation of Federal
-right, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado is
Affirmed.

