480

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of ithe Court.

208 U. a

This license tax is exacted without reference to the question as to where the beer was maiiufactured, whether within
or. without the State, and hence there is no discrimination in
the case.
. It is unnecessary to continue the discussion. As we have
said, the cases above cited are-conclusive in favor of the correctness of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama.

Judgment affirmed.

RICHARD v. CITY OF MOBILE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 112. Argued January.17. 1908.-Decided February 24. 1908.
Decided on the authority of Philps v. Cty of Mobite, ante, p. 472.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Richard William Stoutz, with whom Mr. Walter A.
White was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Burwell Boykin Boone for defendant in error.1
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dolivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, sus'tainng the demurrer of the City of Mobile to a bill filed by
the appella;nts, and dismissing the same. It appears that, the
appellants sought to obtain' an injunction to restrain the city.
from collecting the amount of* the license tax imposed under
the ordinance of the city upon those who were engaged in selling beer in the city by the barrel, half barrel or quarter barrel.
I For abstract of arguments see ano, v. 475.

UGUBANKS t. ARMSTRONG,

481

Syllabua..

208 U.S.

The question involved is, as counsel for appellants admits,
identical 'with, that which has just been. decided in the foregoing case, No. .113, and for the reasons therein stated the:
judgment of the Circuit Court is

Affirmed.
UGHBANKS . ARMSTRONG, WARDEN. OFTHE MICHIGAN STATE. PRISON.
ERROR TO TE SUPRENE COURT OF THE STATE OF P4ICHIGAN.
No. 4W.. Submitted

iiary 20. 1908.-Dwodd February 24.19

.

The indeterminate sentence law of Michigan- of 1903; as -construed and
sustained according to its own constitution, by the highet co'urt of that
,State; does not violate any provision of the Federal C6&titution. -It is
of a character similar to the Illinois act, sustained by this court in Dreye,
Iinois,.
lv.
187 U.;S. 71.
When a subsequently enacted criminal lav: is more drastic than. the exist ,
big law which in terms is repealed thereby, the claim that it is iz Psoi 1o
'as to one 'imprisoned under the former law and', therefore void; and that
-the earlier law being repealed he cannot be held thereunder, has no force
in this court where the state court hdas'held -that the later law does not
repea the earlier law, as to those sentenced thereunder: Im huch a case
'this court follows the construction of the state court,
The Sixth and. Eighth 'Amendments to the' Federal Constitution' do not
'limit the power of the State.
The Fourteenth Amendment to"the Federal Constitution does not limalt
•the power of the State in dealing with crime- committed within its own
borders or with the punishment thereof. But a State must not deprive
particular'persons 'or classes'of persons 'of equal and -impartial justice.'
This court follows the' construction' of an * indeterminate sentence law by.
'the.highest court 'of th e State, to the 'ffect. that where the.maximum
term of imprisonment for a crime has been fixed by statute a maximum
"termfixed by the codt of'a shorter period issimmply void.
The granting of favors by a State to criminals in its prisons. is 'entirely a
matter.of policy, to be. determined by thb legislature, which may attach,.
thereto such conditions as it sees fit, and where it places the granting
of' such favors in tlhe diseftio, of- an executive officer it is not bound to
give 'the convict applying therefor a.hearing.
The.provision in thendeter6minate law' of Michigan of 1903, excepting.
'prisoners .twice sentepiced before 'from the priv iege -of parole, extended.,
in ,the discretion of the Executive! to prisoners after the expiration 'of
..
voL. Cov1u-31 .

