OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

208 U. S.

Ex parte SIMON.
PETITION FOR WRITS OF HABEAS CORPUS AND CERTIORARI.
No. 13, Original.

Argued January 6. 7, 1908.-Decided January 20, 1908.

The usual rule is that a prisoner cannot anticipate the regular course of
proceedings having for their end to determine whether he shall be held
or released by alleging want of jurisdiction and petitioning for a habeas
corpus;.and the same rule is applicable in the case of one committed
for contempt until a small fine shall be paid for disobeying an injunction
order of the Circuit Court, and who petitions for a habeas on the ground
that the order disobeyed was void because issued in a suit which was

coram non judice.
Notwithstanding the prohibitive provisions of § 720, Rev. Stat., the Circuit
Court of the United States may have jurisdiction of a suit brought by
a citizen of one State against citizens of another State to enjoin the
execution of a judgment fraudulently entered against him in a state court
which had no jurisdiction by reason of non-service of the summons, and
this court will not determine the merits of such a case on habeas corpus
proceedings brought by one of the defendants committed for contempt
for disobeying a preliminary injunction order issued by the Circuit
Court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion..
Mr. Henry L. Lazarus and Mr. Louis Marshall for petitioner:
The petitioner being restrained of his libertyby a United
States marshal, under a judgment of the United States Circuit
Court, which is claimed to be void, habeas corpus is the proper
remedy to test the validity of the imprisonment.
The remedy of habeas corpus has been allowed in many instances of this nature. See Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713; Ex
parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38; Ex parte. Wells, 18 Hiow. 307;, Ex
parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Parks,93 U. S. 18; Ex parte
Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604; Ex
parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443.

Ex parte SIMON.
208 U.S.

.145

Argument for Petitioner.

The preliminary injunction issued out of the United States
Circuit Court, which. restrained the proceedings of the petitioner in the Civil District Court of Louisiana, being in,.
contravention of § 720, Rev. Stat., was a nullity, and its disregard by the petitioner does not constitute contempt. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Leathe v. Thomas, 97 Fed. Rep.
126; Fenwick Hall Co. v. Old Saybrook, 66 Fed. Rep. 389;
Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S. 254; Dial v. Reynoldsk 96 U. S.
340; Sargent v. Helton, 115 U. S., 348; Moran v. Sturges, 154
U. S. 267; In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443.
The allegations of fraud in this case are not supported by a
single statement of fact and do not operate to. repeal § 720
of the Revised Statutes of the -United States.
The allegations are mere conclusions, a collection of epithets,
and a series of nwn sequiturs. Kent v. Lake Superior Ship.
Canal Co., 144 U. S. 75, 91.
A bill in chancery to set aside a judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction on the ground of fraud, must
state distinctly the particulars of the frau'd, the names of the
parties who were engaged in it, and the manner in which the
court or the party was misled or imposed upon. United States
v. Atherton, 102 U. S. 372; 9 Ency. P1. & Pr. 684; Brooks v.
O'Hara,8 Fed. Rep. 532. See also Knox County v. Harshman,
133 U. S. 154; White v. Crow, 110 U. S. 184; 1 Black on Judgments, § 393; Travelers' Associdtion v. Gilbert, 111 Fed. Rep.
269; 16 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 374.
The gravamen of the bill here is that because the petitioner
was willing to compromise at five thousand dollars, therefore
the presentation of a larger amount through the regular legal
channels constituted fraud.
Neither this fact,, nor the suggestion that the petitioner's
testimony was 'fraudulent or fictitious, is a sufficient ground
for an independent suit in equity to set aside the judgment of
the state court. United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 65,
69; Steele v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 454; Kimberly v. Arms, 40
Fed. Rep. 538; Kiko v. Cuhn, -91 California, 134; Andes v.
VOL. CCVI!1-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Millard, 70 Fed. Rep. 517; Mayor of New York v. Brady, 115
N. Y. 615.
Mr. Harry H. Hall for respondent:
The Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana had jurisdiction to entertain and decide
the suit in equity between the Southern Railway Company
and Ephraim Sim6n and therefore, under the authorities, the
writ of habeas corpus must be denied. Ex parte Yarbrough,
110 U. S. 651; In re Frederick, 149 U. S. 76; Ex. parte Terry,
128 U. S. 302.
The judgment of the state court was an absolute nullity
for want of citation. Peterson v. Chicago Ry., 205 U. S. 390;
Green v. Chicago St. Ry., 205 U. S. 530; St. Clair v. Cox, 106
U. S. 350; P.nnoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 727; Scott v. McNeal, 154
U.S. 34.
The United States Circuit Court has jurisdiction in a suit
between the parties in interest, citizens of different States,
claiming that the judgment obtained by one against the other
is voidable for fraud practiced in obtaining it. Johnson v.
Waters, 111 U. S. 667; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 112;
Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 596; Terre Haute & I. R. Co. v.
Peoria& P. U. R. Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 945; National Surety Co.
v. State Bank &c., 120 Fed. Rep. 593.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

The petitioner is in custody for contempt, he having violated
a preliminary injunction issued by the Circuit Court of the
United States. He brings this petition on the ground that the
-Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, and that therefore its decree
might be disobeyed.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the cause depends
on the allegations of the bill upon which the injunction was
granted. That bill was' brought by the Southern Railway
Company against the petitioner.' It alleges that Simon brought

Ex parte SIMON.
208 U. S.

.147

Opinion of the Court.'

a suit against the railway in Louisiana surreptitiously and
without its knowledge, and that, on -the suggestion that the
railway. was. a foreign corporation doing business in the State
without having named, an agent to .receive service, he served
the citation upon the Assistant Secretary* of State,. whereas
the railway was not a corporation *doingbusines in the State,
and the service was void. The suit proceeded to judgment for
a fraudulently exaggerated sum, while the railway had no
knowledge of the proceedings until after the judgment was
rendered. As soon as it heard of it it began this suit; in effect
to prevent the enforcement of the: judgment, because unconscionable and fraudulently obtained upon a cause of action to
which it has a good defense if allowed to present the same..
The bill further alleges that Simon will attempt to collect
the fraudulent judgment by fieri lacias, and prays as specific
relief an injunction against his further proceeding under the
same, but the general. scope and purpose of the bill is what
we have stated. A -preliminary injunction was issued, after a
hearing on affidavits' on June 30, 1905, and Simon appears to
have obeyed the order for over two years. •A demuirer to the
bill was overruled in December, 1906, and a plea to the jurisdiction, filed in February, 1907, was overruled in the following
May. Simon answered in August and issue was joined in the
same month. The contempt seems to have occurred in November. It. consisted in obtaining a writ of fieri facids and
directing a levy and the ..service of garnishment process to
collect the judgment. It was admitted at the argument that
this method was adopted in order to obtain a summary disposition of the cause by'this court instead of awaiting the result
of a trial in the regular way. . The punishment was a small fine,
and the imprisonment was ordered only until the fine was paid.
us enough.to dispose of this case
The facts stated seem t.o
The usual rule is thata %isoner cannot anticipatethe regular
course of proceedings having for their end to determine whether
he shall be held or released, by alleging want of jurisdiction
and petitioning for a habeas corpus. •United States v. Sing Tuck,

148

OCTOBER TERM; 1907
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

194 U. S. .161, 168; Rfgins v. United States, 199 U. S. 547;
Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132, 140; In re Lincoln, 202 U. S.
178. In the present instance the release of the petitioner is
not the primary issue of the case, to be sure, but it is so closely
wrapped up with that issue that when it is apparent that the
Iimprisonment is only nominal and has been incurred after
two years' acquiescence, merely in order to secure a speedier
hearing iAthis court, the analogy of the decisions is veryclose.
The petitioner is in no position to demand this summary relief.
This is not a suit coram non judice and wholly void by reason
of Re. Stat. §720, forbidding United States courts to stay
by injunction proceedings in any state court. The. Circuit
Court had jurisdiction of the cause. That must be assumed
at this stage; and finally unless we overrule the strong intimations in Marshall v. -Holmes, 141 U. S. 589, ar.d the earlier
cases cited in that case. Even if the decision could have been
put on a narrower ground, the ground adopted was that the
Circuit Court had original jurisdiction of such a suit. It would
be going far to say that, 9.though the Circuit Court had power
to grant relief by final decree, it had not power to preserve
the rights of the parties until the final. decree should be reached,
or that an injunction continued in force under the authority
of the United States, but originally issued by a state court,
stood on stronger grounds'than one granted by the United
States court in the first place. Even if the order was erroneous,
it would be going far to say that it was made without jurisdiction and might be disregarded, although the court had jurisdiction of the cause. See United States v. Shipp, 203 U. S.
563, 573. But without laying down a broader propositionthan
is required, we are of opinion that in the particular circumstances of this case habeas corpus is an extraordinary remedy,
for which there has been shown no sufficient ground.
it is argued that the bill does not disclose facts that warrant
going behind the judgment, but contains only vague allegations of fraud. But it alleges facts that show a total want of
jurisdiction in the state court, and implies at least that the

HOUGHTON v. MEYFR.
208 U. S.

149

Syllabus.

fictitious service was made with deliberate fraud. Its general
nature and purpose are clear. Enough is alleged to amend
by, if amendment is necessary, and to give jurisdiction to the
Circuit Court. As we cannot pronounce the whole proceeding
void, we have nothing to do with the sufficiency of the pleading or the question whether the bill would be good or bad on
demurrer. There Was at least color of right for the preliminary
order and it will be time enough to discuss the merits if the case
comes here again after final decree.
Rule discharged.

Petitionfor habea8 corpus denied.

HOUGHTON v. MEYER, POSTMASTER GENERAL.1
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS' OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 49.

Argued November 12, 1907.-Dided January 0, 1908.

While the restraining order authorized by 1718, Rev. Stat., is a species of
temporary injunction it is only authorized until a pending motion for a:
temporary, injunction can be disposed of.
The undertaking given to obtain a restraining order under § 718, Rev. Stat.
must be construed in the light of that section and it necessarily is superseded by an order or decree granting an Injunction and thereupon expires by its own limitation, notwithstanding such order or decree may
subsequently be reversed.
The givers of an undertaking cannot be held for any period not covered
thereby on the conjecture that they would have given a new undertaking
had one been required. Their liability must be determined on the one
actually given.
In this case the obligors on the undertaking obtained an order restraining
the Postmaster General from refusing to transmit their matter at second
class rates. The motion on the order was not brought on but on the
hearing 'on the merits the trial court, by decree, granted a permanent
injunction. This decree was reversed. In an action brought by the
I Original docket title: Houghton et al. v. George B. Cortelyou, Postmaster

General. By order of the court George Von L. Mey'er, Postmaster General,
was substituted as appellee.

-

