UNITED STATES v. LARKIN.
208 U; B.

UNITED

Statement of the Cue.

STATES

v. LARKIN, INTERVENOR
CLAIMANT.

AND

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF O141O..
No. 358.. Argued January 7, 8;1908.-7,Decided February 24, 1908.

Where the Circuit Court of Appeals has Already affirmed the judgment of
the District or Circuit Court, a writ of error from this court to the District
or Circuit Court to review the judgment on the jurisdictional ground cannot be maintained unless the proceedings in the Circuit Court of Appeals
were absolutely void.
Ordinarily .aformal certificate is essential and it must be made at the same

term at which the judgment is rendered; but where the record shows
that the only matter tried and decided, and sought to be reviewed, was
one of the jurisdiction of the court, the question of jurisdiction is suffi.
ciently certified.
'District Courts of the United States are the proper courts to adjudicate forfeituresi and where the plea to the jurisdiction is simply whether the
particular court has jurisdiction, by reason of the locality in which the
goods were seized, the question involved is not the jurisdiction of the
United States court as such, and the question cannot be certified to this
court under 1 5 of the. Judiciary Act of 1891; but the case is appealable
to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
When the question of the jurisdiction of the District or Circuit Court as a
court of the United States is in issue, and is certified to this court under
* 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891, no other question canbe considered and
* the jurisdiction of this court is exclusive; as to the other classes of cases
enumerated in 1 5 the act of 1891 does not contemplate separate appeals
or writs of error on the .merits in the same case and at the same time to
two appellate courts.

Tins was an informtion filed on behalf of the United States,
June 8, 1905, in the District Court for the Northern District
of Ohio, for the forfeiture of certain jewels which, it was set
forth, had been fraudulently imported into the United States
without the payment of duty, and that, upon May' 19, 1905,
the jewels so smuggled had been seized by Charles F. Leach,
collector of the District of Ohio,'within the said district.
*

July 5, 1905, Adrian H. Larkin, being interested as a claim-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S..

ant, came in and, entering his appearance special.ly, filed his
plea therein to the jurisdiction of the court below to adjudicate
the forfeiture of said jewels. To thisplea a demurrer was filed,
which, upon argument, was overruled. A reply to the plea
was then filed, and to this reply Larkin demurred, and the de-.
murrer was Sustained. The Government, declining to amend
its reply or plead further, the court, May 22, 1906, sustained
the plea and dismissed the information;
The district judge expressed the opinion that "considering
the circumstances. under which the collector of customs obtained possession of the article§ of jewelry which are the subject of this action, as. shown by the statement of facts, ahd
especially by the receipt which the collector gave for them,
it is quite apparent that no seizure of them could be made in
this district."
The' United States prayed an appeal to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which was allowed, and the. appeal was duly prosecuted. April 5, 1907,
a judgment was entered by 'that court affirming the decision
of the United States District Court, and an opinion was filed,
,which is reported in 153 Fed. Rep. 113... The mandate from
the Circuit Court of Appeals and the opinion of that court were
filed below May 7, 1907.
On the same day Larkin applied to the District Court for
an 'order for the delivery of the property to him. Before this
was acted on the United States, May 21, 1907, petitioned that
court for a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United
States, which was allowed notwithstanding the proceedings and
judgment in 'the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the court certiffed "that the judgment and decree herein was based solely
on the ground that the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio, on the facts as they appear by
the record, had no jurisdiction in the premises."
It appeared. from the pleadings that the -articles against
which this proceeding in forfeiture was begun were illegally
imported through the port- of New York, and were subse-'

UNITED STATES a. LARKIN.
208 U.S.

335

Statement of the-Can.

quently found in the State of New York and in the possession
of Larkin as bailee. They had been pledged to one Friend, and
he, learning that a claim had been made that the articles had
been illegally and surreptitiously imported through the port of
New York, visited the Secretary. of the Treasury and disclosed
his possession of the same and his rights, and agreed with the
Secretary that the same should be kept in the city of New York,
open to the inspection and examination of any official of the
department. Friend, not being himself a resident of New York,
placed them in the custody of Larkin as bailee and attorney,
with authority to conduct any transactions with the'Treasury
Department growing out of the claim that they had been
fraudulently imported.
At the request of the department, Mr. Leach, collector of
customs at Cleveland,. went to New York for the purpose of
examining the articles and determining by inspection whether
they had been illegally imported and whether they were subject to seizure and forfeiture. He applied to Larkin to be allowed an inspection and this was permitted.
The plea then stated that Leach informed said Larkin that
certain of said jewelry had not been wrongfully. imported and
that he did not care to make further examination thereof, but
that certain of said pieces he w s in doubt about and would
like to exhibit them to. a person located in New York City, who
was expert in such matters, for his opinion, and asked per-'
mission to take the jewelry away from Larkin's office for that
purpose, he agreeing to return the samd to Larkin at his office,
in New York City, on the afternoon of that day. Thereupon
Larkin, relying upon the promise and agreement of Leach,
delivered the property into his possession and custody, receiving from Leach a receipt therefor in writing, which read:
"New York, March.14, 1905. Reeeived of A. H. Larkin, attorney for J. W. Friend, the following pieces of jewelry, for examination and identification.:" (Then .followed list. of jewelry.)
The receipt was signed "Chas. F. Leach, Collector of Customs."
The plea then averred that Leach, in violation of his agree-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

ment, carried-the articles to Cleveland. That from there he
returned certain articles to Larkin as not subject to seizure,
and assumed to seize the remainder at Cleveland, and then
caused this proceeding in forfeiture to be instituted in the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. After demurrer
to the plea had been overruled the district attorney replied,
but in the view taken of the case it is unnecessary to restate
the contents of that reply. The district judge said: "An examination of the reply discloses practically the same question
as that which was-heretofore presented on the demurrer to the
plea." The Circuit Court of Appeals held the reply to be
evasive and not to deny the substantial averments of the plea,
and said: "We quite agree with the court below that under
the circumstances of this case, these jewels were not subject
to seizure in Cleveland, but should have been seized in the
District of New York. The articles were found in the latter
district, and should have been seized there."
Mr. Assistant Attorney, General Sanord, with whom The
Solicitor General was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Upon the record in this case it is not essential to a review of
the jurisdictional question by this court that the court below
should have certified the question of jurisdiction at the term
at which the judgment was rendered.
Where the judgment and record below, upon its face, makes
it clearly apparent that the only question tried and decided
below. and brought to this court for review, is one of jurisdiction, no certificate is necessary, and in such case the writ of
error or appeal may be prosecuted at any time within two years
from the date-of final judgment. Excelsior Company v. Bridge
Company, 185 U. S. 285; Petri v. Lumber Company, 199 U. S.
487. Colvin v. Jacksonville, 158 U. S. 456, distinguished.
The jurisdiction of the court below was in- issue within the
meaning of § 5 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891.
The District Court sustained the demurrer to the reply to
the plea to the jurisdiction and dismissed the suit on the spe-

UNITED STATES v. LARKIN.
208 U. S.

Couci

-.337

for Parties.'

cific ground that no lawful seizure had been made 'in the
northern district of Ohio. In an action in rem brought 't en-

force the forfeiture of merchandise seized upon the land, it is
essential that it shall'have been seized within the district in
which the proceedings are brought, irrespective of the place.in
which the cause of forfeiture arose, and that unless seized.
wit~in the district-the court has no jurisdiction of the action.
Keene v. United States,' ' Cranch, 303; The Brig Ann, 9 Cranch,
288; The Abby, 1 Mason, .360; 5. C., Fed. Cas. 14; The-.Little
Ann, 1 Paine, 40; S. C., Fed. Cas. 8,397; The Octavia, 1 Gall..
488; S. C., Fed. Cas. 10,422; The Washington, 4 Blatch!. 101;
S. C., Fed. Cas. 17.221.
This rule is analogous . to ther well settled rule that in aetiohs in personam, the question whether the court acquired
Jjurisdiction of the .defendant by proper service of process is
one involving the jurisdiction of the court within the meaning of section 5 of the Judiciary Act .of 1891. -Shepard v.
Adams, 168 U. S. 618; Remington v. Railroad Company, 198,
U. -S. 95; Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co., 198

U. S. 424.
The present writ of error is not affected by the former appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Where the jurisdiction of the court below was the sole question in issue, and this issue was decided in favor of the defen,
ant, thus disposing of the entire case, the -plaintiff's appeal or
writ of error must be taken under §5 of the act of March .3,
1891, directly to this court, and if taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals the prdceedings in that court are a. nullity. United
States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109; Excelsior Company v. Bridge

'Company, 109 Fed. Rep. 497; S. C., 185 U. S. 282; Petri v.
Lumber Company, 127 Fed. Rep. 1021; S. C., 199 U. S..487;.
• Union and Planters'.Bank. v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71; In re

Aspinwall, 90 Fed. Rep. 675.
Mr. H. H. McKeehan for defendant in error.
Dustin was on the brief.
VUL ocyi-i -22

Mr. A. C..

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement,'delivered the opinion of the court.

The question is presented at the threshold of the case as to
whether or not the proceedings in the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit and the judgment therein rendered were
absolutely void for want of jurisdiction. If they were not,
this writ of error cannot be maintained, as judgments of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals cannot be reviewed in this way.
Plaintiffs in error grounded their application as coming
within the first of the classes of cases enumerated in § 5 of the
Judiciary Act of 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 827, in which appeals or writs of error may be taken dlrectly to this court, and
which reads: "in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court
is in issue;'in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall
be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for
decision."
The word "jurisdiction," as used in that paragraph, is, as
Judge Taft said, in United States v. Swan, 65 Fed. Rep. 647,
649, applicable to "initial questions of the jurisdiction of a
UnitedStates District or Circuit Court, whether in law or equity,
over the subject matter and parties, and not to questions
whether a court of equity or of law is the proper forum for the
working out of rights properly within the particular Federal
jurisdiction for adjudication;" and it. has long been settled
that it is the jurisdiction. of the United States courts as such
which is referred to. Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S.
225; Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501;. Mexican Central Railroad Company v. Eckman, 187 U. S.429, 432.
Ordinarily a formal certificate is essential, and it must be
made at the same term as that at which the judgment is
rendered. Maynard v. Hecht, 151 U. S.324; Colvin v. Jacksonvylle, 158 U. S.456. But where the record shows that the only
matter tried and .decided in the Circuit Court was- one of jurisdiction, and the petition upon which the writ of error was
allowed asked only for a review of the judgment that the court

UNITED STATES V'.LARKIN.
208 U..

339

Opinion of the Court.

had no jurisdiction of the action, the question of jurisdiction
alone is sufficiently certified. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S.
168; Interior Construction & Improvement Company v. U*ney,
160 U. S: 217; Smithers v. Smith, 204 U. S. 632; Petri V. Crel:
man Lumber Company 199 U. S. 487; Wetmore v. Rymer, 169
U. S. 115. The formal certificate "in this case was not made
at the term at which judgment was rendered, and came too
late; but the judgment itself was rendered upon the holding
that there was no lawful seizure in the. Cleveland district,.,and
there must be such a seizure in order to sustain the jurisdiction
of that particular District Court. Rev. Stat. § 734. Doubtless
this was no case for a certificate, and the judgment itself pro_.
ceeded on the ruling as to the existence of seizure at Cleveland'
District Courts are the proper courts of the United States to
adjudicate forfeiture, and the question involved was not the
jurisdiction of the United States courts as such, but. whether
this District Court had jurisdiction or. the District Court for
the Southern District of New York.
It was not, and could not be, contended that some District
Court of the United States was not the proper court to adjudicate on the question of forfeiture, but to make a case within
the jurisdiction of a particular District.Court there must be a
lawful seizure within that district. The District Court held
here that there was no seizure in the Cleveland district and dismissed the information for thiat reason. That question was
vubmittcd on error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit, and the judgment .of the District Court was
affirmed. The question, therefore; .of the right of the collector
to seize these particular goods in Cleveland has been finally
determined, and no reason is perceived for holding that the
Circuit Court of Appeals did not have jurisdiction to render its
judgment. Whether that judgment was correct or not is therefore not open to consideration on this writ.
Where the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit or District Court of the Unit~d 'States as a court of the United States
is in issue, and is certified to this court under § 5 of the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

1891, whereby no other question can be considered, our jurisdiction is. exclusive, American Sugar Refining Company v.
New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, but this is not necessarily so as to
the other classes bf cases enumerated in that section. And as
to these classes it has been repeatedly held that the act of 1891
did not contemplate several separate appeals or writs of error
on the merits in the same case and at the same time to two
appellate courts. McLish v. Roft, 141 U. S. 661; Robinson v.
Caldwcll, 165 U. S. 359; Columbus Construction Company v.
Crane Company, 174 U. S. 600; Cincinnati,Hamilton & Dayton
Railroad Company v. Thiebaud, 177 U. S. 615; Loeb v. Columbia Toumship Trustees, 179 U. S. 472.
Inasmuch as in our opinion the controversy here did not
involve the jurisdiction of the District Court as a Federal court,
the case was appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
the writ of error from this court directly cannot be maintained.

Writ of error dismissed.

DICK v. UNITED STATES.
RROR TI

THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF IDAHO.

No. 62. Submitted December 3, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

X*hile a State, upon its admission to the Union, is on an equal footing with
every other-State and, except as restrained by the Constitution, has full
and complete jurisdiction over all persons and things within its limits,
Congress has power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, and such
power is superior and paramount to the authority .of the State' within
whose limits are Indian tribes.
Where fundamental principles of the Constitution are of equal dignity,
neither must be-so enforced as to nullify or sidbstantially impair the other.
While the prohibition of ' 2139, Rev. Stat., as amended in 1892, against
introducing intoxicating liquors into Indian country does not embrace.
any body of territory in which the Indian title has been unconditionally
extinguished, that statute must be interpreted' in connection with whatever special agreement may have been made between the United States

