WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILRQAD.
208 U. S.

59

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

no controlling authority which leads us to such a conclusion.
We think that the Ham suit was not a representativ3 suit in
the sense that the judgment in it bound the defendants in error

who were not parties to it. But for the reasons already given
the judgment must be

Reversed.'

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent from
that part of the judgment which decides that the jurisdiction

of the Federal court was exclusive after the delivery, of the
property to the purchaser under the foreclosure decree, and
the discharge of the receiver.

WINSLOW

v.

BALTIMORE AND
COMPANY.

IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OHIO

RAILROAD

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 59.

Argued December 9, 10, 1907.-Decided Jan'uary 6, 1908.

The

objection, taken by a property owner in a condemnation proceeding
for a part of his property, that, under the statute, his entire property
must be condemned, is waived and cannot be maintained on appeal, if
he accepts the award made by the commissioners in the conderpnation
proceeding ard paid in by the condemnors for the parcel actually condenned. After an award has been made and accepted the proceeding

is InctuS off&ico.
28 App. D. C. 126, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Williamn G. Johnson for plaintiffs in error'
The acceptance of the fund allowed for the land actually
taken is not inconsistent with the claims of the obligation of
the company also to acquire and pay for the residue.
The proceedings are informal and no form of pleadings.are
provided. See '§§ 648, 663, Rev. Stats., relating to District of
For opinion of the court on motion for rehearing and modification of the
decree, see post, p. 609.

OGTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Columbia. The objection was distinctly made in the answer
to the claimed right of the company to acquire a part only of
the land, and its obligation to acquire all was also insisted upon.
The award was in distinct parts; a specific sum, $35,392.50, for
the land taken, and $10,000 for damages to the residue, and
the plaintiffs in error only accepted the former sum, the $10,000
remaining in the registry of the. court, and the order of the
court directing payment recognized this segregation of the fund
and treated the part of the fund directed to be paid as "the
amount of the appraised value of the land."
Mr. George E. Hamilton and Mr. John W. Yerkes, with whom
Mr. Michael J. Colbert and Mr. John J. Hamilton were on the

brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia. The case under review is a proceeding for the
condemnation of land needed for the approach to the Union
Station in Washington. The plaintiffs in error were the owners
of a lot of unimproved land containing ninety acres. It was of
irregular shape and one of its shorter boundary lines was a
public highway called Brentwood road. The construction of
a union station and the approaches to it of all the steam railroads entering Washington was provided for by two acts of
Congress approved February 12, 1901, 31 Stat. 774, and an act
approved February 28, 1903, 32 Stat. 912.
Section 3 of the first of the two acts of 1901, 31 Stat. 775,
directed that certain streets should be "completely vacated and
abandoned by the public and closed to public use." Among
them was Brentwood road between S street and Florida avenue.
The part of Brentwood road which bounded the plaintiffs in
error's land was included in the part thus directed to be closed.
Section 5 of the act of 1903, 32 Stat. 912, "vacated, abandoned
and closed" certain other streets, including a further portion of
Brentwood road, and enacted that "no streets or avenues shall

-

WINSLOW v. BALTIMORE-& OHIO RAILROAD.
208 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

be closed or abandoned under the provisions of this act or of
the acts relating to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
and the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, approved
February twelfth, nineteen hundred and one, until all of the
property abutting on the streets or avenues, or portions thereof,
provided to be closed in said acts, shall have been acquired by
said railroad company or companies or the terminal company
referred to herein, either by condemnation or purchase."
In 1904 the defendant in error filed an "Instrument of Appropriation," in which it sought to condemn about six-tenths
of an acre of the land of the plaintiffs in error, to carry out the
purposes of the act of 1903. This land was a small part of the
land of the plaintiffs in error which abutted on Brentwood
road, and part of. it was desired, according to the allegation
of the instrument of Appropriation, "to be used for relocating
and changing" a part of Brentwood road which had been closed
by the act of Congress. The plaintiffs in error filed an answer,
alleging in substance that the railroad company was without
power to condemn part of their land abutting on Brentwood
road, but must, -in obedience to the act of Congress) condemn
the whole, and that the company had no authority to lay
out streets or reopen or relocate a street which Congress had
directed to be closed, and therefore could not condemn land
for that purpose. The answer concluded by asking a dismissal
of the proceeding.: The objections raised by the answer were
heard by a justice of the Supreme Court of the District and, on
October 18, 1904, overrruled by him. To this ruling there
was an exception duly taken. There were thus raised upon the
record two questions, in the decision of which, it is earnestly
and forcibly argued by counsel i there was error. The two questions are: first, whether the statute, under the .provisions of
which the condemnation proceedings were had, req. .ed the
taking. of all the land in asingle ownership, which abutted on
a street closed by the act, irrespective of its shape or extent;
and; second, whether the railroad company had any .authority
to change or relocate a street declared by the act of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U: S.

to be closed and abandoned. We do not think it necessary to
decide either of these questions for reasons which will now be
stated.
After the ruling just stated three persons were appointed by
the court to appraise the damages sustained by the plaintiffs
in error by the condemnation proposed. They, having heard
the parties, reported that the value of the six-tenths of an acre
taken was $35,392.50 and the damage to the remaining part
of the lot was $10,000.00. On April 20, 1905, the court confirmed the award. On the same day the railroad company,
having paid the sum awarded into court, the court* on motion
of the plaintiffs in error, directed the payment to them of the
sum fixed as the value ofthe land taken. After having asked
and accepted the payment of this sum of money, the plaintiffs
in error noted an appeal to the Court of Appeals "from so much
of the decree confirming the return and award of the appraisers
as fails to require the petitioner, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to acquire the entire tract of land described
in the answer of the respondents herein and as permits the
said petitioner to limit its acquisition to the portion of the said
land described in the petition or ii:strument of appropriation."
If the company was without right to take a part of thp land
of the plaintiffs in error, unless it took more or all, or if the purpose for which the land was sought to be taken was unlawful,
the proper course would be to dismiss the petition. This is
what the plaintiffs in error originally asked. But by accepting
the sum awarded for the land actually taken, they have lost
the right to insist that the petition was not maintainable.
They cannot ratify the condemnation by receiving the appraised value of the land condemned and then ask to have
the condemnation set aside and annulled; nor do they now
wish or seek to do this. They wish to have'the condemnatioi
stand and to receive its fruits.. What they seek to accomplish
appearf clearly in the notice of appeal. It is to compel the
railroad to acquire the remaining eighty-nine acres, of their
land. What the plaintiffs in error wish is stated in other words

WINSLOW
208U. 8.

i.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

63

Opinion of the Court.

in the closing sentence of their brief, .where it is said that- the
case ought to be remanded to the Supreme Court of the District
with instructions "there to proceed to the condemnation of
the remainder of the land." It is therefore obvious that the
plaintiffs in error abide by the logical consequences of their
request for and acceptance of the sum found to be the value*
of the land taken and waive and abandon the objections to
the maintenance of the petition, which they originally interposed. We think -that the position which they now occupy,
in place of that which they have abandoned, is untenable.
This proceeding has been allowed to reach its end. The condemnation which' the petition sought to have made has been
made. The land described in the petition has been appraised,
the compensation to be paid has been deposited with the court
and received by the owners. We do not regard the 'failure to
- ask and receive the $10,000.00 as important., The title to the
land has vested in the railroad Company. The objections to
the maintenance of the petition have been waived. The counsel for the plaintiffs, in error asks that the case be remanded
to the Supreme Court of the District with instructions to proceed to the condemnation of the remainder of the land. But
he does not disclose how in this proceeding that can be done.
This proceeding is functus officio, Everything which it asked
has been done. The defendant in error is satisfied and will not
amend the petition. The court is without power to compel
its amendment,. and certainly cannot 'of its own motion file
a new petition in the name and behalf of the railroad company.
Even if we were of the opinion that the railroad company had
taken less land than the statute required to be taken, or had
taken land for unlawful uses, it would be useless now to express the opinion and idle to remand this case, which by the
act of the plaintiffs in error has been put in such a position
that our opinion could not be made effective.
These were in substance the views of the court below, and its
Judgment is affirmed.

