BENNETT v. BENNETT.
208 U.

S.

Statement of the Case.

BENNETT v. BENNETr.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY. OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 98.

Argued January 9, 10. 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Under pars. 3983, 3984, 1 105, 106, Code of Civil Procedure of Oklahbma
Tetritory, of 1893, providing for the entry of judgment by default and
giving the court power in opening the default to impose such terms as
may be just, the court may, without abusing its discretion, in an action
for divorce in which the husband defendant is flagrantly in default,'
impose as terms in granting him leave to answer that he pay within a
specified period to the plaintiff a reasonable sum for alimony and counsel
fees which had already been allowed, and in case of his failure so to do
judgment for the relief demanded in the complaint may properly be
entered against him. Hovey v. EUiott, 167 U. S. 409, distinguished.

15 Oklahoma Reports, 287, affirmed.
THE question in this case is whether, in a suit for divorce, the
defendant being in default for not answering within the time
allowed by statute, a court may make it a condition of permission to answer that he comply with the order of the court
directing him to pay temporary alimony and attorney's fees.
It will avoid confusioA to designate the parties as they were
in the trial court, the appellee as plaintiff and the appellant
as defendant.
The plaintiff brought suit for divorce against the defendant
in the District Court of Lincoln County, Oklahoma Territory,
on the twenty-first of May, 1903, alleging as the grounds thereof
extreme cruelty. She alleged- in her complaint that defendant
was the owner of certain personal property and certain real
estate, and that defendant had, for the purpose of defrauding
her, conveyed such real estate to Harry M. Bennett, a son by
.a former marriage. She prayed for a'divorce, just divisiop of
the real and personal property and the custody of a child which
had 'been born to her and defendant. She also prayed for
$1,000 temporary alimony and $1,0)00 attorney's fees.
Summons was issued requiring defendant to answer by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907..
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

tenth day of June, or the petition would be taken as true and
judgment renderetl accordingly.
The return of the sheriff recites that he served it on May 22,
19,03, at 8:55 A. M., by leaving for defendant, "at his usual
place of residence." in the' County, "a true and certified copy"
of the summons "with all the indorsements thereon."
On the day plaintiff filed her petition she applied for an, order restraining defendant from disposing of his property, and
that he pay into court the 'sum of $1,000 temporary alimony,
"to support 'her and carry on her suit," as she was "unable,
or. account of sickness and late confinement, to do work of
any kind or character," and that he pay into court $500 for
the support and maintenance of the child born to her and defendant, and also $500 for attorney's fees. Notice of the application was personally served on defendant. The application
was heard by order of the court at chambers on the twentythird of May. The defendant did not appear. A restraining
*order was granted and defendant ordered to pay into the office
of the clerk of the court within ten days "the sum of one
thousand dollars, for the use and benefit of the plaintiff as
temporary alimony and suit money," and the sum of $100,
attorney's fees.
On the twenty-third of July, 1903, plaintiff filed an amended
petition, in 'which she repeated the charges of cruelty, made
fuller allegations as to the property of defendant and attempts
at its disposition. In this petition Harry M. Bennett, a son of
defendant by a former marriage, was made a party by his next
friend and guardian. Service was made upon the defendants
by publication and they were required to answer on or before
the fourth day of'September, 1903. It also appears from the
record,. under the head of "Journal 'entry," that defendant
"was duly and legally served, personally, with an alias summons" after the filing of the amended petition. By this summons defendant was required to answer by the twelfth day of
March, 1904. The record shows that on the twenty-fourth
of September, 1903, the following proceedings took place:

,:. LENNETT v. BENNETT.
208 U. S.

Statement of the Ca.e.

"Come now the plaintiff and defendant,. A. W. Bennett, by
their respective counsel, and said defendant submits a motion
to set-aside service of summons herein, and the court being
fully advised: It is by the court ordered-be given leave to
amend return on said summons."*
On the same day Harry M. Bennett was given additional
time to answer, and on the thirtieth of September, did. answer
by his guardian ad litem,,appointed by the court, denying each
and every allegation of the petition:
The record contains an order, which recites that plaintiff anddefendant appeared by attorneys on the sixth of April, 1904, being a regular court day, and also recites "this -motion comes up
for hearing, on the motion* f Albert W. Bennett,. who appears
specially by his attorneys, for the purpose of this motion only,
and forno other purpose, to set aside the summons in this case."
The grounds of the motion are given'. The court overruled the
motion and defendant excepted. "Whereupon," the order
recites, "the defendant Albert W. Bennett, by his, attorneys,
,offered to file his answer in this cause, instanter, :which said
offer was refused by*the court for the reason.that the'said de-'
f!endant is in contempt of this court -by reason of his failure and
refusal to comply with the order of the court, heretofore made,
to pay to the plaintiff in'this cause the sum of one thousand
dollars as and for temporary alimony, and one hundred dollars
as attorney's fees in this case, but made the further order that
the said defendantshould be permitted to file said'answer within
.five days on condition that he purge himself of said contempt by
complying with said order'within that time; to which order of the
court the defendant Albert. W. Bennett excepted at the time,"
In the decree of the court the pr6ceedings are stated as follows:
"The court further finds that on the fifth day of April, 1904,
the' defendant A. W. Bennett appeared by his attorneys and
asked leave to file his answer herein out of time, which request
was objected to by the plaintiff, for the reason that the 'said
defendant had failed to comply with an order theretofore made

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

208 U. S.

to pay to the clerk of the court for the use of the plaintiff the
sum of one thousand dollars as and for temporary alimony and
the further sum of one hundred dollars as and for attorney fees
for her attorneys, and the court being advised that the defendant had not complied with said order or offered any excuse for
his failure so to do, his application for leave to answer is refused until he shall comply with said former order or show
cause why he has not, and he is given five days to make said
showing and in which to file his said answer.".
And the decree further recites that on the twenty-ninth day
of April, 1904, the cause came on for trial, and plaintiff appeared and Harry M. Bennett also appeared, "and the defendant A. W. Bennett having failed to comply with the former
order of the court or make excuse for not complying,.and having failed to answer the petition of plaintiff herein, the said
defendant A. W. Bennett is now called three times in open
court, but makes default and fails to plead or otherwise appear
in said cause, and the said A. W. Bennett is by the court adjudged to be in default for an answer and not entitled to answer
or plead until he shall comply with the order heretofore made,
wherein the said A. W. Bennett was ordered by the court to
pay to the plaintiff $1,000.00 temporary alimony and $100.00
attorney fees for her attorneys."
The decree dissolved the marriage between plaintiff and
defendant, awarded her the custody of their child, awarded her
the homestead as her sole property and $6,000 permanent
alimony and $500 attorney's fees. The decree vacated the
order made for temporary alimony and the payment of $100.
attorney's fees. The decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the Territory. This appeal is from that part of the decree
. awarding alimony and attorney's fees.
Mr. James R. Keaton, with whom Mr. John W. Shartel and
Mr.,Frank Wells were on the brief, for plaintiff in error and
appellant:
Under the laws of Oklahoma Territory, before any person

BENNETT v. BENNETT.
208 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error and Appellee.

can be legally adjudged guilty of contempt of court, by reason
of his having refused to obey an order of the court or judge,
he must be complained against in writing, cited to appear before the court and show cause why he should not be punished
for such contempt, and given an opportunity to be heard.
Okla. Rev. Stat., §§ 2125, 2126, 2127; General, § 4037. See
also Johnson v. SuperiorCourt, 63 California, 578.
Under § 4037 the court's power to enforce compliance with
an order awarding temporary alimony is limited to the attachment of defendant, followed by fine and imprisonment if he is
found guilty of willfully disobeying such order. Hutchison v.
Canon, 6 Oklahorna, 725, 728.
See, also, as to statutory limitation of such power, Johnson v.
Superior Court, supra; Hovey v. Elliott (N. Y.), 39 N. E. Rep.
841.
In this case no application for an attachment was ever made
and, in fact, no order was ever passed directly adjudging defendant in contempt. McClatchy v. Superior Court, 51 Pac.
Rep. 696, 698; Galland v. Gdlland, 44 California, 475; Palmer
v. Palmer, 18 So. Rep. 720.
Even if defendant had been legally adjudged
guilty of contempt -for his willful failure to comply with said order to pay
temporary alimony and counsel fees, still the trial court committed prejudicial error in denying him the right to file his
answer and make his defense to said action. Hovey v. Elliott.
.167 U. S. 409.
The power of a court to deny a favor to a person in contempt
does fiot include the power to refuse to a person in contempt
the right to defend in the principal cause on its merits. Hoveyv. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409.
Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom Mr. John Embry and
Mr. W.. W. Dudley were on the brief, for defendant in error and
appellee:
The order of the trial court refusing to permit the'defendant
to file an answer, unless within five days he should comply with

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
OpWio of the Court.

208 U. a.

the previous order of the court for the payment of temporary
alimony and attorney's fees, cannot be reviewed here.
it was clearly within the exercise of the discretion of the trial
court to: make the order referred to, and the subject or the
ruling is one-which cannot be reviewed by this court, unless it
should be obvious that the trial court violated the Oklahoma
statutes, or a fundamental rule .of a court of equity, or was
guilty of a clear abuse of discretion.
It is clear that the trial judge, by the order which is here
attacked, kept himself clearly within the provisions of the
statute. Defendant had neither answered at the time or times
named, nor had he complied with the order of the court.. He
was in default nearly a year.
There was no abuse of the discretion of the court, nor the
obvious violation of a fundamental rule of a court of equity, in
the making of this order.
Matters resting entirely in discretion are not re-examinable
in a court of errors. Pomeroy's Lessee v. State Bank, 1 Wall.
592, 598; Packet Co. v. Sickles, 19 Wall. 611, 615; Van Stone v.
StillweU &c. Mfg. Co.,. 142 U. S. 128, 134; Earnshaw v. United
States, 146 U. S. 60, 68; Mezican Cent. Ry. v. Pinkney, 149
U. S. 194, 200, 201.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

The assignment of errors attacks the decree of the Supreme
Court because (1) the court decided or assumed that the defendant was in contempt for not complying with the order for
temporary alimony. (2) In so holding or deciding, though defendant had not been cited to show cause why he should not
be adjudged in contempt for not complying with the order.
(3) (4) In affirming the action of the trial court refusing permission to defendant to answer to, or make defense against, the
amended petition except on condition that he should comply
in five days with the order for temporary alimony. (5) In

BENNETT t. BENNETT.
208 U. a

Opinion of the Court.

affirming the decree of the court.awarding plaintiff $6,500 permanent alimony and attorney's fees and certain real property,*
constituting the homestead of the parties.
The assignments of error are based upon a misunderstanding
of the action of the trial court and the opinion .ofthe, Supreme
Court. They proceed upon the supposition that he was not in
culpable default to the law and the orders of*the couit-L-a de-.
fault afte amplest opportunity to be heard and to contest
every charge and claim agaim'st' him.
The summons issued upon the original petition was served
upon him by leaving a copy,If it at his usual place of residence,.
as undr the law it could be served. Par. 3938, §64, Okla. Stat.
1893., It contained the notification that unless he answered-by
the six teenth of June, 1903, thie petition would be taken as true,
and judgment would be rendered "accordingly. He paid no
attention to it. Yet there is more .than the tegal presumption,
that he receivedit,, for ,on'the day,preceding there had been
served
him. a notice of, the application for the temporary
.limoryon'and,
attorney's fees , the order to pay vhich
makes
the pivot-of this "controversy.' 'He does not seem to have been
sensitive t6the charges against him, and,-it may be, he'thought
his property was secure from ,the demands of the. plaintiff by
the conveyance to his son on 'the. day before. The order upon
the ,pplication was made May 23, i9Q3. He did'.npt obey it.
On' the twenty-first of •July, 1903, the amended petition -was
filed. It was served'by publication, he havinig changed his\
resigeiice to Neada. He was notified to atiswer on or .before
September' 4,1903. .Hedid'not answer, but on that'day he
appeared 1)y counsel 'and submitted a motion to set aside 'service of summons, -upon, which motion the record shows the
court made the. following order: "'itis by the ,court ordered-:
be gven leave to amend return on said summons.", 'He",was
subsequently personally served 'with an alias summons.
-It required an -answer to the petition; on' or: by the twelfth
of March, 1904.- An answer was not filed. On the 'sixth of
April' following a special' appearance was entered aid a motion

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Oourt.

208 U. S.

made to set aside the summons and the alias summons on various grounds, which motion was denied after hearing. The defendant then offered to file an answer "instanter," and the offer
was refused on the ground that he was in contempt of court for
not complying with the order for temporary alimony. It was,
however, ordered that he should be permitted to file an answer
"within five days on condition that he purge himself of said
contempt by complying with said order within that time."
From the decree of the court it appears that its order was not
so-absolute but that he was given an opportunity to show why
he had not complied with the order for alimony. Had the
court the 'power to impose the conditions? Could the court
have imposed any conditions or terms at all, and what was
the limit of'its power? If"the court had a discretion it cannot
be reviewed unless it was unreasonably exercised. And the
court certainly had a discretion. We have seen that par. 3933,
§59 of' the statutes of the Territory prescribes -the result to a
defendant for default in not appearing to be that the petition
against him will be taken as true and judgment shall be rendered
accordingly. If there is any modification of this in a suit for
divorce it gives no rights to a defaulting defendant. Par. 3983,
§ 105. of the Code of Civil Procedure of, the Territory of 1893
provides that a defendant must demur or answer within twenty
days after the day on which the summons is returnable, and.
par. 3984, §106 is as follows:
"The court, or any judge thereof in vacation, may, in his
discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow an
answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the
time limited by this act, or by an order enlarge such time.",
The question, then, can only be whether the court abused
the discretion given to it by that section. Were the terms which..
the court imposed just?
The record demonstrates that the order. for alimony was
reasonable in itself and reasonable in relation to the means
and obligations of defendant to plaintiff.. According to plaintiff's petition, and presumably according to proof submitted

BENNETT
208 U. S.

i.

BENNETT.

513

Opinion of the Court..

to the court upon the application for alimony of which defendant had notice; plaintiff was compelled by his cruelty to leave
him with her child, then Only a month old. She had no means,
to support herself and child. She was sick and unable to seek
work. .She was without means to carry on her suit for divorce.
This was her situation as presented to the court, and defendant
did not appear to deny it. He did not appear to deny that he.
owned real estate in the county where he lived of the value of
$20,'000, -and in. other places of the. value of $14,000; that he
had bank deposits of $10,000, and other personal property of
the value of $15,000. He did not appear to deny that his
cruelty-a cruelty of a peculiar kind-had driven her with her
infant from his house. To this. he was not sensitive. -He was,
however, not without anxiety for some of the consequences of
the charge, and imediately set about to dispose of his property. After this he seemed to feel secure, either in misunder-.
standing of his rights or in some perverted notion that he could
evade or defy the law. At any rate, he did not appear and he
did not obey the order of the court. Whether it could have
been directly and expeditiously enforced against him may be
doubted. He had put his property in the name of others. An
execution, therefore, would* have encountered that obstacle,
and personal coercion might not have been possible, for certainly as early, as July, 1903, he had changed his residence to
Virginia City, Nevada. Besides, under. the circumstances,
plaintiff cannot urge that -compliance with the order of the
court could have been enforced in Some other way than that
adopted. It may be that the poverty Which made the order of
the. court a necessity to her prevented her from enforcing the
order, and the defendant may have ,deliberately planned 'to
that, end.- And'.t may have appeared to the court at the hearing of April 5, 1904, that he had done so, .It may have appeared fo the court that his contumacy was without just cause
or reason, and it would 'be continued to defeat the order of
the court, though he should' receive from its discretion a remission of the consequences of his default. Take the order' of
VOL. covxu-33

5141

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

the court in its most absolute sense and, -we say again, it was
.reasonable. •Take it as described in the final decree and it
was
indulgent. It added another opportunity to be heard in addition to those defendant had been given.
The plaintiff in error, without any discussion of the section
of the Oklahoma statutes, which we have quoted, attempts
to avoid their effect by the contention that he had never been
adjudged guilty of contempt, and,, even if he had been, the
poWer of the court to punish him was limited by a statute of
the Territory to imposition of a fine or a sentence of imprisonment. •He hence seeks to invoke the doctrine of Hovey v. Elliott,
167 U. S. 409. ,The contention is based, as we have said, upon
the argument that tle assignments of error are upon a misconception of the action of the court. The principle of Hovey v.
Elliott, therefore, is not applicable. Indeed, ,the point was rescved in that case, whether one in contempt could be refused
Aright under a statute invoked by him as actor. But we need
not stop to consider whether the reasoning, which we may
say now we entirely approve, or the cases cited, carry the"
princi:A. of the case to the point mserved, for we are of opinion
that the pending case is not withinthe principle. The question
here, we repeat, is the simple one whether, under the statute
giving the power to a court to allow a defaulting defenadant
to. answer-"upon sudh terms as may be just,"' the order in controversy was within. the power. And being of opinion that an

affirmative answer is justified, the decree -of the Supreme
Court of ihe.Territory is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE, BREWER. dissents.

