OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statemnent of the Case.

208 U. S.

ARMSTRONG, -AS LIQUIDATOR OF BOYSEN & COMPANY, v. FERNANDEZ.
APPEAL FROM .THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 114.

Submitted January 17. 1908.-Decided February 24. 1908.

The power of the bankriptcy court over amendments is undoubted and rests
in the discretion of the court. In this case that discretion was not abused
in allowing amendments adding the name of the place to the jurat of the
justice of'the peace taking the verification, and an averment that the
person proceeded against in bankruptcy did not come within the excepted
classes of persons who may not be declared bankrupts.
Where the record of a proceeding to have a person declared a bankrupt
shows that. detailed findings of the commission of acts of 'bankruptcy
could have been supported by the evidence, the presumption is that
such findings would Have been made had appellant so requested; and, in
the absence of such a request, the general finding that the party could be
declared, and was adjudged, a bankrupt is sufficiently broad to cover any.
question involved upon the evidence as to'the bankrupt's occupation and
the commibion of acts of bankruptcy.
APPELLEES, residing in Juana Diaz, Porto Rico, filed on the
twenty-ninth day of March, A. D. 1906, their petition in duplicate, praying that Pascasio Alvarado, also of Juana Diaz, be
adjudged a bankrupt. They averred that Alvarado had, for
the greater portion of six months next preceding the filing of
the petition, his principal place of business at Juana Diaz, and
owed debts to the amount of a thousand dollars, and that
petitioners were his creditors and had provable claims amount-

ing in the aggregate; in excess of securities held by them, to
the sum of five hundred dollars, the nature and amount of
each of said claims being specified.
The petition further stated "that said Pascasio Alvarado is.,
insolvent, and that within four months next preceding the
date of this petition the said Pascasio Alvaradb committed an
act of bankruptcy, in that he did heretofore, to wit, on the

ARMSTRONG '. FERNANDEZ.
208 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

twenty-eighth day of February,. A. D. 1906, permit and suffer
several of his creditors, to.wit, Alberto Armstrong et al. to
secure and obtain an advantage through legal proceedings over
his creditors, in that he suffered and permitted the said
to attach all of his properties and interest, real and personal,
by virtue of a writ of fieri facias issued out of the United States
District Court for Porto Rico on January 20, A. D. 1906, on a
judgment rendered in the above said courtat the January
Term, A. D. 1906' in favor of the said Alberto Armstrong et al.
and against the said Pascasio Alvarado. And your petitioners
further represent that within four months next preceding the
date of this petition, the said Pasc-asio Alvarado did commit
another act of bankruptcy in that he did, heretofore, to wit, on
the fourteenth day of March, 1906, in a letter addressed to
* Eduardo Fernandez, one of the petitioners, .admit his inability
to pay his debts and his willingness to be adjudged a. bankrupt on that ground."
Alvarado was served with process March 30, returnable
April 13, and on April 24 an order was made by the clerk of
the court reciting the absence of the judge from the division
of the district, and referring the petition to a'referee in bankruptcy in the city of Ponce and District of Porto Rico.
On the twenty-ighth of April counsel for Armstrong, as
liquidator of the firm 'of Boysen & Company, creditors of
Alvarado, moved the referee to dismiss the petition because
of the defectiveness of verification. The alleged defect was
because the justice of the peace who took the jurat had omitted
to attach to his signature of "justice of the peace" -the words
"of Juana Diaz, Porto Rico."
*On the eighth of. May the referee overruled a motion to
amend and dismissed the petition with costs. Afterwards he
filed in the clerk's office an order, dated July 6, stating that a
motion for rehearing had been granted, and setting aside the
order of dismissal; at the'same time directing that the amendment might be made.
Thereafter, July 16; 1906, motion was made by counsel for
-

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

Armstrong and others in the District Court, before the judge
thereof, to set aside the order of the referee dated July 6,
whereupon the court set aside the clerk's order of reference
and ordered the case back for further proceedings. And then
the court denied the motion of counsel for Armstrong et al.,
and gave the petitioning creditors until the eighteenth to
amend their petition in the matter of the verification. On
the seventeenth of July the amendment was made by inserting after the words "justice of the-peace," at the close of the
verification, the words "of Juana Diaz,,Puerto Rico;" and
the justice of the peace so certifying.
July 18; Armstrong's attorneys again moved to dismiss. on
the ground that the petition did not make the averment that
the alleged bankrupt did not come within the excepted classes
of persons who might not be, declared bankrupt. This motion
was denied by the court, and the petitioning creditors weme
allowed to amend in the particular named.
The amendment -was made ,so as to aver that Pascasio.
Alvarado "is not a wage earner nor a person engaged chiefly
in farming or the tillage of the soil, and who is chiefly engaged
in commercial business."
July 19, Armstrong.and others by answer denied "the allegations of the involuntary petition that the alleged bankrupt
does- not come within the excepted classes of the bankruptcy
'act and'that he has committed the acts of bankruptcy therein
alleged."
On the same day the court heard the testimony of the petitioning creditors, Fernandez et al., "upon the issue raised by
said answer." -At its conclusion counsel for.opposing creditors
moved that the petition be dismissed, which motion was aenied.
Then the court heard "the testimony offered by the opposing'
creditors, and at the conclusion of all the testimony overrules
said answer and denial,: and directs that a proper order of
adjudication and refer nce, be prepared, to which counsel for
Armstrong et al. except."
The order of adjudication was thereupon entered.

ARMSTRONG v. FERNANDEZ.
208 U. S.

Statment of the Cae.

An appeal to this court was prayed and allowed, and errors
assigned to the effect that the referee in bankruptcy erred in
granting a rehearing by his order of July 6; that error was
committed in refusing to annul that order of the referee; that
the court also erred in overruling the motion of July 18, to
dismiss the petition; and that the court erred in adjudicating
Alvarado a bankrupt.
The district judge filed findings of fact and conclusions of
law under General Order XXXVI as follows:
"On July 16, 1906 when the present incumbent of this
bench held his first term of court at Ponce in this district, the
above-entitled matter came on for hearing, and it developed.
that the petition for involuntary bankruptcy had theretofore
been duly filed and sent out to the referee, who, it appears,
had first dismissed the petition forinformality as to the verification thereof, but thereafter rescinded his order in that regard
and permitted the petition to stand. On this state of affairs,
Armstrong & Company, in open court, moved that the petition
be dismissed -for improper verification, in accordance with the
first action of the referee. Other creditors resisted this. motion.
The court thereupon entered an order recalling the matter
from the hands of the referee, and in open court permitted
the verification nunc pro tune to be corrected and the petition
to be considered as filed, as thus amended. Then the. question
as to -whether or not the defendant was a person 'engaged
chiefly.in agriculture or the tillage of the soil' was raised by
Armstrong & Co., and on the decision of which would depend
the right of the court to declare him a bankrupt at all. On
this question the court gave the parties opportunity to procure evidence' and set the case down for a succeeding day
for that purpose, and did, at the time fixed, hear evidence
pro and con ou the subject. From the evidence thus adduced
the, following facts appear:
"That Pascasio Alvarado is now a feeble old man living
at'Juana Diaz near .said Prince with his sons, one of whom
conducts his business, which' it appears is being wound up;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

208 U. 8.

that for more than twenty-five years last past he has been
engaged. in conducting a large mercantile business at said.
-place, and that he kept a stock of goods ranging from twentyfive thousand dollars upwards; continuously, and was well
known to the wholesale merchants of Europe, and perhaps of
the United States; that during the last two years he has been,
or at least his sons for him have been, engaged in selling out
the remainder of his stock of goods and in endeavoring to collect the debts belonging to the estate, in cash and' in coffee
and other products; that at the time the business was put into
liquidation and his son took charge of it, and since, the estate'
wa, in possessioh, or quasi possession, of several pieces of land
under .mortgage, which it collected payments from in the way
of portions of the coffee and other crops raised, and perhaps
the estate was the absolute owner of some small portion of
land itself, on,which some coffee is raised. Most of the evidence thus taken is transmitted herewith, duly certified. The
court, of course, had the benefit of the full record of the case
and of the arguments of counsel and statements made in open
court at the time.
"The court held on this evidence, that the defendant was
not a 'wage earner or a person chiefly engaged in the tillage
of the-•soil,' but that he Was, and is, a merchant, and that all
the debts he -owes, were created as a merchant, ;and that he
could, therefore, be declared a bankrupt, and so held. From
this action of the court, Armstrong & Co., who have some attachment or other liens on some of 'his estate, not four months
'old at the time of the filing of the petition, have appealed."
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingilland Mr. HarryP' Leake for appellant:
Neither "the referee nor the colurt had' any jurisdiction to
reinstate the cause after the order of dismissal made by, the.
referee on May 8, 1906, which was as authoritative and final
as though made by.the judge himself.. Neustaer v. Chicago
&c. Co.. 96 Fed. Rep. 830; hInre T. L. Kelly Dry Goods, Co.,
102 Fed. Rep. 747; In re Rosenburg, 116 'Fed. Rep. 402.'-

-ARMSTRONG v. FERNANDEZ.
208 U. C.

Argument for Appellant.

The court below should have granted the motion of appellant, made July 18, 106, to dismiss the amended petition of
appellees.
As evidence was taken on the first ground set out in the
.motion and the court found as a fact that the petition had been
filed in duplicate and ordered its records'amended accordingly,
this court will not review that ground. The second ground of
the motion, however, was well- taken. While at the beginning
*one or two decisions leaned toward the position that the exception of'the statute regarding the occupation of the alleged
bankrupt need not be negatived in the petition, the great
weight of later authorities is with our contention.. In re Mero,
128 Fed. Rep. 630; In re Callison, '130 Fed. Rep. 987; In re
Brett, 130 Fed. Rep. 981;.In re White, 135 Fed. Rep. 199;
Rise v. Bordner, 140 Fed. Rep. 566; In re Taylor, 42 C. C. A. 1..
The court below erred in its determination ot the issue raised
by, the.answer of appellant' to the creditors' petition. Three
issues were made in appellant's answer:.
Whether the bankrupt was within the exceptions of the
statute; that is;i was a wage-earner or a person engaged chiefly
in farming or the. tillage of the soil; whether he had committed
an act of bankruptcy by permitting appellant to obtain an
execution against him; and whether he had committed an act
of bankruptcy by admitting his inability to pay his debts and
his willingness t6 be adjudged a bankrupt.
Upon this issue it dev6lved upon the petitioning creditors
to prove the negative of the first proposition-and the affi'mative of either the second or the third.
The burden of proof is on the petiti6ning creditors to prove
of their petition. In re Pilger, 118 Fed. Rep.
the
206;allegations
In re McLaren,
125 Fed. Rep. 835; In re Doddy, Jourdan
& Co., 127 Fed. Rep..771; Jones v. Burnham et al., 71 C. C. A.
'240.
The allegatiois touching the second proposition were altogether ihsufficient to constitute an act of'bankruptcy, even if
proved, because not only must it be alleged that execution has

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

been issued against the bankrupt's property, 'but that it is
within five days of sale thereunder, and the bankrupt has not
yet vacated or discharged it. Seaboard Co. v. W. R. Trigg Co.,
124 Fed. Rep. 75; In re Vastbinder, 126 Fed. Rep. 417.
There is neither finding nor evidence that the alleged bankrupt had committed either act of bankruptcy alleged or any
act of bankruptcy whatever. In the absence of such proof,
which it was the duty of petitioning creditors to furnish, there
could have been but one proper finding, that Alvarado was not
a bankrupt.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. CnIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a court of bankruptcy, "not within
any organized circuit of the United States," from a judgment
adjudging Pascasio Alvarado, a bankrupt under § 24a and
§ 25a of the bankruptcy act, and General' Order XXXVI, 3.
The errors assigned in reference to the action of the referee
and- of the court in permitting the amendment. of the verification and other.amendments we regard as without merit. The
power of a court of bankruptcy over amendments is undoubted
and rests'in tlie sound discretion of the court. We think there
was no abuse of discretion here and that the court was fully
justified in its orders in -reference to amendments.
Nor do we see any reason to question the conclusion of the
District Court "that the defendant was not a 'wage earner or,
a person chiefly engaged in the tillage of 'tb 30oil,' but that he
was, and is, a merchant, and that all the debts he owes were,
created as a merchant, and. that he could therefore be declared
a bankrupt."
The..appellant Arnstrong now contends, however, that the
petitioning creditors "lost sight of every controversy except
that as to the occupation of the bankrupt, and that the court

ARMSTRONG v. FERNANDEZ.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court

later also made the same error, as there is neither finding nor
evidence that the alleged bankrupt had committed either act
of bankruptcy alleged, or any act of bankruptcy whatever." .
The acts alleged were that Alvarado permitted Armstrong
to obtain an execution against him; and also that Alvarado
admitted in a letter addressed to Fernandez "his inability to
pay his debts and his willingness to be adjudged a bankrupt
on that ground."
And the record shows that the court heard testimony on
behalf of. Fernandez and others, petitioning creditors, as to
the commission of the acts of bankruptcy as well as to the
occupation of the bankrupt. The court then denied Armstrong and others' motion to dismiss, and heard testimony
on their behalf, and at the conclusion of all the testimony
directed the order of adjudication. From that order of adjudication this appeal was prayed, but it nowhere appears
that Armstrong and others objected to the want of proof of
the acts of bankruptcy or asked any findings in respect thereto,
or objected to the findings that were made for deficiencies in
that regard. In other words, Armstrong and others permitted
the findings to be. made as they were, and now say that other
findings should have been made in relation to proof of acts
of bankruptcy, without having objected that they were not
made, or that the findings as made were on that account fatal
to the judgment. The presumption is that if such asuggestion
had been made to the court, the alleged deficiencies, if really
existing, could have been supplied and would have been sup-.
plied. But the record and the certificate of the judge leave
no doubt that the petition as to acts of bankriuptcy was sustained by the facts.
The last. error assigned is that the District Court erred in
finding from the evidence offered on July 19, 1906, "upon the
issue between said petitioning creditors and these opposing
creditors that said Pascasio Alvarado should be adjudged a
bankrupt and in so adjudging him," and that, of course, was
broad enough to cover any question involved upon the evi-

'332

OCTOBER TERM 1907.
Opin of the Court.

208 U. S.

dence; but we think that that was intended to cover the fihding as to Alvarado's being'a merchant and nota wage earner,
etc., and therefore susceptible of beiig .declared a bankrupt.
The findings of fact and ,conclusions of law made -by the
district :judge for' transmission to this court, under the general order in that-regard, set forth, among other things, that,
after. the petitiOn .was.amended, "Then the question as..to
whether or not the defendant was a peison 'engaged chiefly
. in. agriculture or the tillage of the soil' .was raised by Armstrong & Co., . and on the decision. of which would depend, the
right,.of thd court to declare him.- bankrupt at all. On this
.question: the, court gave the parties Opportunity to procure
evidence, and set the case down for a succeeding day for.that
purpose, and did, at the time .fixed, hear evidence. pro and.con on the'subject." And from -that evidence the court stated.
the factp which appeared, ,and his finding aid conclusion that
Alvarado 'was .a merchant,- etc.
It seems clear' that the acts "of' bankruptcy had, been previ-0usly,.ietermined:a committed and that the case was only
contested on the other point, and- hence that this contention
is an- afterthought, which ought not. to 'be entertained, let
alone that from. the findings that' were made' it is obviousenough that Alvarado was in liquidation and might properly,
be adjudged 'a bankrupt.
Decree affirmed.

