PROSSER v. FINN.
208 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the operation of the discharge, it.was barred by that discharge.
The Supreme Court of the State of Florida so held, and its
judgment must be

Affirmed.

PROSSER v. FINN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 64. Submhitted Decermber 4. 1907.-D cided January 13. 1908.

If an entryman's entry is good when made and the Land Department,
by error of law, adjudges the land to belong to another, a court of equity
will convert the latter into a trustee for the former and compel him to
convey the legal title.
Continued occupation of public land by one not entitled to enter after the
disability has been removed is not equivalent to a new entry. The entryman's rights are determined by the validity of the original entry when
made.
An erroneous interpretation of a statute by the Commissioner of the Department to which it applies, does not confer any legal rights on one
acting in conformity with such interpretation, in opposition to the ex.press terms of the statute.
Congress having said without qualification, by § 452, Rev. Stat., that
employds in the General Land Office shall not, while in the service of
that office, purchase, or become interested directly or indirectly in the
purchase of, public lands, this prohibition applies to special agents of
that office and renders an entry made by a special agent under the Timber
Culture Act void, leaving the land open to entry, notwithstanding that
such agent made the same ,in
good faith when there was a ruling of the
Commissioner that 1 452. did riot apply. to Ibpecial agents, and that he
complied with the requirements of the act and continued in occupation.
after he had ceased to be a special agent.'
41 Washington, 604, affirmed.

FINN, the defendant in error, holds a patent from the United
States for certain lands in Yakima County, State of Wash-

ington, for which Prosser, the plaintiff in error, had previously
made an entry under what. is known. as the timber-culture
statutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

Asserting that in virtue of such entry he was entitled, under
the acts of'Congress, to a patent from the United States, Prosser
brought the present suit against Finn in one of the courts of
Washington, the. relief asked being a decree declaring his right
to the lands and requiring the defendant to convey the legal
title to him.
The court, of original jurisdiction sustained a demurrer to
the complaint, and dismissed the suit; and that decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Washington.
The plaintiff in error contends, :as he did in the state courts,
that the decision that he was not entitled under the statutes
of the United States to a patent denied to him a right given
by those statutes. The defendant contends that in view of
his official relations to the General Land Office at the time of
his entry Prosser could not legally acquire an interest in these
lands..
The case made by the complaint is substantially as follows:
On the eighteenth day of October, 1882, Prosser made a
timber-culture entry at the proper local land office for the
lands in question, and thereafter duly planted trees and by
cultivation in good faith improved the lands at great labor
and expense. His entry complied in all respects with the
statutes. 17 Stat. 605, c. 277; 18 Stat 21, c. 55.
More than five years after that entry, on August 30, 1888,
one Grandy filed an affidavit of contest on the ground of noncompliance with the statute. But the contestant failed to
prosecute his claim, and at the hearing that contest. was dismissed.
Subsequently, October 28, 1889, one Walker filed against
Prosser's. entry an affidavit of contest. In that affidavit
various grounds of contest were specified, each of which alleged
non-compliance with the provisions of the statute. in respect
of the planting of trees. The affidavit was afterwards amended
December 1, 1889, so as to embrace the charge that Prosser,
at the time of his entry, was an acting United States Timber
Inspector, and that as such inspector he was prohibited by

PROSSER v. FINN.
208 U. S.

69

Statement of the Case.

law from making said entry; also, that the land was then settled
upon and cultivated as required by law. The relief sought by
the contestant Walker was the cancellation of Prosser's entry
and its forfeiture to the United States.
The local land office sustained Walker's contest and gave a
decision against. Prosser's entry, based upon his incompetency
as inspector to make it. In the opinion of the Register it was
said: "It appears from the testimony adduced at the hearing
that Mr. Prosser was appointed special agent of the General
Land Office, July 26, 1880, and was performing the duties as
such agent at the time of initiating the entry. He was charged
with the duty of caring for and protecting the interests of the
Government in the disposal of its public lands. His duties
afforded an opportunity of gaining information of the public
domain not extetided to the ordinary settler. As a result. of
this superior advantage he selected a very desirable tract
bordering upon the Yakima River at a point where there are
falls well adapted to the production of power for running
machinery, etc., which rendered the land more valuable than
ordinary agricultural tracts. Bad faith cannot in any wise be
imputed to the entryman, for it appears that he has expended
considerable time and money attempting to grow timber on
the land, but with meager results. It is situated in a dry, arid
section of country, where little or no vegetation will grow
without irrigation. The repeated efforts to grow trees evince
good faith in an honest endeavor to faithfully comply with
the law." Referring, however, to a letter addressed by the
Commissioner to the local land officers, under date of July 22,
1882, and which directed that Prosser be allowed to make
payment for the lands entered by him-in which letter the
Commissioner held that a special agent did not come within
the inhibition -contained in § 452, Rev. Stat.-the Register
(the Receiver concurring), said: "We are inclined to the opinion that the Commissioner erred in stating that a special agent
does not come 'within the prohibition of the statute prohibiting
employ(s of, the Land Department from entering lands within

"0

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Co.

208 U. S.

the public domain. Of all the.officers and employ~s connected
with the General Land Office, special agents, from their peculiar
duties, have the best opportunities for gaining information
of lands, and we consider it a wise policy to exclude such
officers from the privilege of entering lands. A great hardship
has been done the contestee in this case, because we have no
doubt he-was led to make this entry upon the authority of the
letter before referred to;*but holding to the doctrine that special
'agents come within. the inhibition of § 452, Rev. Stat., we are
unable to afford him the relief we would desire to give. We
therefore hold that said timber-culture entry was void in its
inception 'and recommend its cancellation."
The section of the Revised Statutes, just referred. to is in
these words: "The officers, clerks, and employ~s in the General
Land Office are prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing or becoming interested in the purchase of any of the public
land;and any person who violates 'this section shall forthwith
be removed from his office."
On appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land Office
that decision was affirmed March 30, i892, upon the ground
that the statute made it illegal for Prosser to make his entry,
he being, at the time', a special agent of the General Land Office.
Upon appeal to the Department of the Interior, its First Assistant Secretary, on July 7, 1893, reversed the decision of the
Commissioner and dismissed the contest of Walker, upon the
authority of Grandy v. Bedell, 2 L. D. 314.
At a later day, April 16, 1894, upon Walker's petition for a
rehearing of the case by the Interior Department, Secretary
Smith reversed the- decision made by the First Assistant
Secretary and affirmed the decision of the Commissioner and
local land office.
The complaint alleged that the decision 'of Secretary Smith
was erroneous in law; that resting -on the construction of the
statute by the Interior Department at the time of his entry
and upon the special advice of the Commissioner of the Land
Office, he made his filing. in good faith, diligently, and at great

PROSSER v. FINN.
208 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

expense and labor planted trees on and cultivated said lands,
and intended in all respects to comply with the statute; that
long prior to the initiation of said contests he ceased to be a
special agent of the General Land Office or to have any connection whatever with the .Land Department, all of which
was well known to contestant; that, in pursuance of the erroneous decisions of the Interior Department, Walker was permitted to enter the lands, he having at the time full knowledge
of plaintiff's entries and rights; that, subsequently, a patent
was issued to Finn, the present defendant in error.
Mr. James H. Hayden, Mr. Robert C. Hayden and Mr. James
B. Reavis for plaintiff in error:
The plaintiff's entry upon the land in dispute was valid
in its inception. Special timber agents or inspectors are not
officers, clerks, or employds in the General Land Office within
the meaning of § 452, Rev.. Stat., and 'are not thereby prohibited from entering public. n L&d. As interpreted and administered by the Land Department when the plaintiff's entry
was made, the- prohibition contained in § 452 did not extend
to special timber agents. This cause must be determined in
conformity with the contemporaneous interpretation of -the
law by the Land Department. If the prohibition contained
in §452 had extended to special timber agents, it would not
have rendered the plaintiff's enfry void or liable to cancellation, but merely rendered plaintiff liable to removal from his
office. Grandy v. Bedell, 2 L. D. 314; Lock Lode Claim, 6
L. D. 105; Winans v. Beidler, 15 L. D. 266; James v. Germania
Iron Co., 107 Fed.Rep.597; United States v. Alabama &c..R. R.
Co., 142 U. S. 615, 621; Leffingwel's Case, 30 L.D. 139.
Ifthe plaintiff had een' disqualifie by law from entering
public land when he made his entry upon the land in dispute,
the entry would have .been validated by the removal of his
di!'&bility, which occurred four years before the date of the
contest wherein his entry -.-as canceled. The removal of his
disability, coupled with the fact that
made his entry in
*he

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

good faith and in conformity with a decision of the Land
Department, and for a period of seven years subsequent to
his entry and prior to the contest, had done and performed
all things requisite for the acquisition of the land under the
land laws of the United States, would have been sufficient to
cure the defect in his entry if it had been defective originally.
Mann.v. Huk, 3 L. D. 452; Case of Krogstad, 4 L. D. 564; Case
of Jacob A. Edens, 7 L. D. 229; Phillip v. Sero, 14 L. D. 568;
Case of Bright, 6 L. D. 602; St. Paul &c. R. R. Co. v. Forseth,
3 L. D. 446; Case ot Baird, 2 L. D. 817.
The defendant entered upon" the land in dispute with full
notice of all proceedings had with respect to the entry made
and work done by the plaintiff, and therefore the defendant,
-having obtained legal title to same by patent from the United
States in consequence of errors of law committed by theLand Department in canceling plaintiff's entry, should be
decreed to hold the title for the'benefit of the plaintiff.
Mr. B. S. Grosscup for defendant in error.
JusTIci HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
-MR.

This case depends upon the construction to be given to § 452,
Rev. Stat. If Prosser.s original entry was forbidden by the
above statate,.'then nothing stood in the way of that entry
being canceled by order of the Secretary of the Interior in a
.proceeding that. directly involved its validity. On the other
hand, if he acquired any right by virtue of his entry, the judgment to the contrary by the Land Department was an error
of law which could be corrected by a decree declaring that the
title was held in trust for him by the defendant. The principle
is well settled that "where one party has acquired the legal
title to property to.which another has the better right, a court
.of equity will convert him into a trustee of the true owner and
*ompel him to convey the legal title." Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall.

PROSSER V*.FINN.
208 U. .'

Opinion of the.Court.

402, 419; Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall. 219; Corneiiu8 v. Kesels, 128
U. S. 456, 461; Bernier v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242; n re Emblem,
161 U. S. 52.
The difficulty in the way of any relief being granted to the
plaintiff, arises from the statute prohibiting any officer, clerk
or employd in the General *Land Office, directly or indirectly,
from purchasing or becoming interested in the purchase of any
of the public land. That a special agent of the General Land
Office is an-employ4 in that office is, we think, too clear to
admit of serious doubt. Referring to the timber-culture statute, Secretary Smith well said: "When the object of the act
is considered, it will be seen that it applied with special force
to such parties as the defendant in the cause at issue. As a
special agent of the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
he was in a position peculiarly adapted to secure such knowledge, the use of which it Was the intention of the act to prevent.
It follows from what has herein been set our, that the decision
of this Department of date July 7, 1893, was in error, and the
same is hereby set aside, and the decision of your office is
affirmed."
It is not clear from any document or decision to which our
attention h& been called, what is the scope of theduties of a
special agent of the Land Office, but the existence, of that office
or position has long been recognized. Suffice it to say that
they have official connection with the General Land Office and
are under its supervision and control with respect to the administration of the public lands. Wells v. Nickles, 104 U. S.
444; S. C., 1 L.. D. 608, 620, 696; Instructions to Special Timber
Agents, 2 L. D. 814, 819, 820, 821, 822, 827, 828, 832; Circular
of Instructions,. 12 L. D. 499. They are in every substantial
sense employ~s in the General Land Office. They are none
the less so, even if it be true, as suggested by the learned
counsel for the plaintiff, that they-have nothing to dQ With the
survey and sale of the public lands or with the investigation
of applications for patents or with hearings before registers
and receivers. Being employ~s in the General Land, Office,. it

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

is not for the court, in defiance of the explicit words of the
statute, to exempt them from its prohibition. Congress has
said, without qualification, that employ~s in the General Land
Office Shall not, while in the service of that office, purchase or
become interested in the'purchase, directly or indirectly, of
public lands. The provision in question had its origin in the
acts of April 25, 1812, c. 68, 2 Stat. 716, and of July 4, 1836,
c. 352, 5 Stat." 107. The first 6f those acts established a Gen. eral Lan Office, while the last one reorganized that office.
Each of tWose acts made provision for' the appointment of
certain officers, and each limited the prohibition against the
purchasing or becoming interested in the purchasing of public
lands to the officers or employ~s named in them, respectively.
But the prohibition in the existing statute is not restricted
to any particular officers or particular employds of the Land
Office, but embraces "em'ploy~s in the General Land Office,"
without excepting any of them.
In the eye of the law his case. is not advanced by the fact.
that he acted in conformity with the opinion of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, who stated, in a letter, that
' 452, Rev. Stat., did not apply to special agents. That view,
s5 far from being approved, was reversed, upon formal hearing, by the Secretary of the Interior. Besides, an erroneous
interpretation of the statute by the Commissioner would not
change the,.statute or confer any legal right upon Prosser in
opposition'to the express prohibition against his purchasing
or becoming interested in the purchasing of public lands while
he was an employ6 in the General Land Office. The law, as
we now recognize it to be, was the law when the plaintiff en-.
tered the lands in question, and, being at the time an cmploy6 in the Land Office, he could not acquire an interest in
the lands that would prevefit the Government, by its proper
officer or department, from canceling his entry and treating
the. lands as public lands which could be patented to others.
It may be well to add that the plaintiff's continuing in -possession after he ceased to be special agent was not equivalent

BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

to a new entry. His rights mustbe determined by the validity
of the original entry at the-time it was made.
These views dispose of the case adversely to the plaintiff,
and require an affirmance of the judgment without reference
to other questions discussed by counsel.
Affirmed:

BLACKLOCK, EXECUTOR OF RINALDO P. SMITH. v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 65. Argued December 10. 1907.-Decided January 13, 1908.

A mere recital in an act, whether of fact or of law, is not conclusive unless
it be clear that the legislature intended that it be accepted as a fact in
the case. Kinkead v. United Stalts, 150 U. S.433.
The Court of Claims was not precluded by the recitals in the act of May,
1902, 32 Stat. 207, 243, referring this case to it, fromn examining into the
facts and deterininiiig whether the claimant's lien referred to in 'the act
as a prior lien was or was not a prior lien and basing its decision upon

*the actual facts found.
Section 106 of the act of July 20, 1868, 15 Stat. 125, 167, providing for
an action in equity by the collector of internal revenue to enforce a lien
of the United States for unpaid revenue taxes, did not supersede the
provisions of the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 107, giving the remedy
of distraint so that such lien could only be enforced by suit in equity,
but it gave another and cumulative remedy in cases where, as expresped
in the act, the collector deemed it expedient. Mansfield v. Excelsior
Refining Co., 135 U. S. 326.
In this case, )eld. that the lien of the Gov,crnment for unpaid revenue taxes
on land of the delinquent was prior to that of the mortgagee bringing
this action, and tha't the sale of the land by distraint proceedings, and
not by foreclosure suit in equity, was in conformity with the act of July 13,
1866, then in force, and vested the title in the purchasers at the sale and
the;r grantees, subject to the right of redemption given by the statute
to the owners of the land.and of holders of liens thereon.
41 C. Cl. 89, affirmed.

THis appeal brings up for review a judgment of the Court

