YOSEMITE MINING CO. v. EMERSON.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

By reason of this course of conduct we think these proceeds
have lost that distinctive character which would give them the

right to the protection of the Federal Constitution under the
clause invoked, and the cash taxed and the amount of these
notes have become capital invested in business in the State of

New York, which business is carried on under the protection
of the laws of that State, and, so far as the capital is invested
in it, is subject to taxation by the laws of the State.
We think the Court of Appeals did not err, and the judg*ment of the Supreme Court rendered upon remittitur from the
Court Of Appeals is

Affirmed.

YOSEMITE GOLD. MINING AND MILLING COMPANY
v. EMERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF -CALIFORNIA.
No. 69.

Argued December 13, 1907.-Decided January 0. 1906.

The object of requiring the posting of the preliminary notice of mining
claims is to make known the purpose of the discoverer and to warn others
of the prior appropriationi and one having actual knowledge of.a prior
location and the extent of its boundaries, the outlines of which have been
marked, cannot relocate it for himself and claim a forfeiture of the original
location for want of strict compliance with all the statutory requirements
of preliminary notice.
The determination by the trial court that the locators of a mining claim
had sumed work on the claim after a failure to do the anhual assessment work, required by § 2324, Rev. Stat., and before a new location
had been made, and the finding by the highest court of the State that
such determination is conclusive, do not amount to the denial of a Federal right set up by the party claiming the right to relocate the claim,
and this court cannot review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Ouwre and not decided, whether a forfeiture adises simply from' a violation
of a mining rule established by miners of a district which does not expre.sly make non-compliance therewith work a forfeiture.
149 California, 50, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

Mr. W. C. Kennedy, for plaintiff in error. Mr. A. H. Jarman was on the brief:
Coyle never made a valid location of the Slap Jack Mine,
because he failed to comply with the miners' rules and the regulations of the miners of Tuolumne County, duly made in purt
suance of § 2324 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
and this being so the ground at the time of the location by
•McWlirter was open, public mineral land of the United States.
To make a location of a mining claim under these rules
and regulations the United States laws must be followed in
reference to marking the boundaries on the ground so that
the same may be readily traced, and, in addition thereto, a
notice of location must be posted at each end of the claim.
When this is done a claim is located, and not before. These
initiatory steps must be taken before any right vests in the
locator. There must be a vested right of some kind before
there can be a forfeiture of that right. A man cannot forfeit
that which he has not, or never has had. Adams v. Crawford,
116 California, 498.
. The recording of the notice is not an act of location, but
something that follows the acts of location. The acts of location are what are done upon the ground. The local rules of
Tuolumne County prescribed what should be done upon the
ground in order to make the location, and these rules should
have been followed.
* The rules so adopted by the miners of the district, except
where in conflict with some laws of the United States or of
the State of California, being authorized and sanctioned by
express statutory enactment, are, when in force, as valid and
binding as if they were a part of the statute itself. Gird v.
California Oil Co., 60 Fed. Rep. 531-534. See also Howeth
v. Sullinger, 113 California, 550; Carter v. Baceigalupi, 83
California, 188; Northmore v. Simmons, 97 Fed. Rep. 388; and
Harvey'v. Ryan, 42 California, 626.
Miners have the authority of the United'States statutes and
the law of the State of California, authorizing and empowering

YOSEMITE MINING CO. v. EMERSON.
208 U. B.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

them to make regulations governing the location of a minir
claim, and such regulations must be followed, otherwise tl
attempted location not following such regulations is invalid
ab initio.
Mr. John E. Laskey, with whom Mr. J. P. O'Brien was on
the brief, for defendants in error:
After a claim has been marked on the ground and after the
notice has been recorded, the notice posted on the claim has
served its purpose, and it then becomes functus officio. Thereafter it is immaterial whether one notice or a dozen has been
posteu.
Besides, the mining rules of the Tuolumne Mining District
do not provide a penalty for a failure to post two-notices; consequently that requirement is simply directory and does not
operate as a forfeiture of title.
The failure of a party to comply with a mining rule or
regulation cannot work a forfeiture of his title thereto unless
the rule itself so provides. Emerson v. McWhirter, 133 California, 511; McGarrity v. Byington, 12 California, 426; Bell v.
Red Rock T. & M. Co., 36 California, .214; Rush v. French, 1
Arizona, 99; Johnson v. McLaughlin, 1 Arizona, 493; Jupiter
M. Co. v. Bodie M. Co., 11 Fed. Rep. 666; Flaherty v. Gwinn,
1 Dak. Append. 509.
When McWhirter attempted to relocate the Slap Jack Mine
he had all the knowledge and information concerning the prior
*location thereof which he could possibly have obtained if a
dozen notices had been posted upon the claim. He was not,'
and could not, therefore, be injured or misled in any way by
the failure of Coyle to post the second notice..
Mining rules enacted by the miners for their own protection
should be liberally construed so as to effectuate that purpose.
Talmadge v. St. John, 129 California, 430.
It'was not iritended by the framers of these rules that they
should be given such a hypertechnical construction as would
enable a midnight marauder to despoil a locator of the fruits

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

of his industry.
U. S. 1.

208 U. S.

Lawson v. United States Mining Co., 207

MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case originated in an action brought to quiet title to a
certain mining claim called the Slap Jack Mine situated in
Tuolumne County, California. The case was twice in the
Supreme. Court of California. In the first trial the Superior
Court of Tuolumne County gave judgment in favor of the
then defendant McWhirter; on appeal this judgment was
reversed. 133 California, 510. After the case went back the
present. plaintiff in error, the Yosemite Gold Mining and Milling Company as the successors in interest to McWhirter and
defendants Argall, was made a defendant.
As to the Argall interest, covering nine-twentieths of the
property, based on the same location, while judgment was rendered in the court below as to this interest against the present
plaintiff in error, in the Supreme Court a new trial was awarded
and the case remanded, and with that interest we have nothing to do upon this writ of error.
As to the remaining eleven-twentieths, the court rendered
a final judgment against the present plaintiff in error, Yosemite
Gold Mining and Milling Company, decreeing that the defendants in error F. F. Britton and Anne L. Emerson were each
the owner of one undivided fourth part of the claim, and defendant in error Miller the owner of the one undivided twentieth
part thereof. 149 California; 50. To this judgment the present
writ of error is prosecuted.
We proceed to examine the questions which are now in this
court. The mining claim of the Yosemite Gold Mining and
Milling Company, plaintiff in error, is based upon the attempted
location thereof within the same limits as the original Slap
Jack Mine, made by McWhirter on January 1, 1899, shortly
after midnight. McWhirter undertook to "jump" the former
claim upon the theory that the assessment work for the year

YOSEMITE MINING CO v. EMERSON.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

1898 required by § 2324, Rev. Stat., as amended in 1880, 21
Stat. 61, 2 U. S. Comp. Stat. 1426, had not been done.
The first contention made by the plaintiff in error is that
one Coyle, under whom the defendants in error claim title,
never made a valid location of the mining claim, because he
posted but one notice of location upon the claim. Under the
authority of §2324, Rev. Stat., supra, the miners of every
mining district are given authority to make regulations not
in conflict with the laws of the United States or any State or
Territory in which the district is situated. 2 Comp. Stat. 1426.
Section 3 of the Mining Rules and Regulations of Tuolumne
Mining District of Tuolumne County, California, provides:
"SEc. 3. Mining claims hereafter located in said district
upon veins or -lodes of quartz, or other rock, or veins of metal,
or its ores, shall be located in the following manner, to wit:
By posting thereon two notices, Written or printed upon paper,
or some metallic or other substance, each to be posted in such
manner as to expose to view the full contents of the notice,
one of which shall be posted in a conspicuous place at each end
of the claim. Said notices shall contain the name or names of
locators, the date of the location, and such a description of the
claim or claims located, by reference to some natural object or
permanent monument as will identify the claim. Said notice
may be in the following form, to wit:
" 'Notice is hereby given that the undersigned have taken
up - hundred feet of this vein or lode, and that the claim so
taken up is described as follows: (Here insert description.)
,18-.
Dated - day of "'A. B.
"'C.

D.)

The Supreme Court of California held that its decision in
the present case upon this question was concluded by the rul*ing made upon 'the first appeal, which decision continued to be
-the law of the case. Upon the first appeal (133 California,
510) it was held that the failure to' comply. with the mining

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rules in this respect would not work a forfeiture of title, inasmuch as there was nothing in the rules which made noncompliance a cause of forfeiture; that unless the. rule so provided, the failure to comply with its requirements would not
work a forfeiture. The court cited other California cases to
the same point and cases from the Supreme Court of Arizona,
.Rush v. French, 1 Arizona, 99; Johnson v. McLaughlin, 1
.Arizona, 493; also the .decision of Judge Sawyer in Jupiter
Mining Company v. Bodie Consolidated Mining Company, 11
Fed. Rep. 666. There seems to be a conflict in state decisions
upon this subject. The Supreme Court of Montana differs
with the Supreme Court of California. King. v. Edwards, 1
Montana, 235, 241. As does also the Supfeme Court of Nevada.
Mallett v. Uncle Sam G. & S. A. Company, .1 Nevada, 188.
Lindley, in his work on Mines, seems to prefer the California
rule as a "safe and conservatlvk rule of decision, tending to
the permanency and security of mining titles." 1 Lindley on
Mines (2d ed.), § 274. But in view of the facts of this case we
do not deem it necessary to decide whether a forfeiture will
arise simply from a violation of this mining regulation.
It appears in this record that McWhirter's location was
made about three years after the Coyle location, and after the
record of the notice and the marking of the claim on the grounds
so that the boundaries could be readily seen. Furthermore it
appears from the testimony of McWhirter:
"I knew the Jim Blaine Mine, formerly the Slap Jack Mine.
I went on the property first on Saturday, December 31st, 1898.
I went with James Paul. I looked over the ground. Mr. Paul
showed me the boundaries of the claim. I ascertained the different points of the claim and the monuments.

.

.

.

When

I attempted to locate the claim known as the Jim Blaine Mine
I was attempting to 'jump' or relocate the Slap Jack Mine.
The ground embraced within the exterior boundaries of the
Jim Blaine Mine was the same ground included within the
exterior boundaries of the Slap Jack Mine. When I was on
the ground on December 31, 1898, I knew the boundaries of

YOSEMITE MINING CO. v. EMERSON.
208 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

the Slap Jack Mine. They were pointed out to me by Mr.
Paul on December 31, 1898."
In further course of examinatioi he testifies that he wassent up.by another party to jump the Slap-Jack Mine. MeWhirter was not undertaking to take dvantage of the want
of notice, but .was "jumping" the claim on the theory that
the required amount of assessment wbrk for 1898 had not
been done. To hold that the want of notice under such circumstances would work a forfeiture would be to permit the
rule to work gross injustice and to subvert the very purpose
for which it was enacted. The object of posting the preliminary
notice 6f the claim is to make known the purpose. of the discoverer to claim title to the same to the extent described and
to warn others of the prior Appropriation. Lindley.0n Mines
(2d ed.), § 350. In this case the locator had gone beyond thispreliminary notice; the outlines of the claim had been:marked,
and the extent of the claim was fully known ,d0
McWhirter
when he attempted his location. He knew all about the locb.'
tion and boundaries of the claim that any notice could have
given him. He undertook to locate his new claim precisely
within the boundaries of the old one, and was seeking to take
advantage of the want of compliance with the statutory requirement as to the amount of annual assessment work -to be
done. Having this knowledge, we hold that McWhirter, and
those claiming under him, could not claim a forfeiture of title
for want of preliminary notice under the former location. We
thus dispose of the only question which could' be held to raise
a Federal question. Upon the other points made as to the
McWhirter interest, we think this case presents no Federal
question.
The contention is made that the assessment work required
by § 2324, Rev. Stat., was not done for the year 1898. As
pointed out by the Supreme Court of California, §2324 provides: The mine. "shall be open to relocation in the same
manner as if no location of the same had ever been made,
provided the original locators, their heirs, assigns or legal

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
SyUabus.

208 U. S.

representatives, have not resumed work upon the claim after
failure and before such location." The trial court found that
the work had been resumed before the attempted adverse
location. After reciting the conflict of testimony in the trial
court as to whether the work had been resumed within the
meaning of the statute, so as to prevent such adverse location,
the Supreme Court said: "It was for the trial court to determine this-conflict, which it has done by the finding in question,
and its determination is conclusive upon this appeal."
In thus deciding the Supreme Court of the State did not,
within the meaning of §709, Rev. Stat., decide any right of
Federal otigin adversely to the plaintiffs in error. It simply
held that there was a conflict of testimony in the record upon
this subject, and that the conclusion of the court below upon
this matter of fact was conclusive upon the appellate court.
This does not amount to a denial of a Federal right, concerning which the plaintiff in error had especially set up his claim
so as to give the right of review of the decision of the state
Supreme Court in this court. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658, and cases therein cited.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 90.

Submitted December 16. 1007.-Decided January 6, 1908.

Under §§ 1098 and 1261, Rev. Stat., and the opening clause of the Navy
Personnel Act of March 13, 1899, 30 Stat. 1004, a naval officer assigned.
to duty on the personal staff bf an admiral as flag lieutenant, without any
other designation, is an aid to such admiral and entitled to the additional
pay of $200 allowed to an aid of a major general in the Army.
41 C. Ci. 400, affirmed on this point.

