CALVO v. DE GUTIERREZ.

443

Syllabus.

208 U. S.

diction, since.it is conceded that'under the statutes of Hawaii
a writ of error must, be sued out within six months from the
rendition of judgment.
The considerations just stated' make it inevitable that this
writ of error should be dismissed. Of course, it may be that
the reasons which we have given do not necessarily foreclose
the tight within the statutory time to prosecute a new writ of
error to the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Hawaii, quashing the writ, entered September 27, 1907.
On that subject, however, we observe, to the end that this
litigation may not be unnecessarily prolonged, that because we
do not decide the quest on not before us, as to whether such
right to a new writ of error exists, we must not be. considered
as in the slightest degree intimating an affirmative view as to
the existence of such a right.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

CALVO v. DE GUTIERREZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 80.

Argued December 17, 1907.-Decided February 24. 1908.

An agreement made between the owners of a half interest in property in
Manil a, who were ultimate heirs of the deceased owner of the other half interest, and the widow of such decedent, who was his usufructuary heiress,
provided for the sale of the property at a specified price, and that after
certain paymehts the "remainder" should be paid to the widow, on her
giving the usual usufructuary security. Held, that the agreement concerned a settlement of the rights of the parties to the property left by
decedent and did not contemplate transferring any interest in the property
from the other owners to the widow, and that the word "remainder"
referred only to the remainder of the half interest of her testator and not
to the balance remaining of the proceeds of the share of the other ownerb.

6 Philippine Reports, 88, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1007.
Argument for Appellant.

208 U. S.

Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, with whom Mr. Frederic R.
Coudert was on the brief, for appellant:
The language of the agreement is plain and unambiguous
and requires no judicial construction. It is on its face, an adjustment of various controversies between the. parties, growing
out of their relations to the de la Fuente estate.
To say that "the remainder ". means "one-half of the remainder" is to make a new contract for the parties, in direct
contravention of Article 1281 of the Spanish and! Philippine
Civil Code, and see Digest,. Book'XXXII, Tit. 1, L. 25; 17 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 4.
According to both civil law and common law, as well as common sense, when the language of the parties to a contract
clearly expresses a certain intention, it is not open to them to
say that they meant something different, or to a court to make
for them a new contract which it considers more equitable.
Alcubilla; 3 Diccionario de la Administracion Espafola (5th
ed.), 494.
The argument of the court below, that the word "remainder"
must be limited to the inheritance which it was the intention
and object of the parties to divide, is wholly fallacious, since
the agreement is by no means limited in scope to a division
of the estate of Gonzalez de la Fuente, but provides for an
adjustment and recognition of the rights of all the parties entitled or claiming to be entitled to any interest in various properties in which said testator had an interest, and for the payment of claims, some of which, such as the mortgage to the
Obras Pias, were apparently not sole and individual liabilities of the testator. Art. ,1283 Civil Code, cited by the court below
is thus wholly inapplicable.
The court below had no jurisdiction to review the evidence,
and interpret the contract according to the facts thus found by
it as to the parties' intentions. Philippine Code Civ. Proc.,
ยง497. '
The motion for a new trial in the case at bar was merely on
the ground that the evidence was not sufficient to justify the

CALVO v. DE GUTIERREZ.
208 U. &

Opinion of the Court.

judgment and was thus evidently made under ยง 145 of the
Philippine Code of Civil Procedure, aid addressed to the discretion of the trial judge.
This clearly did not empower the appellate court to review
the evidence and in effect make new findings of fact as to the
intention of the parties, based on parol evidence. De la
Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 303, 313-314.
Upon the record before it, the court below construed the
agreement erroneously.
There was no appearance or brief for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

At the time of the death of Francisco Gonzalez de la Fuente
he was the owner of an undivided half interest in a piece of
real estate known as No. 69 on the Escolta, Manila, of an undivided half interest in a house known as No. 97 Calle Palacio,
Province of Mamarines, Philippine Islands, and likewise of
an undivided half interest in a certain hacienda. Besides this;
there stood in the name of the deceased two houses in Ermita,
Manila, which were, however, encumbered with a debt of
twelve thousand dollars, payable in Mexican money, which
debt was due to one Julian de La 0, and the deceased moreover
owned certain furniture and jewelry.
The remaining undivided half interest not owned by Fuente
in the three first described pieces. of property were jointly
owned by his nephew, Gabriel Olives y Gonzalez de la Fuente,
and two nieces, who were both married-Angeles Olives y
Gonzalez de la Fuente, wife of Eduardo Gutierrez y Repide,
and Paz Olives y Gonzalez de la Fuente, wife of Manuel Martinez.
By the will of Fuente all his property was given to his
nephew Gabriel and his two nieces Angeles and. Paz, subject,
however, to a right of usufruct during her life in his wife
Concepcion Calve. It would seem that some controversy arose

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

widow as usufructuary and the nephews and
between
nieces as the
heirs of Fuenteand as coiwners in their own right
as to the partition of the property. The result was a written
agreement between the parties-the nephews and nieces and
the wife-the whole of which is in the margin,1 and the parts
which we think are pertinent to this controversy we quote:
"The undersigned, Angeles and Paz Olives, in the presence
of their respective husbands, and Gabriel Olives, as heirs of
. I Translationof Exhibit "A."
The undersigned, Angeles and Paz Olives, in the presence of their respective husbands, and Gabriel Olives, as heirs of certain property, of Francisco
Gonzalez de la Fuente, and Concepcion Calvoas usufructuary heiress of.the
said Gonzalez, agree upon a division of the inheritance, the principal conditions of which are as follows:
First: The property No. - on the Escolta, half of which belonged to the
testator, shall be sold at the price not less than ninety thousand dollars.
Second. From the proceeds of the sale there shall be paid the amount
.owing to pious works, the amount owing Mr. Roensch, that owing Julian
de-La 0, and the unpaid legacies made by Josd Gonzalez de la Fuente.
Thiri. The remainder shall be turned over to Concepcion Calve, to be
used by her as usufructuary heiress, after she has given a mortgage bond
(fianza hipotecaria).
I Fourth. Concepcion Calvo relinquishes her right to reimbursement of the
amounts expended by her on account of the last illness and burial of the
testator. But in compensation for this she shall have all the movable property of the testator with the exception of a set of buttons, etc., belonging to
testator's father, which shaU go to Gabriel Olives as the only male grandson.
Fifth. With regard to the pieces of property purchased by the testator
from Pantaleona Rivera, which were paid for by money, half of which belonged to the testator and the other half to.the heirs of Paz Gonzalesi Concepcion Calvo recognizes the said heirs as absolute owners of the half of the
interest of the testator in and to the said property.
Sixth. Angeles, Paz and Gabriel Olives respect the legacy of the testator
to Concepcion Calvo, and acknowledge her right to enjoy the usufruct of
half of the house Nb. 07 Calle Palaclo, and half of the estate of Pasacao, and
half the interest of the Ermita houses.
Seventh. Gabriel, Angeles and Paz Olives renounce all rights that they
may have'as wards of the testator to require a rendering of accounts of any.

kind.
Eighth. Concepcion Calvo shall be entitled .to claim from :Pantalegna
Rivera. 'hatever taxes she may -have paid for the. Ermita houses after the
death of the testator.
In witness wherebf, we sign the present document in Manila; this fourth
day of May, 1903.

CALVO v. D GUTIERREZ.
208 U. S.

447

Opinion of the Court.

certain property of Francisco Gonzalez de la Fuente, and Concepcion Calvo, as usufructuafy heiress of the said Gonzalez
agree upon a divisionof the inheritance, the principal conditions of which are as follows:
"First. The property No. - on the Escolta, half of which
belonged to the testator, shall be sold at the pricenot less than
ninety thousand dollars.
"Second. From, the proceeds of the sale there shall be paid
the amount owing to pious works, the amount owing Mr.
Ro.nsch, that owing Julian de La 0, and the unpaid legacies.
made by Jos6 Gonzalez de la-Fuente.
"Third. The remainder shall be turned over to .Concepcion
Calvo, to be used by her as usufructuary heiress, after ihe has
given a mortgage bond (fianza hipotecaria)."
This suit in the form of a bill in equity was commenced by
the plaintiff in error, the widow, against the defendants, the
nephew and nieces asserting rights under the agreement and
asking the appointment of a receiver. to take -charge of the
fund arising from the sale of the. property on the Escolta and
money derived from other sources, as well as a ,balance coming from -the Ermita property after prying the debt with which
that property was encdmbered. Without going into detail or
considering irrelevant questions, it suffices" to say'thatthe
principal right which, the widow asserted was that' she was
entitled under the agreement . to hold 'as usufructuary the
whole proceeds of the property:on the Escolta after. making
the payments specified in the agreement. That is, her principal
claim was that. her usufructuary right tnder the will, in V'irti, e
of the agreement, attached not' only to the proc eds of the
share of the property on the Escolta owrned by.her:husband
at.his death, but also to the share of the proceeds representing
the undivided interest o'@.ned by 'the nephew and .nieces.: The
case was put at issue ',and much testimony was taken in the
trial court which that- court deemed to, be- admissible upon
the theory that it tended to~t'hiow light upon the meknng of the'
written agrefriedt There was judgment in favor of the .Widow,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

practically maintaining all her claims, including her asserted
right to a usufructuary interest in the whole sum of the FEcolta
property, and that portion of the decree was in effect the real
subject of controversy in the Supreme Court of. the Philippine
Islands, to which the case was appealed. That- court; whilst
recognizing the rights of the widow in other particulars, reversed the judgment in, so far as it decreed her to be entitled.
to a usufructuary interest in the whole of tlie proceeds of the
'E'colta property, and confined her usufructuary. right to the
proceeds of half of the Escolta property which had belonged
to her -husband.
Two substantial grounds of error are here assigned: First,
that the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in its
conclusion concerning the Escolta property, because in doing,
so it 'disregarded the unambiguous letter of the agreement;
and, second, because- it differed with the trial court as to the
result of the evidence and therefore departed from th 'e findings of fact made by the trial court, -which it. is asserted the
court had not the power to do, because there had been no motion for a new trial in the lower court, on the ground that. the
findings of fact were plainly and manifestly against the-weight
of evidence. Philippine Code Civ. Proc. ยง497. We -put-this
latter consideration at once out of view as being totally devoid of merit. This is said because we do not thinkthere were
findings below concerning the evidence throwing light upon
the contract in the sense which the proposition assumes, and.
even if there were, we find nothing in the record justifying
the conclusion that such findings Were 'disregarded by the
Supreme Court or that its conclusion on the controverted
question was based upon them. True it is that after interpret-:
ing the contract and -stating the legal rules by which it deemed.
that interpretation was sustained: the. opinion, of the Supreme
Court made reference to' what it believed to be the persuasive
force .of the testimony concerning the- relations and dealings,
of the parties leading up to the contract. When the opinion,
however, is considered as a whole, we think it is clear that the

CALVO v.- DE GUTIERREZ.
208 U.s.

449

Opinion of the Court.

references made to the testimony may be put out of 'view,
since the action of the court was really based alone upon its
construction of the contract and the law applicable to it, and.
we shall therefore confine ourselves exclusively to that subject.
It will be observed that the first paragraph of the contract
provided for the sale of the house on the FEcolta, "half of
which belonged to the testator," and fixed the price at which
the sale should be made. The second clause provided for the
deduction from the proceeds of sale of certain admitted debts
or liabilities. The third clause provided that the remainder
should be turned' over to Concepcion Calvo, to be used by her
as usufructuary heiress, after the giving by her of a mortgage
bond. The whole controvers hinges on the word " r emainder."
The plaintiff in error insists because of this word that the plain
letter of the contract exacted that th; wife should take as.
usufructuary not only the proceeds of the sale of the portion.
of the property which the husband owned, and upon wihich
alone prior to the contract her usufructuary right attached,
but also the proceeds of the half of the property which belonged to the other parties and which prior to the contract she
had no right or interest in, as usufructuary.
The argument is thus stated: ."To say that the remainder
means one-half of ,the remainder iS to make a new' contract
for the. parties in direct contravention of article 1281 of the
Spanish and Philippine Civil Code."- The article referred to
provides -that where the terms of a contract are clear, and
there can be no doubt about the intention of the contracting
parties, the legal stipulations of the contract*shall be enforced.
We do not follow the reference in the argument to authorities
,under the Spanish and Roman law. enforcing the legal propo'tion. It is elementary. The difficulty is ,in. its application to
*the cause before, us, since the real question under the contract
is whether the word "remainder" as used does not, in view of the
,subject with which the contract is concerned, relate and relate.
only to the remainder of the proceeds as to which, under the
VOL. ccviii-29

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

will of the deceased, the usufructuary interest of the widow attached. Considering this subject, and looking at the contract,
we think there can be no doubt that the word ."remainder"
as used in the contract must in the very nature of things, in
the absence of an express stipulation to the contrary,-be held
nottto have transferred to the widow a usufructuary interest
in property which her deceased husband did not own, Rd
which the very terms of the contract show was owned by -other
parties. The reasoning of the court below', in our opinion,
-so adequately'disposes of the contention that the word "remainder" should be considered as. having transferred to the
widow a xsufructuary interest in property to which -that inter-'
est did not attach, that we pxcerpt a portion thereof, as follows:
"The court below' was of opinion that the language of the
third section "of the 'foregoing agreement leaves, no room for.
interpretation or consttuction,.and that the word 'remainder"
as used therein refers necessarily: to the. balance remaining after
deducting from the. -whole amoutt recedived from the Escolta
property the amount of the debts and legacies mentioned 'in
the second section. We are of opinion, however, that tle court
erred in its Construction of thi section of. the agreement, and
we: think. that the. word 'remainder" must be limited to the
.inheritance.which it was the intefition and object of the parties
to livide, for the preamble expressly states that "the parties,
As heirs of Francisco Gonzalez de '1a Fuente, agfee upon' a
division of, the inheritance, and it is admitted that one-half of
the property on the Escolta was the property of the defend'ants, and formed no part whatever of. said inheritance.
"Article 1283 of the Civil Code provides that 'however general. may be the terms of a cbntract, there shall nQt be uhder.:.
stood as -included therein- other asYbjec'ts qr 'things and cqses
-different' from those.. regarding which :the. interested, parties
proposed to contract;' 'and .wdare 'of gpjinion tha t alth olgh*:.
'the word 'xdmainder,' as.used in- the. third section 9f.the. said
agreement, nig4t, in the broadest acceptatidn of.the term,
refer to the total balance resulting.from the sale of the Escolta
I'.

CALVO v. Dn GUTIERREZ.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property, nevertheless, under the provisions, of the foregoingarticle it should be limited to the subject-matter of'the agreemeint, and thus limited, it must be taken to refer to the remainder of the share of the inheritance in'which Dofia ConcepciOn Calvo had a usufructuary life-interest."
There je a conflicting contention in the argument for the
appellant-that if there be doubt as to the meaning of the word.
"remainder"' that ddubt should be resolved in favor of the right
of the widow to a usufruct in the. portion of the property not
belonging .to her husband and as to which, therefore, she was.
A~ot his usufructuary. heir.. We do not stop to analyze the
matterd thus relied upon, as 'we think it suffices to say that
after an examination 0f the whole contract we .find -nothing
in. it which' would 'justify' the construction of the wor4 lremainder" which is.asserted. In other words, we can discover.
nothing ini any. part of the.. agreement Which 'would authorize,
without express language to that effect, the' transferring to
one party to the contract of valuable property belonging to
the other, .especially when the .contract itself was concerned
only, asaptly pointed out.by the lower court, with settling the*
'rightsof the parties to. the property left by the deceased.
Afiime&d

