OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

the charter of the company, as well as the common law, required the railroad, as to existing and future streets, to maintain them in safety, and to hold its charter rights subject to
the exercise of the legislative power in this behalf, and that any
contract which undertook to limit the exercise of this right was
without consideration, against public policy and void. This
doctrine is entirely consistent with the principles decided in
the cases referred to in this court. But it is alleged that at the
time this contract was made with the railroad company it
was at least doubtful as to what the rights of the parties were,
and that the contract was a legitimate compromise between
the parties, which ought to be carried out. But the exercise
of the police power cannot be limited by contract for reasons
of public policy, nor can it be destroyed by compromise, and
it is immaterial upon what consideration the contracts rest,
as it is beyond the authority of the State or the municipality
to abrogate this power so necessary to the public safety.
Chicago, Burlington. & Quincy R. R. C. v. Nebraska ex rel.
Omaha, 170 U. S. 57.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, holding the contract to be void'and beyond the
power of the city to make, and it will, therefore, be
Affirmed.

HAIRSTON v. DANVILLE AND WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 6. Argued January 10, 13, 1908.-Decided February 24. 1908.
C

Where the condemnation of land has been held by the state court to be

authorized by the constitution and laws of that State this court cannot
review that aspect of the decision.
Where the state law, as is the case with the law of Virginia, permits no
exercise of the right of eminent domain except for public uses, a general

HAIRSTON v. DANVILLE & WESTERN RAILWAY. 599
208 U.S.

Statement of the Can.

judgment of condemnation by the state court will be assumed to have
.been held to be for a public use even if there was no specific finding of
that fact.
While it is beyond the legislative power of a State to tpke, against his will,
the property of one and. give it to another for a private use, even if compensation be required, it is ultimately a judicial question whether the
use is public or private; and, in deciding whether the state court has determined that question within the limits of the Fourteenth Amendment,
this court will take into consideration the'diversity of local conditions.
While cases may arise in which this court will not follow the decision of the
state court, up to the present time it. has not condemned as a violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment any taking of property upheld by the
state court as one for a public use in conformity with its laws.
The use for which property may be required by a railroad company for in-'
.creased trackage facilities is none the less a public use because the motive
which dictates its location is to reach a private industry, or because the
proprietors of that industry contribute to the cost; and so held that a
condemnation upheld by the highest court of Virginia as being in conformity with the law of that State did not deprive the owner of the property condemned of his property without due process of law.

THIS is a writ of error to the highest court of the State of
Virginia.

The defendant in error is a corporation created by

the State of Virginia and operating a railroad entirely within
that State. Its main line runs near the town of Martinsville,
and from it a branch line runs into Martinsville and there ends.

The railway company began a proceeding in a circuit court of
that State for the condemnation of land belonging to Miss
Hairston, the plaintiff in error, for the construction of a spur
track, which Was alleged to be needed for the transaction of its

business, for the accommodation of the public generally, and
for the purpose of reaching the factory of a large shipper, the

Rucker and Witten Tobacco Company. By pleadings duly filed
the land owner set up the defense (inter alia) that the proposed
condemnation was not for a public use, and was therefore contrary to the constitution and laws of Virginia and the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constituti6n of. the United States.

Testimony was taken on this issue before the judge of the circuit' court, wh6 found against the contention, and appointed
commissioners to ascertain the damage caused by the taking.

The commissioners ascertained the amount of the damages.

OCTOBER TEFPM, 1907.
Statement of the Cue.

208 U. S.

The judge confirmed their report, and ordered that upon payment of the damages a fee simple in the land should be vested in
the railway company. The land owner petitioned the Supreme
Court of Appeals to grant a writ of error to review the judgment
of the circuit court. The 'petition was denied, and a writ of
error transferring the record to this court was allowed.
The uses for which the land sought to be condemned was
needed are described in the testimony of the superintendent.
of the railroad. The material parts of it follow:
"The Danville and Western comes into Martinsville on a
branch spur from the main line, running between Danville
and Stewart. This spur leaves the main line about very nearly
half a mile east of Martinsville. It comes into Martinsville
and ends at Franklin street. The Danville and Western has
in the town of Martinsville this main line referred to. The
main line proper runs parallel with and about three feet from
the platform of the freight and passenger station. Parallel to
this track there is another track, about fifteen feet between the
centers of the two tracks, running parallel with and about four
or five feet from the Alliance warehouse. Both of those tracks
are spur tracks, and end at Franklin street. The company also
has a freight and passenger station and platform, with a portion
of the platform shedded. There is also another track, designated Tabernacle track. This track is several hundred feet
east of this freight and passenger station referred to, and is
parallel with the main line. This track will hold seven box
cars, but is quite a heavy grade-about two feet to the hundred
feet. There is also parallel with the main line and also parallel
with this Tabernacle track a spur track, which is designated
spur track. These are all the tracks that the company has in
the town of Martinsville, except a track known as Lester's
siding. This, however, is a private siding and is fenced in.
The gate is, as a rule, locked, and the company can use for its
business only about two box car lengths on the outside of the
fence. When I took charge of.the road as superintendent, on
the 10th day of September, 1903, I was very much impressed

HAIRSTON v. DANVILLE & WESTERN RAILWAY. 601
208 U.S.

Statement of the Can.

with the congested condition of things in Martinsville, the
danger of operating the yard, and was especially impressed with
the lack of team track room; I mean by that, suitable tracks
on which solid cars loaded with freight can be placed, such
freight to be unloaded by consignees and teams, or vice versa;
tracks to place empty cars on, into which shippers could load
freight from their teams. I found only space for three box
cars-I mean by that, proper and suitable space. That was
the portion of the track described as parallel with the platform,
and west of the station building, about three car lengths.
Being impressed with the danger of operating this yard, soon
after taking charge I gave positive instructions that the track
designated as Tabernacle track must never be used for storing
cars, and must be kept clear and used only to pass trains. The
track was built and intended to. pass trains-that is, to sidetrack one train on it and let the other pass. On account of the
increase of the business at Martinsville, it has been necessary
to change these instructions, and we have been forced to use the
Tabernacle track on which to place team track cars, solid cars
to be unloaded by consignees.

.

.

.

In order to get out of

Franklin street I selected a lower route, and employed a competent engineer to lay off and make plans for the most feasible
track, to obtain as much team track room as possible, and at
the same time to reach the plant of the Rucker & Witten Tobacco Co. I was informed that this plant would be very greatly
enlarged, and in fact the entire business of this concern would
eventually be consolidated at Martinsville. By adopting the
route proposed we would not only reach the plant of the Rucker
& Witten Tobacco CO. and thereby secure for the Danville &
Western a great increase in business, but we would also greatly
enlarge our' team track facilities. I mean by that, the portion
of the track on which loaded cars wduld be placed to be unloaded by merchants and. others in Martinsville doing business
here. The map shows that about 500 feet of this proposed
track is level; this would be used entirely for the public. This
500 feet would store about 16 or 18 team track cars, and will

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

be used entirely to place cars on for the general public. In
addition to that we would reach the Rucker & Witten Tobacco
Company's plant, and we would thus be enabled to place cars
for that concern immediately at the factory doors, thus relieving the short team track we have in the yard, and also doing
away entirely with the danger of using this Tabernacle track
as a team track. We can also place empty cars at the Rucker &
Witten Tobacco Company's plant, in which they can load their
tobacco shipments. This will also greatly relieve us at the station. This concern has within the last thirty days made in one
shipment 14 solid cars of manufactured tobacco, going to one
destination, and all shipped the same day. At present we have
team track room for seven cars on this Tabernacle siding,
which I have explained, is on a grade of about two feet to the
hundred feet, and, therefore, very dangerous to operate and
to stand cars on. There is room for three cars west of the station building between the station building and Franklin street,
and on this same track there is room for five cars to be placed
at the platform. These last five cars, are, as a rule, merchandise cars that come here loaded for various consignees, and are
unloaded by the station force into the station building. Unloaded freight is placed by shippers on the platform and is
loaded into empty cars standing in the same five-car space. In
order to meet the demands of the business, therefore, it is
absolutely necessary to obtain more and better terminal facilities here. We wish to get away from the danger of using
this Tabernacle track as a team track as early as possible. The
track is on a heavy grade and cars are liable to get loose and
roll down the grade. In case one of these cars should happen
to get loose just as a train was approaching Martinsville a
serious accident would result, the grade is so heavy. Consignees
sometimes attempt to move cars a little themselves, and are
not able to hold them, and they strike the others on the track,
and they have invariably been derailed. We have in the last
sixty days had several derailments on this track. I will say,
on account of the danger, the east end of the track is protected

HAIRSTON v.DANVILLE & WESTERN RAILWAY. 603
208 U. S

Statement of the Cae.

by a modem safety switch, derailing switch. When the cars
strike this switch, they are thrown off the track on the ground.
That damages the cars, and damages the track, and causes
delay and expense in rerailing them again. To give some idea
of the increase of business at Martinsville, I will state that the
auditor of the Danville and Western Co. made me a statement
for November and December, 1904, as compared to same
months last year, outbound or forwarded business in November, 1904.
"Mr.. STAPLES-: Will you file that report with your deposition?

"The

WITNESS:

Yes, sir.

"ANsWER (continued). Outbound or forwarded business
for November, 1904, as compared with same month 1903,
shows an increase of about 16J per cent. The inbound business
for November, 1904, compared to same month last year, shows
an increase of about 89 per cent. The outbound business for
December, 1904, as compared to same month 1903, shows an
increase of about 161 per cent, and the inbound business for
December, 1904, as compared to same month last year, shows
an increase of about 100 per cent. So in order to at all handle
the business with safety or convenience to patrons it is absolutely necessary to get more and better terminal facilities. In
order to do that, we have located what we think to be the best
and most feasible line to accomplish the two objects-get the
terminal facilities, and at the same time reach the. plant of the
Rucker & Witten Tobacco Co.
-Q. Now, Major, will there be access along the line from
Fontaine street to the depot of the Danville & Western Ry., in
Martinsville, for the purpose of reaching the cars standing upon
the track?
"A. These cars will be standing on this proposed track, not
at the station, and parties can reach such cars with ease from
Fontaine street. It is also proposed to have an entrance on the
alley near the Alliance warehouse, near the proposed track.
"Q. Has the city of Martinsville grown very much in size
and business within the last year or two?

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

"A. It has grown very much in business over our line, and
I notice there is considerable building.
"Q. Well, in your opinion, is this proposed extension of your
track necessary for the public convenience and for enabling
the railroad to meet the business demands of the city of Martinsville?
"A. It is, sir. There is another fact of public interest which
occurs to me that probably the court would like to know. The
manufacturers, or parties who use steam coal, are more conveniently located to the Danville and Western station than
to the Norfolk & Western station. The coal, however, comes
into Martinsville over the Norfolk & Western. The manufacturers are very anxious to handle this coal on the Danville &
Western tracks on account of saving which there would be in
drayage and on account of convenience. We have an understanding with the Norfolk & Western traffic people that we
will switch this coal to our tracks. It is not practicable now
to do this, because we have no track room. It will be practicable if this proposed road is built, and that is the object of the
understanding.
"Q. Then this proposed extension will be, or will it not be,
for the use of the public and for the reception and delivery of
consignments by your railway to the entire public?
"A. It will be for the use of the public in, that cars loaded
with carload shipments conpigned to various consignees in
Martinsville will be placed on these tracks to be unloaded, and
empty cars will be placed on these tracks to be loaded by
shippers.
"Q. You mean by shippers, shippers generally?
"A.-Yes, sir; shippers generally, anybody who wants to
ship a carload of freight Will get his car on the track."
The testimony given by other witnesses did not materially
add to or affect this evidence, though the other testimony and
the cross-examination of the superintendent tended to show
that in order to render the general public use of the spur track
practicable and convenient, grading, the construction of retain-

HAIRSTON v. DANVILLE & WESTERN RAILWAY. 605
208 U. a.

Opinion of the Court.

ing walls, and- the improvement and change of grade of Fontaine street, would be required. It was shown that the tobacco
company agreed, in writing, to give to the railway company
a part of the land over which the spur track was to be constructed and to pay the cost of the remainder. The railway
company, on-the other hand, agreed to continue the operation
of the spur track as long as the tobacco factory was operated,
but reserved the option to abandon the spur track in case the
factory was abandoned.for six months. In that case the land
given by the tobacco company was to revert to it.
Mr. Abram P. Staples and Mr. Waller R. Staples, with whom
Mr. John W. Carterwas on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George E. Hamilton, with whom Mr. Michael J. Colbert
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JuSTICe MOODY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The condemnation of land in this case has been held by the
courts of Virginia to be authorized by the constitution and laws
of that State,. and we have no right to review that aspect of
the decision. The law of Virginia permits no exercise -of the
right of eminent domain except for public uses. Fallsburg
Power Company v. Alexander, 101 Virginia, 98; Dice v. Sherman,
59 S. E. Rep. 388. Therefore it must be assumed that this taking was held to be for public uses, although there was no specific
finding of the fact, but only a general judgment of condemnation. The plaintiff in error, however, insists that the record
*in this case, which includes all the evidence, shows, unmistakably, that the taking was for private uses and that the claim
by the railway company, that the sptir track was designed in
part for public uses, is no better than a colorable pretense.
We 'ssume that, if the condemnation was for .private uses, it
is forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment. Missouri Pacific
Railway v. Nebraska; 164 U. S. 403; Fallbrook IrrigationDis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

bid v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112,161; TractionCompany v. Mining
Company, 196 U. S. 239, 251, 252, 260; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.
361, 369; Stric lkey v. HighlandBoy Mining Co.,200 U. S. 527.
We proceed to consider whether the uses of the spur track
for which the land was taken were private, and therefore such
uses for which a taking by the right of eminent domain is forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment. The courts of the
States, whenever the question has been presented to them for
decision, have, without exception, held that it is beyond the
legislative power to take, against his will, the property of one
and give it to another for What the court deems private uses,
even though full compensation for the taking be required.
But, as has been shown by a discriminating writer (1 Lewis on
Eminent Domain, 2d ed., sec. 157), the decisions have been
rested on different grounds. Some cases proceed upon the express and some on the implied prohibitions of state constitutions, and some on the vaguer reasons derived from what seems
to the judges to be the spirit of the Constitution or the fundamental principles of free government. The rule of state decision
is clearly established and we have no occasion here to consider
the varying reasons which have influenced its adoption. But
when we come to inquire what are public uses for which the
right of compulsory taking may be employed, and what are
private uses for which the right is forbidden we find no agreement, either in reasoning or conclusion. The one and only
principle in which all courts seem to agree is that the nature of
the uses, whether public or private, is ultimately a judicial
question. The determination of this qluestion by the courts
has been influenced in the different States by considerations
touching the resources, the capacity of the soil,: the relative
importance of industries to the general public Welfare, and the
long-established methods and habits of the. people. In all these
respects conditions vary so-much in the States and Territories
of the Union that different results might well, be expected.
Some cases illustrative of the tendency of local conditions to
affect the judgment of courts arc Hfays v.Risher; 32 Pa.St. 169;

HAIRSTON -v. DANVILLE'& WESTERN RAILWAY. 607
208 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

Boston & Roxbury Mill Corp. v. Newman, 12 Pick. 467 (conf.
Lowell. v. Boston, 111 Massachusetts, 454); Turner v. Nye, 154
Massachusetts, 579; Ex parte Bacot, 36 S. C 125; Dayton Mining
Co. v. Seawell, 11 Nevada, 394; Mining Co. v. Parker, 59 Georgia, 419; Head v. Amoskeag Manufacturing Company, 113 U. S.
9; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Strickley v. HighlandBoy Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527; Otis Co. v. Ludlow Co., 201 U. S. 140.
The propriety of keeping in view by this court, while enforcing
the Fourteenth Amendment, the diversity of local conditions
and of regarding with great respect the judgments of the state
courts upon what should be deemed public uses in that State,
is expressed, justified, and acted upon in Fallbrook Irrigation
Districtv. Bradley, ub. sup., Clark v. Wells, ub. sup. and Strickley
v. Highland Boy Mining Co., ub. sup. What was said in these
cases need not be repeated here. No case is recalled where this
court has condemned as a violation of the Fourteenth Almendment a taking upheld by the state court as a taking for public
uses in conformity with its laws. In Missouri Pacific Railway
v. Nebraska, ub. sup., it was pointed out (p. 416) that the taking
in that case was not held by the state court to be for public
uses. We must not be understood as saying that cases may not
arise where this court would decline to follow the state courts
in their determination of the uses for which land could be taken
by the right of eminent domain. The cases cited, however, show
how greatly *e have deferred to the opinions of the state courts
on this subject, which so closely concerns the welfare of their
people. We have found nothing in the Federal Constitution
which prevents the condemnation by 'one person for his individual use of a right of way over the land of another for the
construction of an irrigation ditch; of a right of way over the
land of another for an airial bucket line; or of the right to flow
the land of another by the erection of a dam. It remains for
the future to diclose what cases, if any, of taking for uses
which the state constitution, law, and court approve will be
held to be forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Entering upon the consideration of the case at bar in the
spirit of our previous decisions, it presents no difficulties. Th
Virginia court has, in effect, found that the condemnation was
for' public uses.. The evidence fully' warranted that finding..
We need not consider whether a condemnation by a railroad,
authorized by a state law and approved by the state court, of
land for the construction of a spur track to be used solely to
transport commodities to the main line and thence to the place
of sale and consumption throughout the country, is a violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment; nor the authorities bearing upon
the question whether such a use is public. Here the proposed
spur track can be used, and was designed to be used, not only
for access to the, factory of the tobacco company but for the
storage of cars to be laden or unladen by receivers and shippers
of freight, and to relieve the congestion of business which,
through the growth of the town, overburdened the limited
trackage of the railroad. We think the court below was justified in finding that the superintendent testified accurately
when he- said, "In order to meet the demands of the business,
therefore, it is absolutely necessary to obtaih more and better
terminal facilities here;" and "We have located what we think
to be the best and most feasible line to accomplish two objectsget the terminal facilities; and at the same time reach the plant
*of the Rucker & Witten Tobacco Co.;" and "It will be for the
use of the public, in that cars loaded with carload shipments
will be placed on these tracks to be unloaded and
empty cars will be placed on those tracks to be loaded by
shippers." This testimony describes a use which is clearly
public. Railroad v. Porter, 43 Minnesota, 527; Ulmer v. Lime
'Rock Co.,.98 Maine, 579.; Railway v. Morehouse, 112 Wisconsin,
.1; Railway v. Petty, 57 Arkansas, 359; Zircle v. Railway, 102
Virginia, 17. The uses for which the track was desired are not
the less public because the motive which dictated its'location
over this particular land was to reach a private industry, or
because the proprietors of that industry contributed in any
way to the cost.

WABASH RAILROAD CO. . ADELBERT COLLEGE. 609
208 U.S.

Statement of the Cas.

We. have considered the elaborate argument of counsel that
the track was not intended for the use of the public generally,
and that it could not, in fact, be so used, and are not convinced
by it. The, judgment is

Affirmed.
WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v.- ADELBERT COLL)EGE OF-THE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 40. Petition for rehearinik and motion to modify Judsment. Submitted January381.
1908.-Decided March 9, 1908.

Petition for rehearing and motion to modify judgment in this case, anls,.
p.-38, denied and further held in this case that:
Where property is in possession and under the control of the Federal court,
the declaration of a lien upon that property is a step toward the invasion
of the court's possession thereof and is equally beyond the jurisdiction of

the state court as an order for the sale of the property to satisfy the lien
would be.
In a proceeding in the state court, the ascertainment of the amount due,
whether judgment can berendered, and the issuing of execution against
a corporation, whose property is under the control of the Federal court,
are questions exclusively for the state bourt and may be regarded as
independent of the proceedings for the enforcement of the lien.
Where claims are presented for adjudication to the Circuit Court against

property in its possession and there are conflicting decisions of the state
and Federal courts as to the rights of the parties, the Circuit 'Court must

first determine which decision it will follow. This court cannot pass upon
that question until it is properly before it.
AFTER the decision in this case, reported 208 U. S. 38, the
defendants in error petitioned for a rehearing and moved, if
that were denied, that the judgment be modified: The substance of the motion was stated by counsel to be that the judgment should, be modified "by specifically directing that the
Supreme Court of Ohio affirm so much of the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Lucas County, Ohio, as finds and adjudicates
the rights of these defendants in error, and each of them,
VOL. OCVii-39

