OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U.S

by paying the amount of taxes due the United States, with
costs and charges; or, after sale, could have redeemed the land
in the mode prescribed by the statute. But neither of those
courses was pursued, because, as the petition states, the firm
represented by Smith was pecuniarily unable to pay the amount
necessary for the redemption of the land from the sale. But
that was the misfortune of the parties concerned. The fact
could not affect the right of the United States to have the interest of the distiller, whatever that was at the time its lien
attached, sold for the taxes.
These views dispose of the case; for, it cannot be that any
liability rests upon the United States to pay the debt secured
by the deed of trust of 1869, if it be true, and we hold it to be
true, that whatever the Government did in the collection of
the taxes due to it, was in pursuance of its rigbts under the
law. We are unable to perceive that either the distiller Stephens
or any one asserting rights under the above deed of trust had
or has any ground of action against the Government.
Passing, as unnecessary to decide, many of the questions
discussed by counsel, we affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP.'
PETITIONS FOR WRITS OF MANDAMUS.
Nos. 11, 12. Original.

Argued December 0, 1907.-Decided January 13, 1908.

An unsatisfied, justiciable claim of some right involving the jurisdictional
amount made by a citizen of one State against a citizen of another State
is a controversy or dispute between the parties within the meaning .of
The Docket Titles were, in No. 11, Matter of Reiseniberg and another,
and in No. 12, Matter of Konrad and another. The petition in each case
was for a Writ of Mandamus against the Honorable E. Henry Lacombe,
Circuit Judge of the United States for the Second Circuit and against the
Circuit Courtof the United States for the Southern District of New York.

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP.
208 U. S.

91

Statement of the Case.

the statutes defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court (acts of March 3,
1875, c. 137, § 1, 18 Stat. 470; March 3, 1887, c. 373, §1, 24 Stat. 552;
August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 1,.25.Stat. 433), and such jurisdiction does
not depend upon the denial by the defendant of the existence of the
claim or of its amount or validity.
In this case-there being such a claim, and the requisite diversity of citizenship, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction although the defendant admitted
the facts and the liability, waived the objection that the complainants
were not entitled to equitable relief, and joined in the request for appointment of receivers.
The mere fact that the defendant is engaged in interstate commerce does
not give the Circuit Court jurisdiction; in cases in which this court has
sustained the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the appointment of receivers, jurisdiction existed by reason of diversity of citizenship and not
merely because the defendants were engaged in interstate commerce.
The defense in an equity suit that'the complainant has not exhausted his
remedy at law, or is not a judgment creditor, may be waived by defendant, and when waived-as it may be by consenting to the appointment
.of receivers- -the case stands as though the objection never existed.
Where the ayerments of the bill are true, and there is no question -as to the
diversity of citizenship, or any -evidence that a case was fraudulently
created to give jurisdiction to the Federal court, the case will not be
regarded as collusive merely because the parties preferred to resort to
the Federal court instead of to a state court; in the absence of any improper act, the motive for bringing the suit is unimportant.
After the Federal court has properly obtained jurisdiction over a corporation and has appointed receivers thereof, an order permitting other parties
closely identified therewith to intervene and extending their receivership
over them is not of a jurisdictional nature, and in this case the discretion
was, in view of all the facts, properly exercised.
A receivership of a railroad as a going concern, although at times necessary
and proper-as in this case, where the refusal to appoint a receiver would
have led to sacrifice of property, confusion among the creditors, and
great inconvenience to the travelling public-should not be unnecessarily prolonged, and in case of unnecessary delay the court should listen
to the application of any creditor upon due notice to the receiver for the ,
prompt termination of the trust or vacation of the order appointing receivers.

THESE are original applications -to this court for leave to
file a petition for a mandamus, or, in the alternative, for a pro,
hibition, addressed to the Honorable E. Henry Lacombe, one

of the Circuit Judges of the Second Circuit, commanding him
and the Circuit"Qourt to dismiss the bill of complaint against
the railroad companies hereinafter mentioned, and all pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

ceedings therein, and to vacate- injunctions therein issued by
such judge, and also to vacate the orders appointing the receivers of such railroads, and to desist from exercising any
further jurisdiction over such roads in such suit, or, in the
alternative, commanding the judge to allow petitioners interyention, or that a writ of prohibition might issue to obtain the
same relief.
It is alleged in. the petition in No. 11 that the petitioners are
creditors of the Metropolitan Street Railway Company on
account of injuries alleged to have been received by each,
through the negligence of the company's servants-in one case
some time prior to June 27, 1895, and in the other on or about
June 13, 1892. Actions had been brought by each, and are
still pending at the time of this application.
In No. 12 it is alleged that the petitioner is the administrator
of one Paul Planovsky, deceased, and as such he recovered a
judgment for damages for the death of the decedent against
the New York City Street Railway Company for over eight
thousand dollars, which is still unpaid, the company having
appealed from the judgment to the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, and the appeal is
still pending. The petitioner also alleged a cause of action in
his own behalf, arising out of the refusal of the company to
give him tickets entitling him to transfers, by which he was,
as he alleged, damaged by the payment of additional fares to
the amount of at least two hundred dollars.
The further facts set up in each of the petitions are substantially identical.
Upon reading the petitions orders were made allowing them
to be filed, and rules to show cause why the petitions should not
be granted were thereupon entered, returnable before this court
on the ninth of December, 1907.
On that day there was duly filed a return'of the Circuit Judg6
in each proceeding, who gave therein a short history of the
litigation culminating in the appointment of receivers of the
railroads mentioned, and stating the then condition of such

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP.
208 U.S.

93

Statement of the Case.

litigation. There were filed, as a part of such returns, copies
of the bill of complaint under which the receivers were appointed, and of the answer of the New York City Railway
Company, and also copies of certain affidavits made in behalf
of complainants and defendant in the suit.
It is upon the case made by the petition for a mandamus
and the return of the Circuit Judge that the questions arise for
the decision of this court.
It appears from such record that in September, 1907,. the
New York City Railway Company and the Metropolitan Railway Company were corporations organized under the laws of
thd State of New York, and that the New York City Railway
Com pany was operating a system nf surface street railroads
in New York County, as the owner of some and the lessee of
others. The Metropolitan Railway Company was interested,
either as owner or as lessee of some eighteen separate and
independent railroads, all of which it had leased to the New
York City Railway Conipany, by lease dated February 14,
1902, for 999 years.
While the New York City Railway Company was operating
these various railways a bill against it was filed September 24,
1907, 'in the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York, by the Pennsylvania Steel Company,
a citizen of Pennsylvania, and by the Degnon Contracting
Company, a citizen of New Jersey, as complainants, in which
the complainants alleged an indebtedness due from the railway
company of over $30,000 to the steel company and over
$11,000 to the Degnon. Company, for rails and other track
material and for labor done for the company, at its request,
and that payment of the debts had been demanded of the railway company by each of the complainants, and refused. It
also appeared that the defendant was insolvent; that it was
operating-as owner of some and lessee of other portionsa system of some five hundred miles of track, covering substantially all the surface railroads in New York, comprising
many different companies, which owned many different rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

208 U. S.

roads, which had been leased to the Metropolitan Railway Company and by it leased to the defendant company; that all the
roads which had been leased to the defendant company were
covered by many separate and independent mortgages for
different sums, maturing at different times; the New York City
Railway Company was under obligations to pay the interest
on the funded debt of its lessor, by reason of the lease from the
Metropolitan Railway Company under which it was operating
these various roads. Failure to meet the interest on the funded
indebtedness as it matured would operate as a default and
would render the mortgages enforceable.
One of these mortgages was for over twelve and another for
over sixteen millions of dollars, and other mortgages increased
the whole mortgage debt, on all the lines, to about one hundred
millions of dollars. The New. York City Railway Company, as
lessee, had expended more than twenty millions of dollars in
improvements, and was also indebted in other large sums,
aggregating between five and ten millions of dollars more, by
reason of expenditures for equipment and for repairs; also for
taxes, and also for a large amount of floating indebtedness,
besides which there were a great number of suits pending against
it to recover damages for alleged injuries sustained through
alleged negligence of its servants, and whidh were on the
calendars of the New York courts, and the plaintiffs. therein
were pressing for trial. If judgment were obtained in any 9f
these cases, or in any other of the cases where creditors were
pressing their demands, it would result in disastrous consequence to the public, by a possible sale and dismemberment
of the system under which the railroads were then operated,
and might result in sales of portions of the roads to different
individuals or corporations, by reason of which it would be
impossible to continue the transfer of passengers from one road
to another for one fare, such as was then inoperation; and.a
sale of 'the roads would probably be for a sum greatly beneath
their value, and thus the security for all the creditors for the
ultimate payment of their claims would be impaired and very

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP.
208.U.S.

95

Statement of the Case.

greatly injured. The defendant was, as it is stated, unable to
pay these various obligations as they matured.
For these, and other reasons stated with great detail in the
bill, it was asked that' the court would take the road into its
possession, and that the creditors of the defendant might
be ascertained and the court fully administer the fund, consisting of the entire. railroad system and other assets of the
defendant; that the assets should be marshalled and the respective liens and priorities existing therein should be ascertained, and that the court should enforce and decree the rights,
liens and equities of all the creditors. of the defendant, as the
same might be finally ascertained by the court; that, for the
purpose of preserving the unity of the system, a receiver might
be appointed, with power to-collect all the assets of the company, and with authority to 'run and operate the railroads.
and collect and receive all the rents due and apply the income
thereof, under the direction of the court, for such period as
the court should order; and for the purpose of protecting and
preserving the railroads and assets, and property,. real and
personal, from being sacrificed under proceedings liable to be
taken, which might prejudice the same; and that, tempora'rily and pending the suit, an injunction might issue against
the defendant and all persons claiming to act by, through or
under it, and all other persons, restraining them from interfering with the receiver taking possession of the property,
..4nd that. complainants might have such further relief as was
proper.
Upon the filing of this bill a -;ubpcena was duly issued and
.upon the defendant, the New York City Railway Comserved
pany, and an answer was. put in by. that company,
which admitted all the allegationsof the bill, and.it joined in the prayer
of the' bill that 'the court should take possession, by receiver,
r. the system of railroads operated by the defendant, and that
* the' receiver should, after. taking possession of the entire property, preserve, ,manage, operate and contrpl the same, .and
..should pay all the indebtedness due or to become due, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

otherwise discharge all the duties imposed by courts. upon receivers in similar cases.
Upon this bill and answer an application was made to the
Circuit Judge for the appointment of a receiver and such application was granted, and xeceiyers were duly appointed, with
directions to operate the road. They were given power to
borrow money, if needful in their judgment, in order to comply
with the order, and make appropriate payments on account
"of accruing rent and ,other necessary charges, so far as might
be necessary to pay off current expenses for labor. and supplies,
but for no other purpose without the order of the court. The
defendant and its officers, and all persons claiming to act under
the defendant, and all other persons, were enjoined from interfering in any way with the possession and management of the
property by the receivers; and it was ordered that the defendant should show cause on the seventh of October, 1907, why
the receivership should not be continued during the pendency
of the suit; and upon the hearing thereon, it was ordered that
any other creditors of the defendant, or any other party in
interest might be heard.
Prior to the seventh of October, 1907, the Metropolitan
Railway Company presented a petition to' the Circuit Court,
wherein it asked to be made a party tc the original suit of the
steel company and others -against the New York City Railway
Company, and that the rleceivership under the bill might be
extended so as to expressly embrace the interests of the Metropolitan Railway Company in the property. The petition
showed the foregoing facts in relation to the lease of the property to the New York City Railway Company, and it averred
that, by reason of these leases and the various mortgages upon
portions of the property, and the operation of all the miles of
railroad as one system, and because of the fact*that the property of the Metropolitan Railway Company was all of it so.
leased to the New York City Railway Company that it had to
depend on the solvency of the latter company in order that
payment might be made on the varibus mortgages on the:

Re METROPOLILAN. RAILVAY RECEIVERSHIP. 97
208 U.

S.

Statement of the Cae.

various roads for which the Metropolitan Railway Company
was responsible as lessee, and which it had also leased to the
New York City Railway Company, the two companies were so
inextricably bound together that if the New York City Railway
Company went into the hands of a receiver and all its property
were taken possession of by that officer it was necessary, in
the interest of all concerned, that the Metropolitan Railway
Compahy should also be made a party to the suit and the receivership extended to it. Under this petition the court granted
an order making the Metropolitan Railway Company a party
defendant and extending the receivership to it, and the injunction was also extended so as to enjoin that company from
interfering with the possession of the receivers.
In October, 1907, an application was made to the. Circuit
Court on the part of those who are now petitioners in this court,
in which application, it was alleged that the bill of complaint
in the above-mentioned suit, and the answer consenting to
.the appointment of receivers and admitting the allegations
in the bill, were filed collusively for the purpose of avoiding
the jurisdiction of the courts of the State, and for the purpose
of creating a case cognizable under the judiciary act of the
United States by the United States.oourts. And it was averred
that the suit in which the bill and answer were filed did not
and does not really and substantially involve any dispute between the parties, nor did it involve any real or substantial
controversy between them, or any dispute between them which
was within .the jurisdiction of the court. (All these averments
were.. reiterated in the petitions presented to this court.)
Various other facts were included in the petition to the Circuit
Court, and it was prayed that an order might be made dismissing the bill in equity for fraud, collusion and want of jurisdiction and setting aside the order appointing .a receiver, or,
in case that application was denied, then that the order appointing a receiver should be amended, by providing that
liabilities for personal injuries and ,for causing the death of
individuals should have the preference over other claims on
VOL. covii-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

the distribution of the asscts. The petition was subsequently
amended so as to add a further prayer that the petitibner,
individually and as admiriistrator, might be allowed to intervene in the. suit ,on behalf of himself individually and as administrator and on behalf of all other judgment creditors of
the defendant who might come in and contribute to the defense of the suit.
In opposition to this application affidavits were presented
by the persons who had verified the original bill of complaint
in behalf of the two companies against the New York City
Railway Company (and copies of these affidavits are made
part of the returns of the Circuit Judge), denying that the
purpose of the suit or of the application for the receivership was
for stock jobbing or other improper purposes, and each admitted
that the suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the purpose of having that court take jurisdiction,
and denied that there was any impropriety or collusion or
anything else wrongful in the conduct of the complainants.
Each affidavit contained an averment that as non-residents
of the State of New York, complainants had an absolute right
to decide whether to bring the suit in the courts of the United States or in the courts of the State of New York; and it was
denied that the object of the suit was anything else than appears
on the face of the bill, namely, the administration of the assets
of the defendant in a proper court having jurisdiction thereof.
All charges of collusion aud suppression of facts and of wrong- '
'doing were denied absolutely. And a similar affidavit was
made by the officers of the New York City Railway Company
who had verified the answer to the bill of complaint, and copies
thereof are also made part 6f the returns of the Circuit Judge.
The application was denied.
On October 25,' 1907, a dcree was entered adjudging the
New York City Railway Company to be insolvent and order-.
ing a reference to a master to take proof of claims and report
to the court, providing that all claims should be presented to
the master on or before November 30, 1907. and that the

* Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP. 99
208 U. S.-

Statement of the Case.

master should give public notice accordingly, the notice to
contain a statement of the time and place of first hearing before
the "master.
On the ninth of November,'1907, the court made a similar
order, adjudging the Metropolitan Railway Company insolvent, and adjudging that its assets should be marshalled, and
appointing a master asin the other case.
The order continuing the appointment of the receivers permitted all pending suits against the New York City Railway
Company and the Metropolitan Railway Company, which were
begun bcfore the receivers were appointed, to be prosecuted
to judgment. Inregard to claims for damages resulting from
accidents before the* receivers had been 'appointed, but in
which suit had not been conimenccd at the time of such appointment, it was provided that they might be filed with the
receivers and might go to a master for adjustment, and, in
any case,,it was ordered that if the plaintiff wished a jury trial
he might have it, and the claim, if judgment were obtained,
would thereby be liquidated, and would rank with claims
*already in suit.
As a reason for commencing these proceedings petitioners
averred that they could not appeal frotm the order of the Circuit Court denying their application for leave to intervene
in the suit commenced by the Pennsylvania Steel Company,
and others, nor could they take any steps in that suit, and, as
they were enjoined from taking any proceeding in regard to,
the possession by the receivers of the property of the two railway companies, they were without any remedy looking toward
a review of the orders and decrees of the Circuit Court,' other
than by the application to this court in the manner they are
proceeding.
In the Course of his decision on the application to.make the
receivers- permanent the Circuit Judge said, in relation to the
allegations of collusion, as follows:
"There is no collusion apparent in any legal sense. It is of
course manifest that complainants and defendants were en-

100

.- OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument- for Petitioners.

208 U. S.

tirely in accord and arranged together that the suit should be
brought in the Federal court and that the averments of the
bill should be admitted by the answer. But there was no
colorable assignment of some claim to a citizen of another
State, nor any misrepresentation or distortion of facts to mislead the court. On the contrary, examination of the books
shows that the financial situation is precisely such as was
averred in the complaint."
And in relation to extending the receivership
to the Metropolitan Railway Company and allowing that company to be
.made a party defendant, the court said:
"Having taken its entire property into possession of the court
under conditions which left it powerless to recover the same
for a year, the receivership left it wholly without means to
meet its obligations and it seems to be clearly the duty of the
court which has thus deprived it of its resources to protect
it against execution while receivers handle and distribute those
resources."
Mr. Roger Foster for'petitioners:'
The petitioners are entitled to the remedy. by mandamus.
Otherwise, they will be enjoined from proceeding in their suits
and collecting their claims without a hearing upon a motion
to dissolve the injunction, and without 'any right to revibw
the injunction order and the subsequent order continuing the
same.
There are two fundamentals of the common law, which are
essentials of that due process of law which is guaranteed by
the Constitution. Where there is a right there is a remedy.
Ashby v. White, 1 Salkeld, 19. No person can be denied a
hearing before he is prevented from asserting a claim of right.
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 734.
Intervenors
S
'
have no right of appeal, except possibly in the*
case of an _intervention after -judgment upon an application to share in a fund in court; and they never have a right to ippeal.
from an order denying their right to intervene and defend a

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP. 101
208 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

suit.. Ex pare Cutting, 94 U. S.. 14; Jones & Laughlins L'd v.
Sands, 79 Fed. Rep. 913; Credits Commutation Co. v. United
States, 91 Fed. Rep. 570, 573; S. C., 177 U. S. 311; Toledo,
St. L. & K. C. R. Co. v. Continental Tr. Co (C. C. A.), 95 Fed.
Rep. 497, 536.
If they attack this judgment collaterally, they cannot object because of a failure of the requisite difference of citizenship between parties to a controversy in the same. Kempe's
Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 173, 185; Skillern's Ex'rs v. May's
Ex'rs, 6 Cranch, 267; Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591;
Des Moines Nay. Co. v. Iowa H. Co., 123 U. S. 552, 557, 559;
Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327, 337-341; Pullman's P. C.
Co. v. Washburn, 66 F ed. Rep. 790. See also Ex parte Richards,
117 Fed. Rep. 658; In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 548; Conkling Co. v.
Russell, ill Fed. Rep. 417; Hollins v. Brierfield Coal Co.., 150
U. S. 371.
The duty to dismiss the proceedings is statutory. The facts
showing. that there is no controversy and consequently no
jurisdiction, have been found by the judge and are not disputed.
There is no room for the exercise by the Circuit Court of judicial judgment or discretion. This court has jurisdiction -to
issue the appropriate writ in a case like this. Ex parte Wisner,
203 U. S. 449; 'United States v. Severens, 71 Fed. Rep. .768;
S. C., 18 C. C. A. 314.
The entire proceedings are -void for want of jurisdiction,
and it was the duty of the Circuit Judge to dismiss the same
as soon as that matter 'was called to his attention. Act of.
* March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 5, 18 Stat. 472. It is the duty of
the court to dismiss such a case upon its own motion as
soon as it discovers its want of jurisdiction or the improper
or collusive joinder. Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209;
Hartog v. Memory, 116 U. S. 588. In this case it clearly appeared that there was no controversy -between citizens of
different States. 'There was no controversy of any sort. The
complainants did not pray the payment of their respective
claims. They merely ,prayed a receivership, coupled with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

208 U. S.

general administration of the assets, which general administration they have refused to enter a decree directing.
There van be no controversy between the parties*when the
defendant has requested the plaintiff to bring the case.
There can be no matter in dispute when there-isno dispute between the parties. The proceeding was not an action at common law; but a bill in equity for the appointment
of a receiver. Not'having reduced their claims to judgment,
they are not entitled to the relief prayed except by defendant's
consent. 'Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178, 181.
There is a distinction between "matter in disjute" and
"matter il demand." Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165, 174;
May v. Trust Co., 128 Missouri, 447, 449; Lozano v.. Wehmer,
22 Fed. Rep. 755, 757; Gudger v. Western R. Co., 21 Fed.
Rep. 81, 84; Keith v. Levi, 2 Fed. Rep. 743, 745.
There was collusion between the parties. Collusion does not
necessarily imply fraud, but the derivation of the word implies
co6peration or playing together. See Louisville Trust Co. v.
Louisville, New Albany & Chicago Ry. Co., 174 U. S. 674, 677,
687, 689; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gay, 26 S. W. Rep. 599,
612; S. C., 86 Texas, 571; Balch v. Bea.h, 95 N. W. Rep. 132,
137. The learned judge who granted these orders was misled by the analogy of certain decisions by the inferior Federal
courts upon applications for the appointment of receivers of
'railway companies engaged in interstate commerce which would
be impeded unless receivers were appointed. Such were
cases of "property constituting a link in a great continental
railway," and manifestly arose under the Constitution and laws
of the United States. , Mercantile Tr. Co. v. Atlantic & P. R.
Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 518, 524; In re Lennon, 166 U. S.548, 553.
There was not the slightest justification for the extension
of the receivership so as to-reinclude the assets of the Metropolitan Street Railway Company; nor.for the joinder of thatcompany as a party to the suit. All the assets of that corporation, except its causes of action against its lessee, the directors
of both companies and the other persons, who had misappro-

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP. 103
208 U.

B

Argument for Respondent.

priated and waSted its property, were transferred bythe lease
to the New York City Railway Company. Those assets were,
consequently, already under the protecti6n of the court. The
only object of the order extending the receivership over the
property of the Metropolitan Street Railway Company was to
head off all actions by the state attorney general, the stockholders and creditors of the lessors, that might be brought to
compel the lessee and theofficers and directors of both parties
to the lease to account for the waste of -the lessorT property.
In cases where trustees represented conflicting interests, the
courts have always been accustomed to allow interventions.
Farmers' L. & Tr. Co. v. Nor. Pac. R. Co.*, 66 Fed. Rep. 169;
Farmers'L. & Tr.Co. v. Cape Fear & Y. V. Ry. Co., 71 Fed. Rep.
38; Grand Tr. Ry. Co. v. Central Vt. Ry. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 622;
Fowler v. Jarmis-Conklin M. Tr. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 279; Hamlin v. Toldo, St. L. & K. C.. R. Co., 78 Fed. Rep. 664, 672;
Jones on Corporate Bonds, § 338.
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin.for therespondent in No. 11, Original:
Granting the-order allowing the Metropolitan Street Railway
Company to intervene -inthe original suit, for the protection
*of its own interests, and those'of its creditors in its railway
lines which were in the custody of the court, under the p.rior
receivership, was a legitimate exercise of judicial di~cretion.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to entertain the applica*tion of the Metropolitan Company for leave to intervene seems
plain. It rests on two facts: first, that the subject matter of
the controversy was in the actual possession of receivers appointed by the court, Freemoom.v. Howe, 24 I-ow. 450; Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S' 276; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 131;
Morgan's Comp
pany v. Texas Central Ry., 137 U. S. 171; In re
Tyler, 149 U. S. 164; .Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47; Carey v.
Houston &. Texas Ry., 161 U. S. 115; White v. Ewi ng, 159
U. S. 36; Pope v. Louisville &c. Ry., 173 U. S. 573; Porter v.
Sabin, 149 U. S. 473, 479;.Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608,
618; Price v. Abbott, 17 Fed. Rep. 506; Armstrong v. Trautman,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Respondent.

208 U. S.

36 Fed. Rep. 275; Compton v. Jesup, 68 Fed. Rep. 263; S. C.,
15 C. C' A. 397; Lanning v. Osborne, 79 Fed. Rep. 657, 662;
Toledo &c. R. Co. v. Continental Trust Co., 95 Fed. Rcp. 497,
05; S. C., 36 C. C. A. 155; Davis v. Martin, 113 Fed. Rep. 6,
9; S. C., 51 C. C. A. 27; and, second, that the administration
of the assets of an insolvent corporation is within the functions of a court of equity, and, the parties being before the
court, it has, power to proceed with such administration.
Hollins v. Brierfield Coal Co., 150 U. S. 371, 380; see also
Quincy. v. Humphreys, 145 U. S. 82, '95.,
The right of the 6ourt to prmit intei'vention by a party
claiming an interest in the property in the hands of a receiver
is not affected by the question of citizenship. Compton v.
Jesup, 68 Fed. Rep. 263; Continental Trust Co. v. Toledo Ry.,
82 Fed. Rep. 642; Toledo, St. Louis & K. C. R. Co. v. Continental Trust Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 497..
The propriety of making lessors of railways parties defendant in a suit, either by a creditor, stockholder or mortgagee,
to secure" the administration of the assets of an insolvent
railway system, where such system includes leased railways,
has been repeatedly recognized in the Federal courts. Central
Trust Company v. Wabash Railway Company, 29 Fed. Rep.
618; Central Trust Company v. Wabash Railway Company, 34
Fed. Rep. 259, 260, 261; Quincy &c. Ry. Co. v. Humphreys,
145 U. S. 82, 85-89; St. Joseph &c. Railway Company v. Humphreys, 14Y U. S. 105, 106; Ames v. Union Pacific Company,
60 Fed. Rep. 966-968; Central Railroad & Banking Company
of Georgia v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 79 Fed. Rep.
158-160; Mercantile Trust Company v. St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 601, 602; Meicantile Trust Co. v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 81Fed. Rep. 254, 255-258.
Mr. James Byrne for the'respondent in No. 1?, Original:
The claim that the decree appointing a receiver is void because made on the application of a simple contract creditor
is without merit. While it is true that a court of equity, on

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP. 105
208 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

the application of a simple contract creditor, will not appoint
a receiver if objection is made by the defendant that the creditor has not obtained a judgment on which execution has been
issued and returned unsatisfied, it is equally true that the defense is one which may be waived either expressly, or by failure
to take the objection and that if it is waived the court has
jurisdiction of the parties and its decree appointing the receiver
is valid. Hollin v. Briefield C. & I. Co., 150 U. S. 371; West.
Electric Co. v. Reedy, 66 Fed. Rep. 163, 164; Park v. N. Y.,
Lake Erie & West. R. R.. Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 641, 642; Waite v.
O'Neill, 72 Fed. Rep. 348, 353; Ross-Meehan Co. v. Iron Co.,
72 Fed. Rep. 957, 959; Temple v. Glasgow, 80 Fed...Rep. 441,
444; Schoolfield'v2 Rhodes, 82 Fed. Rep. 153, 157; Enos v.
N. Y. & 0. R. Co., 103 Fed. Rep. 47; Horn v. Pere Marquette
R.' R. Co., 151 Fed. Rep. 626. See also Searight v. Bank, 162
Pa. St. 504; People's Bank v. Loeffert, 184 Pa. St. 164; Penna.
R. R. Co. V.. Bogert, 209 Pa. St. 589; Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Wilkinson, 100 Maryland, 31;- Clark v. Flint, 22 Pickering, 231;
First CongregationalSociety v. Trustees, 23 Pickering, 148.
In this case -there was absolutely no collusion, no positive
action was taken to found a jurisdiction which otherwise would
not exist, and the action is genuine and not merely colorable.
The suit does, in the words of § 5 of theact of March 3, 1875,
"really, and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court."
In every case that the court has held to be collusive some
positive action had been taken to found a jurisdiction which
otherwise would not exist, and the action had been merely
colorable and not genuine. Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S.
209; Rosenbaum v. Bauer, 120 U. S. 450; Lake County v. Dudley, 173 U. S, 243; Waite v. Santa Cruz, 184 U. S. 302; Morris
v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315; Lehigh Mining &c. Co. v. Kelley, 160
U; S. 327; Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537; Dawson v. Columbia
Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178. In this case there is absolutely nothing
of 'the sort. The jurisdiction always existed from the time the
indebtednesses arose down to .thb present moment. See also

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

\
208 U. S.

Blair v. Chicago, .201 U. S. 400; Dickerman v. Trust Co., 176
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert submitted petitions of Paul Fuller,
J. Hampden Dougherty and Melvin G. Palliser, stating that
they had been appointed receivers of the New York City
Railway Company, and the Metropolitan Street Railway Company by the Supreme Court of the State of New York on November 29, 1907,. in actions brought by the -Attorney General.
of that State for the dissolution of such companies, on the
ground that they had been insolvent for more than one year.
These petitioners, while not appearing or .intervening in
this proceeding and in no manner conceding the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States to, appoint receivers,
as stated in the return herein, and without waiving any objection, respectfully advise this court that some of the matters
purporting to be presented by the petition and the question of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court and of alleged collusion
between the parties in the action therein brought for the purpose of creatifig a case cognizable in the Federal courts may
hereafter be presented to this court on behalf of the petitioners
as. such receivers appointed by the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, and they also prayed that any action herein
may be without prejudice to their rights in the premises.
MR. JusuclE. PiCKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court,

The petitioners base their application for relief in this court
upon the contention that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
in the case brought by the Pennsylvania Steel Company, and
others, against the New York City Railway Company, to appoiat receivers, or to grant any relief asked for in the bill of
complaint in that suit. And, as they have been denied leave.
to intervene therein, and they cannot appeal from the order
*denying such request, Ez parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14; Credits
Commutation Co. v. United States, 177 U. S. 311, they assert

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP. 107
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they are without any remedy, unless it be granted on this
application. The basis of their contention, that the Circuit
Court was without jurisdiction, rests upon the assertion that
there was no controversy or dispute between the parties to
that suit. The counsel for. the parties favoring the jurisdiction insist that these petitioners are not entitled to the remedy
sought by them in this court, either by mandamus or prohibition, because the case made by them is not such as to authorize the court to issue either writ, as prayed for.
• Without going into the question of the right of this court to
grant the remedy sought, we prefer to place our decision upon
the ground that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, and that
its action in exercising it was, therefore, valid.
The statutes defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court (1
Comp. Stat. 507, 508; Act March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 1, 18 Stat.
470; Act March 3,1887, c. 373, §1, 24 Stat. 552; Act August 13,
1888, c. 866, § 1, 25 Stat. 433), confer it, among other cases,
where "there shall be a controversy between citizens of different States in which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive
of interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid," ($2,000).
Although the amount involved in the suit in the Circuit Court
was sufficient, it is insisted now that. there was no dispute or
controversy in that case within the meaning of the statute,
because the defendant admitted the indebtedness and the other
allegations of the bill of complaint, and consented to and.
united in the application for the appointment of receivers.
Notwithstanding this objection, we think there was such a
controversy between these parties as is contemplated by the
statute. In the bill filed there was the allegation that a demand
of payment of the debt due each of complainants had been
made and refused. This was not denied and has not been.
There was therefore an unsatisfied demand made by complainants and refused by defendant at the time of the filing of the
bill. We think that where there is a justiciable claim of some
right made by a citizen of one State against a citizen of another
State, involving an amount equal to the amount named in the

Ao

OCTOBER TERM) 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

statute, which claim is not satisfied by the party against whom'.
it is made, there is a controversy, or dispute, between the
parties within the meaning of the statute. It is not necessary
that the defendant should controvert or dispute the claim.
.Itis sufficient that he does not satisfy it. It might be that he
could not truthfully dispute it, and yet, if from inability, or,
*mayhap, from indisposition, he fails to satisfy it, it cannot
be that because the claim is not controverted the Federal court
has no jurisdiction of an action brought to enforce it. Jurisdiction does not depend upon the fact that the defendant denies the existence of the claim made, or its amount or validity.
If it were otherwise, then the Circuit Court would have no
jurisdiction if the defendant simply admitted his liability and
the amount .thereof as claimed, although not paying or satisfying the debt. This would involve the contention that the
Federal cturt might be without jurisdiction in many cases,
where, upon bill filed, it was taken pro conlesso, or whenever
a judgment wis entered by default. These are propositions
which, it seems to us, need only to be stated 'to be condemned.
The cases are numerous in which judgments have been entered
by consent or default where the other requisites to the jurisdiction of the Federal court existed. He/ner v. Northwestern
Lije InsuranceCompany, 123 U. S. 747, 756; Pacific Railroad v.
Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 296. In the latter case the proceeding
was "by the consent of all the parties to the suit through their
solicitors of record." It was stated in the opinion by Chief
Justice Waite that .the defendant had filed an answer under
its corporate seal, in which every material allegation of the
bill was confessed, and it was stated that the bonds sued for
were in all respects valid obligations of the company, and the.
mortgage a subsistifig lien. No doubt was expressed as to the
jurisdiction of the court, because of the admission 'of the facts
by the defendant and its consent to the judgment. We do not
doubtthe jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, although the facts.
were admitted, and the defendant joined with the complainants
in a reques. that receivers should be appointed.

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY-RECEIVERSHIP. 109
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, argued, that although there may be jurisdiction in the case of railroads engaged in interstate commerce,
yet they ar e ' exceptions, because in such a case they arise under
the Constitution, although there may not have been an actual
controversy between the parties. Such cases, it is said, cannot
properly be regarded as precedents for claiming jurisdiction
in the case of railroads wholly within the. State, and doing no
interstate business.
A case under the Constitution or laws of the United States
does not arise against a railroad engaged in interstate commerce from that mere fact. It only arises under the Constitution, or laws or treaties of the; United States, when it substahi
tially involves a controversy as to the effect or construction
of the Constitution or on the determination of which, the result depends. Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184;
Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561; Bonin v.
Gulf Company, 198 U. S. 115; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U. S.
313. The appointment of a receiver in the case of a railroad
engaged in interstate commerce does not necessarily involve
any such controversy. Jurisdiction to appoint a receiver by a
Circuit Court of the United States in cases of railroads engaged
in interstate commerce has existed by reason of diversity of
citizenship in the various cases between the parties to the litigation, and not because the railroads were engaged in interstate commerce. The necessary diversity of citizenship is
alleged to exist in the case before the Circuit Court, and there
is no suspicion as to the truth of the averment.
It is also objected that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
because the complainants were not judgment creditors, but
were simply creditors at large of the defendant railways. Theobjection was not taken before the Circuit Court by any of
the parties to the suit, but was waived by the defendant consenting to the appointment of the receivers, and admitting
all the facts averred in the bill. Hollins v. Brierfield Coal &
Iron Company, 150 U. S. 371, 380. That the complainant has
not exhausted its -remedy at law-for example, not having

1101

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

208 U. S.

obtained any judgment or issued any execution thereon-is
a defense in an equity suit which may be. waived, as is stated
in the opinion in the above case, and when waived the case
stands as though the objection never existed.
In the case in the Circuit Court the consent of the defendant
to the appointment of receivers, without setting up the defense
that the complainants were not judgment creditors who had
issued an execution which was returned unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, amounted to a waiver of that defense. Brown v.
Lake Superior Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530; Town of Mentz v. Cook,
108 N. Y. 504, 508; Horn v. Pere Marquette R. R. Co., 151 Fed.

Rep. 626, 633.
It is asserted also, that there was collusion between the complainants and the street railway companies, on account of
which the court had no jurisdiction'to proceed, and therefore
the suit should have been dismissed by the Circuit Court under
§ 5 of the act of 1875, already cited. By that section it must
appear to the satisfaction of the Circuit Court that such suit
does not really, and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of that court, or that the
parties to that suit have been improperly or collusively made
or joined for the purpose of creating a case cognizable under
that act, in which case the Circuit Court is directed to proceed
no further therein, but to dismiss the suit on that ground.
Whether the suit involved a substantial controversy we have
already discussed, and the only question which is left under
that act is as to collusion.
In this case we can find no evidence of collusion, and the
Circuit Court found there was none. It does appear that the
parties to the suit desired that the administration of the railway affairs should be taken in hand by the Circuit Court of the
United States;-and to that end, when the suit was brought,
the defendant admitted the averments in the bill and united
'in the, request for the appointment of receivers... This fact is
stated by the Circuit Judge; but there is no claim made that
the aierments in the bill were untrue, or that the debts, named

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP. 111
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the bill as owing to the complainants, did not in fact exist;
nor is there any question made as to the citizenship of the
complainants, and there is not the slightest evidence of any
fraud practiced for the purpose of thereby creating a case to.
give jurisdiction to the Federal court. That the parties pre-..
fcrred to take the subject matter of the litigation into the Federal courts, instead of pro ceeding. in one of the courts of the
State, is not wrongful. So long as no improper act was done
by wvhich the jurisdiction. of:the Federal court attached, the
motive for bringing the suit there is unimportant. Dickerman
(,. Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181, 190; South Dakota v.
North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286, 311; Blair v. City of Chicago',
201 U. S. 400, 448; Smithers v. Smith, 204 U. S. 632, 644.
The objection to the order permitting the Metropolitan Railway Company to intervene and making it a party defendant
in the Circuit, Court suit is not of a jurisdictional nature, and
the granting of the order was within the discretion of the court.
United States v. Phillips, 107 Fed. Rep. 824;.Credits&c. Co. v:
United States, 177 U. S. 311. Having jurisdiction over the
New York City Railway Company, and receivers having been
appointed for it, there was every reason for extending the receivership to the Metropolitan Railway Company. The facts
showed that it was so tied up with the New York company
that a receivership for the latter ought to be extended to -the
former. The Circuit Court Judge so held, and we think very
properly, upon the peculiar facts of the. case. See Quincy &e.
R.R. Co. v. Humphreys, 145 U. S. 82, 95; Krippendorlv. Hyde,
110 U. S. 276, 283, 284.
From this review of the various questions presented to us.
it appears that the Circuit Court 'had jurisdiction in the suit
brought before it, and therefore the application of the petitioners for a mandamus or for a prohibition must be denied.
While so holding we are not unmindful of the fact that a
court is a very unsatisfactory body to administer.the affairs
of a railroad as, going concern, and we feel that the possession
of such propert) by. the court through its receivers should not

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

be unnecessarily prolonged. There are cases-and the one in
-question seems a very strong -instance-where, in order to
preserve the property for all interests, it is a necessity to resort
.to such a remedy. A refusal to appoint a receiver would have
led in this instance almdst inevitably toa very large and useless
sacrifice in value of a great property, operated as one system
through the various streets of a populous city, and such a refusal would also have led to endless- confusion among the
various creditors in their efforts to enforce their claims, and
to very great inconvenience to -the many thousands of people
who necessarify use the road every day of their lives.
The orders appointing the receivers and giving them instructi6 ns are most conservative and well calculated to bring about
the earliest possible resumption of normal conditions when
those who may. be the owners of the property shall. be in possession of and operate it. We have no doubt, if unnecessary delays should take place, the-court would listen to an application
by any creditor, upbn due notice to the receivers, for orders
requiring the closing of the trust as soon as might be reasonably
proper, or else vacating the orders appointing the
receivers.
The rules are discharged and the petitions

Dismi ed.

