BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

to a new entry. His rights mustbe determined by the validity
of the original entry at the-time it was made.
These views dispose of the case adversely to the plaintiff,
and require an affirmance of the judgment without reference
to other questions discussed by counsel.
Affirmed:

BLACKLOCK, EXECUTOR OF RINALDO P. SMITH. v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 65. Argued December 10. 1907.-Decided January 13, 1908.

A mere recital in an act, whether of fact or of law, is not conclusive unless
it be clear that the legislature intended that it be accepted as a fact in
the case. Kinkead v. United Stalts, 150 U. S.433.
The Court of Claims was not precluded by the recitals in the act of May,
1902, 32 Stat. 207, 243, referring this case to it, fromn examining into the
facts and deterininiiig whether the claimant's lien referred to in 'the act
as a prior lien was or was not a prior lien and basing its decision upon

*the actual facts found.
Section 106 of the act of July 20, 1868, 15 Stat. 125, 167, providing for
an action in equity by the collector of internal revenue to enforce a lien
of the United States for unpaid revenue taxes, did not supersede the
provisions of the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 107, giving the remedy
of distraint so that such lien could only be enforced by suit in equity,
but it gave another and cumulative remedy in cases where, as expresped
in the act, the collector deemed it expedient. Mansfield v. Excelsior
Refining Co., 135 U. S. 326.
In this case, )eld. that the lien of the Gov,crnment for unpaid revenue taxes
on land of the delinquent was prior to that of the mortgagee bringing
this action, and tha't the sale of the land by distraint proceedings, and
not by foreclosure suit in equity, was in conformity with the act of July 13,
1866, then in force, and vested the title in the purchasers at the sale and
the;r grantees, subject to the right of redemption given by the statute
to the owners of the land.and of holders of liens thereon.
41 C. Cl. 89, affirmed.

THis appeal brings up for review a judgment of the Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1907
Statement of the Cae.

208 U. S.

of Claims dismissing a petition filed in that court against the
United States.
So far as it is.
necessary to state the facts, the case is substantially as follows;
Smith, Ellett '& Co., a firm composed of Rinaldo P. Smith
and Francis M. Ellett, were engaged in business as leather
and commission merchants in Baltimore from some time in
1867 or 1868 to0January 1, 1870.
On the twenty-sixth of October, 1869, George J. Stephens,
a distiller and tanner in Virginia, was indebted to Smith, Ellett
& Co., in the sum of $7,000, already due, and in the further sum
of $2,000 to become due in the course of future dealings. On the
same day a certain deed was executed between Stephens of the
first part, Beazley, trustee, of the second part, and Smith and
Ellett, doing business as Smith, Ellett & Co., of the third part.
It recited that Stephens was indebted to Smith, Ellett & Co. in
the sum of $4,000, evidenced by the bond or demand note of
Stephens dated October 26, 1869,. and that Smith, Ellett & Co.
had accepted, for the accommodation of Stephens, a draft for
$3,000, and had agreed to accept a further accommodation
draft for $2,000. In order that said acceptances in addition
to the note for $4,000 :might be secured, Stephens, by deed
dated .Octber 26, 1869,. 'conveyed to Beazley a tract of land
containing about 400 acres,. more or less, in Greene County,
Virginia, upon which Stephens then resided, with the mansion
house and all buildings thereon, including h tannery and distillery, and all things appurtenant .thereto "in trust to secure
the said bond 3f four. thousand dollars and all the acceptances
already made and given as-aforesaid, now current and to become
payable, and all acceptances to be hereafter, made and given
.as aforesaid, and all of which may be made and given for renewa'l of former ones, or to replace the money paid by the party
of the first part in taking up former ones as aforesaid, or in any
other manner as stated in the premises, so as tae same shall
not.exceed the sum of five thousand dollars."
.The property..conveyed was worth more'than $3,000. The

BLACKLOCK: v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

deed-was duly acknowledged and recorded on the thirtieth day
of October, 1869..
When that deed of trust was executed and recorded there
was due from Stephens to the United States Government internal revenue taxes, which had accrued from July, 1867, to
October 26, 1869, amounting to $4,000.
. On the twenty-fifth of January, 1870, Smith and Ellett executed the following instrument of writing: "Baltimore, January 25, '70. "We hereby give our consent to the use of the distillery premises of Geo. J. Stephens, situated on the Harrisonburg
turnpike, about four miles from Stannardsville, and which premises contain about three acres of land, more or less, immediately
surrounding the distillery building, and which building is contained thereon or comprised therein by daid Geo. J. Stephens,
subject to the provisions of the internal revl law, and that the
lien of the United State6 for taxes and penalties hereafter incurred shall have priority to the extent of the above-mentioned
,premises of a certain deed of trust executed by said Geo. J..
Stephens for our benefit, and whereof Wyatt S. Beazley is
trustee, and that in case of the forfeiture of the said distillery
premises, or any part thereof, the title of the same shall vest
in the United States, discharged from said decd of trust."
In order to satisfy the above taxes, and the penalties authorized by law, the Collector of Internal Revenue-for Virginia,
by his deputy,. Lawson, during December, 1870, distrained the
distillery building and about three acres (of the 400-acre tract)
upon which the.. distillery stood, and advertised the property
for sale. Prior to any sale the distillery buildings and contents,
including a quantity of whiskey, were destroyed by fire. The
collector thereupon, before the (lay of sale, extended his distraint so as to include the balance of Stephens' land, amounting
in all to about 525, acres, which included the land embraced
by the trust deed to Smith, Ellett & Co., and advertised all
of said land for sale. Pursuant to 'the advertisement, the
deputy collector, on January 12, 1871, offered the whole of
Stephens' .land for sale at public auction. Smith, being present

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the CQae.

208 U. S.

as a member of Smith, Ellett &'Co., gave formal notice of the
above deed of trust, asserting a prior lien under it to that of
the Government and protesting against the sale of the land
except subject to that lien. The deputy collector proceeded
with the sale and the property wa's bid in for the Government
-for $4,239.50, that being the amount of delinquent taxes,
penalties for non-payment thereof, and. costs of distraint and
sale. One year thereafter, January 12, 1872, that officer
executed a deed to the United States, which was duly acknowledged and recorded on Novemb.: 25, 1873.
Under the authority conferrd upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue by § 3208 of the Revised StatUtes, as amended
by the act of March 1, 1879,. and with the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury, the lands so purchased were sold, at
.public auction, by order of the Commissioner on the twelfth day
of June, 1888, and Miss Stephens became the purchaser at the
price of $500. She died after the sale, and on October 6, 1888,
the United States, by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
executed a quitclairn .deed to the devisees of the purchaser,
conveying to them. "all.right, title and interest of the United States at the time of said last named sale in the premises
aforesaid, and free from'-any claim on the part of the United
States."
* By an act of Congress of May 27, 1902, 32 Stat. 207, 243,
c. 887, it was provided: 'That jurisdiction is hereby conferred
on the Court of Claims to hear and determine the claim of
Rinaldo P. Smith, of Baltimore, Maryland, against the Government of the United States on the account of the sale, purchase,
or occupationby the Government, through its internalrevenue
officers or others, of certain real estate of on6 George J. Stephens
in Greene County, Virginia, upon which thd late firm of Smith,
Ellett & Company, now represented by Rinaldo P. Smith, had
a •prior lien; and the right of the Government to plead the
statute of'lirnitatidns in bar of' said claim is hereby waived:
Proiided, That said claimant file his petition within sixty days
fr6m the passage of this act in said Court of Claims, either at

BLACKLOCK
208 U. S.

i.

UNITED 'STATES.9

79

Statement of the Case

law or in equity as he may deem the rights of his case shall
require; and the Government shall, upon notice served according to the rules and practice of said court, appear and defend
against said suit, and the sam.ie shall proceed to final hearing
and judgment, with the right of appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States by either party, as provided by law."
The present action was :brought in 1904 by the executor.
of Smith under the authority of that act.
The petition sets forth certain facts connected with th claim
and, among other things, it alleged the following: "9. The petitioner is advised and believes, and so charges, that the proceeding arid sale above recited, whereby the United States
acquired the title to said land and defeated the lien of said firm
was in open violation of § 3207 of the Revised Statutes, which
was then in full force and should have governed the proceeding
of the United States in the premises; and that the officers of
the United States having abundant. notice of the prior lien of
the said Smith, Ellett & Company, should have commenced
a proceeding in the United States District Court for said district in conforiTIfty with the provisions of the statute above

cited, to which proceeding the said Smith, Ellett & Company
should have been made parties, and whereby their prior lien
should have been audited, adjusted and paid out of the proceeds of such sale in preference to the claim of the United States,
as provided by- such statute; and' that, by adopting the summary proceeding which was resorted to in the sale of said land,
being the same authorized by §§ 3197 and 3198, Rev. Stat.,
incases where no prior liens exist, the United 'States practically
proclaimed to the whole world, just as its agent 'who made
the sale actually did, that there was no.valid prior lien on said
land and that a clear title was passed by the sale. 10. That.
the United States accepted the 'conveyance so made and held
the property by virtue thereof for many years, collecting the
rents and profits, and that the'first notice this petitioner had
oi its relinquishment of its holdings was through an official
letter from Acting Commissioner of Internal Revenue Wilson,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

bearing date January 7, 1895, in which it was stated that by a
conveyance made in October, 1888, the United States had divested itself of its title to said land. :11. That, after the sale
and conveyance aforesaid, the said Smith did, as-the representative of his said firm, make every effort to collect the said debt
from the said George J. Stephens in said Greene County, and
to that end, at considerable expense, retained counsel learned
in the law; but he was advised that th6 United States, by its
summaryproceeding, had taken 6ver the title to the mortgaged
land and defeated his lien thereon, and the said Stephens,
having no other property against which he could proceed, his
only recourse lay, first, in redeeming the property within one
year under the provision of § 3202, flev. Stat., by paying to
the deputy collector the full amount of $4,229.50 claimed to be
due from said Stephens to the United States, or, second,' in a
demand of indemnity from the United States; but the said
firm, being wholly unable pecuniarily to advance that large
sum of money and having serious doubts whether the iortgaged property was at that time fairly worth that amount in
addition to their mortgage lien, and they were, therefore,, unable
to redeem said property, and neither the said firms nor this
petitioner has ever directly or indirectly received any portion
of said debt so. due from the said Stephens as aforesaid, but the
same is still due and unpaid in the full amount above stated.
12. That at the time of said sale and conveyance to the United States, the land of said Stephens, to which the said lien
of the said Smith, Ellett & Company attached, was amply
worth the amount of their said lien and would have brought
that amount and more at any fair and regular sale thereof
at auction or otherwise. 13. That on the first day of January,
A. D. 1875, the partnership existing between the said Rinaldo P.
Smith and the said Francis M. Ellett and a certain William F.
Larrabee, who had in the meantime become a-partner, expired
by limitation in the articles of copartnership and was dissolved
by mutual consent, and thereupon all the'partnership assets of
the old firm, including the debt due from Stephens, as afoesaid,

BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Argument for Appelant.

passed to this petitioner by authority of the firm as settling
partner, with the exclusive right to collect the same and sign
valid acquittance therefor; and although this petitioner has
repeatedly made demand upon the proper officers of the
Treasury Department for payment of his said claim, the same
has never been paid, or any part thereof, but, on the contrary,
allowance and payment thereof has been refused."The relief, sought was a judgment against the United States
for $8,666.44 with interest thereon from January 12, 1871.
The Government answered, denying all the allegations of
the petition and asking for judgment dismissing the suit.
Mr. FrancisM. Cox and Mr. John M. Thurston, with whom
Mr. Charles C. Lancaster was on the brief, for appellant:
The Federal Government, since the passage of the act of
July 20, 1868, c. 186, § 106, cannot enforce a lien for internal revenue taxes against real estate (however clear may be.
its priority) in derogation of a duly recorded mortgage lien,
through the summary process of distraint; and sale by such
summary process can only convey the then existing interest
of the delinquent taxpayer in the real estate so sold. Mansfield v. Excelsior Refining Co., 135 U. S. 326; Supernisors v.
United States, 4 Wall. 435; Galena v. Amy, 5.Wall. 705.
The Court of Claims was in error in holding that this case is
governed by the case of Alkan v. Bean, 8 Bissell, 89. That case
is clearly distinguishable'.
The Government never acquired any lien at all on the land
in controversy, but only on the distillery premises; and, even
if it had acquired such lien, it lost its priority to that of appellant
through its long-continued negligence in not collecting its
taxes monthly in conformity to its own mandatory laws, and
in not enforcing its rights. under- the warehousing and official
bonds of the distiller.
A reference to the jurisdictional act apparently -shows that
Congress had considered the several points set forth in this
branch of the argument, and.had .itself determined the priority.
VOL. Cov11-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

of appellant's lien, for it is therein distinctly stated that Smith,
Ellett & Co., "had a prior lien" on the land in controversy.
It appears, therefore, that the question of the priority of appellant's lien was not submitted to the Court of Claims, since
it was clearly within the power of Congress to determine that
question for itself.
The Lawson deed would not have been a valid conveyance
of the property before the passage of the act of July 20, 1868,
directing a proceeding in equity, because of its failure to set
forth in its recitals the essential fact of a demand of the tax
prior to October 26, 1869, when appellant's lien attached; and
this fatal omission cannot be cured by any presumption that the
officer discharged his duty..
Mr. Charles F. Kincheloe, Special Attorney, with whom
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel was on the brief,,
for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making tle foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
We have seen that before the execution of the deed of trust,
under which the plaintiff claims, taxes to the amount of $4,000
had accrued to the United States against the distiller Stephens,
which he neglected, upon demand, to. pay. What were the
rights of the United States after such demand and failure to
pay? This question depends upon the scope and effect of certain statutory provisions, as follows:.
1. That part of §§ 2.8 and 30 of the act of June 30, 1864,
13 Stat. 232-234, as amended by the ninth section of. the internal revenue act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 98, 107, 108, c. 184,
which declares that "if any person, bank, association, company,
or -corporation liable to pay any tax shall neglect or refuse to
pay the same after demand, the amount shall be a lien in favor
of the United States from the time it was due until paid, with
interest, penalties, and costs that may adcrue in addition

BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. 8,

Opinion of the Court.

thereto, upon all property and rights to property belonging
to. such person, bank, association, company, or corporation;
and the collector, after demand, may levy, or by warrant may
authorize a deputy collector to levy, upon all property and
rightsto property belonging to such person, bank, associatioi,
company, or corporation, or on which the said lien existsfor
the payment of the sum due as aforesaid, with interest and
penalty for non-payment, and also of such further sum as
shall be sufficiehit for the fees, costs and expenses of such
levy . .

..

(p. 108). That in any case where goods, chattels,

or effects sufficient to satisfy the taxes imposed by law upon
any person liable to pay the same shall not be found by the
collector or deputy collector whose duty it may be to collect
the same, he is hereby authorized to collect the same by seizure
and sale of real estate," etc.
2. That part of § 32, p. 157, of the same act, whiah provides: "That there shall be levied, collected, and paid on all
distilled spirits upon which no tax has been paid according
to law, a tax of two dollars on each and every proof gallon
[reduced to 50 cents by act of July 20th, 1868, ch. 1861, to be
paid by the distiller, owner, or any person having possession
thereof; and the tax shall be a lien on the spirits distilled, on
the distillery used for distillifig the same, with the stills, vessels,
fixtures, and tools therein, and on the interest of said distiller
in the lot or tract of land whereon the'said distillery is situated,
from the time said spirts are distilled, until the said tax shall
be paid."
3. That part of § 106 of the act.of July 20, 1868, Co 186, 15
Stat. 125, 167, which provides that "In any case where there
has been a refusal or neglect to pay any tax imposed by the
internal revenue laws, and where it is lawful and has become
necessary to seize and sell real estate to satisfy the tax, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue may, if he deems it expedient, direct that a bill in chancery be filed in a District or
Circuit Court of the United States, to enforce the lien of the

United States for tax upon any real estate, or .to subject. any

84

OCTOBER TERM., 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

real estate owned by the delinquent, or in which. he has any
right, title, or interest, to the payment of such ,ax. And all
persons having liens upon the real estate sought to.be subjected to the payment of any tax as aforesaid, or claiming apy
ownership- or interest therein, shall be made parties to such
proceedings, and shall be brought into court as provided in
other suits in chancery in said courts. And the said courts
shall have, and are hereby given, jurisdiction in all such cases,
and shall at the term next after such time as the parties shall
be duly notified of the proceedings, unless otherwise ordered
by the court, proceed to adjudicate-all matters involved therein,
and to pass upon and finally determine the merits of all claims
to and liens upon the.,real estate in question, and shall, in all
.cases where a claim or interest of the United States therein
shall be established, decree a sie, by the proper officer of the
court, of such real estate, and a distribution of the proceeds of
such sale according to the findings of the court in respect to the
interests of the parties and of theUnited States." This section
'is substantially preserved in §3207 bf the Revised Statutes,
except that the latter omits the words "if he deems it expedient," found in the above section of the act of 1868.
Before considering these statutory* provisions it is proper
to refer to. one point. The plaintiff insists that in view of the
words of the act under which this suit. was brought, it must
be taken that the lien created by the trust deed of October 26,
1869 was prior t any then existing in behalf of the Government. This contention rests entirely on the statement in that
act that the late.firm of Smith, Ellett & Co., represented by
Smith, "had a prior lien." But, plainly, from, the context
and the admitted facts, that was merely by way of recital and
- as-showing

what that firm or Smith claimed. It could not have

been. intended as an-admission by Congress that no lien existed
in favor of theUnited States at the time that deed of trust was
executed.. The findings expressly state that when the deed
was. executed taxes had accrued against the distiller in favor

of the United States from July, 1867, to August, 1869, amount-

BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to $4,000, and that a demand 'was made for their payment
prior to the execution of the deed of trust under which the
plaintiff claims. By the statute of 1866 it is provided that if
any delinquent, liable to taxes, shall neglect or refuse to pay
them after demand, there shall be a lien in favor of the United States from the time it was due "upon all property and
rights to property" belonging to the delinquent. In Kinkead v.
United States, 150 U. S. 483, 497, the court said it was well
settled "that a mere recital in an act, whether of fact. or of
law, is not conclusive unless it be clear that the legislature intended that the recital should be accepted as a fact in the case."
No such intention is to be imputed in this. case, to Congress.
On the contrary, it is manifest that Congress intended that

the claim of the parties was to be judicially investigated ad
determined according to all the facts as disclosed by the evidence adduced. We are clear that whatever the legal effect of
the fact, it must be taken that the lien of the United States
for its unpaid taxes attached before the trust deed was executed
and recorded. That the Government acquired a lien on the
property in question after the failure of the distiller to pay,
upon demand, the.taxes due to the United States, is too manifest, under the words of the statute, to admit of doubt. And
this lien, we have seen, attached before the execution of the
. deed of trust of October 26, 1869.
It is to be observed that the statute gave to the Government,
in order to secure its taxes, not only a sweeping lien "upon all
property or rights to property" belonging to the delinquent,
but a specific or special lien on spirits for the gallon taxes.
It was, therefore, said by Solicitor General Phillips, 16 Opp. . G.
634, 636.: "It may be true that because of the grearer definitcness of the special provision for a lien for the tax upon spirits
there is rarely occasion for calling in the provision for a lien
for taxes in general, but there is nothing to forbid that general
policy to apply in all cases where there is nothing in the special
policy to contradict."
The plaintiff contends that the act of 1868 superseded the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.'
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

provisions of the previous law giving the remedy of distraint
and that after the passage of that act the United States could
only proceed, in case of conflicting liens, by a regular suit in
equity in a Federal court. On the part of the Government it is
contended that the remedy given by that act is not exclusive,
but can be used by the JJnited States whenever it sees proper
to pursue that remedy rather than the remedy of distraint.
We are of opinion that the Government correctly interprets
the act of 1868. If Congress had intended to prescribe a formal
suit in equity as the only mode' by which the Government
could sell real estate upon which it had a lien for internal
revenue taxes, and upon which private parties also hid liens
by mortgage or deed of trust, it would have done so in clear
words, particularly as Congress knew at the time of the then
existing remedy by distraint. The words used do not show
that Congress intended a suit in equity as exqlusive of all other
methods in such cases.. It seems to have taken care not to
so prescribe. The two remedies could well coexist. The act
of 1868 declared that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
may, "if he deems it expedient," proceed by bill in chancery,
without using any words implying a purpose to .withdraw from
the Government the right then existing to resort to distraint
and sale. Congress, we assume, doubtless thought that cases
might arise in which it would be desirable that all questions
of title to property to be sold for taxes should be cleared upbefore a sale took place. Hence the provision which authorized,
but did not require, a suit in equity, and which left untouched
the right of the Government to proceed by distraint. We must
not be understood as saying that if the words "if he deems it
expedient" had not been in the statute, that the result would
have been different. But those words are significant as tending
to remove all doubt as to the correct interpretation of the stat'ute and makeit evident that Congress did not intend to take
away the remedy by distraint and make the remedy by suit
*exclusive, but only to give another and cumulative remedy
for the enforcement .ofliens and taxes.

BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

This was the view taken of the statute by the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin
in Alkan v. Bean, 8 Biss. 83, 89. Judge Dyer, delivering the
judgment of the court in that case, held that the remedy given
by the act of 1868, Rev. Stat. § 3207, and that given by distraint were concurrent, neither remedy being exclusive.
It is said that these views are inconsistent with the judgment of this court in Mansfield v. Excelsior Refining Co., 135
U. S. 326. We do not think so. In that case the principal
question was, what title passed by a. collector's sale for delinquent taxes due from a distiller who held at the time of
sale only a leasehold interest in the property seized? It was
held that the 'collector could only sell by distraint the interest
of the distiller, and that his deed to the purchaser should be
regarded as conveying only such interest as the collector was
entitled to sell-the court, in that case, recognizing the right
of the Government to enforce by distr.int whatever lien it
had for unpaid taxes, subject to the rights of other lienholders.
It said (p. 339): "But in what mode may the Government
enforce its prior lien? In order to collect the taxes due from
Hinds, the distiller, it might have instituted a suit in equity,
to which not only the distiller, who had simply a leasehold
interest, but all persons having liens upon, or claiming any
interest in, the premises could be made parties; in which suit,
it would have been the duty of the court to determine finally
the merits of all claims to and liens upon the property, and
to order a sale distributing the proceeds among the parties
according to their respective interests. Of course, the United'
States having, by stipulation, priority of lien, would have been
first paid out of the proceeds. But no such course was pursued.
The officers -of the Government preferred to adopt the sunimary method of sale by the collector upon notice and publication, as provided for in § 3197. It may be conceded that if the
distiller had bden the owner of the fee, a sale in that mode
would have passed his interest subject to the rights of any
prior. incumbrancer, and subject to the right of any subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 V. S.

incumbrancer to redeem the premises. But the delinquent
distiller had no interest except a leasehold interest, and that
expired, as we have seen, on May 1, 1877. We are of opinion
that the collector's sale in the summary mode prescribed in
§ 3197 passed, and under the statute could have passed, nothing more than the interest of the delinquent distiller. When
the collector distrains and sells personal property for taxes,
his certificate, by the express words of the statute (§ 3194),
transfers to the purchaser the right, title and interest of the
dlinquent in the property sold. When he sells real estate for
taxes, the statute, in terms equally explicit (§ 3199), declares

that his certificate of purchase shall be considered and operate
as a conveyance of the right, title and interest the party delinquept had in* the real estate so sold. Now, if Congress intended to invest the collector with authority to sell, by the
summary process of notice and publication, the interest of
any other person than the delinquent distiller, the statute
would have described a certificate that would pass the interest
of such person in the property sold. The provision that the
certificate of purchase shall pass the interest of the delinquent
in the property sold by the collector excludes, by necessary
implication, the interest of any other person. This is made
clear by the fact that the statute, in the case of a sale by the
collector, requires notice to 'the person whose estate it is
proposed to sell' (§ 3197), which person is, of course, the one
who is delinquent in the matter of taxes. Any other construction would impute to Congress the purpose, in order that the
taxes against the delinquent distiller; having only a leasehold
interest, might be collected, to seize and sell the interest of
the owner of the fee, and to destroy the lien of an incumbrancer, without giving either an opportunity to-be heard."
While the Mansfield case recognized the right of the Government to proceed by a regular suit in equity, it also distinctly
recognized its right to proceed, by distraint, and to, sell the
interest of the delinquent taxpayer, whatever such interest
was, saving, of course, the rights. of incumbrancers. In the

BLACKLOCK v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

present case the distiller was the owner of the fee when the
lien of the Government for taxes accrued-a fact which distinguishes this from the Mansfield case. When that lien. accrued there was on the property no incumbrance whatever.
The incumbrance arising from the deed of trust of 1869 arose
after the lien of the Government attached. Therefore the,
Government had the right, by distraint, to sell such interest
in the lands as the delinquent distiller owned at the time its
lien attached-which was the fee-just as the collector had
the right, in the Mansfield case, to sell the leasehold interest
of the distiller. As the leasehold interest of the distiller passed
by the sale in the Mansfield case, so the interest which the distiller in this case had when the Government's lien attached
passed by the sale of the collector, subject, of course, to the
right of the holder of the subsequent incumbrance created by
the deed of trust of. 1869, to redeem the property from the sale.
By the statute, under which the sale took place, it was provided: "Any person, whose estate may be proceeded against
as aforesaid, shall have the right to pay the amount due, together .with the costs and charges thereon, to the collector or
the deputy collector at any time prior to the sale thereof, and
all further proceedings shall cease from the time of such payment. The owners of any real estate sold as aforesaid, their
heirs, executors, or administrators, or any person having any
interest therein, or a lien thereon, or any person in their behalf,
shall be permitted to redeem the land sold as aforesaid, or.any
particular tract thereof, at any time within one year after the
sale thereof, upon payment to the purchaser., or, in case he
cannot be found in the county in Which the land to be redeemed is situate, then to the collector of the district in which
the land is situate, for the use of the purchaser, his heirs or
assigns, the amount paid by the said purchaser and interest
thereon at the rate of twenty per centum per annum." So
that neither the distiller nor the holder of the lien created by
the deed of trust of 1869 was without remedy. The lienholder,
under the deed of trust of 1869. could have prevented the sale

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U.S

by paying the amount of taxes due the United States, with
costs and charges; or, after sale, could have redeemed the land
in the mode prescribed by the statute. But neither of those
courses was pursued, because, as the petition states, the firm
represented by Smith was pecuniarily unable to pay the amount
necessary for the redemption of the land from the sale. But
that was the misfortune of the parties concerned. The fact
could not affect the right of the United States to have the interest of the distiller, whatever that was at the time its lien
attached, sold for the taxes.
These views dispose of the case; for, it cannot be that any
liability rests upon the United States to pay the debt secured
by the deed of trust of 1869, if it be true, and we hold it to be
true, that whatever the Government did in the collection of
the taxes due to it, was in pursuance of its rigbts under the
law. We are unable to perceive that either the distiller Stephens
or any one asserting rights under the above deed of trust had
or has any ground of action against the Government.
Passing, as unnecessary to decide, many of the questions
discussed by counsel, we affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.

Re METROPOLITAN RAILWAY RECEIVERSHIP.'
PETITIONS FOR WRITS OF MANDAMUS.
Nos. 11, 12. Original.

Argued December 0, 1907.-Decided January 13, 1908.

An unsatisfied, justiciable claim of some right involving the jurisdictional
amount made by a citizen of one State against a citizen of another State
is a controversy or dispute between the parties within the meaning .of
The Docket Titles were, in No. 11, Matter of Reiseniberg and another,
and in No. 12, Matter of Konrad and another. The petition in each case
was for a Writ of Mandamus against the Honorable E. Henry Lacombe,
Circuit Judge of the United States for the Second Circuit and against the
Circuit Courtof the United States for the Southern District of New York.

