DARNELL & SON v. MEMPHIS.

113

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U.S.

I. M. DARNELL & SON COMPANY v. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 75.

Argued December 16, 1007.-Decided January 20, 1908.

While a State may tax property wvhich has moved in the channels of interstate commerce after it is at rest within the State and has become commingled with the mass of property therein, it' may not discriminate
against such property by imposing upon it a burden of taxation greater
than that imposed upon similar domestic property.
The exemption from taxation in ch. 258 of the acts of Tennessee of 1903,
of growing crops and manufactured articles from the produce -of the
State, in the hands of the manufacturer, is a discrimination against similar
property, the product of the soil of other States, brought into that State,
and is therefore a direct burden upon interstate commerce and repugnant
to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
Quwre, and not decided, whether such provision of exemption is valid under
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
*116 Tennessee, 424, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Dent Minor, with whom Mr. C. W. Metcalf, Mr. C. H.
Trimble and Mr. H. B. Anderson were on the. brief, for plaintiffs in error:

Logs in the hands of a manufacturer awaiting conversio4
into lumber and the lumber made therefrom in the hands of'
the same manufacturer are within the exemptions of the
Tennessee constitution, when cut from Tennessee soil. Benedict v. Davidson Co., 110 Tennessee, 191.
By exempting from taxation such property when taken fromh
its own soil, the State has precluded itself from taxing similar
property taken from the soil of other States, as a State may
not, under the Federal Constitution, so discriminate in favor
of the products of its own soil as against the products or against
citizens of other States. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S, 275;
Walling v. Michigan, 116 't . S. 446.
VeL. COVII-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

208 U. S.

A Tennessee corporation or citizen is as much entitled to
complain of the discrimination just mentioned as a foreign
corporation or a non-resident. The evil complained of is the
discrimination against persons handling property from other
States-and affects domestic and foreign corporations alike.
The complainant, a corporation, while not a citizen, is a
."person" within.the meaning of the state and Federal Constitutions and is entitled to the protection guaranteed to persons by the Fourteenth Amendment. - Dugger v. Ins. Co., 95
Tennessee, 250; Railway Co. v. Mackay, 127 U. S. 205; Santa
Clara v. Railway, 118 U. S. 394.
Mr. Marion G. Evans, with whom Mr. Williani H. Carroll
and Mr. Thomas H. Jackson were on the brief, for defendants
in error:
The property is not protected by the interstate commerce
clause, as it was not in transit, but had arrived at its destination. It had been manufactured, or was in process of manufacture into articles of various kinds, and had become a part
of the:general property in the State. American SteeT Wire Co.
v. Speed, 110 Tennessee, 546; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; May v. New Orleans, 178
U. S. 496; Woodman v. The State, 2 Swan, 354; Machine Co. v.
Cage, 9 Baxter, 519; Nafi v. Russell, 2 Cold. 36.
It will be observed that most of the cases cited by plaintiff.
in error are cases where a licebse tax had been charged against
a non-resident, or where foreign products had been specifically.
taxed as such. See Walling V. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Weber
v. Virg.inia, 103 U. S.344; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.275,
where these questions are discussed.
The question here is not a tax, but an exemption from taxation. The property in question has become amalgamated with
the general property in the State in the hands'of a resident
Tennessee. corporation.: This is not a complaint by a nonresident, whose rights have been denied, or whose .property
has been unequally taxed.

DARNELL & SON v. MEMPHIS.
208 U.S.

MB. JUSTICE

Opinion of the Court.
WHITE

delivered the opinion of the. court.-

Article 2 of the Tennessee- constitution of 1870 provides-:.
"SEc. 28. All property, real, personal or mixed, shall be
taxed, but the legislature may except such as may be held
by the State, by counties, cities or towns, and used exclusively
for public or corporation purposes, and such as may-be held
or used for purposes purely .religious, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational, and shall except one .thousand dollars'
wNorth of personal property in the hands of each taxpayer,
and the direct product of the soil in the hands of the producer.
and his immediate vendee.
"SEc. 30. No article manufactured of the produce of this
State shall be taxed otherwise than to pay inspection fees."
By chapter 258, p. 632, of the acts of Tennessee for 1903' it
was, among other things, provided:
"SEC. 1. That all property, real, personal and mixed, shall
be assessed for taxation for State, county and municipal purposes, except such as is declared exempt in the next section.
"SEc. 2. That the. property herein: enumerated, and none
other, shall be exempt from taxation.

.

.

.

Sub-sec. 5. All

growing crops of whatever nature and kind, the direct product
of the soil of this State in the hands mf, the producer and his
immediate vendee, and manufactured articles from the produce
of the State in the hands of the manufacturer."
In the recent case of Benedict v. Davidson.County, 110 Tennessee, 183, 191, the Supreme Court of Tennessee-held as follows:
"We are of opinion that, under the facts if this record, the
logs Upon. the yard, .in the hands of the mill-operating manufacturer and his property, and lumber, rough and smooth, cut
by him from such logs grown on Tennessee soil, are articles
manufactured from the produce of the State, and exempt
under the provisions- of section 30, article 2, of the constitution; and the demurrer was therefore properly. overruled, and
complainants, under the allegations of their billj are entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

to recover back the taxes paid the. State, and to perpetually
enjoin the taxes assessed by the county and city."
For more than three years prior to January 30, 1905, the
I. M. Darnell & 'Son Company, a corporation of Tennessee, was
domiciled. in Memphis, in that State, and there owned and
operated alumber mill. Shortly prior to the date just named,
pursuant to chapter a66 of the acts- of Tennessee for 1903
(Acts Tenn., 1903, pp. 1097-1101), the value of the personalty
of the Darnell Company was assessed for taxation by the city
of Memphis' at $44,000. Of this amount $19,325 was the value
of logs cut from the soil of States other than Tennessee, which
the company -had'brought into Tennessee from other States
and were, held by the company as the immediate purchaser or
vendee awaiting manufacture into lumber, or consisted of
Itamber already manufactured by the company from logs which
had been acquired and brought into. the State from other
States, as abovementioned, and all of which lumber was lying
in the mill yard of the company awaiting sale. The Darnell
Company protested against this assessment, asserting that it
was not liable to be taxed on said sum of $19,325, the value of
the property owned by it as the immediate purchaser of logs.
brought from other States, or lumber, the product thereof.
The ground of the protest was that the property represented
by the valuation in question could not be taxed without discriminating against it, as like property, the. product of the soil
of Tennessee, was, exempt from taxation under the constitution
and laws of thit- State, and therefore to tax its-said property
would violate-the commeree clause, section 8, Article I, of the
Constitution and the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The protest was overruled. Thereupon threat of distress
and sale-was made by the collecting officer, unless the taxes on
all the property werepaid. On January 30, 1905, the Darnell
Company. filed in the Che.ncery Court of Shelby County its bill'
against the ciy of Memphis and the collecting officer to enjoin
the enforcement of the tax as to the logs brought in from other

DARNELL & SON v.. MEMPHIS.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.-

States, andthe lumber, the product thereof as above stated,on
the ground of the repugnancy of* the tax to the commerce
clause and the Fourteenth Amendment, because of the foregoing alleged discrimination.. At the same time it paid into
court the amount of the taxes Which were not in displute.
The sufficiency of the bill was challenged by demurrer, assert-.
ing in substance that the-assessment complained of did not
constitute an unlawful discrimination 'and was not repugnant
either to the constitution of Tennessee or of the United States.
Subsequently, by leave of court, an additional demurrer was
filed, which, in effect, asserted that, as the plaintiff company
was a citizen'of Tennessee, it could not be heard .to complain
of the tax; and that the enforcement of the same was iiot repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, and that as the property sought to be taxed was hot in transit or awaiting..shipment out of the State, but on the contrary had reached-its
destination and was in the hands of the consignee and owner,
who was a citizen of Tennessee, and had become.a part of the
general property of the State, the assessing of the same -for
taxation was not an interference with commerce between, tie
States. The chancellor overruled. the demurrer and decided
the case in favor of the Darnell Company, because the court,
as stated in the decree, was of the opinion ".that the tax in
controversy is in contravention of the rights of complainant
as guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, and
particularly the interstate commerce clause thereof, . and the
Fourteenth Amendment thereof, as -set.out in the complainant's original bill."
On appeal the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in considering
the demurrer, held the disputed tax not to be repugnant to.
the Constitution of the United States, and reversed the decree
of the Chancery Court. 116 Tennessee, 424. The court entered a decree against the Darnell Company and H. D.. Minor,
the surety on the appeal bond, for the amount of the disputed
tax, penalty and interest. The company.and Minor.prosecute
this writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

As all the assignments of error relied on for reversal are but
the counterpart of the reasons which led the court below to the
conclusion that the tax was not repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, we come at once to consider the affirmative
conceptions on that subject expressed in the opinion of the
court below, as affording the most direct method of disposing
of the issues for decision. Those conceptions are of a twofold
character, one relating to -the commerce clause and the other
to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The court in its opinion conceded that the property embraced in the assessment complained of was purchased by the.
complainant in and brought from .other States, or consisted
of lumber produced from logs so brought into Tennessee, and
that property of like character would not be subject to taxation under the state law if it had been produced from the soil
of Tennessee. But the levy of the tax was held not to be a
direct burden upon interstate commerce, and hence not repugnant to. the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States, as a result of the interpretation which the court
affixed to previous decisions of this court concerning the
operation of the commerce clause of the Constitution and the
right of a State to impose a tax, even if discriminatory in
character, upon property coming from other States, after such
property had come at rest within a State and been commingled with the mass- of property therein. The court, after
stating that- the provision of the state constitution which
authorized the. exemption of -property produced from the soil
of Tennessee had its inception in the "first constitution of this
State, adopteci6n February, 6, 1796, and hence formed a part
of the fundamental. law of the State, when it was admitted
by the act of Congress, approved June 1, 1796, ch. 67, 1 Stat.
491," proceeded to state its reasons for holding that the discriniinatory tax was not repugnant to the commerce clause,
as follows (p. 429):
"1. Upon the, avermnets of the bill it is manifest that,
although the property sought, to be taxed was purchased by

DARNELL & SON v. MEMPHIS.
.208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

complainant in and brought from another State, nevertheless
it had become divested of any connection with commerce
between the States and was at rest, commingled with and
merged into the general mass of property of this State, awaiting sale to purchasers.
"Although the origin of property. may be in another State, '
nevertheless, when it is brought into this State and here merged
into the mass of general property, it at once becomes subject
to the tax laws of this State. American Steel & Wire Co. v.
Speed, 110 Tennessee, 524-546, 75 S. W. Rep. 1037, 100 Am.
St. Rep. 814.
"This principle was recognized and the holding of this court
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States (American.
Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500), and in harmony
with other adjudications of that court. Woodruff v. POham,
8 Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; May v. New
Orleans, 178 U. S. 49C; Em&t v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296.
".In Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60, 65 the Supreme Court
of the*United States, in substh %e, declared that it can make
no difference whence the property came or to whom it should
be ultimately sold, because upon its arrival in the State where
it is offered for sale and intermingled with the general property
of the State, it-becomes and is a part of the taxable property
of the State."
As we are of opinion that the question for decision is clearly
foreclosed by prior decisions of this court, which demonstrate
that the court below misconceived the rulings of this court
upon which it relied, we do not stop to analyze the reasoning
of the court considered as an original proposition, but come
at once to test its correctness by making a brief review of the
decided cases relied upon by the court below and others not
referred to which relate to the subject, and which are controlling.
Ag a prelude to a review of the cases referred to, we observe
that while it is undoubted that it has been settled-that where
property which has moved in the channels of interstate corn-

OCTOBER TERM, .1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

merce is at rest within a State and has become commingled.
with the mass of property therein,, it may be taxed by such
State -without thereby imposing a direct burden upon interstate
commerce, that doctrine, as expounded in the decided cases,
including those relied •upon. by the court below, has always
expressly excluded the conception that a State could, without
directly burdening. interstate commerce, discriminate against
such property by imposing upon it a burden of taxation greater
than that levied upon domestic property of a like nature.
The leading cases -announcing the doctrine 'that ..a State
may tax property which had moved in the channels of interstate commerce, when such property had become at rest therein,
even before sale in the original package, are Woodruffv. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, and Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622. But
in both those cases it was sedulously pointed out that the
power which was thus recognized- did not, and could not,
include the authority -to burden the property brought from
another State with a discriminating tax. In American Steel
Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 519, where the doctrine of
Woodruff v. Parham and Brown v. Houston was reviewed and
restated, it was pointed out that to prevent the levy of a tax
upon property brought from tmother State, even After it had
come at rest within a State, from being a direct burden uponinterstate commerce, property so situated must be taxed
"without discrimination, like other property situated within
the State."
The statements just made adequately point out the misconception as to the rulings of this court upon which the court
below placed its conclusion, since the court took no heed of
the express declaration concerning the nullity of any discriminating tax made.in the cases which the court relied on.
The importance of -the subject, however, and the statement'
made by the court below as to the. long existence in Tennessee
of the tax exemption in favor of the products of the soil of
Tennessee, leads us to a brief review of other decided cases in
this court which have long since clearly established the want

DARNELL & SON v. MEMPHIS.
208 U. 9.

Opinion of the Court.

of power in a State to discriminate by taxation in any form
against property brought from other States.
In Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434, the invalidity was adjudged of a municipal ordinance of the city of Baltimore which
established rates of wharfage to be charged on vessels resorting to or lying at, "landing, depositing or transporting goods
or articles other than the productions of this State, on any
wharf or wharves belonging to said mayor and city council,
or any public wharf in the said city, other than the wharves
belonging to or rented by the State." The principle, settled
by earlier decisions, which were referred to (Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Hinson v. Lot, 8 Wall. 148; and Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418), was reaffirmed, the court saying
(pp. 439, 442):
"In view of these and other decisions of this court, it must
be'regarded as settled that no State can, consistently with
the Federal Constitution, impose -upon the products of other
States, brought therein for sale or use, or upon citizens because
engaged in the sale therein, or the transportation thereto, of
the products of other States, more onerous public burdens or
taxes than it imposes upon the like products of its own territory. If thii were not so, it'is-easy to perceive how the power
of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among, the several States could be practically annulled, and
the equality of commercial -privileges secured by the Federal
Constitution to citizens of the several States be materially
abridged and impaired.
"The State, it will be admitted, could not lawfully impose
upon such cargo any direct public burden or tax because
it may consist, in whole or in part, of the products of other
States. The concession of such a power to the States would
render wholly nugatory all National control of commerce
among the States, and place the trade and business of the
country at the mercy of local regulations, having for their
object'to secure exclusive benefits to the citizens and products

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

2M8 U. S.

of particular States. But it is claimed that a State may empower one of its political agencies, a biere municipal corporation representing a portion of its civil power, to burden interstate commerce by exacting from those transporting to its
wharves the products of other States wharfage fees, which it
does notexact from those bringing to the same wharves the
products of Maryland. The city. can no more do this than it
or the State could discriminate against the citizens and products
6f other States in the use of the public streets or other public
highways."
In Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344, a license statute of the
State of Virginia was held to be a regulation of commerce
and invalid because the tax was made to depend upon the
foreign character of the articles dealt in; that is, upon their
having been manufactured without the State. The court
said (p. 350):
"If by reason of their foreign character the State can impose
a tax upon them or. upon the person through whom the sales
are effected, the amount of the tax will be a mafter resting
in her discretion. She may place the tax at so high a figure
as to'exclude the introduction of the foreign article and prevent competition with the home product. It was against
legislation' of this discriminating kind that the framers
of the
Constitution intended to guard when they vested in Congress the power to regulate commerce among the several.
States."
In Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, an act of the State
of Michigan, which imposed a tax or duty on persons who, not
having their principal place of business within the State, engaged in the business of selling, or of soliciting the sale of certain described liquors, to be shipped into the State, was held
to be repugnant to the commerce clause, as being "a discriminating tax levied against persons for selling goods brought
into the State from other States or countries." The court
said (p. 455):
"A discriminating tax imposed by a State operating to the

DARNELL & SON v. MEMPHIS.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

disadvantage of the products of other States when introduced
into 'the first-mentioned State is, in effect, a regulation in
restraint of commerce among the -States', and as such is a
usurpation of the power conferred by the Constitution upon
the Congress of the United States."
And-in -the course of the opinion, referring to state decisions
announcing a want of Authofity in the several Statesto prescribe different regulations in relation to the commerce in certain articles, dependent upon the State from which they were
brought, the court thus referred to a decision of the Supreme
Court of Missouri (p. 457):
"In Statev. North, 27 Missouri, -464, wher.e an act of Missouri
imposed a tax upon merchants for all goods purchased by them,
except such as might be the growth, produce, or manufacture
of that State, and marfactured articles, the growth or produce
of other States, it was held by the Supreme Court of thAt State
that the'law was unconstitutional and void. The court says:
'From the foregoing statement of the law and facts of this
case it will be seen thait it presents the question 'of the power
of the States, in the exercise of the right of taxation, to discriminate' between products of this State and those manufactured in our sister States' And after an .examination of
the causes which led to the adoption of the Federal Constitution, one of the. principal of which was the necessity for the
regulation of. commerce and the laying of imposts and duties
by a single government, the court says: 'But, whatever may
be the motive for the tax i whether revenue, restriction, retaliation or protection of domestic manufactures, it is equally'
a regulation of commerce, and in effect. an exercise of the
power of laying duties on imposts, and its exercise by the
States is entirely at war with the spirit of the Constitution,
and would fender vain and nugatory the power granted to
Congress in relation to these subjects. Can any power more
destructive to the union and harmony of the States be exercised
thanthat of imposing discriminating taxes or duties on imports
from other States? Whatever may be the motive for such

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. 8.

taxes, they cannot fail to beget irritation and to lead to retaliation; and it is not difficult to foresee that an indulgence
in such a course of legislation must inflame and produce a
state of feeling that would seek its gratification in any measures regardless of the consequences.' "
The principle applied in the foregoing cases was also given
effect in Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, and Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62, and
so-called inspection laws of various States'were held to be
repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution because
of their discriminating character. In New York v. Roberts,
171 U. S. 658, while the tax there considered, imposed by
New York upon a corporation of another State, was sustained
as a valid tax upon the franchise of doing business as a corporation in New York, the court reaffirmed the authority of
its former decisions declaring the invalidity of all taxes of a
discriminating character levied by a State upon the products
of other States.
In this connection we excerpt from the opinion in Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, statements which directly relate to the subject in hand and which
conclusively demonstrate the unsoundness of the proposition
which the court below.upheld, that is, that the commerce clause
of the Constitution does -not protect property brought from
another State from -being discriminated against after it has
arrived and been commingled with the mass of property within
the State of its destination. Commenting upon the reasoning
of the opinion in State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284, the court said (122.U. S.341):
"When the latter (imported goods) become mingled with
the general mass of property in the State, they are not followed
and singled out for. taxation as imported gQods, and by reason
of their being imported. If they were, the tax would be as
unconstitutional- as if imposeal upon them whilst in the original
packages. When mingled with the general -mass of properiy
in the State they.are taxed in the same manner as other prop-

DARNELL & SON v. MEMPHIS.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty possessed by its citizens, without discrimination or partiality. We held in Wlton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, that
goods brought into a State for sale, though they thereby become a part of the mass of its property, cannot be taxed by
reason of their being introduced into the State or because they
are the -products of another State. To tax them as such was
expressly held to be unconstitutional: -The tax in the present
case is laid upon the gross receipts for transportation as such.
Those receipts are followed and caused to be accounted for
by the company, dollar for dollar. It is.those specific receipts,
or the amount thereof (which is the same thing); for which the
company is called upon to pay the tax. They, are taxed not
only because they are money, or its value, but because they
were received for transportation. No doubt a ship-owner, like
any other citizen, may be personally taxed for the amount of
his property or estate, without regard to the source from which
it was derived, whether from commerce or banking, or any.
other employment. But that is an entirely different thing
from laying -a special tax upon his receipts in a.particular employment. If such a tax is laid,. and the receipts taxed are
those derived from transporting goods and passengers in the
way of interstate or foreign commerce, no matter vhen the
tax is -exacted, whether at the time of realizing the receipts
or at the end of every six months or a year, it is an exaction
aimed at the commerce' itself, and is a burden upon it and
seriously affects it."
As there can be no- doubt within the principles so clearly
settled by the decided cases, to which we have referred, that.'
the disputed. tax, which.the court below sustained, was a direct
burden upon interstate commerce since the law of Tennessee
in terms discriminated against property the product of the soil
of other States brought into the State /6fTennessee by exempting like property when produced from the soil of Tennessee,
it follows that the court below erred in deciding the tax to be
valid, without reference to the reasoning indulged in by it
.concerning the application of the equal protection clause of .the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

208 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment below must therefore! be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

SOUTHERN PINE LUMBER COMPANY v. WARD.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 82.' Submitted December 17, 1907.-Decided January 20, 1908.

Although the record was not docketed until more than thirty days after
the appeal was allowed, as it was accomplished soon afterwards and
meanwhile no motion was made to docket and dismiss under Rule 9,
a motion subsequently made was denied.
Jurisdiction of this court attaches upon allowance of the appeal and. prociedings are to be taken here to bring in the representative of an appellee
who (lies after'the acceptance of service of citation.
An appellee, who has not himself appealed, cannot .be'.heard in this court
to assail the judgment below.
Nat. Live Stock Bank v. First Nat. Bank, 203 U. S. 296, 305, followed, as to
when jurisdiction of this court to review judgments of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Olilahoma is by appeal and not by writ of error.
HalseUt v. Renfrnw, 202 U. S. 287, followed, as to when this. court, in reviewing a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma,
is confined to determining whether that court erred in holding that there
was evidence tending to support the findings made by the trial court
in a case submitted to it by stipulation, without a jury, and whether
*such findings sustained the judgment.
In this case this court holds that the Supreme Court of the Territory did
not err in finding that there was evidence to support the finaings made
by the trial couirt and that those findings sustained the judgment.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur A. Birhey and Mr. Henry F, Woodard for plaintiffs in error and appellants.

Mr. John C. Moore, Mr. D. W. Buckner and Mr. George W.
Buckner, for defendants in error and appellees.

