OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

208 U. S.

HERRING-HALL-MARVIN SAFE COMPANY v. HALL'S
SAFE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE-SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 136. Argued January 30, 1908.-Decided Februar, 24, 1908.

Donnel v. Herring-HaU-MarvinSale Co., ante, p, 267, followed as to construction of the contract involved ini that case and this, and as to the
rights of stockholders to carry on business under their own name.
Although the trade-name may not be mentioned in the sale of a business
taken over as a going concern, a deed conveying trade-marks, patentrights, trade-rights, good will, property and assets of every name and
nature is broad enough to include the trade-name under which the vendor corporation and its predecessors had achieved a reputation.
The name of a person or town may become so associated with a particular
product that the mere attaching of that name to a similar product'without
more would have all the effect of a falsehood, and while the use of that
name cannot be absolutely prohibited, it can be restrained except when
accompanied with a sufficient explanation to prevent confusion with the
product of the original manufacturer or original place of production.
146 Fed. Rep. 37, modified and affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Junior, with whom Mr. Charles H.
.Aldrich was on the brief, for petitioner:
"Hall's Safes" was a trade-name of the old concern indicating the source of manufacture.
The safes made by the old concern were called "Hall's
Safes," and advertised by that name. It was the short name
for them in the trade; in other words, their trade-name. It
did not denote a particular kind of safe, but the origin of manufacture. This is admitted by the answer.
The.trade-name passed to the purchaser as part of the good
will of the old concern. Sebastian on Trade-Marks (4th ed.),
308, Men ndez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Brown Chemical Corn-

HERRING &c. SAFE CO. v. HALL'S SAFE CO.
208 U.S.

555

Argument for Petitioner.

pany v. Meyer, 139 U. S. 540, 548; Le Page Co. v. Russia Cement Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 941, 943; Russia Cement Co. v.. Le Page,
147 Massachusetts, 206.
The defendants were not entitled to appropriate the good
will of the old concern by carrying on business under a corporate title substantially the same, and by calling their product
"Hall's Safes." Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514, 521, 522;
Russia Cement Co. v. Le Page, 147 Massachusetts, 206; Hoxie v.
Chaney, 143 Massachusetts, 592; Chas. S. Higgins Co. v. Higgins Soap Co., 144 N. Y. 462; Dodge Stationery Co. v. Dodge
et al., 145 California, 380; Holmes, Booth & Haydens v. Holmes,
Booth & Atwood Mfg. Co., 37 Connecticut, 278; Myers v. Kalamazoo Buggy Co., 54 Michigan, 215; Smith v. Brand & Co., 58.
At. Rep. (N. J.) 1029; Trego v. Hunt, App. Cas. 7; Duryea v.
Nat. Starch Mfg. Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 651; Howe Scale Co. v.
Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, discussed and
distinguished from case at bar.
The injunction awarded by the Circuit Court of Appeals is
inadequate on any theory of the plaintiff's rights. It does not
give proper protection against infringement by the defendants
of plaintiff's rights. It is not sufficiently definite and specific.
New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361, 404; Singer Mfg. Co. v. June
Mfg. Co., 163 U. S. 169, 204; Dodge Stationery Co. v. Dodge
et al., 145 California, 380.
The cross bill was properly dismissed. The claim, that the
plaintiff was not entitled to a decree on its bill because it had
been guilty of false representations, and that the defendant
was entitled to a decree on its cross bill, is based upon the erroneous assumption that the plaintiff did not acquire the right
to use the old .name in connection with the business which it
purchased. Good will or a trade-mark or a trade-name may
not be sold. by itself, but it' may be transferred in connection
with 'the sale of a plant, and it is no fraud on the public for
the purchaser to use the old name or mark. Brown Chemical
Co. v. Meyer, 139 U. S. 540, 548; Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument. for Respondent&

208 U. a.

514; Kidd v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 617; Richmond Ner'ine Cormpanyv. Richmond, 159 U. S. 293, 302.,
'Mr. Judeon Harmon and Mr. William G. Cochran for respondents:
The contentions of the petitioner in this case are concluded
by the decision of tis court in the case of Howe Scale Company v. Wykcoif, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118. Wherever the parallel between the two cases fails, the case against
the Remingtons was much stronger than the case against the
Halls. The following cases are to the same effect: National
Starch Co. v. Duryea, 41 C. C. A. 244; Montreal Lithographing
Co. v. Sabiston, App. Cas. 610; Knoedler v. Boussod, 47 Fed.
Rep. 465, 466; Knoedler v. Glaenzer, 55 Fed. Rep. 895; Bassett
v. Percival, 5 Allen, 345, 347; Lawrence v. Hull, 169 Massachusetts, 250; Marcus Ward & Co. v. Ward, 40 N. Y. St. Rep. 792;
Morgan v. Schuyler, 79 N. Y. 490, 494; Williams v. Farrand,88
Michigan, 473. See also Moreau v. Edwards, 2 Tenn. Ch. 347,
349; Mcfowan .Bros. Pump Co. v. McGowan, 22 Ohio St. 370;
Chattanooga Med. Co. v. Thedford, 58 Fed. Rep. 347, 349;
Fish Bro. Wagon Co. v. LaBelle Wagon Works, 82 Wisconsin,
546, 563; Hazelton Boiler Co. v. Hazelton, 142 Illinois, 495, 507,
508 (distinguishing Frazer v. Frazer Lubricator Co., 121 Illinois, 147); Helmbold v. Helmbold Mfg. Co., 53 How. 457, 459;
Horton Mfg. Co. v. Horton Mfg. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 817.
In view of the absence of any express license to use the name
of Hall's Safe & Lock Company, the provision, on the contrary,
that the name of the new company shall be Herring-Hall-Marvin Company, the further provision for the dissolution
of Hall's Safe & Lock Company, and the above authorities,
Judge- Clark erred in holding that the -Herring-Hall-Marvin
Company acquired the good will, with the right to use the tradename, if it chose to do so, and undoubtedly with the exclusive
right to manufacture and sell the trade product known to the
markets- of the country as the Hall's Safes, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals was right in modifying the injunction and

HERRING &c. SAFE CO. v. HALL'S SAFE CO. 657
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

permitting the use of the family name "Hall" in the name of
the new company.
The principles for which we contend are recognized in many.
of the cases cited by complainant. See Holmes, Booth & Hayden v. Holmes, Booth & Atwood Co., 37 Connecticut, 295;
Trego v. Hunt, App. Cas. 7.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is the suit referred to in Donnell v. Herring-Hall-Marvin Sale Company, ante, p. 267. It was brought by the petitioner against the respondents to enjoin them from carrying
on their business under their present name or any name calculated to make purchasers believe that they are dealing with
the establishment founded by Joseph L. Hall, or with the plaintiff, and also to enjoin them from advertising or marking their
prodnct as Hall's Safes. Tne facts are stated in the case referred to. In brief, the petitioner is the successor by purchase
to the business of Hall's Safe and Lock Company, an Ohio
corporation founded by Joseph L. Hall, a safe maker of repute,
the stock of which belonged to his estate and his children. The
respondents are sons of Joseph L. Hall and an Ohio corporation
formed by them in September, 1896, immediately after they
were discharged from their contracts with the purchasing company. It has been decided that the Halls did not give up the
right to do business in their own name by the part they took
when the original company sold out, and that the petitioner
has the right, but not the exclusive right, to use the name Hall.
Its rights arise by way of succession, out of the priority of the
original company, not out of contract. This case requires us
to discuss a little further what the respective rights of the parties are. The decision below is to be found in 146 Fed. Rep. 37,
and 76 C. C. A. 495.
We think it clear, as was conceded in the other case, that
the plaintiff got all the grantable rights of the original company, including that of using the name Hall. It is true that
trade names were not mentioned in the deed, but its language

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. 8.

was broad enough to include them. The deed, along with the
plant, patterns, stock of safes, accounts; papers, etc., conveys
- all "trade marks, patent rights, trade rights, good will, and.all ..
its-property and assets of every name and nature," and agrees
that the business is "taken over in all respects as a going concern." If a particular phrase is needed in addition to the general language and the nature of the transaction, "trade rights"
will do well enough. The name Hall was used and was expected to be used as a part of the name of the first purchasing
company, The Herring-Hall-Marvin Company. There was a
stipulation in the deed that .the seller should be wound up,
but that, far from being, as was argued, a provision in favor of
the seller to avoid the use of its name by the purchaser, was
a covenant to the purchaser in aid of the seller's undertaking
not to engage in any business thereafter. The Hall Safe and
Lock Company expressly and in reiterated terms sold all its
property and assets of every description as a going concern,
agreed to disappear and disappeared. It had no reason for
retaining any right and retained none, except the right to be
paid. The circumstances of the case raise none of the nice
questions that sometimes have arisen as to when the name is
sold-along with the other assets. It may be that, although the
deed conveyed all that it could convey, the plaintiff .,ould not
use the corporate name proper of the original corporation, because that is a charter right, and could not be exercised without the consent of the legislature. Montreal LithographingCo.
v. Sabiston [1899], A. C. 610. But that is not what it wants
to do. It only wants so.far as it may to appropriate the name
"Hall" for its safes.
The original company, from 1867 to 1892, was attaching to
Hall's safes the reputation that made the name famous and
desired. Whoever achieved it did so through the medium of
the company. The good will thus gained belonged to the company, and was sold* by it, with all its rights, when it sold out.
-See Le Page Co. v. Russia Cement Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 941, 943.
So that the question is narrowed to .what its rights would have

.

HERRING &c. SAFE CO. v. HALL'S SAFE CO.

208 U. 0.

559

Opinion of the Court.

been. at the present day if it had kept on. The advantage
which it would have'had, and to which the petitioner has succeeded, is that of having been first and alone for so long in the
field.- Some of the Halls might have left it and set up for themselves. They might have competed with it, they might have:
called attention to the fact that they were the sons of the man
who started the business, they might have claimed their due
share, if any, of the merit in:-making Hall's safes what they
were. White v. Troowbridge, 216 Pa. St. 11, 18, 22. But they
would have been at the disadvantage that some names and
phrases; otherwise truthful and natural to use, would convey
to the public the notion that they were continuing the business done by the company, or that they were in some privity
with the established manufacture of safes which the public
already kne* and liked. To convey that notion would be a
fraud, and would have to be stopped. Therefore such names
and phrases could be used only if so explained that they
would not deceive.
The principle of the duty to explain is recognized in Howe
cale-Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118. It is
not confined to-words that can be made a trade-miark in a full
sense. The name of a person or a town may have become so
associated with a particular product that the mere attaching
of that name to a similar product without more would have all
the effect of a falsehood. Walter-Baker & Co. v. Slack, 130 Fed.
Rep. 514. An absolute prohibition against using the name
would carry trade-marks too far. Therefore the rights of the
two parties have been reconciled by allowing the use, provided
that an explanation is attached. Singer Manufacturing Co. v.
June Manufacturing Co., 163 U. S. 169, 200, 204; Brinsmead v.
Brinsmead, 13 Times L. R. 3; Reddaway v. Banham [1896],
A. C. 199, 210, 222; American Waltham Watch Co. v. United
States Watch Co., 173 Massachusetts, 85, 87; Dodge Stationery
Co. v. Dodge, 145 California, 380. Of course the .explanation
must accompany the use, so as to give the antidote with the
bane.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

We must assume that the name Hall in connection with
safes has acquired this kind -of significance. This, or very
nearly this, is alleged by the answer and must have been the

finding of the courts below. It was suggested that really the
value of the name was due to the use of patents that have run
out. But we think it appears that the meaning of the name
is not confined to the use of Hall's" patents, and further, has
had a particular succession of makers so associated with it that
the principle of the injunction granted is right. The defendants say that they have corrected advertisements, and so forth,.
that might be deemed fraudulent, when -called to their attention.
But the name of the defendant company of itself would deceive unless explained. It may have repented but it has transgreased, and it even now asserts rights greater than we think
it has. Therefore the injunction must stand.
We are not disposed to make a decree against the Halls
personally. That against the company should be more specific.
It should forbid the use of the name Hall, either alone or in
combination, in corporate name, on safes, or in advertisements,
unless accompanied by information that the defendant is not
the original Hall's Safe and Lock Comipany or its successor,
or, as the case may be, that the article is not the product of
the last named company or its successors. With such explanations the defendants may use the Hall's name, and if it
likes may show that they are sons of the first Halland brought
up in theirbusiness by him, and otherwise may state the facts.
There is a cross bill seeking to pre.vent the plaintiff from
making use of the names ftall's Safe and Lock Company, Hall's
Safe, &c., but it does not need separate consideration. The
defendant shows nothing of which it can complain or which
should bar the plaintiff from its relief. The portion of the decree dismissing the cross bill is affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.

