OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U.S.

We think the reasonable construction of this statute requires that the questions submitted should be answered in the
negative. It will be
So certified.

PENN REFINING COMPANY, LIMITED, v. WESTERN
NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 27. Argued October 18, 21. 1907.-Decided Jantury 27, 1908.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, that carriers not charging for tanks on tank-oil shipments desist from charging for the barrel
on barrel shipments, or else furnish tank cars to all shippers applying
therefor, held, in this case, to be equivalent to a holding that the charge
for the barrel, is not in itself excessive, and therefoi-e, also held, that
barrel-oil shippers who had not demanded tank cars had not been discriminated against, and were not entitled to reparation for the amounts
paid by. them on the barrels.
It is the duty of a connecting carrier on a joint through rate to accept the
cars delivered to it by the initial carrier, and it is not thereby rendered
liable for any -wrongful discrimination of the initial carrier merely becaise of the adoption of a joint through rate, which in itself is reasonable; nor-is such connecting carrier rendered liable for any such wrongful act.of the initial carrier by section eight of the Interstate Commerce
Act.
137 Fed. Rep. 343, affirmed.

THE plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, seeks to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuitf 137 Fed. Rep. 343, reversing absolutely and, without
allowing a writ of "venire facias de novo," the judgment of

the Circuit Court of the United States"for the Western District

PENN REFINING CO.
208 U.S.

.

wEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 209

Statement of the Cme.

of Pennsylvania in favor of the plaintiff company. for $8,579,
with interest from May 15, 1894; in all, $12,706'92.. This sum
was made up of the charge of fourteen cents for the weight of
the barrel in which oil was transported to Perth Amboy from
the Pennsylvania oil fields, from September 3, 1888, the time
when such charge commenced, to May 15, 1894, the time when
the hearing on the claims was had before the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The proceeding resulting in the petition herein to the Circuit Court was originally commenced before the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and thereafter conducted pursuant
to §§ 13-16 of the act creating the Commission, February 4,
1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 384, as amended by the act of
March 2, -1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855, 859; 3 Comp. Stat. 3165,
to obtain relief from certain alleged illegal :practices of the
railroad companies in the way of overcharges for the transportation of oil for the complainants in the petition, and to obtain
reparation therefor.
Three substantially contemporaneous yet also separate petitions were filed with the Commission, two on the fourth of
December, 1888, and one on the thirtieth of January, 1889,
by the Independent Refiners' Association of Titusville, Pennsylvania, and the Independent Refiners' Association of Oil
City, Pennsylvania, against several railroad companies.
The petitioners were associations of some sixteen separate
refining companies, operating distinct and separate works in
the oil regions of Pennsylvania, near the city of Titusville or
Oil City.
The petitions were filed for the purpose of obtaining. relief
from certain charges made by the defendant companies against
the petitioners for the transportation of their oil from those
oil fields to tidewater in New Jersey, and specially to Perth
Amboy in that State, and described as a point in New York
harbor, and also to Boston and points in that vicinity. Their
petition relating to the charges for transportation to Perth
Amboy is alone involved-here.
VOL. coini-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

The ground of complaint in that petition was that the railroads who were therein made defendants, viz., the Western
New York and Pennsylvania, and the Lehigh Valley, charged
sixty-six cents per barrel of oil, which was alleged to be an
excessive, unjust and unreasqnably high rate for the transportation of oil to Perth Amboy.
There was no complaint in the petition of the failure of
defendants to furnish tank cars for the petitioners for the
transportation of their oil to Perth Amboy. There was no
averment of unfairness of the rates as between barrel and tank
oil. Nor was there any averment that the defendants, by
their custom of charging for the gross weight of the oil and
barrels, were giving a preferential rate to the tank shippers
as against the barrel shipments made by plaintiffs. It was
only alleged that the rate for the transportation of oil to Perth
Amboy was unreasonably high at. sixty-six cents per barrel,
the weight of the barrel being included and charged for therein.
The averments in the petition, that plaintiffs were subjected
to undue prejudice and that an undue advantage was given
their competitors. in business, among others the Standard Oil
Trust, had no relation to discrimination arising from a charge
for the weight of the barrel, but was connected with the averment that the chavge of sixty-six cents for the carriage of the
oil was excessive, and hence worked a disadvantage to the
plaintiffs and gave an unreason.hle preference to the competitors in plaintiffs' business.
The prayer of the petition was that the Commission direct
the defendants to cease their unlawful acts, etc.
The evidence was taken before the Commission in the three
cases, with the understanding it should be applied to each or'
-all the cases, so far as applicable therein.
, It appears by the evidence before the Commission that the
charge of fourteen cents per barfel (in addition to fifty-two
cents for its contents) for the transportation thereof to Perth
Amboy commenced about September, 1888, and prior to that
the charge had been fifty-two cents for the oil and the barrel.

PENN REFINING CO. v. WEST. N. Y.-& P. R. R. CO. 211
208 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

There had been some reasons alleged on account of which the
charge had been limited to the total of fifty-two cents before
September, 1888. Perth Amboy was the station to which all
the petitioners in the proceedings before the Commission,
applicable to that port, had consigned their oil for export,
and that station had no conveniences for unloading in bulk
the oil which was brcught there in tank cars. Not one car in a
hundred was a tank car. The trade demand at that point was
for oil in barrels, and the ocean shipments therefrom by the
petitioners were also made in barrels, as there were no vessels
from that port carrying oil in bulk. Some of the petitioners in
the proceedings before the Commission owned tank cars, .but
did not use them for the Perth Amboy port for the. above
reasons. Oil which came to Perth Aniboy, intended for export, if it arrived in tank cars, had to be there unloaded and
filled in barrels before it could be loaded' on ships. The petitioners, including the plaintiffs, therefore, had no use for tank
cars to that point. The Lehigh-Valley Road did not own.tank'
cars, nor did any of the other railroad. companies to any material extent, except the Pennsylvania Railroad, which is not
a party to this proceeding, .The charges for transportation of'
oil in tank cars did not include any charge, except for the oil.
In the transportation of the oil to Perth Amboy via Buffalo,
the initial carrier was the Western' New York and Pen'nylvania Railroad Company, the -Lehigh" Valley Railroad Conm.
pany taking the oil as delivered' to' them in bairrels in cars at
Buffalo, New. York, and transporting it to. Perth Amboy, the
plaintiffi 'paying therefor a joint. through rate, amounting to
sixty-six cents per barrel, including the barrel. The 'defend- •
-ants had. established- this -joint through' rate. ' The tank cars
that were' used by .others for transportation to other places
than Perfh. Amboy were rented from the 6wners, who. were
also shippers of the oil, to the railroad companies, who paid
-the owners "forthe use of such' tank cars a certain sum, determined by the miles run. Those cars were uged exclusively for
the transportation of the oil of the owners of the cars.

212

OCTOBER TERM-, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

.208 U. S.

The Commission ordered the defendants to cease and desist
from charging or collecting any rate or sum for the transportation of the barrel package on shipments of oil -in barrels over
their respective roads or lines from the oil regions of western
Pennsylvania to New York and New York harbor points, or,
on reasonable notice, promptly furnish tank cars to epmplainants -and others who -may apply therefor'for the purpose Qf
loading and shipping oil therein -to such- New York harbor
points as the shipper may direct;. and that said defendants
notify'the public accordingly by publication in their tariff
of rates and charges, pursuant to the provisions of. §.6 of
.the act to regulate commerce. It was also ordered that the
rateon shipments of oil, both in tanks and in barrels, over said
roads should be the same, and the said rate from said oil
regions to New York points should not exceed sixteen and onehalf cents per.hundred pounds. The defendants were also.
required "to refund to the several parties legally entitled
thereto, .within sixty days after notice of this decision and
demand thereof by such parties, all sums received by them for
transportation over their roads of the barrel package, on
shipments of oil in harrels, when the use of tank cars had not
been -open to shippers impartially, and the shipper claiming
reparationhas been thereby deprived of their use."
In its opihion, covering, so far as applicable, the three cases,
the Commission-said that the unlawful discrimination regarding the charge of fourteen cents for the barrel package, in'
addition to the fifty-two cents for the carriage of the oil per
barrel, as against fifty-two cents per barrel by tank cars,
without any charge for the package, lay in the fact that the
choice. was not open generally to shippers, and that the ease
was one where. both modes of transportation are employed.
by'the carrier and- the use of one, the tank cars, is-not open to
shippers impartially, but is practically limited to one class of
shippers, and that the charge for the barrel package in barrel
shipments, in the absence of a corresponding charge on tank
shipments, -resulted in a.greater cost of transportation to the

-x

PENN REFINING CO. v. .WEST. N. Y.& P. R. R. CO. 213
208 U. 9.

Statement of the Case.

shipper in barrels on like quantities of oil between like points
of shipment and destination thant to the tank shipper, and
that it was an unjust discrimination, subjecting the barrel
shipper to an unreasonable disadvantage and giving the tank
shipper an undue advantage, and that no circumstances and
conditions had been disclosed by the evidence in these cases
authorizing such discrimination by any of the defendant carriers.
The order of the Commission was filed November 14i 1892,
and the proceedings were kept open for the purpose of scertaning thfe amounts which were due the parties plaintiff on the
theory adopted by the Commission.
'The defendants did not comply with the order, but continued to charge the fourteen cents for the barrel, and the
parties seeking reparation-that is, the recovery of the damage which they alleged they had sustained-applied for a
hearing before the Commission to ascertain the amount thereof.
The Commission proceeded thereafter, , on proper notice, to determine the amounts due each Of the. claimants from September 13, 1888, the time of the commencement of the charge for
the barrel transportation, to May 15, 1894, the time of the
hearing before the Commission, and found (October 22, 1895)
the amount due the plaintiff, the Penn Refining Company,
Limited (among many other claimants), to be the amount
already stated, arising, as found, from the transportation of
barrels containing petroleum oil, shipped and carried by the
railroads from Oil City and Tijtusville to Perth Amboy at
fourteen cents per barrel in addition to fifty-two cents for its
contents.

The Commission, in its -reparation opinion, stated that the
carriers had failed to notify the public, by publication in their
tariffs of rates and charges, that they would, on reasonable
notice, supply shippers who might apply therefor with tank
cars for transportation to New York harbor points. The original order, directing the publication of these notices by de"fendants in their tariffs of rates, was entered November 14,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

208 U. S.

1892, while the period covered by the reparation order of
October, 1895, giving damages, included four years, namely,
frorm September, 1888, to November, 1892, before the making of such order. The Commission in its opinion also stated
that tank cars had not been open to the use of shippers generally on the carriers' roads, but there was no statement or
finding that plaihtiffs had ever applied for such cars or desired
them or had been refused. The companies did not comply
-with the order of reparation, and the Commission then commenced (some time in 1896) a proceeding in its own name in
the Circuit Court of the United States, in equity, to enforce
all the directions contained in the orders, including the provision for the payment of the money damages found due the
various claimants. Upon demurrer that 'court held that the
latter provision could not be enforced in equity, as the railroads were entitled to a jury trial on the issue as to the amount
of the money recovery, and that the order in regard to the
amount due ought to be enforced by each plaintiff in his own
name. The Interstate Commerce Commission v. Western New
York & Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 192, 195.
Thereupon, and in April, 1901, this proceeding by petition
was commenced in the United States Circuit Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania by the Penn Refining Company, Limited, to recover the amount of the money reparation
directed by the Commission. The Lehigh Valley Company
demurred to the petition, which was overruled, and issue was
then joined by all the defendants upon the material allegations
of the petition, and the case was tried in March, 1902, and a
verdict found for the plaintiffs against all the defendants.
Mr. James W. Lee and Mr. Samuel S. Mehard, with whom
Mr. Eugene Mackey and Mr. M. J. Heyward were on the brief,
.for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Francis I. Gowen
*was on the brief, for defendants in error.

PENN REFINING CO. a. WEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 215
208 U. S.

Opioion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the-court.
The questions arising on this writ of error are, in some respects; different in regard to the different railroads who are
defendants in error, but as to the matters now to be discussed
all occupy the same position.
In their petition to the Commission the petitioners in that
proceeding complained of the rate of transportation of oil to
Perth Amboy, fixed by the carriers atsixty-six cents per barrel,
the weight of the barrel being included and charged for in that
amount, which rate, it was asserted, was unreasonable and
excessive.
In the opinion of the Commission, 'filed with its order, in
referring to a former charge of -fifty-two cents per barrel of
oil without charging for the weight of the barrel, from the oil
fields to Perth Amboy, it is said: "While this rate is-fully as
high as it should be in view of the nature of the traffic and the
conditions surrounding it, and might possibly be made less
without depriving the carriers of a fair remuneration for their
service, we do not feel authorized under all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the record and evidence in these cases
to order a reduction in addition to the exclusion of the charge
for the barrel package" (fourteen cents); "and our conclusion
is that the rate to New York points should be not more than
16J cents per hundred pounds, both in tank and barrel shipments, to be charged, in both cases, only for the weight or
quantity of oil carried, exclusive of any charge for the package." Again the Commission, in its opinion, said: "In-order
to guard against misapprehension the Commission wishes to
say that these cases are decided purely upon the facts ps set
forth in the situation as delineated iii the record and by the
evidence. It is not intended to hold, nor should this report
be construed to hold, that, aside from other controlling circumstances, the carrier, in. hauling packages, is not entitled
to pay according to the weight thereof. It is simply held that

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

on account of the peculiar circumstances in these cases to
charge for the weight of the barrel places barrel shippers at a
disadvantage as against tank shippers, and the practice in
these cases, while the circumstances and conditions remain
unchanged, should be condemned." Upon referring to theorder actually made by the Commission, its language is "that
the action of the defendants in charging for the weight of
barrels on shipments of refined oil in barrels over the several
through lines formed by their respective railroads from Titusville, Oil City, and other points in the oil regions of western
Pennsylvania, to New York, and other points in New York
harbor, or to Boston and points called and known as Boston
points, works unjust discrimination against the shipper of
such oil in barrels in favor of shippers of the same commodity
in tank cars, while said defendants refuse or neglect to furnish
tank cars to complainants and other shippers for the purpose
of loading and shipping oil therein to such New York harbor
and Boston points as said shippers may direct; that rates per
hundred pounds on shipments of oil in tanks or in barrels
:should be the same, and from said points in the oil regions
of western Pennsylvania to New York harbor and Boston,
points such rates should not exceed 16J cents and 231 cents
respectively, and that defendants should make reparation
to complainants and others in all cases where charges on shipment in barrels between those points have included a charge
for the weight of the barrel, and tank cars have not been open
impartially to shippers of refined petroleum oil over their
lines..
The defendants were also, by. order of the Commission,
"required to wholly cease and desist from charging or collecting any rate or sum. for the transportation of the barrel package on shipments of oil in barrels over their respective roads
or lines from the oil regions of western Pennsylvania to New
York and New York harbor points, or to Boston and Boston
points, or, on reasonable notice, promptly. furnish tank cars to
complainants and other shippers who may apply therefor for

PENN REFINING CO. v. WEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 217'
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of loading and shipping oil therein to such. New
York harbor and Boston. points as said shippers may direct,
and that on or before the ninth of 'January, 1893, said defendants notify the public accordingly by publication in their
tariffs of rates and charges, pursuant to the provisions of
§ 6 of the act to regulate commerce, and also file copies of
said tariffs with this Commission, as required by the provisions
of. said section; and defendants are further hereby directed
and required to refund to the several parties legally entitled
thereto, within sixty days," etc., as set forth in the order.
By reference to the foregoing. extracts from the opinion of
the. Commission it appears that they did not hold that the.
carrier in hauling barrels of -oil was not entitled to pay for the
weight thereof, including the package, but only that the
peculiar circumstances of the case before it made 'it improper
to charge for the weight of the barrel, because by such charge
the shippers of oil in barrels were placed at a disadvantage
as against shippers by tank cars, and although in one portion
of the opinion it is stated that the charge of fifty-two cents
per barrel, excluding the weight of the barrel package, was
as high as 'it should be in view of the nature of the traffic and
the conditions surrounding it, nevertheless the Commission
gave the above quoted precise directions contained .in its
formal order. It made use of language by which "the defendants were required to cease from charging for the-transportation of the barrel package, or, on reasonable notice promptly
furnish tank cars to complainant and other shippers who
might apply therefor for the purpose of loading and shipping
oil to New York harbor .or Boston points, as the shippers might
direct. This, of course, amounted and. was equivalent to a
holding that the charge for the weight of the barrel package
of oil was not excessive. If 'the charge for the carriage of. the
barrel itself, taken in connection with the charge for the weight
of 'the oil contained therein, made atotal charge.which was in
and of itself excessive or unreasonably high (as was the complaint of the petitioners), of course the Commission would not

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
208 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

have permitted the charge, even if the petitioners had not
applied for the use of tank cars. East Tennessee &c. Railway'
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 181 U. S. 1, 23; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 190 U. S. .273, 283. This limits the case against the defendants upon the finding of the Commission, to that of discrimination, which was decided. to exist under the peculiar
circumstances of the case, by reason of the charge for the barrel
in -which the oil was contained, while in tank cars the charge
was limited to the oil carried.
We will therefore inquire what were the peculiar circumstances, as shown by the evidence, which led the Commission
to make its order as to discrimination?
They were these:
1. That the railroads owned no tank cars.
2. That they transported oil in tank cars only for those
shippers of oil who owned and. furnished such cars. That in
the case of oil intended for export by such owners it was sent
to ports in New York harbor near Perth Amboy; the seaboard,
and not Perth Amboy alone, being the place of competition
between the plaintiffs and the Standard Oil Trust and others.
3. That the carrier hired tank cars from the shippers of the
oil and paid for them a certain sum, measured by the miles
run to and from the place of consignment.
4. That the tank cars, thus hired, were'used exclusively to
carry the oil of the owners of. such cars. Other shippers of oil
had their oil carried in barrels, in.. box cars, and a charge was
made for the weight of the barrel containing the oil, while the
charge for the oil in .tank cars was limited to the amount of oil
actually, carried.
These facts, in the opinion of the Commission, rendered the
case an exception to the usual rule as to the right to-charge
for the weight of package as well as its contents.- In the view'
of the Commission, .although it admitted that the transportation in tank cars was more profitable-to theSaorer ih yje1di
a larger revenue above the cost of servicE.thanthat

ti

brr~ls,

PENN REFINING CO. v. WEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 219
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

yet the case Was not presented "of two, modes of transportation open indiscriminately to shippers in general, the one at a
higher rate than the other, and as to which the shipper may
take his choice and pay 'accordingly, but a case where the
cheaper rated and, as claimed by the defendants, the better,
mode of transportation was open practically to only a particular class of shippers." When, therefore, .as was stated, "the
carrier accepts tank cars owned by shippers who can afford
to build and furnish them, and has none of his own to furnish
to other shippers, but can supply only box cars, in which barrels
must be used for oil, the carrier is bound to see that he gives
no preference in rates to the tank shipper, and that he subjects the barrel shipper to no disadvantage."
These facts also appeared before the Circuit Court, and that
court left it to the jury to find from them whether there was
"undue discrimination" in favor of the shipper by tank cars
an~d against the shipper by barrels, although the petition made
no such allegation, but only alleged that the rates and charges
for the service (sixty-six cents per barrel) were excessive,
unjust and unreasonable. Discrimination was not alleged between the tank and the barrel car, for what would seem to be
the obvious reason that the plaintiffs could make no use of the
tank, cars, as they had no facilities for unloading them at
Perth Amboy and no vessels to export the oil in bulk, and
the trade demand there was for oil in barrels.. But, although,
without such facilities and not being in position, therefore, to
use such cars, the plaintiffs nevertheless demanded that no
charge for transportation should be made for the barrel package, although the charge made was a reasonable one, unless
a charge for the tank packages was made against those who
used tank cars for the carriage of their oil to points adjacenit
to Perth Amboy, and although the transportation by tank
cars was more remunerative to the companies than the tramportation by barrels.
The whole theory of this discrimination rests upon the
alleged failure to furnish tank cars to shippers demanding

.220

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the-Court.

208 U. S.

them, while at the same time the defendants leased tank cars
from their owners and used. them to carry the oil. of such.
owners exclusively, and yet in this case there has been no
such failure, because there has .been no .demand for such cars
by the plaintiffs, who, for the reasons stated, had no use for
them.
Although in the opinion of the Commission in the reparation
proceeding it was stated that the defendants had not notified
the public as to supplying shippers with tank cars, as required
by the order of November 14, 1892, while at the same time.
they denied to plaintiffs the use of such cars, yet there is no
statement or finding that the plaintiffs had ever asked for such
cars for the Perth Amboy station, and the proof is they did
not want them for that point. In the course of the opinion
some general observations were made in regard to the failure
to supply tank cars, and the consequent necessity for the
shippers to ship their oil in barrels and pay transportation on
the total weight of the oil and the barrels. The opinion was
delivered in two different proceedings, in which all the facts
were not identical, one regarding Perth Amboy and the other
Boston and adjacent points, and we cannot suppose that the
Commission meant to include Perth Amboy in the opinion on
this point, because the facts already adverted to furnish ample
reasons for not demanding or using tank cars.
It is, therefore, apparent that the failure of plaintiffs to use
tank cars during substantially all the period covered by the
reparation order was not owing to a refusal or omission of the
defendants to supply 'them on demand, but because they, the
plaintiffs, did not demand and could not use them economically
for the transportation of oil to Perth Amboy. The opinion of
the Commission must. be read with reference to this evidence,
which, although given on the trial before the .court, states the
facts existing at Perth Amboy during the time of investigatiou
by the 'Commission.
If it be assumed that it was the duty of the railroads to
furnish tank cars to those, who demanded them while the

PENN REFINING CO. v. WEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 221
,208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

railroads continued to hire that kind of car from owners in
which to carry their oil, yet the failure to furnish them to a
party that did not desire and had not demanded them certainly ought not to render it necessary for the railroads to
carry the barrel package free because no charge was made for
the tank package. The Commission said it may be conceded
that the amount of paying freight was materially :greater in
tank than in barrel shipments, and that the tank car, after
adding the gross weight of the car and oil, pays slightly more
to the carrier per ton than the stock car with its full load of
oil barrels. Nevertheless it was stated that the facts already
adverted to made out a case of unjust discrimination between
the tank and barrel shipper, and it was so adjudged in this
case where a shipper did not use or demand a tank car.
We are unable to concur in this view. Because circumstances
existed which prevented the economical use of the tank car
by plaintiffs (no demand being made for the use of a tank car)
is no ground for finding discrimination in the charge for the
weight of the barrel package (such.charge being in itself not
an unreasonable one), while none is made for the tank containing the oil. It might be different if plaintiffs desired tank
cars and defendants failed to furnish them, on -demand.
If the carrier must take off such charge for the weight of the
barrel, although tank cars are not demanded, the result is to
make the defendants carry the barrels free from freight charges;
even while the shippers were unable to use and did not demand
tank cars.
It is not incumbent, therefore, upon this court to now decide
what would be the duty of the carrier as to furnishing tank
cars to those who desired and demanded but did not own
them, where the railroads accepted tank cars, owned by other
shippers of oil, for the purpose of carrying their oil alone, and
to different points than Perth Amboy. We are dealing with a
case Where such question does not arise.
There are other. reasons in addition to the foregoing why
the Lehigh Valley should not be held for any discrimination

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
MOODY, J., dissenting.

-208 U. S.

in this case. That company was but a connecting carrier and
took the cars as they were delivered to it by the initial carrier
at Buffalo for transportation to Perth -Amboy. It was the
duty of the connecting carrier to do so, and it was not rendered
liable for any alleged wrongful act of the-initial carrier merely
because of the.adoption of a joint through rate from Titusville
or Oil- City to Perth Amboy, which was in itself reasonable.
Nor did the eighth section of the commerce act render it liable
for any such alleged wrongful act asserted against the initial
carrier.
These views render it unnecessary to consider the objection
to the recovery, taken by the defendants in error, based upon
the fact that the petition to the Commission asked for relief
on the ground that the charges were unreasonably high, while
the relief granted was based upon discrimination, a charge not
contained in the pleading. For the reasons already stated,
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY,

dissenting.

In my opinion- there was evidence which tends to support
the plaintiff's cause of action, and I think that it should have
been, as it Was, submitted to the jury. It appeared that the
plaintiff was engaged in shipping oil, destined for export, from
the oil regions in Pennsylvania to Perth Amboy. Up to September, 1888, the transportation rate was fifty-two cents per
barrel, and that rate applied, whether the oil was carried in
barrels or in tank cars. At that rate the plaintiff was able to
ship oil in competition with other producers. In September,
1888, the rate for shipment in barrels was changed to sixtysix cents per barrel, while the rate was left unchanged where
the oil was carried in tank cars. The evidence tended to show
that, in view of the number, ownership, and management of
all the tank cars in existence, the new rate was practically
prohibitory of barrel shipments from" the Pennsylvania. oil.

PENN REFINING CO. vi WEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 223
208 U. B.

MOODY, J., dissenting.

regions to the seaboard, that it was designed by a competitor
who influenced the defendants to impose it to have this effect,
and that this was the only method of shipment practically
open to the plaintiff. Under these circumstances the plaintiff
joined With others in a complaint to the Interstate Commerce
Commission. Section 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act of
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, makes it "unlawany particular description of
.
to subject
ful .
traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage
in any respect whatever," as well as to give any person or kind
of traffic an undue preference" or advantage. The plaintiff
might have brought an action for damages under §§ 8 and 9
of the act, but it chose to make complaint to the Commission,
thereby electing that as the exclusive remedy. The Commis-sion, after a hearing, adjudged that the sixty-six cent rate
worked unjust discrimination against barrel shipments, and
ordered the defendants to make reparation to the plaintiff and
others. The amount of the reparation was afterwards ascertained. An order prescribing the tariff in the future was
made, but its terms dont seem to be material, as the claims.
for reparation were for the time between the establishment
of the discriminating rate and the making of the Commission's order. The order for the future may or may not be a
•valid and enforceable one. The plaintiff's right under that
order, in the absence of a demand for tank cars, may -be uncertain. We need not pursue-those inquiries. . Here the only
question is of the right of the plaintiff to recover damages for
the- alleged discriminatory rate collected from it before and
not after the order of the Commission. The defendants declined to make the reparation ordered by the Commission, and
•the plaintiff sought to recover it by an action, brought under
j 17 of the act, in which the defendants were entitled to a trial
-by jury. On the trial the statute makes "the findings of fact
prima lacie evidence of the matters therein stated." They
with other evidence were submitted to the jury. The jury was
instructed that whether the plaintiff had been subjected to

.224

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
MooDY,

J., dissenting.

208 U. 8.

undue prejudice was a question of fact. The jdry was further
instructed as follows:
"In arriving at that' conclusion, it is proper to call your
attention to this point-that the mere fact that there is or
may be a preference or advantage given, where refined oil is
shipped in some other way-for example, in tank cars-and
that a more favorable rate is given to tank car shippers, does
not, in and of itself, show that such preference or advantage
is undue or unreasonable within the meaning of the act.
Hence it 'follows that the jury, before it can adjudge these
companies to have acted unlawfully, to have subjected refined oil in barrels to any undue or unreasonable prejudice
or disadvantage, must ascertain the facts and must give due
,regard to these facts and matters which railroad men, apart
from any question arising under the statute, would treat as
calling for a preference or advantage to. be given-for example, in this case, to oil shipped in'such tanks. All such facts
may and ought to be considered and given due weight by the
jury in -forming its judgment, whether such preference or
advantage -is undue or unreasonable. In the complexity of
human affairs, and especially in commercial affai's, absolute
uniformity is well-nigh impossible, and some prejudice or disadvantage often occurs where men desire-to act with the utmost
fairness. It is, however, where such prejudice or disadvantage
in interstate commerce reaches the .measure of updue or unreasonable that the act makes it unlaWful
"It will be for you, gentlemen, t6 apply to this question all
the evidence before you in this case, in the light of all the facts
and -proofs, and justly, fairly and impartially to determine the
question of whether this rate on refined oil in barrels between
-Oil City and. Titusville and Perth Amboy, so established between these two companies (if you find . that. to be the fact)
did subject the oil shipped in barrels to any undue or unreaeronable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever.
"If. you .so find,.yQu will also determine towhat extent was
the rate undue.and unreasonable, and whatever amount you

PENN REFINING CO. v. WEST. N. Y. & P. R. R. CO. 225
208 U. S.

MOoDY, J., dissenting.

so find under the evidence, you would be justified in allowing
this plaintiff to recoup or recover upon any shipments it made
and'on which it has paid the undue and unreasonable amount.
You will understand that it is not entitled to recover all 'the
freight it paid, because part of it was undue and' unreasonable,
but it is only such part of the freight a you find to be undue
and unreasonable that the plaintiff is entitled' to'retover back,
and that only upon proof to you of the -amount of the shipments made by it upon which the freight was unduly and unreasonably charged."
These instructions seem. to me full and appropriate. The
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, thereby affirming that
"the particular description of traffic" in which the plaintiff
was engaged was subjected ti "undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage." I am not persuaded that we can say,
as matter of law, that there was not sufficient evidence to be
submitted to the jury and to warrant the verdict. Nor do I
see any.reason why the Lehigh Valley Railroad should not be
held responsible. It had, with the other defendant, established
'a joint tariff for 'a continuous shipment between the States.
That tariff has been found to be discriminatory and unlawful.
It has received its share of the unlawful exaction. 'The eighth
section of the act provides that a carrier who "shall do, cause
to be done, or permit to be done, any act, matter, or thing in
this act prohibited or declared to be unlawful" shall be liable
to the full amount of the damages sustained by one injured
thereby' I see no escape for this defendant from this provision.
There may have been error committed during the trial
which would require that the verdict should be set aside and
a ne, trial granted. It is not necessary for me to consider this
question.' I go no further than to dissent from the judgment.
of the court, which in effect denies the right of the plaintiff
to recover upon the evidence against aixy of the. defendants.
.Ian authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HABLAN.concurs
in this dissent.
VOt. COVITT-15

