OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
208 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

creditor, and as to a prior creditor the deeds, being gifts, were
void, it not being made to appear that Lewis was then possessed
of property in Arizona sufficient to pay his existing debts.

Judmen affinned.

CLEVELAND TERMINAL AND VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. CLEVELAND STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 84. Argued December 17, 18, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.
The admiralty.does not have jurisdiction of a claim for damages caused by
'a vessel to a bridge or dock which, although in navigable waters, is so
connected with the shore that it immediately concerns commerce upon
land. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, followed, and The Blackheath, 195 U. S.
361, distinguished.

THIS is an appeal from a final decree of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern
Division, in admiralty, dismissing 'appellants' libel on the
appellee's exception thereto, on the ground that the court had
not jurisdiction of the subject matter. It comes here directly
on a certificate as to the jurisdiction under § 5 of the act of
i891.
The libel was in ren against the steam propeller William E.
Reis, owned by appellee, and was based on injuries inflicted
to the center pier of the swinging or draw bridge spanning the
Cuyahoga River, a navigable stream at Cleveland, Ohio; to
the protecting piling work surrounding such center pier, and
one of the shore abutments of such bridge; and to a dock or
wharf next below such bridge, all caused as described in the
libel in substance, as follows:
The steamer Reis, during a heavy flood, broke from her

CLEVELAND TERMINAL R. R. v. STEAMSHIP CO. 317
208 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

winter moorings and, drifting down the river, struck the
merchant propeller Moore at her moorings, forcing her against
the steamer Eads, putting her adrift, the three being carried
down with the current. The Cleveland Terminal and Valley
Railroad Company owned and operated a bridge across the
Cuyahoga River below the mooring point of the above-named
vessels, the bridge being equipped with a swinging span, supported by a center abutment or pier in the navigable channel.
Surrounding the center abutment was piling intended to protect vessels from damage. The railroad company and the
Detroit and Cleveland Navigation Company jointly owned a
dock below, constructed on piles driven in the bed of the
stream and on the shore. Itwas floored over, but open underneath. As the vessels drifted down the Moore struck and
damaged this dock, for which claim is made. The Eads stern
brought up against a pier below the bridge. The Moore brought
up against the dock abreast the Eads, and the Reis, drifting
stern first, entered between the Eads and the Moore, and it is
said in so doing forced the. Eads into- collision with.the center
pier of the railroad company's bridge, thereby damaging the
protection piling about the same, for- which damages were
claimed. It was also averred that. as the three vessels were
wedged together at the bridge the stream was partially dammed,
causing the water to rise, increasing the velocity of the current
underneath the keels of the Eads and the Reis, so that the
current undermined the center pier and shore abutment and
carried away some of the protection piling, and for restoring
that piling and the support under the center pier and the pier
damages were claimed.. And it was further claimed that by
reason of the disaster the railroad company was deprived of
the use of its bridge for a period of ten days, and necessarily
incurred expense to a large amount.
The usual process issued, the vessel was arrested, and later
claimed and bonded by appellee, which subsequently filed its
exception to the libel. On the hearing the District Court sustained the exception and dismissed the libel "on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

208 U. S;

that, although the property injured by said disaster, said
dock, said center pier and said protection piling work stood
in the navigable water of said river, yet it does not appear
from the allegations of the libel that any part of said property
so injured was either an instrument of or an aid to navigation,
for which reason there is no authority for sustaining the jurisdiction of a court of admiralty over the wrong complained of
and the cause of action set forth in the libel."
Mr. Roger M. Lee, with whom Mr' Virgil Kline was on the
brief, for appellants'
Under the holdings already made by this court, our case falls
within admiralty jurisdiction in tort, because both the wrong
and the injuries complained of were wholly. consummated in
navigable water. The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361. This case
seems quite sufficient authority for sustaining the jurisdiction
in the case at bar. Neither the fact that the beacon in the
Blackheath case was owned by the Government nor that it was
an aid to navigation can be considered such a test of jurisdic-.
'tion. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20; Johnson V'. Chicago & Pac.
Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388; Homer Ramsdell Co. v. Comp. Gen.
Trans., 182 U. S. 406, and other cases can be distinguished.
The constitutional grant of admiralty jurisdiction should
be construed to cover the case made in this libel. In fact,
every case of physical injury to person or property, caused
by the negligent act of a ship, while such ship is in navigable
water, should be held to fall within the jurisdiction of admiralty,
regardless of the locality of the person or property so injured.
This should be held to be the rule in view of all the considerations, which have heretofore aided this court in its constructions of the Federal grant of admiralty jurisdiction; in
view of the jurisdiction exercised anciently in England, as
well as in this country during the Colonial period, and until
the adboption 6f our Constitution, over the banks, shores and
bottom soil of inland rivers and creeks and property located
thereon; and in view also of the evident intent of the framers

CLEVELAND TERMINAL R. R.
208 U.S.

i.

STEAMSHIP CO. 319

Opinion of the Court.

of the Constitution, the words of the grant, the purposes of a
separate system of maritime law and admiralty courts, and
tjhe objects on account of -which admiralty jurisdiction was
conferred upon the Federal courts, as well as the principles
underlying the creation of the maritime lien, and the demands
of reason and conyenience.
Mr. Harvey D. Goulder and Mr. Frank S. Masten, with
whom Mr. S. H. Holding was-on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the_ foregoing..
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The certificate below ihcluiled the libel in full and certified
four questions; but we are not called upon to answer them
Seriatin;, and must determine the case on our conclusion as to
whether the record discloses a maritime tort justifying the
exercise of. admiralty jurisdiction.
In The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering
the opinion of the court, said that .the true meaning of the rule
of locality in cases of maritime torts was that the wrong must
have been committed wholly on navigable waters, or, at least,
the substance and consummation.of the' same must have taken
place upon those waters to be within the admiralty jurisdiction.
A substantial cause of action arising out of the wrong must be
complete within the locality on -which the jurisdiction depended Ex patePhenix Insurance Company, 118 U. S. 610.
In Johnson v. Chicago & Pacific Elevated Company, 119 U. S.
388, the jib-boom of a vessel towed by a steam tug in the
Chicago River, at Chicago, struck a building on land through
the negligence of the tug and caused damage to it, and it was
held that the cause of action was not a maritime tort of which
the admiralty court of the United States would have jurisdiction.' And Mr. Justice Blatchford said (p. "397): "Under
the decisions of this court in The: Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, and in
Ex parte Phenix Insurance. Company, 118 U. S. 610, at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

.

208 U. S.

present term, it -must be held that the cause of action in this
case was not a maritime tort of which a District Court of the
United States, as a court of admiralty, Would have jurisdiction; and that the remedy belonged wholly to a court of common law; the substance and consummation of the wrong
having taken place on land, and not on navigable water, and
the cause of action not having been complete on such waters."
It is unnecessary to cite the numerous cases to the same

effect to be found in the books. The rule stated has been
accepted 'generally by bench and bar, and has never been
overruled, though counsel express the hope that it may be
because of our decision in The .Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361. In
that case Mr. Justice Brown, in concurring, announced the
view that the effect of the decision was to overrule what had
previously been laid down in the cases we have cited. But the
court held that the opinion was not opposed to the prior
adjudications, and, without entering into the elements of
distinction between that case and The Plymouth, said (p. 367):
"It is enough to say that we now are dealing-with an injury
to a Government aid to navigation from ancient times subject
to the admiralty, a beacon emerging from the water, injured
by the motion of the vessel, by a continuous act beginning and
consummated upon navigable water, and giving character to
the effects upon a point which is only, t chnically land, through
a connection at the bottom of the sea."
The case was a libel in rem against a.British vessel for the
destruction of a beacon, number 7, Mobile shipchannel lights,
caused by the alleged negligent running into. the beacon by
the vessel.. The beacon stood fifteen or twenty feet from, the
channel of Mobile River, or bay, in water twelve or fifteen feet
deep, and was built on piles driven firmly into the bottom.
The damage was to property 16cated in navigable waters,
solely an aid to navigation and maritime in nature, and having no other purpose or function.
In the present case damage to shore dock, and to bridge,
protection piling and .pier, by a vessel being forced against

•THE TROY.
208 U. S.

Syllabus.

each of them by the vessel proceeded against, as well as damage to shore dock, abutment; protection piling, pier and dock
foundation by a wash said to be due to the increased current
arising from partial damming of the stream by -the three vessels, brought into such position by the alleged fault of the
vessel proceeded against, was sought to be recovered. But
the bridges, shore docks, protection piling, 'piers, etc.,. pertained to the land. They were structures connected with the
shore and immediately concerned commerce upon land. None
of these structures were aids to navigation in the maritime
-sense, but extensions of the shore and aids to commerce on
land as such.
'The proposition contemied for is that the jurisdiction of
the admiralty court should be extended to "any claim for
damages by any ship," according to the. English statute; but
we are not inclined to disturb the rule that has been settled
for so many years because of some' supposed convenience.
Unless we do that, this decree must be affirmed and
It is so ordered.

THE TROY.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
..No. 232. Submitted December 20, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Cleveland Terminal Co. v. Steamship Co., ante, p. 316, followed to effect that
the admiralty does not have jurisdiction of a claim for damages to a
bridge which, although in navigable waters, is so connected with the land
that it immediately concerns commerce on land.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Docket title, No. 232, Duluth & Superior Bridge Company v. Steamer
"Troy," her Boilers, Engines, etc.
voL. CCvIII--21

