234.

. OCTOBER TERM, 190
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U. S.

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND COMPANY v. WIESE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 101.- Argued January 10, 1908: -Deided'February 3. 1908.

Where a judge of the highest courtof a State, in allowing a writ of error,
adds to his signature " lPresiding Judge, etc., in the absence of the chief
judge from the-State;" that recital is jwm facie evidence that the chief
judge is absent and the judge signing is presiding, and, if not 'ontroverted,
the writ of error'is properly allowed and the requirement of §'
999, Rev.'
Stat., that it must be allowed either by theChief Justice of the state court
or a justice of this court, is-cobaplied with.
The contentioh in the. state cout that.plaintiff. in error's title rested on a
patent to his grantor and that prior to the issuing thereof the legal
title had remained in the United States, so that adverse possession could
not be obtained, involves a Federal question, and as in this case it was.
.not.frivolous, and was necessarily decided by the state court, and such
decision was adverse to the title set up under the United States, this
court ha .jurisdiction under i 709, Rev. Stat., to review the judgment.
The rulings of this court that. the Union Pacific Railroad main line grant,
-within place limits, made by the act'of July i, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, and
the amendatory. act- of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356, was in presenti, and
* thatafter definite location of its 'road the grantee company could maintin 'ejectment and. that t.itle could be acquired against 'it
by adverse pos
session, held in this.case to apply to lands embraced within the grant for
construction of the Sioux City branch road, iotwithstanding such branch
was to be constructed by a company. to be thereafter incorporated. ..
Wlfere lands a're within the overlap of.place limits of two grants, both of
which'are i , prwsenti, and-for which eventually'a joint patent is 'issued
to both' cqmpanies, the occupancy 'of %a-portion thereof, -under a' deed
given by one 'pf the companies after definite location, and before the
* issuing of the joint patent, is adverse .to the Other company, and not that
of a cotenat; nor, under the .circumstances of this case, do the acts of
such occupant in acquiring title from. the' United. States, under the remedial act' of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat; 556, interfere with his title thereto

which had'aheady been established by advese possession.

THE fActs are stated in'
the opinion.
Mr...Charles A. Clark for plaintiffs in error in this cas.e and
in'No. 102 argued simltaneously herewith:
* The grant for the Siouxc City Branch was-not in prxsenti.

CO. v. WIESE.
MISSOURI VALLEY LAND
I
208A. S.

Aigument for Plaintiffa in Error.

It was made by § 17, act of July 2, 1864, to a railway corporation to be therealter designated whether then in existence or
afterwards organized and which shall be entitled to receive alternate sections for ten miles in width on each side of the same
along the whole length of said branch.
The forfeiture imposed for failure to complete the branch
was merely "all of the railroad which shall have been constructed by said company;" and did not include' all lands as in
-the case of the main line and 6ther branches under § 17, act of

1, 1861.
July
. Where

it has been held that the grant was in prtrsenti
the
language was, "that there be and is hereby granted." Deseret
Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; Tottec Ranch Co. y.Cook,191
U. S. 532; Iowa Railroad Land Co. v. Blumer,, 206 U. S. 482.
Where the language of the grant is "shall be granted" as
-inthe act of 1864, it is not a grant in prmsenti of the legal'
title. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 392; United States
v. Thomas, 151 U. S.583; Beecher v. Weatherby,. 95 U. S.523;
Cooppr v. Robert, 18 How. 179.
There may be a grant in prcesenti of an inchoate right or
title where the legal.title does not pass until patent is. issued
for the, land. Rogers Locomotive Co. v. Am. Emigrant Co., 164
U. S. 559; Michigan Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 592.
"As to the jurisdiction of the Land Office see "United States
v. Winona & St. P.' Ry., 15 C. C. A. 103, 104,
"The
'
decision in this case was affirmed on appeal.' United
States v. W. & St. P.'Ry., 165 U. ,S.463, 474, 475. See also.
Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 533; Minter v. Crommeiti, 18
How. 89; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 401; French v.
Fyan, 93'How. 172; Quinby v. Conlan,-104 U. S. 420; Smelting
'Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 647; Steel v. Refining Co., 106 U. S.
452; Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S 585; Knight v.Association,
142 U. S. 212; Nobl/ v. Railway Co., 147.U. S. 174; Barden
v. Railway Co., 154 U.'S. 288.
."The decisions of the Land Department in contest cases
are conclusive upon all 'questions of'fact." Love v. Fkihive,

.230

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907..
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U. S.

205 U. S. 198; Gertg ns v. O'Connor, 191 U. S. 240, citing
Bur/enning v.,Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 163.U. S. 323, and cases
there cited; Johnson v. Drew, 17-1 U. S. 99; Gardnerv. Bonestell,
180 U. S. 362.
Where-a public grant is being administered .by the Land
Department the courts cannot anticipate its decision by passing. upon the title to lands involved in contests before the
Department in the administration of such grant. The jurisdiction of the Department is exclusive. French v'. Fyan, 93
U. S. 171.
Courts are not permitted to,"t render a decree in advance of
the action of the Government which would render its patents
.a nullity when issued." Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 475, and
cases cited; Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S .509; Craig v. Leitensdor/er, 123 U. S. 213; Ehrhardt v4 Hogaboom, 115 U. S. 67, 69.
The Qfficers of the Land Department were "charged with
the duty of administering the land grant and determining
what lands did and what did not pass, the only tribunal to
which the company could then apply and upon whose ruling,
it was bound to act." United States v. Winona &c, Ry., 165
U. S. 475; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 70; In re Emblen, 161
U. S. 56, 57; M'cDaid v. Oklahoma, 150 U. S. 209; Bockfinger
v: Foster, 190 U. S. 121, 126; Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S.
502, 510.
As an. action for the possession of the land could not have
been. maintained by the.:Sioux, City.Company, or its grantee,.
the statute of limitations. could not run or toll the right of
that company or its grantee under patent .for the land when
finally issued. Howaod v. Perrin, 200 U. S. 74, 75; Gibson v.
Choteau, 13 Wall: 92;"/6wa Ry. Land Co. v. Blumer, 206 U. S.
,495, 496.
It is only in the interestof justice that the fiction .of relation is applied by. which a legal title' is held to relate back
to the initiatory step for -the acquisition of -the land. - United
States v. Anderson, 194 U. S. 399, and- cases there cited.
Where, as in th1e 'case at bar, the:. applicatioi of that rule

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND CO.
208 U. S.

WIESE.

.237

Argument for Defendant in Error.

would, -under a state statute of limitations giving title by
prescription, toll the legal title before it passes from the United
States, this is not in the interest of justice, and the fiction of
relation cannot obtain. Gibson v. Choteau, 13 Wall. 100;
Howard v. Perrin,200 U. S.74, 75.
"The writ of error herein was properly issued. See Butler.v.
Gage, 138 U. S,56; Havnor v. New York, 170.U. S. 411..
The case presents Federal questions clearly giving this court
jurisdiction. Gibson v. Choteau, 13 Wall. 92; Redfield v. Parks,
132 U. 5. 246; Iowa R. R. Land Co. v. Blumer, 206 U. S.
482.
Mr. James H. Van Dusen, with whom Mr. Edward F.
Colladay was on the brief, for .defendant in,error in this case
and in No. 102:
The writ of error herein was not properly issued, because it
appears that it was not signed by the Chief Justice of the*
Supreme Court of the State, as required by law. Hamor v.
New York, 170 U. S. 41L
There is no Federal question involved in this case. It is
merely a suit to quiet title brought by one of two tenants in
common against the other, both of whom base their claims of
title upon the same grant from the United States. The Case
is governed by Corkran Oil Co..v. Arnaudet, 199 U. S. 182, and
Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163 U. S. 74.
The acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864, were
grants in prmsenti and, under the admission in the pleadings
of the completion of the railroads and the compliance with all.
the terms and conditions of the act prior to January 1, 1870,
operated to pass the title of the Government on or prior-to
that date. Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; Toltec
Ranch Co. v. Cook, 191 U. S. 291; Schuenberg v. Harriman,21
..Wall. 44; Leavenworth L. & G. Ry. Co. v. United States, 92
U. 5. 733; Platt v. Union.Pac. Ry. Co., 99 U. S.48; St. Joseph
S. 426; St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Phelps,
R,-. Co. v. Baldwin, 103 UL.
Co. v. Blumer, 206 U. S. 482.
RailroadLand
137U. S. 528; Iowa

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the CorL.

208 U. .

.If title passed from the Government, as contended.by Wiese,
the state statute of limitations operated and proceedings before the Land Department could not toll it. Deseret Salt Co.
v. TarM,'e142 U. S. 241; Toltec Ranch Co. v. Cook, 191 U. S.
291; Souther Pac. Ry. Co. v. Whitaker, 109 California, 268;
.Sage v.. Rudnick, 91 Minnesota, 330; Iowa Railroad Land Co.
V.Blumer, 206 U. S. 482.
There is no evidence in the record showing any, controversy
before the Land Department over the land in question between the two railway companies, 'th only contest being
between. Wiese and the Misouri Valley Land Company.
Hence,. the contention that there was a contest -between the
railroad companies as to which was entitled to the land pending before the Land Department is npt supported by any
evidence.
Whether the application of Wiese to enter the land under
the act of. Congress of 1887 prevented the-running of the state
statute of limitations was a question exclusively for the state
court, and it held that- the statute was not thereby tolled.
Oldig v. Fiske, 53 Nebraska, 159; Beau v. McMenemy, 63.
Nebraska, .70.
The conveyance by the Union Pacific Railroad Company
to Japp, and the exclusive possession of Japp and .Wiese
thereunder, constitute an adverse possession, and this was a
question exclusively for the state court.
ME, JUsTc . WMTE delivered the opinion of the court.

Within the grants of land made to the Union Pacific Railrad Company and the Sioux City and Pcific Railroad Company'by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat.
489, add the amendatory act of July. 2, 1864, c. 216, 13 Stat.
356, some of the land within place limits overlapped. This
controversy concerns the title to a forty-acre tract within an
overlap.
. .
We state the salient facts estdblished by the pleadings and

MISSOURI. VALLEY LAND. CO'
208 U.S.

i.

WIESE.

239

Opinion of the Court.

the proofs in order to make clear the contentions which are
required to be decided.
The land involved is the northeast t of the northeast . of
section 21, township 17, range 11 east, Washington County,
'Nebraska. At the time of the passage of the granting acts
referred to the records of the General Land. Office showed a
school indemnity selection of the tract'now in controversy,
made on July 1, 1858. The railroads named, each having
complied with all the conditions of the acts of Congress, had
become fully entitled to the granted lands prior to January.1,
1870. A joint patent was issued in 1873 to the two roads
named for a large quantity of the lands within the common
territory. This action of the Land Department was upheld
by the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska in 1876, and .
the two railroad companies were adjudged to be tenants in common of such lands. Sioux City & P. R. A. Co. v. Union Pacific Railroad Company, 4 Dill. 307; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 12,909.
As remarked in a footnote to a report of thecase, "This decree
was acquiesced in by the parties, who, subsequently effected
an amicable partition of the land." Apparently, however, in
consequence of .the school indemnity selection referred to,
the forty-acre tract now in controversy was not included in
such patents. On July 3,'1880, the school indemnity selection
was cancelled by the General Land Office because not authorized by statute. See 17 L." D. 43. This cancellation, so
far as the record discloses, left the tract free from claims
antagonistic to the rights of the railroad companies under the
grants of 1862 and 1864.. On June 12, 1881, the Union Pacific
Railroad Company "listed the land in question, per list No. 4,
but the Sioux City and Pacific Railroad Company never listed..
the same." On December 1, 1882, the Union Pacific Railroad
Company sold, and in 1887, after completion of the payment
for the same, conveyed the land to John Japp by a warranty
deed, purporting to transfer the entire title, and this deed
was soon afterwards recorded. Japp wentAn.to and remained
in Open, continuous and adverse possession of the land, farm-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
) Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

ing the same, until February 28, 1891, when he sold it to Asmus
Wiese, the defendant in error. The latter at once recorded
his deed, inclosed the land with a wire fence, and maintained
an exclusive possession of the.land, claiming to be the owner.
Upon the ground that the school indemnity selection referred to, although invalid, was uncancelled when the railroad
grants of 1862 and 1864 were made, and that such invalid
selection operated to except the tract in question from said
grants, the General Land Office on May 19, 1892, cancelled
the listing of the tract which had been made by the Union
Pacific Railroad Company.and rejected a claim "as to. this
land" made by the Sioux City and Pacific Railroad Company.
When such claim was made and its precise character, is not
shown by the record.
By § 5 of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 377, 24 Stat. 556,
providing for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress
to aid in the construction of railroads and for the forfeiture of
unearned-lands, etc., it was made lawful for a bona fide purchaser of lands forming part of. a railroad land grant, but
which for any reason had been excepted from the operation
of the grant, to make payment to the United States for said.
lands and obtain patents therefor. Because of the ruling
made by the General Land Office, to the'effect that the Union
Pacific Railroad Company was without title to the land which
it had conveyed to Japp, as befOre stated, Asmus Wiese, on
August 10, 1893, began proceedings under the fifth section of
the act of 1887 to obtain a. patent to the land from the United
States, made the required publication and proof, and on
September 25, 1893, paid to the register of the proper local
land office the sum of $50, the price of the land. A certificate
was delivered to Wiese, reciting that' he was entitled, on
presentation thereof, to receive a patent. On October 17, 1894,
.presumably' while an 'application of Wiese for patent was
pending before the Commissioner, the Sioux City and Pacific
Railroad Company filed, a protest against the issue of the
patent, on the ground that the land affected lay within the

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND CO. v. WIESE.
208 U. S.

241

Opinion of the Court.

limits of the grant to said company under the act of 1864,
that the indemnity schlool selection then apparently existing
was void, and did not cause the land to be excepted from the
grant on the definite location of. the road, and in. consequence
that there was no authority of law for the. purchase by. Wiese.
It was further claimed that as the land was within the grant
to the Sioux City road, it was a condition Precedent to acquiring title under the'act of 1887, that it had been purchased from
that company, whereas the proof by Wiese was that it had
been purchased from the Union Pacific Railroad Company.
The protest was dismissed by the Commissioner on the ground.
that the Sioux City Company- ws debarred from. making the
protest, because a claim previously made by. that road to
the land had been rejected. Thereafter, upon application of
•the attorneys for the Sioux City Company, this decision of the..
Commissioner was reviewed by the Secretary, of the Interior.
On April 28, 1896, applying a prior.decision inr Union Pacific
Ry. Co. v. United States, 17 L. D. 43, that official held that the
school indemnity selection referred to having been made without statutory authority therefor, 'did not reserve the land so
selected from the operation of subsequent grants to the railroads on the definite location of their line or lines, and th-t
the entry made by Wiese in supposed conformity to the act
of 1887 was unauthorized.. In August following. the entry of
Wiese was formally cancelled. .InSeptemberi 1897, a patent
from the United atates for the tract was issued to the Missouri
Valley Land Company as the successor in interest to".the Sioux
City and Pacific Railroad Company. Following a notification
from the Land Office by letter, dated May i7, 1898, -that the
land had been erroneously patented, as it was within the limits
of the grant to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and a
patent should have issued to.the coipanies joiritly, the Missouri
Valley Land Company by quiiclaim deed'reconveyed the land
to the United States. Finally, on July, 24, 1903, a patent for
the land was issued by.the United States to~the 'Union Pacific
Railroad Company, succ.sor in interest to,.the Union Pacific
Vol. ccYzv-16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

Railroad Company and-to the Missouri Valley Land Company,
successor in interest of the Sioux City and Pacific Railroad
Company, jointly.
Prior, however, to the issue of the patent last referred -to,
and on November 12, 1902, Wiese commenced in the District
Court of Washington County, Nebraska, this action to quiet
his title to. the: tract, making defendants to the petitiop the
Union Pacific Railway Company, the Sioux City and Pacific
Railroad Company, and the Missouri Valley Land Company.
On February 7, 1903, the Union Pacific Railway Company filed
a disclaimer of "any and all interest of every kind or nature
in and to the subject matter of this action." The issues, however, upon which the case was tried were made by a second
amended petition, filed on February 20, i904, and an answer
and'cross-petition thereto and a reply to the cross-petition.
The only defendants named in this second amended petition
were the Missouri Valley- Land Company and the Iowa RailroadLand Company.- Averments were made in the petition
as to the making of the overlapping grants by Congress, the
completion of the two railroads prior to January 1, 1870, the
sale to Japp in 1882 and by Japp to the plaintiff, the adverse
possession of the land by the plaintiff aid his grantor, commencing in 1882, absolute ownership of the land by the plaintiff, the issue in 1903 of the joint patent-for the land .to the
successors in interest of the original beneficiaries of the grants
made by the acts of 1862 and 1864, and the assertion of con•flicting claims to the land .by the defendants as successors in
interest to the Sioux City. and Pacific Railroad 'Company.
The prayer was that ihe.title of plaintiff might be quieted, etc.
We excerpt from the -brief of counsel for plaintiffs in error
i synopsis of the contents of the claims made by its answer
and cross-petition:
"Plaintiff in error set up and claimed by its answer and
cross-bill that the title to its interest remained in the'United
States until the issuance of' the patent in 1903; in other words,
that the grant for the Sioux City branch was not a grant of

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND CO. v. WIESE.
208 U.S.

'243

Opinion of the Court.

the legal title' in prmsenti. It also'specially set up :and claimed"
that the Land Department had jurisdiction to determine
whether the land was subject to the grant under acts of 1862
and 1864 and to determine all disputes as to who was entitled
to a patent therefor; that it was not adjudged until July 24;
1903, that each company under the grant was entitled to. a
moiety of the lands. That while the Land Department was
holding, as above stated (because of the indemnity' School
selection), the land in controversy to have been excepted
from the grants under the acts of 1862 and, 1864, defendant
in error was permitted by the local land officers of Nebraska
to enter the land under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887,,
and that this entry was not cancelled until-August 25, 1896;
that under these rulings 'and contests, and while the title
remained in the United States, up to the. issue of the joint'
patent, the possession of defendant in error was in no sense
adverse, but was in subserviency to the title of the United
States."
The plaintiff by his reply' in substance alleged that the
grants were in prcsenti, and that the effect of the completion
of the railroads and compliance with-all the terms and conditions of the act prior to January 1, 1870, operated to pass the
title of the Government on or prior to that date, andthat the
General Land Office had not thereafter jurisdiction in respect
to such lands, and that the adverse possession of.the plaintiff
the .Land Departwas not affected by the proceedings hadl .in
ment concerning such land.
The cause was submitted to the court on the pleadings and
evidence, and a decree was entered adjudging that Wiese had,
a perfect title to the tract. The Supreme. C6urt of Nebraska
affirmed the decree (108 N. W. Rep. 175), holding, in substance, that the grant to the two companies of the tract in
controversy was in prwsen'ti, that the title of the companies
attached upon the definite location of their lines of road, and
that the adverse possession of Wiese and, his grantor, com'mencing in 1882,' had completely barred any claims of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

companies to the property. The case was then brought to
this court.
A motion has been filed to dismiss the writ of error because
it "was not allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, and it does not appear in the record by
what authority the judge who allowed the writ styles himself
'Presiding Judge of the Supreme Court of Nebraska,' and because there is no Federal question involved in said cause."
Looking at. the record we find that originally the writ of
error was signed by "Charles B. Letton, Justice of the Supreme
Court of the State of Nebraska," and that subsequently an
'additional signature was added, viz., "John B. Barnes, Presiding Judge of Supreme Court of Nebraska in absence of Sedgwick, C. J., from this State." Obviously, in procuring the
signature of Justice Letton, counsel overlooked the fact that
by §999, Rev. Stit., it was necessary that the writ of error
should be allowed by the Chief Justice of the court. The
recital made by Justice Barnes following his signature is,
however, prima facie evidence of the correctness of the statements therein contained, viz., the absence of the Chief Justice
from the State and the fact that Justice Barnes was in his
absence the Presiding Judge of the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
and counsel have not assailed the accuracy of the representations. We are of opinion that the statute was complied with.
Hatnwr v. New York, 170 U. S. 408, 411.
The contention of the absence of a Federal question is also
without merit. In effect, the plaintiffs in error pleaded their
right and title -to a moiety of the tract in controversy under
the joint patent of July. 24, 1903, and urged in support thereof
the claim that the legal title had not before the date named
passed out of the United States, that the land was within the
jurisdiction of the General Land Office, and that-up.to a short
time before, the execution of the joint deed the department
had assumed and exercised jurisdiction over controversies
respecting the land. Such a contention cannot be'said to be
-frivolous, and as the state court necessarily decided against:

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND CO. v. WIES.
208 U. S.

246

Opinion of the Court.

the right or title so specially set up under the United States,
we possess jurisdiction.
That the decision of the court below was right, as applied
to the land within the place limits of the main line grant made
to the Union Pacific Railroad Company by the act of 1862'
and the amendatory act of 1864, is not an open question. This
is so, since it has been expressly held that the main line grant
was one in 'prcsenti,that the grantee company had a right to
bring ejectment for such land after the definite location of its
road, and that consequently from the time of such defiiiite
location a possession might be acquired by a third party to
land embraced within the grant, which would be adyerse,
even as to the railroad company, and bar its title if possession
was continued for the statutory length of time. DeseretSalt
Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; Toltec Ranch Co. v. Cook, 191
U. S. 532; Iowa Railroad Land Co. v. Blumer, 206 U.S. 482.
In the last-mentioned case, summing up the doctrine, it was
said:
"But when the grant is in prcesenti, and nothing remains
to be done for the administration of the grant in the Land
Department, and the conditions of. the grant have been complied with and the grant fully earned, as in-this case, notwithstanding the want of final certification and the issue of the
patent, the railroad company had such title as would enable
it to maintain ejectment against one Wrongfully on the lands,
and title by prescription would run against it in favor of one
in adverse possession under color of title. Salt Co. v. Tarpey,
and Toltec Ranch Co. v. Cook, supra,"
•The conclusive effect'of these rulings, if applicable, is not
denied, but it is insisted that they are not pertinent, because.
the land in question was not a part of the main line grant, but
was embraced within a grant for the cons.truction of a branch'
road, which is so different from the grant for the construction
of the main line, that the branch line grant cannot be held to
have been a grant in prcesenti within the principle of'the
previous cases. We proceed to consider this contention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The grants to aid in the construction of branch lines embraced by the act of 1862 are found in §j 9, 13 and 14 of the
act. The grant to the particular branch line with which we
are concerned is contained in §14. By that section the Union
Pacific Railroad Company was authorized and required to
construct two branch lines of road and telegraph from a point
on the western boundary of the State of Iowa and from Sioux
City, in the State of Iowa, so as to connect with the line which
was to start from the western boundary. The two branch
lines referred to in §14, as also the branch lines referred to in
other sections of the act of 1862, were authorized to be constructed "on the same terms and conditions as provided" or
"as contained in the act for the construction of the Union
Pacific Railroad Conmpany," etc. 'Section 17 of the act of 1864
amended §.14 of the act of 1862, so that the section read as
follows, 13 Stat. 363:"SEc. 17. And be it further enacted, That so much of sec-

tion fourteen of said act- as relates to a branch from Sioux
City be, and the same is hereby, amended so as to read as
follows: That-whenever a line of railroad shall be completed
through the States of Iowa, or Minnesota, to Sioux City, such
company, now organized or may hereafter be organized under
the laws of Iowa, Minnesota,r Dakota, or Nebraska, as the
President of the United States, by its request, may designate
or approve for that purpose, shall cor otruct and operate a line
of railroad and telegraph from Sioux City, upon the most direct
and practicable route, to such a point on, and so as to connect
with, the Iowa branch of the Union Pacific Railroad from
Omaha, or the Union Pacific Railroad, as such company may
select, and on the same terms and conditions as are provided
in this act and the act to which this is an amendment, for the
construction of the said Union and Pacific Railroad and telegraph line and branches; and said company shall complete the
same at the rate of fifty miles'per year; Provided, That said
Union Pacific Railroad Company shall be, and is-hereby, released from- te construction of said branch. And said-com-

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND CO v. WIESE.
208 U. S.

247

Opinion of the Court.

pany constructing said branch shall not be entitled to receive
in bonds an amount larger than the said Union Pacific Railroad. Company would be entitled to receive if it had constructed the branch under this act and the act to which this
is an amendment; but said company shall be entitled to receive alternate sections of land for ten miles in width on each
side of the same along the whole length of said branch: And
provided, further, That if a railroad should not be completed
to Sioux City, across Iowa or -Minnesota, within eighteen
months from the date of this act, then said company designated
by the -President, as aforesaid, may commence, continue, and
complete the construction of said branch as contemplated by
the provisions of this act: Provided, however, That if the said
company so designated by the President as aforesaid shall not
complete the said branch from Sioux City to the Pacific Railroad within ten years from the passage of this act, then, and
in that case, all of the railroad which shall have been constructed by said company shall be forfeited to, and become
the property of, -the United States."
It will be observed that there wa employed in the act of
1864 similar language to that used in the act of 1862 in tegard
to the consideration moving from the United States for the
construction of the branch in question, viz., that the work
should be done "on the same terms and conditions as are
provided in this act, and the act to which this is an arpendment, for the construction nf the Said Union Pacific Railroad
and Telegraph line and branches." That consideration, among
other things, was a grant of lands and also an issue of bonds
by the United States. As. we must refer to the terms of the
main grant to the Union Pacific Railroad Company to determine the nature of like grants of land made in the acts of 1862
and 1864 to aid in the construction of the branch lines, we see
no escape from the conclusion that the construction given to
the grant of lands within place limits made in aid of the main
line must be adopted as to the grants of place lands made in
aid of branch roads, and as we have seen the settled construe-

•

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. B..

tion is that title to lands within the place limits passed by the
main grant on the filing by the road of its map of definite
location in the General Land Office. Nor is there merit in the
contention that a different construction is rendered necessary.
by the circumstance that the Toad which might build up the
branch from Sioux City was not or may not have been in
existence at the time of the passage of the act of 1864. As
well argue that because §7 of the act of 1862 required the
Union Pacific Railroad to file its assent to the act, under the
seal of the company, in the Department of the Interior, within
one year after the passage of the act, that there was uncertainty
as to whether the Union Pacific Company might accept and
that the grant therefore could not be said to be one in pr&se/nti.
Stress is also laid upon the fact that by § 17 of the act of
1864 it was provided that "said company shall be entitled to
receive alternate sections of land for ten miles in width on
each side of the same along the whole length of said branch,"
and, in effect, we are asked to treat .this as the granting clause
of the act. But it is clear that the clause deals only with the
quantity of lands to be granted, and that reference must be
made elsewhere to ascertain the'precise character of the grant.
Further, it is urged that the provision of §17 concerning
forfeiture for failure to complete the branch as required, embraces "all of the railroad which shall have been constructed
by said company," but did not include the granted lands as
in the case of the main-line and other branches under §17 of
the act of July 1, 1862. From this it is argued that it was
not the intention of Congress that the lands should pass 'under
the grant for the'Sioux City branch except as they were earned
and duly patented. .But whether or' not the forfeiture was.
of the limited character referred to, we think the clause cannot
be allowed to impair the force and effect of the operative words
of present transfer made in the statutory grant of lands contained in §3 of the act of 1862, as amended, in reliance upon
which, as one of the terms and conditions of the contract with

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND CO. v. WIESE.
208 U.S.

249

Opinion of the Court.

the Government, the Sioux City and .Pacifi c Railroad CompAny entered upon the construction of its road.
It results from the foregoing that the grant of the tract of
land in controversy made by the act of 1862, and the amendatory act of 1864, to the. Union Pacific Railroad Company and
the Sioux City and Pacific Railroad Company being a grant
in prasenti, and third parties on the definite location, of the
road not having acquired rights in the. land,. the legal title
attached in favor of the two companies on the filing of their
maps of definite location as of the date of the grant. Such title
attached long prior to the purchase of.the land by Japp. When
the sale was, made to him no contestwas pending in respect to
the land, and the statutory period of ten years, necessary in
Nebraska to sustain a. claim of title by adverse possession,
ended prior to the various proceedings had in' the General
Land Office, to which we have heretofore referred, growing out
of the invalid school selection and the conflicting adjudications
of the office in respect to it.
That the entry and holding of the land by Japp, the grantor
of Wiese, under the purchase'by Japp in 1882, and the continued possession by Wiese after he acquired the land from
Japp, should be deemed to have been adverse to the title and
possession of the Sioux City Company, if the possession by
Japp was not that of a co-tenant, and such possession was
unaffected by. the proceedings had in the land office subsequent to 1882, is not-questioned. We are clearly of opinion
that the possession of Japp and his grantee was adverse in the'
strictest sense of the term, and the acts of Wiese in seeking
to acquire title from the United States under the act of 1887,
with the -view of removing a cloud utpon his title, was not an
act of recognition or acknowledgment of a superior title, either
in the United States or in the Sioux City Company, operating
to interrupt the continuity of his adverse possession, and in any
event cannot be held to have destroyed a title which had already
become perfect by the. expiration of the statutory period in Nebraska for acquiring the legal title to land by idverse possessiop.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The foregoing considerations, we think, dispose of the
various contentions presented to our notice, and, finding no
error in the judgment of the Supreme Court.
of Nebraska, it is,
for the reasons stated,
Affirmed.

MISSOURI VALLEY LAND COMPANY v. WRICH.
'ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 102.

Argued January 10. 1908.-Decided February 3, 1908.

Decided on authority of Missouri VaUy Land Co. v. Wisie, ante, p. 234.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles A. Clark for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James H. Van Dusen, with whom Mr. Edward F.
Colladay was on the brief, for defendant in error.1
MR. JUSTICE WHITE. delivered

the opinion of the court.

This case was argued with Missouri Valley Land Go.- v;
Wiese, No. 101, of this term, just decided, ante, p. 234, and
in all essential particulars the two cases are alike.. Wrich
purchased, his land in 1881 from the Union Pacific Railroad
Company and received his deed in 1890. The land lay within
overlap grants to the Union Pacific Company and the Sioux
City and Pacific Railroad Company. Wrich took possession
immediately after his 'purchase, and ever afterwards held and
claimed' the land as his ovn. In September, 1893, he underI For abstracts of arguments see ante, p. 23A

