,'UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U.S.

~93

S0abus.

dismissal of the first indictment he left New York and returned to Rhode Island with the' knowledge of or without
Objection by the New York authorities.

The judgment of the state court refusing the discharge of the
accused from custody must be affirmed.
It iso ordered

UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

E

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK,.
No. B03.

Submitted January 27, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

It is within the power of Congress to determine the regulations and excep'tions under which this court shall exercise appellate jurisdiction in cases
other than those in which this court has original jurisdiction and to which
the judicial power of the United States extends; and the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, permitting the United States to prosecute
a writ of error directly from this court to the District or Circuit Courts in
criminal- cases in which-an indictment may be quashed or demurrer
thereto sustained where the decision is based on the invalidity or construction of the statute on which the indictment is based, is not unconstitutional because it authorizes the United States to bring the case directly
to this court and does not allow the accused so to do when a demurrer
to the indictment is overruled.
In construing an act of Congress prohibiting the importation of alien women
for
prostitution or other immoral purposes regard must be had to the views
commonly
entertained among the people of the United States as to what is
moral and immoral in the relations between man and woman ahd concubinage is generally regarded in this country as immoral.
While penal laws are to be.strictly construed they are not to be construed so
strictly as to defeat the obvious intent of the legislature.
While under the rule of eusdem genrios the words "or other immoral purpose" would only include a purpose of the same nature as the principal
subject to which they were added they do include purposes of the same.
nature, such as concubinage, when the principal subject is prostitution
and the importation of women therefor.
The prohibition in the alien .immigration act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134,
34 Stat. 898, against the.importa tion of alien women and girls for tlie purpose of prostitution or any other immoral purpose includes the importation of an alien woman or girtth live as a concubine with the person imporing her.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the constructi n of the acts of Congress regulating the immigration of aliens into the United
States, are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Cooley for plaintiff in error:
The rule of ejusdem generis does not apply to this case. The
rule'is merelya technical rule of construction which the courts
have frequently declined to apply, when by so doing the manifest intention of the legislature would have been defeated.
Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 662; State v. Williams, 2 Strob.
L. R. 474; Regina v. Payne, L. R. 1; C.C.27. See also Willis v.
Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140, 155; Webber V. City of Chicago, 148
Illinois, 314; Gillock v. The People, 171 Illinois, 307; Woodworth v. State, 26 Ohio St. 196; Winters v. Duluth, 82*Minnesota,
127; City of St. Joseph v. Elliott, 47 Mo. °App.. 418; Foster y.
Blount, 18 Alabama, 687; Haigh v. The Town Council of Sheffield' L. R. 10; Q. B' 102; Bows v.. Fenwick, L. R. 9; C. P.;339.
The imrhigration act of 1907 should be considered as a whole
and in connection with other statutes in pan materia in determining its meaning. When §§ 2 and 3 -of the act are read
together they show the clearly expressed purpose of the Congress to prevent the immigration of numerous classes of persons regarded as undesirable additions to the population of the
country.. Among those excluded are idiots, epileptics, paupers,
profesionaf beggars, persons afflicted with tuberculosis or any
.oathsome. or dangerous contagious disease, persons who have
bee4 convicted of or admit having committed a felony or other
crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, polygamists,
anarchists, and contract laborers, as well is prostitutes and
.women or girls brought in for Purposes of prostitution or for
any other immoral purpose.
The. Congress -has deliberately made the exclusion of persons
'more comprehensive in the act of 1907 than in the acts of 1891
(26 Stat. 1084), 1893 (27 Stat. 569), and 1903 (32 Stat. 1213).
The narrow construction placed upon the act by, Judge Hough

UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U.S.

Argument for Defendant -in Error.

defeats the intention of the legislature, which clearly was to
exclude various undesirable classes of persons, among others
wdinen. of loose moral character.
Even should the rule ejusdem generia be applied herein, the
finding of the court below is .not warranted by the language of
the statute. The words "for any other immoral purpose"
must be given some meaning, and that given to them by the
trial court limits them to an extent evidently not contemplated
by Congress. The courts have repeatedly refused, even when
applying the rule of ejusdem generis, to apply it in a narrow
sense. Misch.v. Russell, 136 Illinois, 22; Queenv. Edmundson,
2 Ellis & Ellis, 77; County of Union v.. Ussery, 147 Illinois, 204.
It can hardly be denied that the act of the defendant in.
error in importing the woman mentioned in the indictment is
one which is generally condemned by the moral sense of all,
enlightened Communities and is assuredly contrary to purity.
But it is more than that. Both the common and statute law
have uniformly recognized illicit sexual relations as immoral,
and courts have repeatedly refusei to 'enforce contracts the
consideration for which was future illicit cohabitation. Such
purpose is one which the law seeks to defeat and holds as
against sound public policy and deserving of condemnation by
right-thinking men.
The conduct of the defendant in error was "immoral" as matter of strict law and this position is amply sustained by state
and Federal authorities. Ralston v. Boady, 20 Georgia, 449,
and cases cited; Potter v. Gracie, 58 Alabama, 303; Walker v.
Perkins, 3 Burrows, 1568; S. C., 1 W. Black, 517; Nye v. Moseley, 6 Barnewall & Cresswell, 133. See also. Walker .v. Gregory,
36 Alabama, 180; Winebrinner v. Weisiger, 19 Kentucky, 33;
Reed v. Brewer, 36 S. W. Rep. 99; Mackbee v. Griffith, 2 Cranch
C. C. 336.
Mr; Edward A. Alexander for defendant in error:
Counsel for defendant conceded in the court below, and
concedes here, that concubinage is highly immoral, and that

386.

OCTOBER TERM,- 1907,
Argument for Defendant In Eiror.

208 U. 0.

it has been recognized as such by various States, which have
passed laws against: it. However, whether it-be immoral or
not is not the question. -The only question involved on this
point is whether or not Congress intended to legislate against
those isolated cases where certain individuals, come into this
country with their mistresses.
The statute in question is a criminal statute and must be
strictly construed. ,'
The term "..prostitute"necessarily implies the idea of a
female who hires the use of her body for money, whereas the
term "mistress" implies the case of one who cohabits with a
male without being married to him.
There is a marked degree of difference between a prostitute
and a mistress. If Congress had intended to hover the case of
mistresses, who are not prostitutes, and who are in no way
connected with the importation of prostitutes, or with the
"white slave trade," Congress could and would readily have
said so by the use of apt language, as it cannot be presumed
that Congress, whic! is one. of the most intelligent bodies of
government in the world, does not know how to use the English
language to adequately designate its inte-tions.
Theact'of Congress under which this appeal was prosecuted
by the United States is of doubtful validity.
The act gives the Government of the United States the right
to appeal from a judgment or decree sustaining a demurrer to
an indictment where the constitutionality or construction of
a statute is involved. The act does not give to the defendant
the right to appeal from a judgment or decree overruling his
demurrer.
Furthermore, the act gives the Government the right to
appeal in a criminal case 'where 'the construction of. the statute
is involved, and not in a criminal case where the' defendat is
indicted for violating a statute, but in which the construction
of the statute does not come into question.
Furthermore, had the defendant in this case pleaded not
guilty and gone to trial, had a jury been sworn, and a motion

UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U.1.

397

Opinion of the Court.

made for the direction of a verdict of acquittal, and granted,
it is believed, under the jeopardy clause of the Constitution,
the defendant could not again be tried, and no appeal would
lie, but'because he demurred an appeal does lie.
The difference between the state legislatures and Congrebs
is that the state legislatures possess all of. the powers of the
people of the State, except those which are expressly prohibited,. whereas Congress only possesses those powers expressly granted or necessarily implied to carry out the objec.t
for which Congress was created or for which the powers conferred were given.
It is conceded that Congress has the power to increase or
diminish the appellate power of the Supreme Court, but it is
doubted whether the people of the United States have given
to Congress the power to pass partial legislation, which affects
differently persons in the same class covered by the legislation:
Section 2, Article IV, of the Constitution provides that "the
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and
immunities of citizens in the severel States."
An act providing for appeals incertain specific cases, and
also giving the Government the right to appeal and not giving
the same right to the defendant, seems not only to be partial
legislation, but. seems to be also in conflict with Art. IV, § 2,
of the Constitution, providing that "the citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of the citizens
in the several States."
MR. JustIcE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a criminal, prosecution under an act of Congress regulating the immigration of aliens into the United States.
By the act of March 3, 1875, c..141, relating to immigration,
it was made a felony, punishable by imprisonment not exceeding five years and by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
for any one knowingy and willfully to import or to cause the
importation of women into the United States for the purposes
of "prostitution." 18 Stat. 477.

OGTOBER TERM, 1907,
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

By the act of March 3, 1903, § 3, c. 1012, it was provided:
"That the importation into the United States of any woman or
girl for the purposes of prostitution is hereby forbidden; and
whoever shall import or attempt to import any woman or girl
into the United States for the purpose s of prostitution, or shall
hold or'attempt to hold, any woman or girl for such purposes
in pursuance of such illegal importation shall be deehied guilty
of a felony, and, on conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned not
less than one nor more than five years and pay a fine not exceeding
five thousmnd'dollars." 32 Stat. 1213, 1214, Pt. 1.
A more'
comprehensive staiite regulating the immigration
of aliens into the United States was passed on February 20,
1907, c. 1134. By that act the prior act of 1903 (except one
section) was repealed. The third section of this last statute
was in these words: "IThat the importation into the United
States of any alien woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution, or for anV. other immoral purpose, is.
hereby forbidden;
and whoever shall, directly .or indirectly, import,. or atteipt
to import, into the United States, any alien woman or girl
for the purpose of prostitution, or for any other immoral purpose, or whoever shall hold or attempt to hold any alien woman
or girl for any such purpose in pursuance of such illegal importation, or whoever shall keep, maintain, control, support, or
harbor in any house or other, place, for the purpose of prostitution,, or for any other immoral purpose, any 4fien woman'or
girl, within three years after she shall have entered the United
States, shall, in every such case, be deemed guilty of a felony,
and on conviction thereof be imprisoned not more than five
years and pay a fine of not more than five thousand dollars;
and any, alien woman or girl who shall be fbund an inmate of a
hoise of prostitution or practicing prostitution, at any time
within three years'.after she shall have entered the United
States, tshall e deemed to be unlawfully within the United
States and shall be deported as provided by sections twenty
and twenty-one of this Act." 34 Stat. 898, Pt. 1.
.The defendaneiin error.Bitty was charged by indictment in

-UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U. .

399

Opinion of the Court.'

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Diso
trict of New York with the offense of having unlawfully, will-'
fully, and feloniously imported into the . United States. from.
England a certain named alien woman for "an immoral purpose," namely, "that she should live with him as his concubine."
The Circuit Court having sustained a demurrer to the indictment and dismissed the case the United States prosecuted
this writ of error under the authority of the act of March 2,
1907, 34 Stat. 1246, c. 2564. That statute authorizes a writ of
error, on behalf of the United States, from the District or Circuit Courts directly to this court in all criminal cases in which
an indictment is quashed or set aside or in which a demurrer
to the indictment or any count thereof is sustained, "where
such decision or judgment is based upon the invalidity ori construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded."
The demurrer to the indictment was'sustained and the indictment dismissed upon the ground that the statute, properly
construed, did not make it an offense for one to bring and im.port an alien woman into the United States for the purpose of
having. her live with him as his concubine. The case is, therefore, one in which the United States was entitled, under the
above act of 1907, to prosecute a writ of error from this court
unless,, as the accused suggests, -the act is unconstitutional in
that it authorizes the United States in the cases specified to
bring the case directly to this court, but does not allow the
accused to bring it here when a demurrer to the indictment
or to some count -thereof is overruled. There is no merit in
this suggestion. Except in cases affecting ambassadors, and
other public ministers and consuls and those in which a State
shall be a party-in which cases this court may exercise original jurisdiction-we can exercise appellate jurisdiction, both
as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under such regulations as Congress shall make in the other cases to which by
the Constitution the judiciAl power of the United States extends. Const. Art. III, § 2. What such exceptions and regula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

tions should be it is for Congress, in its wisdom, to establish,
.having of course due regard to all the provisions of the Constitution. If a court of original jurisdiction errs in quashing,
setting aside or dismissing an indictment for an alleged offense
against the United States, upon the ground that the statute on
which it is based is unconstitutional, or upon the ground that
the statute does not embrace the case made by the indictment,
there is no mode in which the error can be corrected and the
provisions of the statute enforced, except the case be brought
here by the United. States for review. Hence-that there
might be no unnecessary delay in the administration of the
-criminal law, and that the courts of original jurisdiction may
be instructed as to the validity and meaning of the particular
criminal statute sought to be enforced-the above act of 1907
was passed. Surely. such an exception or regulation is in the
discretion of Congress to prescribe, and does not violate any
constitutional right of the accused. Taylor v. United States,
207 U. S. 120. Congress was not required by the Constitution
to grant to an accused the privilege of bringing here upon the
overruling of a demurrer to the indictment and before the final
determination of the case against him, the question of the
sufficiency of the indictment simply because, in the interest of
the prompt administration of the criminal law, it allowed the
United States to prosecute a writ of error directly to this court
for the review of a final judgment which stopped the prosecution by. quashing or dismissing the indicthent upon the ground
of the unconstitutionality or construction of the statute.
We come now to the merits of the case, and -theyare within
a very narrow compass. The earlier statutes, we have seen,
were directed against the importation into this country of alien
women for the purposes of prostitution. But the last statute,
* on which the indictment rests, is, we have seen, directed against
the importation of an alien woman "for the purpose of prostitution or for any other immoral purpose; " and the indictment
distinctly charges that the defendant imported the alien woman
in questiou- "that she should live with him as his concubine,"

UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U. S.

401.

Opinion of the Qourt.

that is, in illicit intercourse, not under' the sanction of a valid:
or legal marriage. Was that an immoral purpose within the
meaning of the statute? The Circuit Court held, .in. effect,
that it was not, the bringing of an alien woman into the United States that she may"live with the person importing her as
his concubine not being in its opinion an act ejuodem generis
with the bringing bf such a woman to this country for the purposes of "prostitution." Was that a sound construction of
the statute?.
All will admit that full effect must be given to the intention
of Congress as gathered from the. words of the statute.. There
can be no doubt as to what class was aimed at by the clause
forbidding the importation -of -alien women for purposes of
"prostitution." It refers to women who for hire or without.
hire offer their bodies to indiscriminate intercourse with men.
The lives and example of such persons are in hostility to "the
idea of the family, as consisting in and springing from the union
for life of one man and one woman in the holy estate of matrimony; the sure foundation of all that is stable and noble in our
civilization; the best guaranty of that reverent morality which
is the source of all beneficent progress in social and political
improvement." Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 45. Congress no doubt proceeded on the ground 'that contact with
society on the part of alien women leading such liveswoula be
hurtful to the cause of sound private and public morality and
to the general well-being of the people. Therefore the importation of alien women for purposes of prostitution was, forbidden and made a crime.against the United States. Now the
addition in the last statute of the words, "or for any other
immoral purpose," after the word "prostitution," must have
been made for some practical object. Those added words
show beyond question that Congress had in view the protection of society against another class of alien women other thanthose who might be brought here merely for purposes of "pros.titution." In. forbidding the importation of alien women
""for any other immoral purpose,:' Congress evidently'thought.
VOL. Coviii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

that there were purposes in connection with the- importations
of alien women which, as in the case of importations for prostitution, were to be deemed immoral. It may be admitted that
in accordance with the familiar rule of ejusdem generis, the immoral purpose referred to by the words "any other immoral
purpose," must be one of the same general class or kind as
the particular purpose of "prostitution" specified iu the same
clause of the statute. 2 Lewis' Sunderland Stat. Const., § 423,
and authorities cited. But that rule cannot avail the accused
in this case; for, the immoral purpose charged it? the indictment is. of the same general class or kind as the one that controls .in the importation of an alien woman for the purpose
strictly of prostitution. The prostitute may, in the popular'
sense, be more degraded in character than the concubine, but
the latter none the less must be held to lead an immoral life,
if any regard whatever be had to the views that are almost.
universally held in this country as to the relations which may
rightfully, from the standpoint of morality, exist between man
and woman in the matter of sexual intercourse. We must
assume that in using the words "or for any other immoral purposes," Congress had reference to -the views commonly entertained among the people of the United States as to what is
moral or immoral in the relations between man and woman in
the matter of such intercourse. Those views may not be overlooked in determining questions involving the morality or
'immorality of sexual intercourse between particular persons.
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court, said that "though
penal laws are to be construed strictly, they are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the. obvious intention, of the
legislature. The maxim is not to be so applied as to -narrow
the words of the statute to the exclusion of cases which those
words, in their ordinary acceptation, or in that sense in which
the legislature has obviously. used them, wquld comprehend.
The intention of the legislature is to be collected from the
words they employ...... .The case must be a strong .one
indeed, which would justify a court in departing-from the plain

UN1TED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U.S.

403

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of words, especially in a penal act, in search of an
intention which the words themselves did not suggest." United States V. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95, 96. In United States v.
Winn, 3"Sumner, 209, 211, Mr.. Justice "Story said that the
proper course is "to search out and follow the :true intent of
the legislature, and to adopt that sense of the words which
harmonizes best with the context, and preniotes in the -fullest
manner the apparent policy and objects of the legislature."
To the same effect are.United States v. Morris, 14 Pet. 464;
American Fur Co. v. United States, 2 Pet.- 358, 367; United
States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628; Sedgwick on Stat. Constr.
(2d ed.) 282; Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, (2d ed. 318).
Guided by these considerations and rules, we must. hold that
Congress intended by the words "or for any other immoral purpose," to include the case of anyone who imported into the United States an alien woman that she might live with him as his
concubine. The statute in question, it must be remembered,
was intended to keep out of this country immigrants whose permanent residence here would not be desirable or for the common
good, and we cannot suppose either that Congress intended
to exempt from the operation of the statute the importation of
an alien woman brought here only that she might live in a state
of concubinage with the man importing her, or that it did not
regard such an importation as being for an immoral purpose.
The judgment must be reversed, and the ease remanded with
directions to set aside the order dismissing the indictment and
overrule the demurrer, and for such further proceedings as
will be consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

