LEWIS v. HERRERA.
208 U.S.

Argument for Appellants.

plaintiffs were damaged in their business and property in'some
$80,000.

We think a case within the statute was set up and that the
demurrer should have been overruled.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to'proceed accordingly.

LEWIS v. HERRERA, RECEIVER OF THE INTERNATIONXL BANK IN NOGALES.
APPEAL FROM. THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 79. Submitted December 13. 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

The construction of the statute of a Territory by the local courts isof great,
if not of controlling, weight; and in this case this court follows the construction given by the Supreme. Court of Arizona to Par. 725, Rev. Stat.
of Arizona of 1901, to the effect that a deed or conveyance of real property
to be valid as against third parties must be signed and acknowledged by
the grantor and that until acknowledged it isineffectual to convey title.
85 Pac. Rep. 245, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Webster Street and Mr. J. L. B. Alexander for appellants:
Some States have passed statutes requiring all instruments
before they become operative in any way to be completed by
acknowledgment, and where such statutes exist they become
a part and portion of the potentiality of the deed, but no such
statute exists or ever has. existed in Arizona, .and .a common
law deed is effectual as a conveyance. The courts of other
States have said that the acknowledgment.is not a part of the
deed. See Sicards v. Davis, 6 Peters, 124.
Paragraph 220, Rev. Stat., Arizona, which was changed into
par. 725 in the revision of 1901, was copied from article 630 of
the statutes of Texas, after that statute had received a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

208 U. S.

struction by the Supreme Court of Texas as to its effect upon
instruments of conveyance, holding that an instrument of
conveyance without acknowledgment was as much of a deed
between grantor and grantee as though it were accompanied
by an acknowledgment. McLain v. Canales, 25 S. W. Rep. 29,
30; Frank v. Frank, 25 S. W. Rep. 819; Kimmarle v. Houston
& T. C. Ry. Co., 12 S. W. Rep. 698, 700; Rodgers v. Burchard,
34 Texas, 442, 443, 452; Corgell v. Holmes, Posey's Unreported
Cases, Vol. II.
Paragraph 2697 has no application in this case, for the
reason that it only applies where the gift or conveyance is
made with intent to delay, hinder or defraud creditors, or
purchasers, or other persons of or from what they are or may
be lawfully entitled to; and in this case the agreed statement
of facts admits that there was no intentional fraud.
Under par. 2707, no conveyance is to be deemed fraudulent, solely because not founded on valuable consideration.
This paragraph was taken from the statutes of California,
and when it was incorporated in the Code of Arizona, the
California courts had construed it; and since its incorporation
in our statute the Supreme Courl of Arizona has also given it
a construction in keeping with the con:,truction given it by the
Supreme Court of California. Windhouse v. Boots, 28 Pac. Rep.
557; Thelkel v. Scott, 26 Pac. Rep. 879; Emmons v. Barton, 42
Pac. Rep. 305; Hall v. Warren, 5 Arizona, 127, 134.
Paragraph 2698, as well as the whole title on "Fraudulent
Conveyances" contained in the Revised Statutes of 1887, was
taken from the statutes of Texas, except par. 2707, which was
taken from the statutes of'California. This title on "Fraudu-,
lent Conveyances" was carried into the Revised Statutes of
1901 with additional provisions.
See also the construction of par. 2698, by the Supreme Court
of Texas prior to its adoption, in 1887, by Arizona, holding that
no third party can question the validity of a conveyance from
the husband to the wife unless he was a creditor of the husband
before the conveyance was made or was a subsequent pur-

LEWIS v. HERRERA.
208 U. 8.

Argument for Appellee.

chaser without notice. Garcia v. Galvan, 55 Texas, 53; Cole v.
Terrel, 9 S. W. Rep. 668; S. C., 71 Texas, 556; Willis &Bro. v.
Smith, 65 Texas, 656; Lewis v. Simon, 72 Texas, 470.
The appellee in this case is neither a prior'creditor nor a subsequent purchaser, but a subsequent creditor; and under the
authorities last cited cannot be heard to complain of a voluntary conveyance from husband to wife from the mere fact that
he is a subsequent creditor. Before he can have the conveyance set aside, he must show that the conveyance was made
with intent to defrad subsequent creditors. Cole v. Terrel,
9 S. W. Rep. 671. See also Hageman v. Buchanan, 14 Am.
St. Rep. 732, and Lewis v. Simon, 72 Texas, 470.
Mr. William Herring for appellee:
A deed or conveyance of real. property, to be valid, under
the'law of Arizona, must be signed and acknowledged by the
grantor. Par. 725, Rev. Stat., Arizona, 1901.
This statute has been construed by the Supreme Court of
Arizona to mean that the deed or conveyance must be acknowledged by the grantor,. as well as signed by him, and that until
acknowledged the deed or conveyance is ineffectual to convey
title. Lewis v. Herrera, 85 Pac. Rep. 245, 246.
The construction of this statute by the local court is of great,
if not of controlling weight. Copper Queen ConsolidatedMining
Company v. Territorial Board o1 Equalization, 206 U. S. 474,
482; Sweeney v. Lomme, 22 Wall. 208; Northern P. R. Co. v.
Hambly, 154 U. S. 349, 361; Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674,
679.
Similar statutes have been so construed by other courts.
Clark v. Graham, 6 Wheat. 577; Summers v. White, 71 Fed. Rep.
106; Herndon v. White, 52 Alabama, 597; Chadwick v. Carson,
78 Alabama, 116; Carlislev. Carlisle, 78 Alabama, 542; French
v. French, 62 N. H. 234; Merwin v. Camp, 3 Connecticut, 35;
Heelan v. Hoagland, 10 Nebraska, 511; Hout v. Hout, 20 Ohio,
124; Smith v. Hunt, 13 Ohio, 260; Allston v. Thompson, Cheves
(S. Car.), 271.

oC6rOBZR TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The *two deeds from Lewis to his wife were, therefore, not
effective as conveyances until January 9, 1904, and as on that
date Lewis was inolebted to :the bank, he was not then possessed of property'in Arizona sufficient to pay his debts and
the deeds were without valuable consideration. Therefore, as
to the bank, a prior creditor, the deeds were void. Par. 2698,
Rev. Stat., Arizona, 1901.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered. the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit by the receiver of the bank as a judgment
creditor in the District Court of the Third Judicial District of
the Territory of Arizona, in and for the county of Maricopa,
to set aside two deeds executed by Lewis, the debtor, to his
wife, and have the property therein described subjected to'
the payment of his judgment.
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts. The
District Court held the deeds to be void as against complainant. Defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of Arizona,
which affirmed the judgment of the lower court. 85 Pac. Rep.
245. From that judgment this appeal was taken.
The facts were sufficiently stated by counsel for appellee as
follows:
"On August 25 1903, while appellants, R. Allyn Lewis and
Laetitia M. Lewis, his wife, were in Germany, Lewis signed and
delivered to his wife a deed conveying to her certain property
situate in Phamix, Maricopa County, Arizona, the consideration being love and affection. The execution of the deed was
not acknowledged by Lewis before any officer authorized to
take acknowledgments until January 9, 1904, when he did
acknowledge the same before a notary in the State of New,
York. On December 19, 1903, in the State of New York,
Lewis signed and delivered to his wife a second deed, 'conveying to her the same property, but. with a more accurate description; the consideration therefor being also love and affection.

LEWIS v. HERRERA.
208 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

This second deed was likewise not acknowledged by Lewis
before any officer authorized to take acknowledgments, until
January 9, 1904.
"After Lewis had signed the first deed, but before he had
acknowledged it, and before he had either signed or acknowledged the second deed, to wit, between November 5, 1903,
and December 15, 1903, he became indebted in a large sum
to the International Bank in Nogales, a bank doing business
in Nogales, Arizona, which indebtedness was thereafter reduced to judgment in an action before the District Court in
Arizona, brought by Fred Herrera, receiver for the bank.
Execution was issued under this judgment; it was returned
unsatisfied." The judgment remained unpaid.
."At the time Lewis signed the. first deed to his wife, he was
solvent and was not indebted to the said bank in any sum
whatsoever; but at the time he signed the second deed, and on.
January 9, 1904, when for the first time, he acknowledged
before the notary the execution of both the first and second
deeds; he was indebted to said bank, and he was not possessed
of property within the Territory of Arizona, subject to execution, sufficient to pay his existing debts."
It was admitted that there was no fraud in fact, and no
intent in the mind of Lewis to defraud his creditors in the
transfers made. Paragraph 2698 of the Revised Statutes of
Arizona, 1901, is as follows:
"Every gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge
made by a debtor which is not upon consideration deemed
valuable in law shall be void as to prior creditors, unless it
appear that such debtor was then possessed of property within
this Territory, subject to execution, sufficient to pay his existing debts; but such gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or
charge shall not on that account merely be decreed to be void
as to subsequent creditors or purchasers."
Paragraph 725 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1901,
reads thus:
!'725. Every deed or conveyance of real estate must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

signed by the grantor and must be duly acknowledged before
some officer authorized to' take acknowledgments, and properly
certified to by him for registration."
As to the second deed, it was both signed and acknowledged
ofter Lewis became indebted to the bank; as it was a gift, and
as it did not appear that at the date of signing he was possessed
of property. in Arizona subject to execution sufficient to pay,
his debts, it followed that under paragraph 2698 of the, Revised Statutes of Arizona the deed was void as to his prior
creditor, the bank, and Herrera, the.receiver.The first deed, however, was signed by Lewis before he became so indebted. But if,, as is contended, that deed did not
become effective as a conveyance until it was acknowledged,
namely, on January 9, 1904, on which.day Lewis was already
indebted to the bank, the deed was void.as to it, a prior creditor.
And that makes' the only question in this case to be whether
.or not under the statutes of Arizona a deed signed, but not
-acknowledged, was valid as a conveyance of real property as
to third parties.
The courts below held. that a deed or conveyance of real
property to be valid under the law of Arizona must be signed
and acknowledged by'the grantor, and that until acknowledged
a deed or conveyance was ineffectual to convey title.

The construction of the statute by the local courts is of
-great, if.not of controlling, weight.

Sweeney v. Lomme, 22

Wall. 208; Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. Hambly, 154

U. S. 349.
-This principle was applied in Copper Queen Consolidated
Mining Company v. Territorial Board of' Equalization.of the
Territory pf Arizona, 206 U. S. 474, in which it was argued that
a statute of Arizona. in reference, to. the .teiritorial board of
equalization of that Territory had been taken alniost verbatim'
from one of Colorado, and as that had been construed by the
Supreme Court of that State contrary to the view taken by.
the Supreme Court of Arizona in the present case it should be
followed,. and we' declined .to do so, although various other

LEWIS v. HERRERA.
'208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

considerations, were, stated to sustain the ruling. In this case
the same point is urged as respects paragraph 725, as having
been transferred from the statutes of Texas in that regard, and
having been consirued differently from the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Arizona here. But paragraph 220 of the
Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1887, which was in the exact
language of the Texas statute, and as follows: "220.. Every
deed or. conveyance of real estate must be signed or acknowledged by the grantor in 'the presence of at least two credible
subscribing witnesses theieto; or must be duly acknowledged
before some officer authorized to take acknowledgments, and
properly certified to by him for registration," was changed in
the Arizona Revised Statutes of 1901, paragraph 725, so as to
read: "725. Every deed or conveyance of real estate must be
signed by the grantor and must be duly acknowledged before
some officer authorized to take acknowledgments, and properly
certified to by him for registration." Thus the legislative
assembly of Arizona of 1901, so far from adopting the construction of the Texas statute, changed the language entirely
-and made it imperative that the deed should be signed, and
acknowledged befoye a proper officer. It made the acknowledgment by the grantor before a proper officer a .prerequisite
to the validity of the deed as much as the signing.
Paragraph 732 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1901
is as follows:
"When an instrument in writing, which was intended as a
conveyance of real estate, or some 'interest therein, shall fail,
either in whole or in part, to take effect as a conveyance by
virtue of the provisions.of this-title, the same shall, neverthe'less, be valid and effectual as a contract upon which a conveyance may be enforced, as far as the rules of law will permit."
But it is unnecessary to consider', here whether the unacknowledged deed of Lewis. to his wife might under the
provisions of this section be claimed to be good as a contract,
as that is not a question in this case. These deeds were finally
and properly acknowledged, but. the bank was then a prior

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
208 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

creditor, and as to a prior creditor the deeds, being gifts, were
void, it not being made to appear that Lewis was then possessed
of property in Arizona sufficient to pay his existing debts.

Judmen affinned.

CLEVELAND TERMINAL AND VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. CLEVELAND STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 84. Argued December 17, 18, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.
The admiralty.does not have jurisdiction of a claim for damages caused by
'a vessel to a bridge or dock which, although in navigable waters, is so
connected with the shore that it immediately concerns commerce upon
land. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, followed, and The Blackheath, 195 U. S.
361, distinguished.

THIS is an appeal from a final decree of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern
Division, in admiralty, dismissing 'appellants' libel on the
appellee's exception thereto, on the ground that the court had
not jurisdiction of the subject matter. It comes here directly
on a certificate as to the jurisdiction under ยง 5 of the act of
i891.
The libel was in ren against the steam propeller William E.
Reis, owned by appellee, and was based on injuries inflicted
to the center pier of the swinging or draw bridge spanning the
Cuyahoga River, a navigable stream at Cleveland, Ohio; to
the protecting piling work surrounding such center pier, and
one of the shore abutments of such bridge; and to a dock or
wharf next below such bridge, all caused as described in the
libel in substance, as follows:
The steamer Reis, during a heavy flood, broke from her

