JANUARY TERM 1834.

165

JOHN LUTZ, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. OTHO M. LINTHICUAI.
the circuit court of the county of Washington, Linthicum instituted an
action of covenant on articles of agreement, by which Lutz covenanted that
Linthicum should have peaceable possession of a certain house in Georgetown, and retain and keep the same for five years. Linthicum was evicted
by Lutz before the time expired. The articles were spread upon the record,
by which it appeared, that they were made "by and between John Lutz, of,
&c., and agent for John M'Pherson of Frodericktown in the state of Maryland, of the one part, and Otho M. Linthicumn of Georgetown, &c. of the
other part ;" and it is witnessed, " that the said JQhn Lutz agent, as
aforesaid, has rented and leased, &c.," the premises to Linthicum;. and on
the other hand, Linthicum covenants to pay the rent, &c., as stated in the
d6claration. There was no covenant in the lease by Lutz, for quiet enjoyment, as stated in the declaration ; but the latter was founded upon the
covenant implied by law, in cases of demises. The articles concluded with
these words: "In witness whereof, we, the said John Lutz and 0. M. Linr
thicum, have hereunto interchangeably set our hands and seals, day and
date above. John Lutz, agent for John M'Pherson [L. a]. 0. M. Linthicur [L. s.]." The defendant Lutz pleaded performance without praying
oyer, and issue was joined, Afterwards, the parties, by consent, agreed to"
refer the cause ; and accordingly, by a rule of court, it was ordered, " that
William S. Nicholls and Francis Dodge be appointed referees between the
parties aforesaid, with liberty to choose a third person; and that they, or
any two of them, when the whole matter concerning. the premises, between
the parties aforesaid in variance, being fairly adjusted, have their award in
writing under their hands, and return the same to the court here; and judgment of the. court to be rendered according to such award, and be final between the said parties." Thq referees so named, on the 28th of January
1833, chose John Kurtz the third referee; and afterwards, on the same
day, made their award in the following worirs: " We, the subscribers, appointed arbitrators to settle a dispute between Otho M. Linthicum and John
Lutz, in which the executors of the late John M'Pherson of Frederick are
interested, do award the sum of eleven hundred and twenty-nine dollars and
ninety-three cents, to be paid to the said Linthicum in full, for all expenses
and damages sustained by him, in consequence of not leaving him in quiet
possession of the house, at the corner of Bridge and High streets, in
Georgetown (the demised premises), for the full term of the lease for five
years. Any arrear of rent due from Linthicum, to be paid by him.'"
Signed by all the referees. Judgmeunt was given by the circuit court , for
the full amount of the award so made, and costs.
The articles-purport to be made by Lutz, and to be sealed by hiin; and not tobe made and sealed by his principal. The description of himself, as agent,
does not, under such circumstances, exclude his personal responsibility.
But this very liability was necessarily submitted to the referees, and came
within the scope of their award.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.]
It.was objected to the award-that it was uncertain, not mutual and final: that
it does not state whether the money is to be paid by Lutz, or the executors
of M'Pherson: that it does not find the arrears of rent due, and to whom
due: that it does not appear to be an award in the cause: that the award and
the proceedings thereon are not according to the laws of Maryland : that the
appointment of the third referee ought not to have been made, until after
the other two referees had met and heard the cause, and disagreed thereon.
The court held all these objections invalid.
Without question, due notice should be given to the parties, of the time and
place for heariug the cause, by the referees ; aXd if the award was made
without such notice, it ought, upon the plainest principles of justice, to be
set aside. But it is by no means necessary that it should appear upon the
face of the award tlht such notice was given. There is no statute of Maryland,'whose laws govern in this part of the district, which requires such
facts to be set forth in the award. If no notice is in fact given, and no due
hearing had, the proper mode is to bring such facts, not appearing on the
face of the award, before the court, upon affidavit and motion to set aside
the award. But,prima facie, the award is to be taken to have been regularly made, where there is nothing on its face to impeach it.
The statute of Maryland requires that notice of an a ward shall be given to
the party against whom it is made, by service of a copy, three days before
judgment is moved; and judgment' is not to be entered but on motion, and
direction of the court.- It was alleged that a copy of the award was not delivered. By the court: flow that may have been, we have no means of
knowing, for nothing alipears ulon the record respecting it, and there isno
gro,md to say that it ought to constitute any part of the record, or that it is
properly assignable as error. It is matter purely collateral, and in pais. If
no such copy had been delivered, the proper remedy would have been to
take the objection in the court below upon the motion for judgment, or to
set aside the judgment for irregularity, if there had been no waiver, or no
opportunity to make the objeciions before judgment. But in the present
case sufficient does appear upon the record to show that the party had full
opportunity to avail himself of all his legal rights in the court beloW. The
cause was referred at November term 1832; pending the term, to wit ori
the 18th of Jannary 1833, the award was filed in court; the cause was then
continued until the next term, viz. thle fourth Monday in March 1833; at
which time the parties appeared by their attorneys, and upon motion, and
after argument of counsel, judgment was entered. We are bound to presume, in the absence of all evidence to the contrary, that all things were
rightfully and regularly done by the court, and that the parties were fully
heard upon all the matters properly in judgment.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States,"for the county
of Washington, in the district of Columbia.
In the circuit court, Otho M. Linthicun, the defendant in
error, instituted an action of covenant on a certain lease, or
article of agreement., by which the defendant, Johir Lutz,.derised to him a certain brick house in Geor'getown, for a term
of five years, at a rent specilied i .the same. Under this lease,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
f Lutz v. Linthicum.]

the plaintiff
, Linthicum, held possession of the premises, according to the covenants in the said lease, and made certain, repairs. The, declaration avers, that before the end of the term
for which the premises were so leased to the said Linthicum,
the defendant, John Lutz, evicted and dispossessed him from the
prdmises, yhereby he lost the benefit of the repairs done to the
same, and claims damages for the breach of the covenants in
the lease and for eviction, amounting to two thousand dollai's.
The lease, upon which the action was instituted, was in
the following terms ;

"Articles of agreement, made and concluded this 22d day of
October, in the year of our Lord 1828, by and between John
Lutz, of Georgetown, in the district of Columbia, and agent
for John M'Pherson, of Fredericktown, in the state bf Maryland, of the one part, and Otho M. Linthicum, of Georgetown,
and district aforesaid, of the other part, witnesseth, that the
said John Lutz, agent as aforesaid, has rented or leased to the
said 0. M. Linthicurn, all that brick house, with the appurtenances thereto belonging, situated on the corner of High and
Bridge streets, in Georgetown aforesaid,.with the alley thereto
attached, of thirteen feet six inches, fronting oa Bridge street,
and running parallel with said *house, now in possession and
occupied by Jacob Carter, Jtin. as a dry.goods store, to have
and to hold said house, and receive peaceable, possession on
the 3d day of May next ensuing, and continue for the space
of five years from said time, which will terminate on the 3d
day of May 1834. And the said 0. M. Linthicum, -on his
part, doth hereby covenant and agree for himself, his heirs
and assigns, to pay to the said John Lutz, agent as aforesaid,.
or his successor, the just and full sum of two hundred and fifty
dollars, for ercli and every yer, for the aforesaid term of five
years, the rent to be paid half yearly, as the same may become
due ; and all repairs that may be done, by the said 0. M. Linthicum, for his own convenience, to be at his own expense,
and any repairs done by him to be left on the premises, as relates to the house ; but in case he should erect a warehouse
on the Vacant ground, shall have the privilege to reirove the
same at his will and pleasure, within said time, and to leave
the house in as good condition at th'e end of sidd term, as whwn
he gets possession, the usual wear and tear excepted.

SUPREME COURT.
(Lutz v. Linthicumn.]

"In witness whereof, we, the said Johh Lutz and 0. M.
Linthicum, have hereunto interchatigeably set our hands and
seals, day and date above. JOHN LUTZ, Agent for J. M'Pberson [L. S.].
0 M. LINTHICUM [L. S.].
0.
"Signed, sealed
and delivered in presence of James Gettys,
John White."
The defendant, John Lutz, pleaded performance,-and afterwards, the following agreement of reference was entered into,
1y the counsel for the parties in the case. The record contains the following entries, relative to the fnrther proceedings
in the case.
"Whereupon, it is ruled by the cout here, that the said
William S. Nicholls and Francis Dodge, gentlemen, be appointed referees between the parties aforesaid, with liberty to
choose a third person ; and that they, or any two of them,
when the whole matter concerning the premises between the
parties aforesaid, in variance, being fairly adjusted, have their
award in writing, under their hands, and return the same to
the court here, and judgment of the court to be rendered
according to such award, and be final between the said parties; and afterwards, to wit on the 28th day of January 1833,
the said William S. Nicholls and Francis Dodge file in court
here the following cei tificate, appointing John Kurtz, with
themselves, the referees in the premises, to wit:
"We certify, that, pursuant to the terms of reference, in the
case of, Otho M. Linthicum v. John Lutz, a6nd before proceeding to act therein, or make any awaid, we, the referees,
did nominate and appoint John Kurtz, whose name is subscribed to the within award, the third referee to act, together
with ourselves, in deciding the controversy between the parties, and submitted to us.
DODGE."

W. S. NICHOLLS.

FRANCIS

"And on the same day, the referees file in court here their
award, in manner and form following, to wit:
"We, the subscribers, appointed arbitrators to settle a dispute between Otho M. Linthicum and John Lutz, in which the
executors of the late John M'Pherson, of Frederick, are interested, do award the sum of eleven hundred and twenty-nine
dollars and ninety-three cents to be paid to the said Linthicum,
in full for all expenses and damages sustained by him, in con-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
tLutz i. Linthicum.)

sequence of not leaving tim in quiet possession of the house, at
the corner of b~ridge and High streets, Georgetovn, for the full
term of the lease for five years-aniy arrear of rent due from
Linthicum to be paid by him. W. S. NICHOLLS. J. KURTZ.
FRANCIS DODGE."

The circuit court gavw judgi.,nt. for the plaintiff on the
award, and the ciefenda, *prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Xuy, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr Marbury and Mr Coxe, for the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error, Lle rontowing points were relied
upon.
1. That the award is void for uncertainty, in not stating
who is to pay the money awarded, the defendant or the executors of John M'Pherson; and in not finding Whether there was
any arrear of rent due, nor how much, nor to whom.
2. That the award is void, not being mutual nor final, in
leaving the rent unascertained, and its payment unenforced.
3. The award is void, not appearing to be made in the cause
-thece being, in fact, another submission at the same time,
to the same referees, of the saime matters of controversy, by
bond between the appellee, and the executors of M'Pherson,
in reference to which the referees made the award.
4. The judgment of the court is.erroneous; the submission,
appointment of the third referee, award, and proceedings
thereon, not being according to the act of assembly and the
order of the court: 1st. The arbitrators ought not to have appointed a third person, until it was seen that they disagreed..
2d. When they appointed a third person, the defendant ought
to have had notice of the peison so chosen. The appointment and the award were made and filed the same day. 3d.
No notice appears. to have been given to the defendant, either
of the appointment of the third person, or of the making, or
of the ceturn of the award.
Mr Key contended, that the award was defective in form.
The reference was under an act of the assembly of Maryland,
which directs the mode f proceeding in such cases. The
VOL. VIII.-W

SUPREME COURT.
LLutz v. Linthicum.]

lease on which the action was founded, was executed by the
plaintiffin error, as an agent of M'Pherson; and yet the award
is given against him, as if he had acted as the principal in the
The award -was niade against him, imposing
agreement.
upon him a personal liability, when the declaration states,.that
in the contract he acted as agent, and the claim stated in it
is a claim on him as the agent of M'Pherson. Thus the award
is not in conformity with the submission ; for the submission
prust 6e considered as having reference to the pleadings; and
in the declaration, as well as in the articles of agreeement, the
plaintiff.in error is stated to be the agent of M'Pherson. Yet
the award finds against the plaintiff in error irlividually; and
judgment is enterea. against him, not as agent, but individually.
The award is void for uncertainty. It does not say who
shall pay the amount found due, whether it shall be paid by
John Lutz or by the executors of M'Pherson. If it is a debt
due by him as agent, he should, by the award, have been- directed to pay it as agent, and his claim to repayment by the
executors, would thus be clearly established. The award is
not declared to be. made in the suit in which the agreement to
refer was entered. It does not say that the money is to be
paid in, that suit, nor is it applicable to it; nor does it appea'
that there wvas not another suit between the parties.
The suit was brought for damages under a contract, and
for the loss of the use and .repairs of a certain house ; and the
award gives the amount to the plaintiff below for expenses, but
nothing is said inthe agreement about expenses. There could
be no claim for expenses, for not having been allowed to hold
the premises under the lease.
The award is also defective, in not finding the exact amount
to be deducted for arrearages of tent. "Any arrear of rent due
from Linthicum to be paid by him." The refereer do not say
what those arrears are ; and thus the. whole amount found by
the referees must be paid by Lutz, and he may afterwards recover the arrears when he can. Cited, Lyle v. Rodgers, 5
Wheat. 395, 405, 4 Cond. Rep. 702 ; 2 Gallison 61; 14
Johns. 308.
When a suit such as this is referreu (o arbitrators, they

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Ldt'z v. Linthicum.]

must dispose of it-they must say what is to be done finally
with it. This is not done ; nothing is said about the costs.
The law of Maryland, chap. 8, sec. 75, directs that a-notice
of the award, and a copy of the same, shall be given to the
party. Nothing of this is shown by the record to have been
done; and the court h4d therefore no authority to give judgment on the award.
Mr Marbury and Mr Coxe, for the defendant.
Formerly it seems to have been the policy of courts, in construing awards, to vacate them if possible. A more reasonable
construction now prevails: coirts will intend every thing to
support awards, and give them eflect. Most of the objections
in this case must be sustained, if at all, by matter beyond the
award.
A very material inquiry is contained in the proposition;
to consider, that the submission was limited to the parties in
the cause, and the matters in difference between them in
that cause.
Other parties, and other matters, different from
those connected with the particular action referred to, may be introduced
into the order of reference, if it be the pleasure of. the parties
and the order of reference embrace them. But, who are connected with the reference, and what is referred, must depend
on the terms of the order of reference.
T
he-agreement of the parties, and the order of reference,
both show that the submission was limited to the parties in
the suit. The record exhibits no evidence of a reference of
the same, or qpy other controversy, between other parties.
There is no ground for the introduction of the executors of Mr
M'Pherson ; they, certainly, were not parties to the reference
by order of court ; and are strangers to the record and proceedings in this cause.
What was the matter referied
Was it general, of all matters in controversy between the parties ; or speciali of the, matters in difference between them in this s.4it?
There have been some nice discriminations respecting the
effect of,. certain terms of reference, which have nowbecome
familiar to the profession.
When the reference is in these terms, , all matters in differ-

SUPREME COURT.
LLutz v. Linthicum.]

ence between the parties in the cause," it has been held to constitute a general reference; and then the arbitrators are not
confined to the special matter in dispute in the cause referred,
but may award on any subject or matter in difference between
the parties, whether pleaded or not. But when the reference
is, "of all matters in difference in the cause between the parties," the reference is special, and the arbitrators are confined
to the matters in dispute in the cause referred. Watson on
Arb. and Award 3 ; 2 T. R. 645.
The reference in this cause was special: the language of
the agreement anid of the order of reference limited it not only
to the parties on the record, but to the matter in dispute between them in that cause.
The language is, "the arbitrement of a majority in the premises, to be final between the parties," "when the whole matter concerning the premises, between the parties aforesaid in
variance, being fairly adjusted," &c. By premises meaning
the cause ieferred. It is, in effect, if not in terms, a reference
of "all matters in the cause in variance between the parties."
The arbitratorswere thus limited, and were not authorized to inquire or award concerning matters not pending in the cause
referred to them.
What was then in dispute in the cause ?
It is shown by the pleadings. The action was brougnt to
recover damages for the breach of a covenant for quiet enjoyment, contained in a lease signed by the plaintiff in error.
The defendant pleaded performance. The reference then embraced nothing more than the question of eviction, and the consequent damage; and the referees had no authority to inquire
into any other matter.
It is insisted that the award is uncertain in this : "that it
does not find whether there was any arrear of rent due, nor
how much, nor to whom." This matter concerning the rent
was not a matter in controversy in the cause, and was not
within 'the submission. It could not have been introduced into
the cause but by a plea of off-set against the damages, claimed
by the piaintiff. No such plea was filed, in fact ; nor would
such a plea have been admissible. A plea of off-set can only
be when there are mutual debts; not when the demand, on
either side, is for unliquidated damages.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
rLutz v. Linthicum.]

If there be uncertainty in what the arbitrators have said
concerning the rent, it will not vitiate the award : for, "if ap
award be good in part and bad in part, and that part in which
it is bad be not within the submission, it shall not invalidate
that which is good within the submission." Watson on Arb.
and Award 135, 136 ; Kid on Award 244.
Again on this part of the award. It does not appear by the
finding of the arbitrators, in their award, that any rent was in
arrear, and due : they say, "any airear of rent due from Linthicum, to be paid by him ;" not that there is rent in arrear, but
if there be any.
If the plaintiff in error would avail himself of any uncertainty connected with this part of the award, he should have
made a motion to set it aside, and made it appear to the court
by affidavits that there Was rent in arrear. In the absence of
such proof it is not to be presumed that there was rent due,
the payment of which the arbitrators should have awarded, with
sufficient certainty. For courts will not intend an award to be
uncertain ; the uncertainty must appear on the face of the
award, or by averment. Watson on Arb. and Award 103,
104,119, 120; Kid on Award 26.
With regard to all that was within the submission, the
award is sufficiently certain, final and mutual. The submission embraced nothing more than "whether there had been a
breach of, the covenant; and if so, the plaintiff's claim to
damag&s for-the eviction.
If the arbitrators had done nothing more than award the
payment of a sum of money, it would have been sufficient,
without finding the act of eviction. But the arbitrators not
only award the money to be paid, but they state that it is to
be paid in consideration of the breach of covenant complained
of in the plaintiff's declaration. Watson 131, 145.
It is objected, however, to this part of the award, that it is
uncertain, "in not stating who is to pay the money awarded."
Absolute certainty is not required; yet nothing short of
absolute certainty, could make it more certain'than it appears
in this case, that Lutz is to pay the money awarded to Linthicum.
There are but two parties to this suit. and two only to the
reftence.

174

SUPREME COURT.
[Lutz v. Linthicuni.]

Linthicum is the plaintiff, seeking damages for breach of a
specific covenant.

Lutz is the defendant, charged with the

breach. The arbitrators award, that Linthicurn shall receive
one thousand one hundred and twenty-nine dollars and ninetythree cents, for his loss and damage, in consequence of tile
breach of covenant of Which he complained against Lutz.
Who then is to pay? Certainly Lutz, the defendant, and.
only other party inthe suit. The executors of M'Pherson had
nothing to do with it.
Are the, terms in which the verdict of a jury is rendered
more certain . Not at all ; the usual form is, "we find for the
plaintiff, and assess his damages at so much:" it is never
added, to be paid by the defendant.
This award i's
said to be void, not being mutual.
In the case of Lyle v. Rodgers, 5 Wheat. 400, 4 Cond. Rep.
702, "that if that pa-rt of the award which is void, be so connected with the rest as to affect the justice of the case between
the parties, the whole is void."
In that case, the release of certain lands by Bond and
Lyle, was the recompense, in consideration of which Mrs Dennison was to pay a sum of money; but, in as much as Mrs
Dennison could not have advantage of what was intended for
her, the whole was 'declared void. The payment of the rent,
in this case, forms not part consideration for the payment of
the one thousand one hundred and -twenty-nine dollars and
ninety..three cents -to Linthicurn, and is no way connected
with-it ; the suit was solely for the damages.
It is objected, that the arbitrators ought not to have appointed a third person, until they had disagreed. To this it'is
answered, that the third person to be chosen by the arbitrators,
was, by the terms of the order of reference, to be a referee, and
not an umpire; but if an umpire, it was not improper to make
the appointment before a difference.
It is objected, that the appointment and award were made
and filed the same day. It is answered, that the record does
not show this to be the fact; it shows, that the arbitrators
filed the 'certificate of the appointment of the third referee, and
their award on the same day, to wit the 28th day of January.
If, however the fact.was shown, it is no evidence of misconduct; it is consistent with perfect fairness. If there be unfair-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.]

ness or misconduct in the arbitrators, it should be averred and
shQwn on affidavit, on a motion to set aside the award.
As to no notice of the appointment of a third referee, or
of the making or of the return of the award.
This objection is fo' matter dehors the award. That notice
was given, need not be stated in the award. 6 Har. and J.
407. To impeach the award for want of notice, a motion,
supported by affidavit to set it aside, must be made; it cannot
be by exception, which must be for matter on the face of the
award. Cited, the act of Maryland of 1778, oh. 21, sec. 8, 9,
10.
The 'award shall remain seven days in the general and four
in the county court, during their sitting; before judgment shall
be entered up.
Then judgment shall be entered, and execution granted,
in
the same manner as may be op verdict, confession or non suit.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the District of
Columbia, for the county of Washington.
The original suit was an action of covenant, brought by
Linthicum against Lutz, upon certain articles of agreement,
made between Lutz on the one part, and Linthicum on the
other part, on the 22d of October 1828. The declaration, after
reciting that Lutz, by these articles, leased certain premises in
Georgetown to Linthicurn for five years, from the 3d day of
May then next ensuing, and a covenant on the part of Linthicur to pay therefor an annual rent of two hundred and fiftv
dollars, the rant to be paid half yearly, averred, that, by the
articles of agreement, Lutz bound himself to Linthicum, that
the latter should have peaceable possession of the premises,
and retain and keep the same for the said five years.; that
Linthicum entered into possession of the premises, and held the
same until the 3d day of November 1832, when Lutz evicted
and dispossessed him, &c. The articles are spread upon te
record, by which it appears, that they vere made "by and between John Lutz of, &c., and agent for John MPherson of
Fredericktown in the state of Maryland, of the or part, and
Otho M. Linthicum of Georgetown, &c., of the other part."
And it is witnessed, "that the said John Lutz agent. as atore-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.]

said, has rented and leased, &c.," the premises to Linthicum;
and on the other hand, Linthicum covenants to pay the rent,
&c., as.stated in the declaration. But there is no covenant in
the lease by Lutz, for quiet enjoyment, as stated in the declaration ; but the latter is founded upon the covenant implied by
law, in cases of demises. The articles conclude with these
words. "In witness whereof, we, the said John Lutz and 0.
M. Linthicum, have hereunto interchangeably set our hands.
and seals, day and date above. John Lutz, agent for John
M'Pberson [L. s.]. 0. M. Linthicum [L. s.]."
The defendant, Lutz, without praying oyer of the articles
(without which they could not constitute a part of the declaration), pleaded general performance of the covenants; upon
which an issue was joined to the country. Afterwards, the
parties, by consent, agreed to refer the cause; and accordingly, by a rule of court, it was ordered, "that William S. Nicholls and Francis Dodge be appointed referees between the
parties aforesaid, with liberty to choose a third person ; and
that they, or any two of them, when the whole matter concerning the premises, between the parties aforesaid in variance,
being fairly adjusted, have their. award in writing under their
hands, and return the same to the court here ; and judgment
of the court to be rendered according to such award, and be
final between the said parties." The ref rees so named, on
the 28th of January 1833, chose John Kurtz the third referee;
and afterwards, on the same day, made their award in the
following words. "We, the subscribers, appointed arbitrators
to settle a dispute between Otho M. Linthicum-and John Lutz,
in which the executors of the late John M'Pherson of Frederick are interested, do award the sum of eleven hundred and
twenty-nine dollars and ninety-three cents, to be paid to the
said Linthicum in full, for all expenses and dalmnges sustained
by him, in consequence of not leaving him in quiet possession
of the house, at the corner of Bridge and High streets, in
Georgetown (the demised premises), for the full term of the
lease for five years. Any arrear of rent due from Linthicum,
to be paid by him." Signed by all the referees. Judgment
was given by the circuit court, for the full amount of the award
so made, and costs ; and the present writ of error is brought to
revise that judgment.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.1

The question, whether the articles of -agreement personall
bound Lutz, is not presented by the pleading, in such a man
ner, as that there might not be difficulty in deciding it, if it
constituted the only point in judgment. But if this difficulty
were surmounted, and the articles are to be deemed properly
before us, we do not see how they can well be construed not
to import a personal liability on the part of.Lutz, for the want
of any obligations contained in them. The articles purport to
be made by Lutz, and to be sealed by him ; and not to be made
and sealed by his principhl. The description of himself; as
agent, does not, under sucla circumstances, exclude his personal
responsibility. But this very liability was necessarily submitted to the referees, and came within the scope of their
award.
Several objections have been taken to the award. bi the
first place, it is said, that the award is uncertain and not mutual and final ; that it does not state by whom the money
awarded is to be paid, whether by Lutz, or by the executors of
M'Pberson ; and that it does not find the arrears of the rent
due, and to whom due; and that it does not appear to be a)
award made in this cause. We are of opinion that these objections are ill founded. The award is sufficiently shown to
be an award in this cause ; for no other cause directly appears
to have been pending, or in dispute between the parties ; and
the subject matter of this very suit, is directlywithin the terms
of the award. The award being made in this suit, and applicable in its terms to it, it is sufficiently certain that the money
is to be paid-by Lutz, for there is no other person on the record
to whom it can be judicially awarded to be paid.. The award
is also mutual and final, as te all the matters referred. It is:
not a general arbitration at the common law, of all matters in
dispute between the parties ; but a specific reference of the
matters in dispute in the' cause pending in court, under a rule
of court. Now, those rilatters were the damages and losses
claimed by Lirthicurm, for the breach of the covenant ; and
the sum awarded is expressly declared to be "in full, for all,
expenses and damages" so sustained. As to the arrears of the
rent due from Linthicum, they constituted no'part of the matters submitted. They were not in controversy in the suit.
And the statement in the award, as to any arteara of rent, was
voL. VII.-x

SUPREME COURT.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.]

merely an exclusion of a conclusion, which might possibly have
been drawn, that the referees had deducted such arrears in
making their award. It is therefore very properly stated,,thalt
any arrears of rentdue by Linthicum-are, notwithstanding the
award, to be paid by him.
Another objection is, that the submission, the appointment
of the third referee, the award itself, and the proceedings thereon, have not been according to the acts of assembly of Maryland, and to the order of the court. It is said that the appointiment of the third referee ought not to have been made, -until
after the two other referees had met and heard the cause, and
disagreed thereon: but we are of a different opinion. The submission under the rule of court did not contemplate the third
referee to be a mere umpire in the case, upon a difference of
opinion of the other two ; but an original referee, to be chosen
by the other two, and when chosen, to constitute a part of the
board authorized to hear and decide the cause. How otherwise are we to understand the language of the rule? ,They
(ihat is the three), or any two of them, am to have their award
in writing," &c., which words plainly contemplate the case of
a hearing by all of them; and if the' case were one in which
an umpire was to be chosen, there is no impropriety, and on
the contrary it has been) thought that there, is great propriety,
in selecting the umpire before the other arbitrators have disagreed. This doctrine has been repeatedly held in England, (a)
and it was affirmed in the court of appeals of Maryland in
Rigden v. Martin, 6 Harris and John. 403. It is so reasonable
in itself, that if the point were new, it would be difficult to displace it. Then, again, it is said that no notice appears to
have been given to Lutz of the appointment of the third referee,
or of the making or returning the award, and that these acts
appear all to have been done on the same day. There is certainly no objection to these acts being done on the same day,
if the parties had due notice and a due hearing before the
referees, and, the award was made upon due deliberation.
Without question due notice should be given to the parties, of
(a) See Watson on Awards, ch. 4, sec. 2, p. 56 to 58; Kyd on Awards 82
to 88, 2d edition: Doe v. Doe, 2 Term Rep. 644; Harding v. Watts, 15 East's
Rep. 556.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.]

the time and place for hearing the cause ; and if the award
was made without such notice, it ought, upon the plainest
principles of justice, tQ be set aside. But it is by no means
necessary that:it should appear upon the face of the award
that such notice was given. There is no statute of Maryland
(whose laws govern in this part of the district) which requires
such facts to be set forth in the award. The act of 1779, ch.
21, see. 8, merely authorizes submissions by a rule of court of
causes pending in the court; and the act of 1785,, ch. 80, sec.
11, provides only for cases where either of the parties dies pending the submission, and before the award. If no notice is in
fact given, and no due hearing had, the proper mode is to bring
such facts (not appearing on the face of the award) before
the court, upon affidavit and motion to set aside the award.
But, prima facie the award is to be taken to have been regularly made, where there is nothing on its face to impeach it.
This very objection was made and overruled in Rigden v.
Martin, 6 Harr. and Johns. Rep. 403.
Another objection is, that the same act of Maryland of 1785,
oh. 80, see. 11, requires that in all cases of awards made under,
a rule of court, the party in whose favour the award is made,
shall cause a copy thereof to be delivered to the adverse party
or his attorney, at least three days before judgment is moved
for upon the award; and the clerk of the court is not to enter
judgment upon any award without a motion to, and direction
from the court; and the court shall always have satisfactory
proof that a copy of the award hath been so delivered, before
judgment shall be so directed to be entered ; and it is said that
there has not been a compliance with this requisite by a delivery of the copy. How that may have been, we have no
means of knowing, for nothing appears upon the rec7'rd respecting it, and there is no ground to say that it ought to constitute any part of the'record, or that it is properly assignable
as error. It is matter purely collateral and in pais. If no such
copy had been delivered, the proper remedy would have been
to take the objection in the court below upon 'the motion'for
judgment, or to set aside the judgment for irregularity, if there
had been no waiver, or no opportunity to make the objections
before'judgment. But in the present case suifficient does appear upon the record to show that the party had full dpportu-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lutz v. Linthicum.1

nity to avail himself of all his legal rights in the court below.
The cause was re'ferred at November term 1832 ; pending the
term, to wit on the 18th of January 1833, the award was filed
in court; the cause was then continued until the next term,
viz. the fourth Monday in March 1833; at which time the
parties appeared by their attorneys, and upon motion, and after
argument of counsel, judgment was entered. We are bound
to presume, in, the absence of all evidence to the contrary, that
all things were rightfully and regularly done by the court, and
that the parties were ftlly heard upon all the matters properly
in judgment.
Upon the whole, our opinion is, that the judgment of the
circuit court ought to be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the tra iscript of the
record from the circuit court of the United StateLa, for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum
per annum.

