JANUARY TERM 1834.

REUBEN

M.

GARNETT ET AL., HEIRS

OP REUBEN GARNETT,

DECEASED, APPELLANTS V. HENRY JENKINS ET AL.
The following entry of lands in Kentucky is invalid. "May 10th, 1780,
Reuben Garnett enters one thousand one hundred and sixty-four and twothirds acres, upon a treasury warrant, on the seventh big fork, about thirty
miles below Bryant's station, that comes in on the north side of North Elkhorn, near the mouth of said creek, and running upon both sides thereof
for quantity."
It is a well settled principle, that if the essential call of an entry be uncertain
as to the land covered by the warrant, and there are no other calls which
control the special call, the entry cannot be sustained. In the case under
consideration, there are no calls in the entry which control the call for the
" seventh big fork," and that this call would -better suit a location at the
mouth of M'Connell's than at Lecompt's run, has been shown by the facts
in the case. This uncertainty is fatal to the complainant's entry.'
To constitute a valid entry, the objects called for must be known to the public
at the time it was made, and the calls must be so certain as to enable the
'holder of a warrant to locate the vacant land adjoining. It is not necessary
that all the objects called for shall be known to the public, but some one or
more leading calls must be thus known, so that an inquirer, with reasonable
diligence, may find the land covered by the warrant.
If an object called for in an entry is well known by two names, so that it can
be found by a call for either, such a call will support the entry.
Some of the witnesses say, that being at Bryant's station, with the calls of
Garnett's entry to direct them, they could have found his land on Lecompt's
run, without difficulty. If this were correct, the entry must be sustained,
for it Is the test by which a valid entry is known.
If the complainants clearly sustain their entry by proof, their equity is made
out, and they may well ask the aid of a court of chancery to put them in
possession of' their rights. But, if their equity be doubtful, if the scale be
nearly.balanced, if it do not preponderate in favour of the complainants,.
'they must fail.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky.
This case was commenced in the circuit court by a bill in
chancery, filed by Reuben Garnett, a citizen of Virginia, on.
the 30th of December 1815, against Henry Jenkins and others,
citizens of the state of Kentucky, in the seventh circuit court
of the United States for the district of Kentucky, for the pur-

pose of asserting, his claim to one thousand one hundred and
sixty-four and two-thirds acres of land. Since which time the

SUPREME COURT.
[Garnett et al.v. Jenkins et al.]

complainant died, and the suit has been revived in the name
of his representatives.
The only question put in issue by the bill and answers, is
the validity of the following entry under which the complainants claim: "May 10, 1708, Reuben Garnett ente,- one
thousand one hundred and sixty-four and two-thirds acres
upon a treasury warrant on the seventh big fork, about thirty
miles below Bryant's station, that comes in on the north side
of North Elkhorn, near the mouth of said creek, and running
up both sides thereof for quantity."
RICHARD HIGGiNS, F. C.
A copy.
The-defendants have exhibited no title papers, and by consent of the parties, the validity of this entry was the only
question submitted to the court below, as will appear by the
following agreement. "Reuben Garnett's heirs v. Christopher
Greenup's heirs and others, in chancery. The counsel for the
complainants in this cause, and the counsel in the defence, believing that the case, so far as it depends on the validity or
invalidity of the entry of the complainants, to wit, the entry in
the name of Reuben Garnett deceased, is as fully prepared as
it can be at this day. For the purpose of saving costs, the
parties agree to try the cause as relates to the validity or invalidity of the entry, and that the complainants, in case the entry
is sustained by the court, shall be permitted to make such
further preparations by survey, revival against the heirs or
representatives of deceased parties if necessary, &c., as may
be necessary to carry into effect the opinion of the court.
Therefore, for the present, it is conceded that the patent boundary of Garnett covers the claim of each of defendants in part."
The court below dismissed the complainant's bill, to reverse
which decree this appeal is prosecuted.
The case was submitted to the court on an argument by Mr
Allan, for the appellants.
Mr Justipe M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit in chancery comes before this court, by an appeal
from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of
Kentucky.
By the bill, and answers, and the agreement of the parties,
the validity of the following entry is the only point presented

JANUARY TERM 1834.
(Garnett et at.4. Jenkins et al.]

for the decision of the court. "May 10th 1780, Reuben Garnett enters one thousand one hundred and sixty-four and twothirds acres, upon a treasury warrant, on the seventh big fork,
about thiity miles below Bryant's station, that comes in on the
north side of North Elkhorn, near the mouth of said creek, and
running up on both sides thereof for quantity."
To constitute a valid entry, the objects called for must be
known to the public at the time it was made, and the calls
must be so certain as to enable the holder of a warrant to locate the vacant land adjoining. It is not necessary that all
the objects called for shall be known to the public, but some
one or more leading calls must be thus known, so that an inquirer, with reasonable diligence, may find the land covered
by the warrant.
Respecting the above entry, a great number of depositions
were taken, and, with the view of tracing accurately the calls
of the entry, several surveys were executed.
The principal -objections to the validity of the entry are, that
the call for the seventh fork does not designate the creek, on
which the complainants allege the land is situated, and that
the beginning corner is not only uncertain, but no marked
lines or corners. of the survey have been found. The proof in
the case is as follows.
Patrick Jordan states, that in 1775 he passed up Elkhoin,
near where Bryant's station was afterwards built, but was never
at the station until August 1780, when he acted as a guard,
and he recollects of hearing James Forbes, or some one of the
men belonging to the station, ask certain hunters if they had
been as low down as the seventh big fork, or the seventh fork.
The witness then inquired which of the forks was called the
seventh fork, and was told by the hunters that it was the creek
that was also called Lecompt's run. That in the year 1779
he knew the ceek by that name, liaviTig in the year 1775
assisted Charles Lecompt in building his cabin near the creek,
but never heard it called by that name until 1779. In the
year 1780 the witness relates that Bryant's station was a
place of general notoriety, and he presumes it is twentyfive or thirty miles above Lecompt's run. This run falls into,
Elkhorn on the north side, and it was generally called Lecompt's run as early as May 1780.

SUPREME COURT.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al.]

.John Ficklin states, that he has been acquainted with Bryant's station ever since the year 1781, and was well acquainted
with the waters of North'Elkhorn as low down as Lecompt's
run, and he frequently heard this run called the seventh big
fork, though not earlier, that he recollects, than 1782. Both
Bryant's station and North Elkhorn were places of great notoriety at that time. Lecompt's run falls into Elkhorn on the
north side ; and the witness thinks the distance from the station to the run was computed at about thirty miles. Witness
states, that seventh big foik was generally known by that
name at Bryant's station.
Jacob Stucker says, that since the year 1780, he has been
acquainted with the waters of Elkhorn, that Bryant's station
stands near the creek, which was a stream of notoriety when
he first knew it. He frequently heard Lecompt's run called
the seventh big fork by hunters, as early as the year 1780 and
1781 ; but until the year 1782 he never saw the creek. It is
the sevonth big fork, on the north side of Elkhorn, below Bryant's station; the first one being David's fork; the second, Little
North fork; the third, Cherry's run; the fourth, Miller's run,
the fifth,.Dry run ; the sixth, M'Connell's run; and the seventh,Lecompt's run, There isa small branch between David's
Sork, and the Little North fork, called Opossum run, and another
between Miller's run and Dry run, called Lane's run; and
another between Dryrun and M'Connell's run, called M'Cracken's run ; but these branches are small in comparison with the
seven branches first named, and have the appearance of spring
branches. There are also two other branches, called Mile branch
and the Blue Spring branch, but they are small, and not mo'e
than a mile and a half long. The witness states, that had he
been called, as eaely as the year 1780, to direct Garnett's survey, he should have been led to the mouth of Lecompt's run,
which is about thirty miles below Bryant's station.
Robert Hortness, a witness, states, that in the year 1784,
he became acquainted with North Elkhorn, which was then,a
creek of nntoriety, and that, at that time, David's fork, Little
North fork, Cherry's run, Miller's run. Dry run, M'Connell's
run and Lecompt's run, were the seven largest forics falling
into Elkhorn on the north side, below Bryant's station. At
that time the runs, called Opossum run, Lane's run, and.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al.]

M'Cracken's run, were too small to be considered large forks,
not being larger, if so large, as the branches or forks of some of
the seven forks. The witness thinks the calls of Garnett's
entry were sufficient to lead an inquirer to Lecompt's run.
Hugh Shannon states, thatLecomnpt's run has been known
and called by that name by hunters and others, since 1776.
He was well acquainted with. Lecompt's improvement znade
on this creek in 1775, and ever since the year 1776 it has
been known as Lecompt's improvement. Never heard this
run called the seventh big fork. Witness became acquainted
with Bryant's station in the winter of 1779.
Ash Emerson states, that he is well acquaiated with North
Elkhorn, and that if he had been called on in the year 1780,
to name the seven big forks or big runs, falling into North
Elkhorn, on the north side, below Bryat't's station, he should
have named the following: David's fork, Little North fork,
Cherry's run, Miller's rur, Lane's run, and M'Cracken's run,
which would be the seventh. In 1776 the witness knew
M'Connell's run by that name, and also the Dry run; he and
his company gave Millei's run and Cherry's run their names ;
some of the creeks were catled by different names. Never
heard Lecompt's run called the seventh big fork; M'Crackern's
run and Lane's run were not so large as the other forks, but
Lane's run heads as far up in the ridges as any other one.
Lewis Valandingham since 1782 has been well acquainted
with the water courses above named, and he coroborates the
statement of Emerson.
John Miller states, that in the spring of 1776, he bedame
acquainted with Lecompt's run; and ever since it has been
known by that name. He does not count himself a judge of
what would be bigforksor runs, but he would call them David's
fork, Little North fork, Cherry's run, Miller's run, M'Cracken's,
M'Connell's and Lecompt's.
John Williams says, that he was acquainted with North
Elkhorn in the year 1775, and if, on the 10th of May 1780, he
had been required to point, out the seventh big foik, below
Bryant's station, he could not have done it, as he never knew
a creek called by that name. Since the year 1776, Lecompt's
run has been generally called and known by that name.
Jamea M'Connell became acquainted with Lecomptts run in

SUPREME COURT.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al.]

1776, and has never heard it called by any other name: until
of late years it has been called by some the seventh run.
John Smith in the year 1773 became acquainted with the
waters of North Elkhorn, and early in the spring of 1775 knew
1Lecompt's run; and he never knew it called by any other
name, until lately he was informed, that certain persons were
about calling it the seventh big fork or branch, Had the witness been called on to designate the seventh big fork falling
into North Elkhorn on the north side, he should have named
M'Cracken's run. He thinks that Lecompt's run is one or
two and twenty miles below Bryant's station. " In 1775 Lane's
run and M'Cmcken's run had their names given to them.
These runs, at their mouths, are some smaller than the others,
but they branch out into a; body of very good land as large as
the others, though the witness does not think they are as
long. On the north side of Elkhorn, the route usually travelled, the witness supposes the distance from Bryant's station
to Lecompt's run, is about thirty miles.
Anthony Lindsay says, that in the year 1791, he became
acquainted with the general boundary of Garnett's claim of
land, on Lecompt's run; that in the year 1793, John Perkins
made a settlement on a part of the claim, under James Ferguson,
who had purchased Lecompt's title. Witness has a perfect
recollection of hearing the early settlers speak of Lane's run as
one of the principal branches falling into Elkhorn below Bryant's station.
Henry Herdon also states, that he resided at Bryant's station in 1781, and became well acquainted with the principal
branches of Elkhorn, and that Lane's run was always considered as one of the principal branches or forks. James Bell
says, that as early as 1789, Lane's run and the others, were
called targe branches. And James Jones states, that M'Cracken's run and Lane's run were both called large runs in 1789.
James Connelly states, that in 1794 he purchased from colonel Johnson the land on which he now lives, which is about
a quarter of a mile below M'Connell's run ; and the witness
always considered Lane's run a big branch. He was tw'ice
called on by the agent of Garnett, and they searched all around
the mouth of Lecofnpt's run to. find Garnetts beginning corner,
and examined every tree and stump, but could find no marks,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al.]

until they went up the run to a small bottom near where some
cedars stood; there they found an ash marked, but he does not
recollect what the marks were.
William Mosby states, that he has lived at the mouth of
Lane's run for forty years; that Lane's run is among the largest falling into North Elkhorn on the north side, that its source
is in the dividing ridge. Its mouth is circumscribed by a milldam across Elkhorn just below, which has obstructed the channel at the mouth, but it discharges more water than any of the
adjacent streams which fall into Elkhorn.
John Payne states, that he has resided near North Elkhorn
since 1788, that in the year 1792 he was appointed surveyor
of Scott county, within which the land in controversy is situated, and that he becan-e well acquainted with .the forks and
runs falling into Elkhorn on the north side, between Bryant's
station and Lecompt's run: the first is David's fork; the second, Little North fork ; third, Cherry's run ; fourth, Miller's
run; fifth, Lane's run ; sixth, Dry run ; seventh, M'Cracken's
run ; the eighth, M'Connell's run ; and the ninth, Lecompt's
run.
Joseph R. Lee has been acquainted with Lecompt's riun for
thirty-two or three years when he first knew it, there was a
considerable growth of cedar and other timber near the mouth
of the run, and about half a mile up it. Between'the years
1802 and 1806, he lived within half a. mile of the mouth of
this run, and understanding a reward was offered to any one
who should find the line trees or corner of Garnett's claim, he
made diligent search, but was undble to find either, and he
thinks, that i(a corner had been marked within fifty or sixty
yards of the mouth of the run, he shguld have found it. John
Garnett lived near the ntiouth of Lecompt's run, and, as witness
understood, lived under his brother's claim, but he heard John
say, that he did not know where the lines and corners were.
About thirty-three or four years ago he left the land,
Joseph S. Norris, under an order of court, measured the runs
below Bryant's station, which fall into Elkhorn on the north
side, and he considers Cherry's, Miller's and Dry run are
larger than Lane's; Chery's run has a large fork near its
mouth, and he believes thateither of these forks is as large as
Lane's run. And the same may be said of the forks of Dry
VOL Villi

SUPREME COURT.
[Garnott et al. v. Jonkints et al.]

run. If witness had been called to malce the location at the
mouth of the seventh big fork, as called for in Garnett's entry,
he does not know whether he would have made it at the mouth
of Lecompt's or M'Connell's run. Witness surveyed Garnett's
claim, and at the time made diligent search for corners where
there was timber, but found none. The first and second line
terminated in cleared lands, the third in timbered land. He
has known Lane's run since 1804: when he first saw it, it was,
perhaps, twice as wide as it now is.
John Garnett states, that he was present forty-five or six
years ago, when the original survey of Reuben Garnett's entry
was made, and, according to his best recollection, and indeed
he is positive, the survey commenced about one hundred and
fifty yards, more or less, above the mouth of Lecompt's run,
at a large cedar which stood in the cliff of Elkhorn. By the
direction of the surveyor he marked this line as a corner. From
this tree the surveyor ran to a willow, oak and another tree,
which were marked as the second corner, and the witness
marked the line with a tomahawk. The surveyor. then ran
the same corner further on, and made lines and corners for
Peter Samuel's claim, which adjoins Garnett's. After running
Samuel's claim, and coming back to Garnett's second course,
the third line of Garnett's claim was run and regularly marked,
and the corner also, but the line between Garnett and Samuel
was not marked. About thirty-two years ago witness became
acquainted with Lane's run, and it was not to be compared to
the others as to size; it was.so narrow, that, at times, the witness could jump across it. The witness took possession of
Garnett's claim thirty-eight years ago, and remained on it
about twelve years. He was turned out of possession by a
judgment in ejectment, obtained on a title of Hodges. He
was to have two hundred acres of the land, to be surveyed for
him, and if it overpaid him for his services, he was to pay his
brother.
Lewis Valandingham became acquainted with Lane's run
in 1780 or 1782, and it was then considered a stream of the
same magnitude as Lecompt's run, Miller's run, Cherry's run,
and other runs which head in the dividing ridge. In 1782
Lecompt's run was known by that name. Between Bryant's
station and. Lecompt's run, the following runs fall into North

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkine et al.]

Elkhorn: Little North fork, Cherry's run, Miller's tun, David's
fork, Lane's run, M;Cracken's run, Dry run, M'Connell's run,
and then Lecompt's run.
John Burns states, that about thirty or thirty-three years
ago, Samuel Ayres offered him a reward if he could find a line
or corner of Garnett's survey, and he hunted frequently but
could find neither, and on inquiring of John Garnett, if he
could show either a line or corner of the survey, he answered
that he could never find either, but he supposed the land must
be there. There was much cedar about the mouth of Lecompt's creek, and it entered up the creek, between a half and
three quarters of a mile.
William Poindexter says, that John Gariett claimed his
land about three quarters of a mile below Lecompt's run on
Elkhorn.
Joseph S. Norris, a surveyor, under the order of the circuit
court, made the following report as io the magnitude of the
streams of water which fall into Elkhorn on the north side
below Bryant's station. 1. David's fork at the mouth, is four
poles and eleven links.wide; higher up, beyond back water,
three poles and eighteen links. 2. Opossum run meanders at
the mouth one pole at high water mark; higher up, at common water mark, eighteen links. 3. Little North Elkhorn is
four poles wide at the mouth; higher up, beyond backwater,
four poles; and still higher, three poles and twenty links.
4. Cherry's run is two poles and twenty links wide at the
mouth; above back water, three poles and five links; and still
higher, three poles. 5. Miller's run is two poles wide and ten
links at the mouth; above back water, two poles and eight
links; still higher up, two poles and twenty links. 6. Lane's
run is two thousand one hundred and six poles in length,
equal to six miles one half and twenty-six poles, and measures, at the mouth, two poles and ten links high water;
common water, one pole three links; above back water, one
pole and eight links; still further up, one pole and twenty
links. 7. Dry run measures at the mouth, high water mark,
five poles; common water, four poles; and high r up, four
poles. 8. M'Cracken's run is three miles and a half and
twelve poles long, and measures at the mouth one pole, and
the same just below the forks. 9. Mile branch is a small

SUPREME COURT.
[Garnett et a. v. Jenkins et al.]

branch, measures the whole length, five hundred and sixteen
poles. 10. Blue Spring run is nine hundred and sixty-five
poles long, and one and a half poles wide at the mouth; higher
up, one pole. 11. M'Connell's run is four-poles and twentyone links wide at the mouth, high water mark;- higher up,
three poles four links, common water mark. 12. Lecompt's
run measures at the mouth, four poles and eighteen links;
with high banks higher up, six poles.
This evidence establishes several points which are essential
to the validity of Garnett's entry. At the time it was made,
.no doubt -exists that Bryant's station was settled, and that
North Elkhorn was genierally known in the country. These
two important calls in the entry could have beeneasily-found;
and the inquiry must be made, whether the locative or special
call has been established.
The calls for Bryant's station and North Elkhorn, and the
distance to the seventh big "fork, are descriptive, and were designed to lead the inquirer -to the locative or special call;
which was intended to show, with certainty, the land covered
by the entry. This call is "near the mouth of the seventh big
fork falling into the north side of the north fork of Elkhorn."
Perhaps the words, "near the mouth," in thii call, under
the decisions of the Kentucky courts, might be construed to
mean, at the mouth, which would give them reasonable precision, and this will leave the call for the "seventh big foik,"
the only point for investigation. Is this call certain ? Would
it lead an inquirer, with reasonable diligence, to the land now
in controversy? If it would not, the entry cannot be sustained.
The call for the "seventh'big fork" is, in reality, sufficiently
specific; but dyes it designate Lecompt's run, as insisted on by
the complainants!
It appears fron-the-evidence, that this stream of water was
called Lecompt's run from the year 1776, and that this name
was given to it by a man called Lecompt, whoin the preceding year made an improvement on it. The other rqtns falling
into the north fork of Elkhorn on the north side, between Bryant's station and Lecompt's run, were named about the same
time, but some of -them were -called by different names. If
an object called for in an entry is well known by two names,
so that it can be found by a call for. either, such a call will

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Garnett at al. v. Jenkins et al.]

support the entry. -Itis therefore no substantial objectiQn to
the call for the "seventh big fork," that it was as well, or
better known by the name of Lecompt's run, if this run be the
"seventh big fork.
Had the call been for Lecompt's run instead of the "seventh big fork," the evidence in the case would
have established the entry, for the proof is clear that the run
was known by that name generally, before the entry; but it
must rest upon the call for this run, as the "seventh big fork."
Some of the witnesses state, that this stream of water was
,known by the name of the " seventh big fork" at the time of
the entry ; and others testify, that it is in fact the seventh.
Taking the whole of the evidence together, it does not appear
that the name of this run, as the "seventh big fork," is established; it may have been called by that name by a few persons, but many of the witnesses well acquainted with the
country, and with this stream of water, before the entry was
made and ever since, and who knew it well by the name of
Lecompt's run, never heard it called the "seventh big fork."
Is it in fact the "seventh big fork ?" This is a call which
may now be ascertained, nearly with as much certainty, as
when it was made. It is true the course of streams of water
may change by time, and their currents and volume of water
may be contracted or expanded, but such calls generally contain greater certainty and can be more easily established, than
those which are artificial. A natural boundary is more certain,
in most cases, than an artificial one, and is less liable to be
altered by fraud or accident.
Several of the witnesses swear that Lecompt's run is the
seventh big fork, but they are contradicted by others equally
respectable, and whose knowledge of the different streams of
water about which they testify, was at least equal to the
knowledge of those whom they contradict.
Some of the witnesse4 say, that being at Bryant's station,
with the calls of Garnett's entry to direct them, they could
have found his land on Lecompt's run, without difficulty. If
this be correct, the entry must be sustained, for it is the test
by which a valid entry is known. But other witnesses equal
in number, say,..that they would have been led by these calls
tu look for Garnett's land on M'Connell's run, or some one
above that of Lecompt's.

SUPREME COURT.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al.]

Here are differences of opinion among the witnesses, in
regard to an essential fact, and if there were no other guide
than the opinion of the witnesses, as stated in their depositions,
it might be difficult for the court to come to a satisfactory conclusion. It is true, the affirmative facts must be proved by the
complainants, before they can affect the rights-of the defendants. The defendants are in possession of the land, and have
been for many years, some or all of them, under legal titles,
and the complainants seek to recover the land on the ground
of their superior equity. Interests t hus acquired, and which
have been so long enjoyed, ought not to be disturbed by an
equitable claim which is not clearly established.
If the complainants clearly sustain their entry by proof, their
equity is made out, and they may well ask the aid of a court
of chancery to put them in possession of their rights. But, if
their equity be doubtful, if the scale be nearly balanced, if it
do not preponderate infavour of the complainants, they must
fail.
The court are not under the necessity of deciding this important point by d reference to the depositions alone, but thby
are aided by the report of the surveyor,. who states the magnitude of the different streams of water falling into the north side
of Elkhorn, which he ascertained from actual measurement.
This presents the facts to the court in a more satisfactory manner than could be done by the opinion of witnesses. It makes
certain that which before-rested on opinion.
From this report. it appears that Lane's run, which the complainants contend does not form one of the big forks that fall
into North Elkhorn, is as large at the mouth as Miller's run,
which is admitted to be one of those forks; and is as wide as
Cherry's run, except ten links, which is also admitted to be a
large fork. Lane's run is six and a half miles long, and, according to one of the witnesses, discharges more water than
some of the adjacent branches.
If the call for the seventh big fork does not designate Lecompt's run, the entry cannot be held valid. And if Lane's
run be as large as Miller's, and within ten links as wide at the
mouth as Cherry's run, how can an inquirer, by following the
directions in Garnett's entry, look for his land at the mouth of
Lecompt's run. By whitt rules is he to pass over without

J iNUARY TERM 1834.
[Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al.]

counting Lane's run, while he counts Miller's -run and Cherry's. If the latter be ten links wider at the mouth than Lane's,
the same cannot be said of Miller's. And if Lane's run be not
counted as one of the big forks of Elkhorn, must not Miller's be passed over on the same ground 1 But if Miller's run
be counted, must not Lane's be counted also ? And if they be
placed in the same class, as they must be, from their size, it is
equally fatal to Garnett's entry, whether they be counted or
not counted. If counted, Lecompt's run would be the eighth
"big fork," if not counted, it would be the sixthi so that, in
either case, the call does not fix the land of Garnett on Lecompt's run.
John Garnett, one of the witnesses, states, that the survey of
Garnett's entry was made at the mouth of this run, and all
the lines and corners regularly marked, except the line which
was common to Garnett and Samuel. But, after the most
diligent search, no trace of this survey can be found; and,
from other facts proved in the case, it is probable that this witness has mistaken the place where the survey was made.
But, if this survey were fully established, as stated by the
witness, it could not aid the defect in the special call of the
entry.
It is a well settled principle, that if the essential call of an
entry be uncertain as to the land covered by the warrant, and
there are no other calls which control the, special call, the entry
cannot be sustained. In the case under consideration, there
are no calls in the entry which control the call for the "sevenih big fork," and that this call would better suit a location
at the mouth of M'Connell's than at L -compt's run, has been
shown by the facts in the case. This uncertainty is fatal to
the complainant's entry, and the decree, therefore, of the circuit court, which dismissed the bill, must be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States'for the district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

