SUPREME COURT.

RICHARD 'R.

KEENE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V.

JOHN

M'DON-

OUGH.
An adjudication made by a Spanish tribunal in Louisiana, is not void be-

cause it was made after the cession of the country to the United States; for
it is historically known that the actual possession of the country was not surrendered uritil some time after the proceedings and adjudication in the
case took place. It was the judgment, therefore, of a competent Spanish
tribunal, having jurisdiction of the case, and rendered whilst, the country,
though ceded, was, de facto, in the possession of Spain, and subject to
Spanish laws. Such judgments, so far as they affect the private rights of
the parties thereto, must be deemed valid.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
This case was argued by Mr Grimes, for the defendant.
counsel appeared for the plaintiff in error.

No

Mr Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The writ of error in this case, brings up the record of a judgment t'endered against the plaintiff in error, in the district cout
of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana. The
plaintiff, accotding to the course of proceedings in that state, presented his petition to the court, stating, that on the 22d of May
1803, in virtue of a lawful purchase at public sale, duly and
legally made by Don Carlos de Grand Pre, governor of the
post and establishment of Baton Rouge, he became the owner
and proprietor of a tract of land, apperiaining to the "testamentaria," or successor of the deceased Poussett, particularly
describing the same, (being the land in question) and annexing to his petition the document or adjudication, by which lie
allego that the title to the land was vested in hin , of which
he was never thereafter legally divested, as lie aKeges.
A plea to the jurisdiction of the court was inte~ised by the
defendant, alleging that the plaintiff was a citizen of Louisiana,
Upon the
of which state the defendant was also a citizei.
trial-of the issue joined upon this plea, the-jury found that the
plaintiff was not a citizen of the state of Louisiana.
The defendant then filed an answer to the petition, denying
aI and singular the allegations contained in the petition, and

JANUARY TERM 1834.

309

[Keeno v. M'l)onough.]

averring that ti petitioner has no title whatever to the land
in question. That if any such adjudication as is pretended by
him ever was made, the same was afterwards annulled. And
le further pleads, that he is the true and legal owner of the
said tract of land, by good and valid title, and that he has had
possession under the same for thirty years and upwards, &c.
The adjudication upon which the plaintiff rests, as the evidence of his title, states, that he being the last and highest
bidder, the land was adjudicated to him ; and he having no
security to offer, he engages to execute a mortgage in trust on
the property, which was accepted by the testamentary executors, on condition that he shall immediately pay to Don Thounas. Durnford, one of the executors, six hundred dollars, a
portion of the purchase money, to be applied to the payment of
the claim of Joyce and Turnbull, against the said estate.
According to the plaintiff's own showing, therefore, his title
was not absolute, but conditional ; and the iecord contains
subsequent proceedings by the executors of Poussett, to annul
the former adjudication for non-fulfilment of the conditions
upon which the sale was made. For this purpose a petition was
presented to the governor Grand Pre, setting forth the sale,
and the condition upon which it 'was made, and alleging that
the plaintiff had not paid the six hundred dollars, nor given the
mortgage to secure the purchase money, and praying a decree
to make null and void the former sale, and that the land might
be again expos(.cd to sale. And, on the 24th of Aprif 1804, a
decree was entered, setting forth that it having been proved
that Don Richard Raynal Keene had absented himself from
the country, without having complied with the conditions of
the sale made to him, it is decreed according to law, and the
rules which govern in like cases, that the adjudication to him
is annulled, and that the plantation be again exposed to public
sale, which was accordingly done on the 2d of June 1804, and
finally adjudged to Don Miguel Mahier, for the sum of five
thousand five hundred dollars, he being the last and highest
bidder at that sum ; and the adjudication alleges that possession was given to him ; and the defendant then deduces a title
rorn Don Miguel Mahier to himself.
The plaintiff in error not having appeared to argue his cause,
or suggest the errors of which he complains, the court cannot

SUPREME COURT.
[Keene v. M Donough.]

perceive on what grounds he can rely, to reverse the judgment
of the court below. The record contains no evidence whatever of his having paid any part of the purchase money. This
is not even alleged in the petition ; and, indeed, a contrary inference is to be drawn from what he does allege ; for, he states,
that although not boul)d to account for a greater sum than the
price at which the land was sold to him, yet he will agree to
pay not only that price, but any sum that shall be equivalent
to the price for which the land sold on the second sale.
The petition alleges that the proceedings under which the
second sale was made were irregular and unlawful.
Should it be admitted that it was competent for the plaintiff
to impeach this adjudication, and show that the proceedings
were irregular and unlawful, the record contains no offer, at
the trial, to show any irregularity or illegality in those proceedings ; they must, at least, be taken as prim i facie evidence of
a judicial proceeding, to pass the title of land, according to the
course and practice of the Spanish law in that province
The authority of the governor to take jurisdiction in such
cases, is admitted by the plaintiff's own showing ; for the title
set up by him rests upon the authority of the same governor,
who adjudicated the second sale under which the defendant
claims ; and the first sale being conditional, and the conditions
not performed, no doubt can be entertained but that the second
proceeding and sale must be considered, at least as prima
facie evidence of what they purport to have been; and this is
sufficient to warrant the judgment or 4ecree of the court below.
The adjudication having been made by a Spanish tribunal,
after the cession of the country to the United States, does not
make it void ; for we know, historically, that the actual possession of the territory was not surrendered until some time
after these proceedings took place. It was the judgment,
therefore, of a competent Spanish tribunal, having jurisdiction
of the case, and rendered whilst the country, although ceded,
was, de facto, in the possession of Spain, and subject to Spanish
laws. Such judgments, so far as they affect the private rights
of the parties thereto, must be deemed valid.
This view of the case supersedes the necessity of considering
the question of prescription.

JANUARY TERM 1834.

311

[Keene v. M'Donoug.h.]

The judgment or decree of the court below is, accordingly,
affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said district court be, and the same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

