SUPREME COURT.

EX PARTE THE UNITED

STATES,

IN THE MATTER

OF THE

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS V. ANSON G. PHELPS, ELISHA
PECK AND WILLIAM

E.

DODGE.

Under the sixty-fifth seet'.on of the duty act of 1799, where a bond has been,
given for duties, and errors in the calculation thereof are alleged on affidavit, at the first term to which suit has been brought on the bond; a delay of

one term is allowed for the purposes of examination and correction. Where
there is a real defence to the claim on the bond, an opportunity to obtain
evidence by a continuance, according to the circumstances of the case, must
be given.

MOTION for a mandamus to the district judge of the United
Atates for the southern district of New York.
Mr Butler, attorney-general of the United States, moved for
a mandamus to be directed to the district court above mentioned, commanding it to vacate a rule entered on the 12th
day of March instant in a certain cause pending in said court,
between the United States of America plaintiffs, and Anson
G. Phelps, Elisha Peck and William E. Dodge, defendants,
by which rule the said court ordered the trial of said cause to
be continued until the term of August next.
The facts disclosed by the affidavits and other papers, on
which the motion was founded, were:
The suit of the United States against Phelps and others, was
brought to recover the sum of one thousand six hundred and
seventy-eight dollars and seventy cents, being the ascertained
amount of duties due on a customhouse bond, given for an im.portation of certain lead weights and basins, for the house of
Phelps & Peck. The capias was issued onthe 10thof February
last, returnable on the 13th of that month, the February term
of that court.
On the return day, a declaration was filed and served, and
time allowed to plead until the 15th of February, when the
defendants, after oyer of the bond and its condition, pleaded
non est factum, and gave notice that they would prove, that
the officers of the customs committed an error in rating the
said articles as liable to a duty of three cents per pound, instead

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Phelps et al.]

of rating them as liable to an ad valorem duty of fifteen per
cent; that the bond, instead of being taken for one thousand
six hundred and seventy-eight dollars and seventy cents, ought
to have been taken for only three hundred and thirty-one dollars and seven cents, &c.
On the same 15th of February, the defendants made oath,
that an error ,had been committed in the liquidation of the duties
demanded on the bond; and that the same had been notified
to the collector, prior to the commencement of the said return
term; whereupon the court granted a continuance until the
next succeeding March term.
At the March term, viz. on the 11th of March instant, the
plaintiff's attorney moved to proceed to trial, but the defendants,
in pursuance of previous notice, moved the district court that
a commission be issued to Liverpool, to take the examination
of material witnesses residing in Great Britain. The district
attorney 9bjected, that the court was restrained by the act of
congress from allowing a continuance for a longer term than
the said term of March, the cause having been continued from
the return term of the writ, until that term : but the court being of opinion, that the defendants were entitled to make their
defence by witnesses, and to have a reasonable delay of trial
for the purpose of procuring testimony, overruled this objection, and granted the rule applied for; for the vacating of
which by mandamus, the present motion is made.
The Attorney-General contended, that although a defendant in a suit on a revenue bond has, under the provisions of
the sixty-fifth section of the duty act of 1799, ch. 128, a full
right to procure evidence fr his defence, yet this can only be
done in conformity with the provisions of the law, after judgment has been entered for the United States. There is an
allowance of a term, if an affidavit is made of an error in
the calculation of the duties ; but at the second term after the
institution of the suit, judgment, under the imperative command
of the law, must be enteied for the United States.
Proceedings to obtain testimony will be allowed, and all the
relief the defendani asks from the judgment, while procuring the
testimony, will be extended to him by the court. But the judgment will remain a security for whatever shall be ultimately

- 702

SUPREME COURIT.
[United States v. Phelps et al.]

ascertained to be due to the United States.
parte Davenport, 6 Peters 661.

He cited, Ex

Mr Maxwell, contra, denied the construction given to the
act of congress by the attorney-general. The right of a party
to obtain evidence arose from the great principles of justice ;
and this right ought not to be, nor coul4 it be impaired. It
was secured by the provision in the constitution, which gives
the trial by jury. The true interpretation of the sixty-fifth
section of the act of congress gives the opportunity to procure
testimony. The delay allowed until the next term, when the
duties were on affidavit alleged to be erroneously estimated,
was given to procure testimony or review the calculations of
the aluties to maintain the allegation. This clearly shows
that the law intends to afford the opportunity; and the length
of the time to be allowed will be in the discretion of the court.
Ir, this case, the testimony was to be obtained in Great
Britain, where the witnesses resided. The terms of the district court of the southern district of New York, are monthly.
This suit was instituted, on the 13th of February 1834. The
first term commenced on the 15th of the same month. The
second term began on the 11th of March, and thus in less than
a month, if the law is as claimed for the United States, the defendants in that brief period were to collect their testimony, or
a judgment be entered for the United, States. That a judgment shall be entered to bind the property of the defendants,
and thus impose a heavy burthen upon them, would not be
justifiable or reasonable. The district judge in ordering the
cause to be continued until August next, to allow time to obtain the evidence from England, did not misconstrue the act
of congress ; but exercised, as he had a right to do, a legal
and just discretion upon the matter with which the court will
not interfete.
Mr Justice M'LRAN considered, that if the construction of the
act contended for by the United States, was correct, he would
be disposed to think congress had exercised a power beyond
the authority given by the constitution. It would be depriving the party of his right to a trial by jury.

JANUARY TERM 1834.

703

[United States v. Phelps et al.]

Mr Chief Justice

MARSHALL.

The court are uqanimous in refosing the motion. The
object of the section in the duty law is to secure the prompt
collection of duties, indisputably ascertained. When there are
errors in calculating the duties, and they are alleged on affidavits, the delay of one term is allowed. And where there is a
real defence, an opportunity to obtain evidence by a continuance, according to the circumstances of the case, must be
given. There cannot be a case of this description where the
opportunity should be denied.
Mandamus refused, and the motion overruled.

