SUPREME COURT.
[Briscoe and others v. The Commonwealth's Bank of Kentucky.]

the Bank of the Commonwealth, is unconstitutional and void;
being repugnant to the provision of the constitution of the
United States, which declares that no state shall emit bills of
credit.
3. That the Bank of the Commonwealth has no right to
recover on the promissory note which is the foundation of this
suit, because the consideration was illegal.
The case was argued by Mr White and Mr Wilde, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Hardin and Mr Bibb, for the defendant.
The opinion of the Court was given on this, and on the following case, together.

THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN AND COMMONALTY OF THE
NEw YORK, PLAINTIFFS v GEORGE MILN.

CITY OF

ON a certificate of division in opinion of the judges of the circuit court of the United States for the southern district of New
York.
The plaintiffs instituted an action against the defendant,
George Miln, in the circuit court, to recover certain penalties
and forfeitures alleged to haye been incurred by him for a violation of the provisions of an act of the-legislature of the state
of New York, entitled "an act concerning passengers in vessels
coming to the port of New York," passed February 11 th, in the
year of our Lord 1824, by which it was, among other things,
enacted, that every master or commander of any ship, or other
vessel, arriving at the port of New York from any country out
of the United States, or from any other of the United States
than this state, shall, within twenty-four hours after the arrival
of such ship or vessel in the said port, make a report, in writing,
on oath or affirmation, to the mayor of the city of New York,
or, in case of his sickness or absence, to the recorder of the said
city,.of the name, place of birth and last legal settlement, age
and oecupation of every person who shall have been brought
as a passenger in such ship or vessel on her last voyage from

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[City of New-York v. Miln.]

any country out of the United States into the port of New
York or any of the United States, and from any of the United
States other than this state, to the city of New York, and of all
passengers who shall have landed, or been suffered or permitted
to land from such ship or vessel, at any place during such her
last voyage, or have been put on board, or suffered or permitted
to go on board of any other ship or vessel with the intention of
proceeding to the said city, under the penalty on such master
or commander, and the owner or owners, consignee or consignees of such ship or vessel, severally and respectively, of
seventy-five dollars for ev.ery person neglected to be reported as
aforesaid, and for every person whose name, place of birth, and
last legal settlement, age and condition, or either or any of
such particulars, shall be falsely reported as aforesaid, to be
sued for, and recovered as hereinafter provided. And further,
that it shall be lawful for the said mayor, or, in case of his
sickness or absence, for the said recorder to require, by a short
indorsement on the aforesaid report, every such master or iommander of any'ship or vessel to be bound, with two sufficient
sureties (to be approved by the said mayor or recorder), to the
mayor, aldermen and commonalty of the city of New York, 'in
such sum as the said mayor or recorder may think proper,.not
exceeding three hundred dollars for each passenger not being
a citizen of the United States, to indemnify, and save harmless,
the said mayor, aldermen and comnonalty, and the overseers
of the poor of the said city, and their successors, for all and
every expense'or charge, which shall or may be incurred by
them for the maintenance and, support of every such person,
and for the maintenance and support of the child or children
of any such person which may be born after such importation,
in case such person, or any such child or children shall, at any
time within two years from the date of such bond, become
chargeable to the said city: and that if any such master or
commander shall neglect or refuse to give such bond within
three days after such vessel shall have so arrived at th said
port of New York, every such master or.commander, and the
owner or owners, consignee or consignees of such ship or vessel,
severally and respectively, shall be subject to a penalty of five
hundred dollars for each and every person not being a citizen
of the United States, for whom the mayor or recorder shall deVOL, VIII,-Q

SUPREME COURT.
(City of New York v. Miln.]

terinine that bonds should have been: given as aforesaid, to be
sued for and iecovered as hereinafter provided. And further,
that all and singular the aforesaid penalties and forfeitures shall
and may be sued for and recovered, with full costs of suit, by
action of debt, in any court having cognizance thereof, in the
name of the said fmiayor, aldermen and commonalty.
To the declaration on this act the defendant entered a deytiurrer, and the case came on to be argued before the circuit
/;out.i't.
The judges of that court were divided in opinion on the following point, presented on the part of the defendant, and this
division was certified to the supreme court.
"That the act of the legislature of the state of New
York,
mentioned in the plaintiff's declaration, assumes to regulate
trade and commerce between the port of New York and foreign
ports, and is unconstitutional and void."
The case was argued by Mr Ogden, for the plaintiffs; and
by Mr Jones, for the defendants.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court in this and the preceding case.
The practice of this court is, not (except in cases of absolute
necessity) to deliver any judgment in cases where constitutional questions are involved, unless four judges concur in
opinion, thus making the decision that of a majority of the
whole couct. In the present cases four judges do not concur
in opinion as to the constitutional questions which have been
argued. The court therefore direct these cases to be reargued
at the next term, under the, expectation that a larger number
of the judges may then b ,,presett.
Aote.

Mr Justice JoHYsor; and Mr Justice DUVALL were absent when

these cases were argued.

