JANU!ARY TERM 1834.

AMOS BINNEY,

APPELLANT

V.

THE CHESAPEAKE

AND OHIO

CANAL COMPANY.
A bill was filed in the circuit court of the district of Columbia, against the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, claiming as riparian proprietor from
the company, a right to use, for manufacturing purposes; the water of the
Potomac, introduced through the land of the appellant, when the quantity of water so introduced should exceed that required for navigation.
The bill charged that the land of the appellant was susceptible of being improved, and was intended so to be, for the purposes of manufacturing,
by employing the water of the Potomac, prior to 1784, in which year
the Potomac Company was chartered. All the chartered rights of that
company, and all their obligations were, in 1825, transferred to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. By the improvements madd by the
Potomac Company, much surplus water was introduced and wasted on thc
land of the appellant. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company had
deepened the canal; had made other improvements on the land'of the
appellant ; thus, introducing a large quantity of water for navigation and
manufacturing. The appellant claims, that under the charter of the Potomac Company, held by the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, he is
entitled to use this surplus water for manufacturing purposes. If the water
is insufficient for this purpose, he claims to be allowed to have the works
enlarged, to obtain a sufficient supply. The court held, that under the provisions of the charter, the purposes for which lands were to be condemned
and taken were for navigation only; limiting the quantity taken to such
as was necessary for public purposes. By.the thirteenth section of the
charter of the Potomac Canal Company of 1784, the company were authorized, but not compelled to enter into agreements for the use of the surplus
water. The owner of tho adjacent lands required no such special permission by law: this is a rilit incident to the ownership of land. The
authority, on both sides, was left open to the mutual agreements of the
parties ; but neither could be compelled to enter into an agreement relative
to the surplus water.

ON appeal froiri the circuit court of the United States from the
county of Washington in the District of Columbia.
The appellant, on the 5th day of December 1831, filed a bill
in the circuit court of the county of Washington, against, the
appellees, by which he charged that he and those under whom
he claims, held title to, and were in possession of three adjacent
tracts of land on the shore of the river Potomac, and where
the said river is innavigable, prior to the year 1784.
That these lands being situated on that part of the river
called the Little Falls, were susceptible of being improved by
VOL. VIII.-2 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

applying the water of the river for manufacturing puposes;
and were, prior to the year 1784, intended by the proprietors to
be so improved.
That when the charter of the Potomac Company was
granted, in 1784, by Maryland and Virginia, it was known that
such improvement was intended ;-and the charter expressly
secured the rights of such proprietols by the thirteenth section
of the act of incorporation, which is in ihese words:Sec. XIII. And, whereas some of the places through which
'it may be necessary to conduct the said canals may be convenient for erecting mills, forges, or other water works, and the
persons possessors of such situation may design to improve the
same, and it is the intention of this act. not to interfere with
private property, but for the purpose of improving and perfecting the said navigation, Be it enacLed, That the water, or any
part thereof, conveyed through any canal or cut, made by the
said company, shall not be used for any purpose but navigation,
unless the consent of the propiietors of the land through which
the same shall be led be first had; and the said president and'
directoi s, or a majority of them, are hereby empowered and directed, if it can be conveniently done to answer both the purposes of
navigation and vter works aforesaid, to enter into reasonable
agreements with the proprictols of such situation concerning
the just proportion of the expenses of making large canals or
cuts, capable-of carrying such quantities of water as may be
sufficient for the purposes of navigation, and also for any such
water works as aforesaid.
In the year 1825, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company
obtained a charter, and by this charter and the proceedings
under it th.
is company has obtained a surrender from the Potomac Company of all its chartered rights and ptivileges and
property, and now holds the same, "in the same manner and to
the same effect," as they were before held by the Potomac Company.
The bill charges that in the year 1793, the Potomac Company
made a condemnation under itscharter of a portion of these
lands for a canal, which is exhibited; and made a canal
through the same, which was so constructed as to admit more
water than was necessary for navigation; which surplus water
was wasted on the lands of complainant, at four sluice gates,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

and three waste dams, and continued to be so wasted at such'
places, during the continuance of the works of said company.
The complainant further charges that, since their incorporation, and the surrender. of the charter of the Potomac Company,
the Chesapeake and Ohio.Canal Company have taken possession of thb canal of the former company, and of the land so
condemned, and have also entered upon other. parts of I is said
land not condemned, and have greatly enlarged and deepened
the said canal, and constructed a part of it as a feeder for their
main canal, and erected a permanent stone dam across the
river, and introduced therein a large quantity of water, for the
purpose, as appears, in

their own reports, memorials and

proceedings, of obtaining "a large volume of surplus water to
sell for manufacturing purposes, and to be applied to other
canals to be hereafter authorized."
The bill further charges that, these works may, if necessary
in order to introduce more water into the canal, be enlarged ;
and though the complainant avers that the quantity of water
now admitted, is abundant both for navigation and for manufacturing purposes, yet he declares that he has always been,
and yet is willing, to make an equitable arrangement to pay a
fair proportion of the expense of such enlargement, if the
same should be-adjudged necessary.
The complainant further charges, that by these works of the
said two companies it has been made, if not impracticable, yet
-very erpensive and difficult for him to apply the water of the
river to works upon his lands,without taking the same out of the
said canal and feeder. lie contends that, under these charters,
he is entitled to be allowed the use of the surplus water out of
the canal and feeder, and complains that the defendants have
wholly refused to admit him on any terms to use the said surplus water, or to make any equitable agreement for the enlargement of the works, if they shall contend that such enlargement is necessary ; and that they avow their. determination to
take the water through his said lands without his being allowed in any manner or upon any terms the use of said water,
and tp- dispose of the same, after passing through his lands,
at such places as they ave allowed Py the present charter to
waste the same, for their own benefit. and profit, and also to
sell the same wherever they may find it advantageous to do so,

SUPREME COURT
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

if they can obtain an amendment of their charter to authorize
them so to do, for which amendment they are now making application.
The complainant prays to be relieved against these wrongs,
to be allowed to use the surplus water now admitted into the
canal and feeder, which he avers is abundant both for navigation and manufacturing purposes, and if found insufficient,
then to be allowed to have the works enlarged upon equitable
terms to admit a sufficient supply of water for both purposesand also prays for general relief.
The answer denies the right of complainant to the relief
sought, or to any relief; denies that he, or those under whom
he claims, had any right to use the water-of the river on their
lands for manufacturing purposes, prior to the charter to the
Potomac Company in 1784 ; denies that such right, if he has
it, has been affected by the works of either company ; denies
his right to any use of'the water under the charter of that
company, and under the charter of the present company ; admits that they have enlarged the canal and feeder, so as to
receive more water than is necessary for navigation; and
"that a considerable quantity of surplus water might be used
and expended on that part of the canal adjacent to the lands
claimed by complainant, and through said lands, without injury to the navigation of said canal ;" and "claims the said
water as their sole and exclusive property," and insists that
"they possess the same right, in disposing of the same, to determine where it shall be vented from the canal, and in what
"quantities, and upon what terms it shall be enjoyed by others,
as they have in exercising. similar acts of ownership over Any
other description of property to which their title is absolute
and unconditional."

It was agreed, that the complainant has title to the lands
set forth in the bill ; and the location of the said lands, and
their susceptibility of improvement for manufacturing purposes,
were admitted to be as set forth in the bill.
The appellant made the following points.
1. That the complainant, and those under whom he claims,
bad the right to apply the water of the river to manufacturing
purposes on the said lands, prior to the act of 1784, incorporating the Potomac Company.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

2. That this right was affirmed and secured by that act,
and the terms and manner of exercising it provided for.
3. That the charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company does not impair this right.
4. The lands owned by the complainant having the entire
and sole command of the falls, and no proprietor of lands below him being able to get the water without taking it through
his land, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company cannot
condemn his land, and construct their works so as to take the
water through his land, and dispose of it on lands below him,
without his consent.
5. The company have no right to take his land, or construct
their. works so as to admit more water into their canal than
was necessary for the purposeg of navigation ; and this, the
evidence, and their own reports and proceedings, show they
have done.
6. The Potomac Company, having constructed their canal,
and established sluices and waste dams for the discharge of
surplus water on the complainant's lands for more than twentyfive years, which surplus water could have been applied to
manufacturing purposes, (as proved by the evidence of Payne,
Pierce and Thompson) the present company are bound to
allow the complainant the use of in equal quantity of the surplus water on his said land.
7. The company, having purposely introduced more water
than ws necessary for navigation, with a view to dispose of
it for their own benefit, cannot take it through the complainant's land, and dispose of it under their charter, even at places

where it may be necessary to waste what was thus introduced.
8. That the said company have no right to enter upon, or
condemn any lands of the complainant, not included in the
condemnation of the Potomac Company; congress not having given any such power of entry or condemnation, and
congress having no right Vnder the constitution and acts of
cession of Maryland and Virginia to give such power.
The case was argued by Mr Key and Mr Webster, for the
appellant; and by Mr Swann and Mr Coxe, for the appellees.

SUPREME COURT.
[Jinney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

The court gave no opinion upon any of the questions argued
in the case, other than those arising out of the thirteenth section
of the act incorporating the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, as to the power and obligation of the company to enter
into arrangements with the owners of the lands adjacent to
the canal, respecting the use of the water introduced into the
canal "for the purpose of carrying on water works of various
descriptions, when it could be done conveniently."
The counsel for the appellees denied, that under the charter of the company, they were compelled to make. agreements
for the use of the surplus water ; or that the owners of land.
through which thle canal passed, claiming as riparian proprietors, could oblige the company to enlarge the canal, or to permit it to be enlarged so as to introduce a surplus quantity o1
water to be used for the supply of manufacturing power.
Mr Justice TnompsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before the court from the circuit court of the
District of Columbia, for the county of Washington, on appeal
from a decree, dismissing the bill of the complainant in that
court, who is the appellant here.
The questions involved in this controversy, are highly important to the parties in a pecuniarypoint of view, and embrace,
in some measure, public considerations, connected with the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. These considerations
have led to a range.of argument at the bar, and the discussion
of many questions, important and interesting in themselves,
but which are not raised by the case, now presented to the
judgment of this court: 'and we shall confine ourselves to the
questions properly arising out of the pleadings in the cause.
The bill filed in the court below charges, that, prior to the
year 1784, the appellant, and those under whom he claims, held
title to, and were in possession of certain tracts of land on the
shore of the river Potomac, where the said river was innavigable.
That these lands, being situated on that part of the river, called
the Little Falls, were susceptible of being improved, by applying
the water of the said river to manufacturing purposes, and were,
prior to the year 1784, intended by the proprietors to be so imr=
proved.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

That when the charter of tie Potomac Company was
granted, it.
was known that such improvement was intended.
And that the charter expressly secured the rights of'such proprietors, by the thirteenth section of the act incorporating that
company in the year 1784.
The bill then charges, that in the year 1825, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company obtained a charter, by which,
and the proceedings under it, this company obtained a surrender friom the Potomac Company, of all its chartered rights,
privileges and property ; and now holds tile same, in the same
manner, and to the same cffict, as they were before held by
the Potomac Company.
The bill further charges, that in the year 1793, the Potomac
Company made a condemnation under it's charter, of a portion
of these lands for a canal, and made a canal through the same;
which was so constructed as to admit more water than was
necessary for navigation. Which surplus water was wasted
on the lands of the complainant, at four sluice gates, and three
waste damis, and continued to be so wasted at such places,
during the continuance of the works of the said company.
That the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, since their
incoiporation, and the surrender of the charter of the Potomac
Company to thetmr, have taken the possession of the canal of
tlhat company, and of the land so condemned. And have also
entered upon other portions of said land, adjacent thereto, and
have greatly enlarged and deepened the said canal, and constructed a part of it as a feeder for the main canal ; and erected
a permanent stone dam across the river, and introduced 'into
the land a large quantity of water, forthe purpose, as is alleged,
of obtaining a large volume of surplus water, to sell for manufacturing purposes, and to be applied to other canals to be
hereafter authorised.
The bill further alleges, that these works may, if necessary,
be still further enlarged, so as to admit a still further supply of
water, which wight be conveniently applied to the purposes,
both of navigation and mnanufactories. And that although all
the water now admitted, is abun'dantly sufficient, both for navigation and, for manufacturing purposes, without enlargement; yet, that the complainant has always been, and yet is
willing to make an equitable arrangement to pay a fair pko-

SUPREME COURT.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

portion of the expense of such enlargement, if the same
shall be adjudged necessary.
The bill further charges, that by these works of the two
companies, it .has been made, if not impracticable, yet very expensive and difficult for him to apply the water of the river to
works upon his lands, without taking the same out of the said
cmnal and feeder ; and he claims, that under these charters he is
entitled to be allowed the use of the surplus water out of the
canal and feeder. But that the defendants have wholly rcfused to admit him on any.terns,.to use the said surplus water;
or to make any equitable agreement for the enlai gement of the
said works; if they shall contend that such enlargement is
necessary.
And the specific ielief prayed is, that the complainant be
allowed to use the surplus water now admitted into the canal
and feeder, which, he avers, is abundantly sufficient, both for
navigation and manufacturing purpoes. And, if found insufficient, then to be allowed to have the works enlarged, upon
equitable terms, to admit a sufficient supply of water for both
purposes.
The answer denies the right of the appellant to the specifiu
relief prayed, or to any relief whatever. Denies that he, or
those under whom be claims, had any right to the use of the water of the river on their lands, for manufacturing purposes, prior
to the charter to the Potomac Company, in the year 1784. Denies that such right, if he has it, has been affected by the works
of either company. Denies the complainant's right to any use
of the water, under the charter to the Potomac Company, or
under the charter to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal company.
The defendants admit, that they have enlarged the canal
and feeder, so as to receive more water than is necessary for
the purpose of navigation, and that a considerable quantity of
surplus water, might be used on that part of the canal adjacent
to the lands claimed by the appellant, and through which the
canal runs, without injury to the navigation of the canal. But
they claim said water as their own exclusive property, and insist they have the same right, in disposing of it, that they have
over any other description of property, to which their right is
absolute and unconditional.
It will be perceived, by this statement of the bill and answer,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
LBinney v. The Clesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

that many of the questions which have been raised and argued
at the bar, are not necessarily involved in the decision of the
cause. The rights of the appellant, and of those under whom
he claims, as riparian proprietors, antecedent to the charter of
1784 to the Potomac Company, are not drawn in question,
under the allegations in the bill. The appellant does not set
up any right in hostility to the ights granted by those charters;
but his claim rests upon an affirmance of those charters. His
claim is of a right to the use of the surplus water, now admitted
into the canal and feeder ; and if that is insufficient, both for
,navigation and manufacturing purposes, his prayer is, that the
defendants may be compelled to allow the works to be enlarged,
so as to admit a sufficient supply of water for both purposes.
He seeks, therefore, to divert a still greater quantity of water
from the river, and thereby further impairing riparian rights, if
any exist which can be affected by diverting such a portion of
the water from the river into the canal.
Nor does the bill seek any relief, founded on an objection to
the validity of the proceedings to obtain a condemnation of the
land. Nor is there any complaint, that the company entered
upon other portions of the land (not included in the condemnation of 1793), without authority. No injunction is prayed
to restrain the defendants from the use of such land; and this
cannot be granted under the general prayer. No proper case
is made for such relief. It does not come within the scope and
object of the bill ; and would be inconsistent with the specific
relief prayed : which, instead of restraining the defendants
from the use of such lands, seeks to compel them to eftlarge
the canal still" more, if necessary, to accomplish the purposes
for which the complainant wants the water.
Nor is it matter of complaint to be made by the appellant,
that the company avow a determination to dispose of the surplus water, after it passes through his land, for their own benefit and profit. This cannot in any manner, prejudice the
-complainant. *And the 'bill only charges, that such is the
avowed purpose of the defendants, when it can be done without
injury to the navigation, and in case they can obtain an enlargement of their charter.
1By the appellant's own allegations, therefore, the defendants
disclaim any intention to waste the surplus water, unless it can

SUPREME COURT.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. ]

be done without prejudice to the navigation, nor without obtaining further permission for that.purpose from the competent
authority.
The right of the appellant, therefore, to the relief sought, is
narrowed down to the single inquiry; whether his claim can be
sustained under the thirteenth section of the charter of 1784 to
the Potomac Company.
That section is as follovs : "Whereas some of the places
through which it may be necessary to conduct the said canals,
may be convenient for erecting mills, forges, or other water
works ; and the persons, possessors of such situations, may de,sign to improve the same ; and it is the intention of this act
not to interfere with private property, but fr the purpose of
improving and perfecting the said navigation. Be it enacted,
that the water, or any part thereof, conveyed through any
canal or cut, made by the said company, shall not be used for
any purpose but navigation, unless the consent of the proprietors of the land, through which the same shall be led, be first
had. And the said president and directors, or a majority of
them, are hereby empoweied and directed, if it can be conveniently done, to answer both the purposes of navigation and
.water works aforesaid, to enter into reasonable agreements with
the proprietors of such situation, concerning the just proportion of the expenses of making large canals or cuts, capable of
carrying such quantities of water as may be sufficient for the
purposes of navigation, and also for any such water woiks as
aforesaid."
We think, that the relief sought by the appellant, cannot be

granted under this section of the charter. The whole structure of the act shows, that the gieat and leading purpose for
which this company was incorporated, was for the extension of
the navigation of the Potomac.

Every antecedent provision

of the charter looks to that object. The president and directors are authorised to employ persons to cut such canals,
and erect such locks, and perform such other works as they
shall judge necessary, for opening, iinproving and extending
the navigation of the river. The said river, and the works to
be erected thereon, in virtue of this act, when completed, are
declared for ever thereafter to be esteemed and taken to be
navigable, as a public highway, subject to the payment of cer-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]
tain tolls, &c.
The act declares, that it is necessary for the
making of said canal, locks and other works, that provision
should be made for condemning a quantity of land for that
purpose. And the priceedings thereupop are accordingly pre.
scribed by the act, where no voluntary agreement can be made
with the owners of the land, for taking a limited quantity
against the will of the owner, on payment of the damages, to
be assessed by a jury.
. After these, and some other provisions are made; clearly
indicating an intention, that the purpose for which the lands
were to be taken was for navigation only, and limited to a
quantity necessary for such public objects: then comes the
clause in question, presenting other purposes, and providing
for other objects, where circumstaoces will justify connecting
private enterprizes with the leading public purposes of navigation.
But this clause ini the act seems studiously to guard against
blending these two objects by any compulsory measures; but to
make it the result of mutual and voluntary arrangement between the company, and the owners of the land upon which the.
water works are to be eiected. It is declared in explicit terms,
that it is the intention of the act not to interfere with private
property, except for the purpose of improving and peifecting the
said navigation; and that the water shall not be used for any
purpose but navigation, unless tie consent of the proprietors of
the land, through which the canal shall run,'be first had. It
would be a very rigid and forced construction of this act, to
place the company at the will and pleasure of the owners of
the adjacent lands, especially if thi, should be considered a continual subsisting right, after the canal has been once completed.
If the company are prohibited from using the water, except for
navigation, without the consent of the owner of the adjacent
land, and yet be obliged to yield to the wishes of such owner,
to Alter and enlarge the canal, there would be wanting that
mutuality, which is essential to the just and reasonable regulation-of all rights. All the legislative provision necessary, was
to authorise the company to enter into.such agreement with
respect to the use of the water : the owner of the adjacent land
requited no such special permission ; this is a right incident to
his ownership of the land. The authority on ,bth sides to

SUPREME COURT.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

make such agreement being established, all Ivas left open to
the mutual arrangement of the parties, like all other contracts.
But to compel one party to consent, and leave the other at liberty to consent or not, at his pleasure, would be a violation of
all sound principles of justice.
Much stress has been laid on the word directed, as used in
the statute. "The company are hereby empowered and directed, &c." The word, if standing alone, might imply something mandatory to the company. But it must be taken with
the context, and the general scope and object of the provision,
in order to ascertain thu intention of the legislature. There
was an absolute prohibition to tha company to give their
a: sent to such private use of the water, and the obvious intention of the act was, to remove that prohibition, and place the
company in a situation capable of entering into arrangements
with, the owners of the adjacent lands, respec'ting the use
of the wate'r, for the purpose of carrying on water works of
various descriptions, when it could be done conveniently. But
the whole structure of the clause shows, it was to be a voluntary and mutual agreement of the parties. It cannot be supposed, that if any compulsory measures were contemplated, the
act would have been left so-entirely silent, as to the mude and
manner in which this was to be enforced upon the company.
If, as we i ink, it clearly was the intention of the act, that
their use of the water should be,-snbject to the mutual agreement of the parties, no legislative provision was necessary.
The parties having authority to make the agreement, they
could make it, in any manner, or under such modifications as
they might think proper.
It is not a well founded objetion to this construction of the
act, that the most apt and appropriate phraseology to convey
this meaning, has not been employed. The great object is,
to ascertain the intention of the legislature ; and there is certainly nothing in the language used, that is replgnant to the
construction we have adopted.
If the right of the appellant to compel the company to make
the agreement, was clearly established, it might be within the
province of a court of chancery, to enforce the consummation
of such agreement, and carry it into effect. But the entire
absence of any proyision looking to compulsory measures, as to

JANUARY TERM 1834.
(Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

the mode nd manner in which the agreement is to be made
or executed, is a very strong, if not conclusive reason to show
that no such right exists; and leads irresistibly to the conclusion, that this is a matter left open for the voluntary arrangement of the parties.
To consider the company bound to enter into such agreemnents with the owners of the adjacent land, the whole extent
of the canal, and liable to be called upon to alter and enlarge
thesame, at the pleasure of such owners; would be imposing
an expense and limitation upon their chartered rights, which
ought not to be adopted, without the most explicit. and unequivocal provision in their charter. And which, we are very
clearly of opinion, is not imposed upon the company in the
present case.
The decree of the court below is accordingly affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, holden in and f6i the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

