44

SAMUEL

SUPREME COURT.

LEE AND

3ARBARA

LEE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V.

ELIZABETH LEE.
The plaintiffs in error filed a petition for freedom in the circuit court of the
United States for the county of Washington, and they proved that they
were born in the state of Virginia, as slaves of Richard B. Lee, now deceased, who moved with his family into the county of Washington in the
district of Columbia about the year 1816, leaving the petitioners residing in
Virginia as his slaves, until the year 1820, when the petitioner Barbara was
removed to the county of Alexandria in the district of Columbia, where she
was hired to Mrs Muir, and continued with her thus hired for the period of
one year. That the petitioner Sam was in like manner removed to the
county of Alexandria, and was hired to general Walter Jones for a period of
about fiv or six months. That after the expiration of the said pleriods of
hiring, the petitioners were removed to the said county of Washington,
where they continued to reside as the slaves of the said Richard B. Lee
until his death, and since as the slaves of his widow, the defendant.
On the part of the defendant in error a preliminary objection was made to the
jurisdiction of this court, growing out of the act of congress of the 2d of
April 1816, which declares that no cause shall be removed from the circuit
court for the district of Columbia to the supreme court by appeal or writ of
error, unless the matter in dispute shall be of the value of one thousand
dollars, or upwards.
By the court. The matder in dispute in this case, is the freedom of the petitioners. The judgment of the court below is against their claims to freedom; the matter in dispute is, therefore, to the plaintiffs in error, the value
of their freedom, and this is not susceptible of a pecuniary valuation. Had
the judgment been in favour of the petitioners, and the writ of error brought
by the party claiming to be the owner, the value of thme slaves as property,
would have been the matter in dispute, and affidavits might be admitted to
ascertain such value. But affidavits, estimating the value of freedom, are
entirely inadmissible; and no doubt is entertained of the jurisdiction of the
court.
The circuit court refused to instruct the jury that if they should believe from
the evidence that the bringing the petitioners from Virginia to Alexandria,
by their owner, and hiring them there, was merely colourable, with intent to
evade the law, that then the petitioners are entitled to their freedom.
By the Maryland law of 1796, it is declared, that it shall not be lawful to import or bring into this state by land or water, any negro, mulatto, or other
slave for sale, or to reside within this state. And any person brought into
this state as a slave, contrary to this act, if a slave before, shall thereupon
cease to be the property of the person so importing, and shall be free.
And by the act of congress of the 27th of February 1801, it is provided, that
the laws of the state of Maryland, as they then existed, should be, and
continue in force in that part of the district, which was ceded by that state
to the United States.

JANUARY TERM. 1834.
[Lee v. Lee.]
The Maryland law of 1796 is, therefore, in force in the county of Washington;
and the petitioners, if brought directly from the state of Virginia into the
county of Washington, would, under the provisions of that law, be entitled
to their freedom.
By the act of congress of the 24th of June 1812, it is declared, " that hereafter it shall be lawful for any inhabitant or inhabitants, in either of the said
counties (Washington and Alexandria), owning and possessing any slave
or slaves therein, to remove the same from one county into the other, and
to exercise, freely and fully, all the rights of property, in and over the said
slave or slaves therein, which would be exercised over him, her or them,
in the county from whence the removal was made."
The court erred in refusing to give the fourth instruction prayed on the part
of the petitioners. All that was asked by this instruction was, to submit to
the jury whether, from the evidence, the bringing of the petitioners from
Virginia to Alexandria, and the hiring them there, was not merely colourable, with intenat to evade the law.
When the intention with which an act is done becomes the subject of inquiry,
it belongs exclusively to the jury to decide.
Whatever is done in fraud of law, is done in violation of it.
The cases of the United States v. Quincy, 6 Peters 466, and the William
King, 2 Peters 153, cited.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington.
This case was argued by Mr Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error ; and by MT Lee and Mr Jones, for the defendant.
In the opinion of the court the facts are fully stated.
Mr Coxe cited, Davis's Collection of the Laws of the District of Columbia 155, act of Congress of May 3, 1802 ; Davis's Collect. 123, act of Congress of 1801 ; Davis's Collect.
265, act of June 1812, sect. 12. These citations referred to
the question of slavery. As to the question of intention being
exclusively for the jury, Mr Coxe cited, 6 Peters 466; 2
Cranch 258, 390; 1 Wheat. 151, 121, 3 Cond. Rep. 462;
2 Wheat. 149, 153.
Mr Lee and Mr Jones referred to the same provisions of the
laws of Maryland and of the United States, as were cited by
the counsel for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr Justice THoMPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The plaintiffs in error presented their petition to the circuit

SUPREME COURT.
[Lee v. LeeJ

court.of the United States for the county of Washington in
the district of Columbia, setting forth, that they are persons of
colour who are entitled to their freedom, and are now held in
a state of slavery by the defendant in error, in the said county
of Washington, contrary to law, and praying process, &c.
The defendant in the court below appeared and pleaded,
that the petitioners are not entitled to their freedom as they
have alleged, and issue being thereupon joined, the cause was
tried by a jury.
Upon the trial, the petitioners proved that they were born
in the state of Virginia, as slaves of Richard B. Lee, now deceased, who moved with his family into the county of Washington in the district of Columbia about the year 1816, leaving
the petitioners residing in Virginia as his slaves, until the year
1820, when the petitioner Barbara was removed to the county
of Alexandria in the district of Columbia, where she was hired
to Mrs Muir, and continued with her thus hired for the period
of one year. That the petitioner Sam was in like manner
removLd to the county of Alexandria, and was hired to general
Waiter Jones for a period of about five or six months. That
after the expiration of the said periods of hiring, the petitioners
were removed to the said county of Washington, where they
continued to reside as the slaves of the said Richard B. Lee
until his death, and since as the slaves of his widow, the defendant.
Upon which evidence the petitioners' counsel prayed the
court to give to the jury the following instructions.
1. If the jury shall believe from the evidence aforesaid that
the said petitioners, or either of them, were slaves born in Virginia, and that Mr Lee, their master, removed from Virginia in
1817 with his family to the county of Washington, 'and left
said petitioners residing in Virginia; and subsequently to the
year 1820 the petitioners, or either of them, were removed
from Virginia directly to the county of Washington, they would
be entitled to their freedom in the present suit.
2. If the jury shall believe from the said evidence that. the
petitioners, or either of them, were originally brought by their
master, an inhabitant, and citizen of Washington county in
this district, from Virginia to Alexandria county, and thence to
Washiijgton county; they are also entitled to their, his, or her

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lee v. Lee.]

freedom, unless the jury shall also believe from the evidence
aforesaid, that the residence in Alexandria county, was not
merely transitory, but was bona fide and permanent.
The court gave the first instruction as prayed, but refused
to give the second in the form asked, and in lieu thereof gave
the following.
3. Tha, if the petitioners were bona fide hired to persons
residing in Alexandria, and served their regular terms of hire
there, the petitioner Barbara for a year or more, and the petitioner Sam from three to six months, and upon the expiration
of their respective terms of hire, were brought from Alexandria
to Washington; such hiring and residence in Alexandria constituted a residence sufficiently permanent to authorise such
.removal. That such removal from Alexandria to Washington,
upon the expiration of such terms of hire, does not infer such
preconceived intent to bring them from Virginia to Washington, as to render their intermediate residence in Alexandria
merely transitory and mala fide, and their subsequent removal
thence to Washington equivalent to a removal direct from
Virginia to Washington.
The petitioners' counsel then prayed the court to instruct
the jury,
4. That if they shall believe from the evidence aforesaid,
that the bringing the petitioners from Virginia to Alexandria,
by their owner, and hiring them there, was merely colourable,
with intent to evade the law, that then the petitioners are entitled
to their freedom.
The court refused to give this instruction, being of opinion,
that there was no evidence in the case tending to prove, that
the bringing of the petitioners from Virginia to Alexandria
and hiring them there, was merely colourable, and with intent
to evade the law. A further instruction was prayed by the
petitioners' counsel, and refused by the court, but which it is
unnecessary here particularly to notice.
To these several refusals a bill of exceptions was duly taken.
A verdict and judgment were thereupon rendered for the defendant; and the cause comes here upon a writ of error.
On the part of the defendant in error a preliminaU objection
has been made to the jurisdiction of this court, growing out of
the act of congress of the 2d of April 1816 (Davis's Col. 305),

SUPREME COURT.
[Lee v. Lee.]

which declares that no cause shall be removed from the circuit
court for the district of Columbia to the supreme court, by
appeal or writ of error; unless the matter in dispute shall be of
the value of one thousand dollars, or upwards.
The matter in dispute in this case, is the freedom of the petitioners. The judgment of the court below is against their
claims to freedom ; the matter in dispute is, therefore, to the
plaintiff in error, the value of their freedom, and this is not
susceptible of a pecuniary valuation. Had the judgment been
in favour of he petitioners, and the writ of error brought by
the party claiming to be the owner, the value of the slaves as
property, would have been the matter in dispute, and affidavits
might be admitted to ascertain such value. But affidavits,
estimating the value of freedom, are entirely inadmissible; and
we entertain no doubt of the jurisdiction of the court.
The questions on the merits of the case arise upon the refusal
of the court to give the instructions prayed on the Part of the
petitioners.
By the Maryland law of 1796 (Herty's Dig. 384), it is declared, that it shall not be lawful to import or bring into this
stateby land or water, any negro, mulatto, or other slave, for
sale, or to reside within this state. And any person brought
into this state as a slave, contrary to this act, if a slave before,
shall thereupon cease to be the property of the person so importing, and shall b,; free.
And by the act (f congress of the 27th of February 1801
(Davis's Col. 123), it is provided, that the laws of the state of
Maryland, as they then existed, should be, and continue in
force in that part of the district, which was ceded by that
state to the United States.
The Maryland law of 1796 is, thelefore, in force in the
county of Washington; and the petitioners, if brought directly
from the state of Virginia into the county of Washington, would,
under the provisions of that law, be entitled to their freedom.
This has not been denied on the part of the defendant in error,
and indeed, is fully recognized by the court below in the first
instruction given to the jury. And the question turns upon the
refusal of the court to give the instructions prayed, in relation
to the hiring of the petitioners in the county of Alexandria, before being brought into the county of Washington.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lee v. Lee.]

By the act of congress of the 24th of June 1812 (Davis's Co.
265, sec..9), it is declared, "that hereafter, it shall be lawful
for any inhabitant or inhabitants, in either of the said counties
(Washington and Alexandria), owning and possessing any
slave or slaves therein, to remove the same from one county
into-the other, and to exercise, freely and fully, all the rights
of property, in and ovei the said slave or slaves therein, which
would be exercised over him, her, or them, in the county fionr
whence the removal was made."
Upon the construction to be given to this act, a difference oi
opinion is entertained by the judges. Some are of opinion,
that to bring a case within this act of 1812, the slave must
continue in the actual possession of the owner, being an inhabitant of one of the counties, in order to make the removal into
the other county lawful. They give a limited and literal construction to the words owning and possessing. And that the
hiting in Alexandia, did not so change the situation of the
petitioners, as to prevent their removal from Virginia being
considered a direct removal into the county of Washington;
arid which of course made them free, under the act of 1796.
The other judges are of opinion, that actual possession by
the owner, in his own family, is not necessary. But that a
hiring out, bona fide, and without intention to evade the act of
1,796; would so interrupt the continuity of the removal, as to
take the case out of the act, and make the subsequent removal
into the county of Washington lawful. That this law (1812),
for the purpose of authorising the removal of slaves from one,
counrty into the other, considers the district composed of, the
two counties as entire: and gives the owner the full exercise
of all his rights of property, over his slave in each county; i
the same manner as if the district was not divided into two
counties.
We think, however, the court erred in refusing to give the
fourth instruction prayed on the part of the petitioners.
All that was asked by this instruction was, to submit to the
jury, whether, from the evidence, the bringing of the petitioners from Virginia to Alexandria, and the hiring them there,
was not merely colourable, with intent to evade the law.
The court had instructed the jury that a rernove of the
petitioners direct from Virginia to the county 6f Washington,
VOL. VIII.-G

SUPREME COURT.
[Lee v. Lee.]

would have entitled them to their freedom. The object and
purpose of the hiring in Alexandria, would seem necessarily to
have been open to inquiry. And if open at all, it was matter
of fact, consisting of circumstances, from which an inference
was to be drawn; and this properly belonged to the jury. The
court was not requested to instruct the jury as to the sufficiency
of the evidence to justify the conclusion sought to be drawn
from it; or to express any opinion as to the weight of the evidence. If, in the opinion of the court, the verdict of the jury
should be found against the evidence, the proper correction,
if at all to be applied by the court, would be by granting a
new trial. But the refusal to give the instruction prayed, was
taking from the jury the right of judging upon the intent. If
intention was at all open for inquiry, it was certainly matter for
the jury.
In the case of the United States v. Quincy (6 Peters 466),
this court said, that when the intention with which an act is
done, becomes a subject of inquiry, it belongs exclusively to
the jury to decide. And in the case of the William King (2
Wheaton 148, 4 Cond Rep. 71), it is laid down as a general
rule, that whatever is done in fraud of a law, is done in violation of it. That if a vessel, with an original intention to go to
a foreign port, complied with the requisition necessary to obtain
a clearance on a voyage coastwise ; this is but the device, by
which she eludes the force that would otherwise have prevented her departute from the, port.
These are principles which have a direct bearing upon the
present question. If the original intention of the owners of the
slaves was to bring them into the county of Washington, the
hiring of them in Alexandria might have been thought by the
jury a device to evade the law of 1796.
It can hardly be said that such a conclusion would have
been entirely without colour. The owner of these slaves resided in the county of Washington, and no reason is assigned
for their remaining a short time in Alexandria, or why they
were not wanted in Washington county, as much before, as
after the hiring in Alexandria. Suppose the hiring had been
for one week, or one day, would any one doubt, that it would
have been done with a view to take the case out of the law of
1796, and would have been a fraud upon the law ? And who in

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lee V. Lee.]

such a case would judge-of the intention ? The court, or the
jury ? The answer cannot admit of a doubt.
The time of hiring in the present case, lessens the weight
of the evidence, but does not transfer the weight of deciding
upon it, from the jury to the court.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly reversed,
and the cause sent back with directions to issue a venire de
novo.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of- the United States, for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and Was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.

