SUPREME COURT.

TiE UNITED STATES, APPELLA NTS V. FRANCES RICHARD.
Confirmation of a grant of land by governor Coppinger made in Juno 1817.
The grant was made to the appellee on his stating his intention to build a saw
mill.
The decree grants to the petitioner, "license to construct a water saw mill,
on the creek known by the name of Pottsburg, bounded by the lands of
Strawberry Hill, and this tract not being sufficient, I grant him the equivalent quantity in Cedar Swamp about a mile east of M'Queen's mill, but
with the precise condition, that, as long as he-does not erect said machinery,
this grant will be considered null and without value nor effect, until that
event takes place ; and then, in order that he may not receive any prejudice from the expensive expenditures which he is preparing, he will have
the faculty of using the pines and other trees comprehended, in the square
of five miles, or the equivalent thereof, which five miles are granted to him
in the mentioned place, the avails of which he will enjoy without any defalcation whatever."
By the court: The judge of the superior court construed this concession to be
a grant of land, and we concur with him.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
The case was argued by Mr Call, for the United States; and
by Mr White, for the appellee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This claim is founded on a concession made to the appellee
in June 1817 by governor Coppinger, of sixteen thousand acres
of land, lying in two places, designated in the petition and
concession. The surveys were made in 1824. These surveys
were laid before the register and receiver, whose report was
unfavourable to the title. The appellee, believing it to be well
founded, presented a petition to the judge of the district, praying an examination of his title, and that it be confirmed.
The attorney for the United States, in addition to his general
objection to the want of power in the governor, contends, that
his decree grants permission to cut timber, but does not convey
the land itself, and that the condition of the grant has not been

performed.

The proof is complete, that the nill, the building

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Richard.]

of which was the consideration of the concession, was commenced in 1818, was in full operati6n in 1820, and has been
kept up ever since. The. material question is, whether the land
itself, or the privilege of cutting timber, was conceded. Fot
this purpose the petition and concession are to be examined.
Don Francisco Richard, after stating in his petition his intention tobuild a water saw mill, proceeds, "and as for that purpose
a fit situation is nece.ary, sVch as is offered on Pottsburg creek,
bounded by the lands of :Strawberry Hill, and the mentioned
tract not being sufficient for'the indicated objects, he requests
that the quantity equivalent to the object of his petition, be
granted to him, about one mile distant, east of M'Queen's mill,
in order to get cypress for timber; therefore he supplicates your
excellency submissively, to grant him your superior license, and
the expressed tract of five miles of land for the purposes he
proposes to himself, in order that, what he solicits being granted,
he may, with all possible brevity, commence this advantageous
work, nd in order that he may have in the said tract the
necessary timber."
The decree grants to the petitioner, "license to construct a
water saw mill, on the creek known by the name of Pottsburg,
bounded. by the lands of Strawberry Hill, and this tract not
being sufficient, I grant him the equivalent quantity in Cedar
Swamp, about a mile east of M Queen's mill, but with the precise condition, that as long as he does not erect said machinery,
this grant will be considered null, and without value nor effect,
until that event takes place ; and then, in order that he may
not receive any prejudice from the expensive expenditures
which he i3 preparing, he will have the faculty of using the
pines and other trees comprehended in the square of five miles,
or the equivalent thereof, which five miles are granted to him
in the mentioned place, the avails of which he will enjoy
without any defalcation whatever."
This translation was made by order of the court, by the
translator.
.Another translation was made, also by order of the court, by
the keeper of the public archives. The difference between
them is unimportant. In the last, the petitioner, after stating
his object; respectfully prays, that "your excellency will grant
him his superior permission, and -also five miles square of land

SUPREME COURT.
[United States V.Richard.]

that he may possess thereon th necessary timber for the purposes aforesaid."
The decree grants the permission ,to build the mill on the
lands adjoining Strawberrry Hill, and adds, " if there be not
sufficient lands, the deficiency (to the amount granted), on
Cedar Swamp.": The condition of the grant is then stated
nearly as in the preceding translation.
The petitioner asks permission to build the mill and a grant
of land usually annexed to such permission. It is plainly to be
inferred from these documents, that this quantity was five miles

square. The same fact is collected from other similar grants.
The doubt is, whether the land itself, or only the timber growing on it, is asked and conceded.
The petitioner, in the first translation, says, " that the mentioned tract" (on Pottsburg creek), "not being sufficient for
the indicated objects" (that is, not amounting to five miles
square), "he requests that the quantity equivalent to the object of his petition, be granted to him in Cedar Swamp. He
supplicates his excellency " to grant him his license, and the
expressed tract of five miles of land."
The application is obviously for land, not merely for the
timber growing oh it.
The concession is loosely worded, but is understood to allude
to land. After granting permission to build a mill on the
place designated, the governor adds, "and this tract not being
sufficient," plainly indicating the tract on which the mill was
to be constructed, " I grant him the equivalent quantity in
Cedar Swamp." The word "tract" means ind, not timber,
an& the words "equivalent quantity" refer to the antecedent
word "tract," and consequently also mean land. After
stating the Condition of the grant, he adds, "which five miles
are granted to him in the mentioned place."
This construction is strengthened-by the express permission
to take timber while he is erecting the mill, for the purpose of

executing the work. While the grant of the tract is of no
effect, he is permitted to use the timber on it. The grant of
the tract, which depends on building the mill, was obviously
supposed- to pass something more than was passed by the permission to cut timber until it should have effect.
it is difficult to conceive any motive for granting the timber

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Richard.]

and withholding the land. That could not be granted to, or
used by another, while the right to the timber existed. It is
not to be believed that the government wished to restrain the
grantee from cultivating a part of it.
The judge of the superior court construed this concession to
be a grant of land, and we concur with him in this construction.
But the surveys laid before the court, were for a larger quantity of land than is expressed in the concession. That made
on Pottsburg creek, which was intended for fourteen thousand
four hundred acres, actually contains seventeen thousand six
hundred and ten, being three thousand two hundred and
ten more than was designed. This difference is accounted
for, by the fact, that it includes other tracts previously
appropriated, and a quantity of land covered with water.
The superior court for the district has very properly, in its
opinion, disallowed this excess, so far as respects the land covered with water. But after having adjudged the claim to be
valid, "it confirmed and decreed the same to the said claimant,
to the extent, and agreeably to the boundaries, as in the grant
for the said land, and as in the surveys thereof, made by Andrew Burgevin ; provided said 'surveys do not include a greater
quantityof land than sixteen thousand acres." But the surveys
do include a greater quantity, as the petitioner himself states
in his petition. This conditional confirmation of the larger
survey, according to the exterior boundaries as described in the
plat, when the petitioner is confessedly not entitled to all the
vacant land lying within those boundaries, is, we think, not to
be sustained.
This court is of opinion, that there is no error in so much of
the decree of the superior court for the district of East Florida,
made in this case, as declares thb claim to be valid, and as confirfis the title of the petitioner to the land described in the
second survey mentioned in the said decree, containing sixteen
hundred acres, made the 26th of November 1824, and doth'
affirm so much thereof. But this court is of opinion, that there
is error in so much of the said decree as confirms the title of the
petitioner to the land described in the first survey, made on the
1st day of November 1824, because the said survey is admitted
by the petitioner to contain more than fourteen thousand fot
hundred acres ofland not previously granted. This court doth,
VOL, v.-3
X

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Richard.]

therefore, reverse so much of the said decree as confirms the
title of the petitioner to the land contained in the said survey,
according to the exterior boundaries in the said decree described,
and doth remand the'cause to the said superior court, with directions to conform its decree to the decree of this court, by
ordering the said tract to be so surveyed as to contain fourteen
thousand four hundred acres of land not previously granted,
and no more.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the superior court for the eastern district of Florida,
and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, this
court is of opinion, that there is no error in so'much of the decree of the superior court for the district of East Florida, made
in this case, as declares to be valid, and as confirms the title of
the petitioner to the land described in the second survey mentioned in the said decree, containing sixteen hundred acres,
made the 26th, of November 1824 ; and doth affirm so much
thereof. But this court is of opinion, that there is error in so
much of the said decree, as confirms the title of the petitioner
to the land described in the first survey, made on the 1st day
of November 1824, because the said survey is admitted by the
petitioner, to contain more than fourteen thousand four hundred acres of land not previously granted. This court doth,
therefore, reverse so much of the said decree. as confirms the
title of the petitioner to the land contained in the said survey,
according to the exterior boundaries in the said decree described ; and doth remand the cause to the said superior court, with
directions to conform its decree to the decree of this court, by
ordering the said tract to be so surveyed, as to contain fourteen
thousand four hundred acres of land not previously granted,
and no more.

