SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM C.

HOLT AND WIFE, APPELLANTS V.

THOMAS

AND

EDMUND ROGERS.
Construction of a contract for the sale of a tract of land.
R. executed a bond to D. conditioned, that he would make him a fair and indisputable title to a certain tract of land, on or before the 1st of January
1795; and if no conveyance was then made, that R. Would stand indebted
to D., in a certain sum of money, being the sum acknowledged to be paid
to R. at the time of the contract.
By the court: No other just interpretation can, under the circumstances, be
put upon this language, than thatthe parties intended, that R. should perfect
his title to the land by a patent, and should make a conveyance of an indisputable title to D., on or before the 1st of January 1795 ; and if not then
made, the contract of sale was to be deemed rescinded, and the forty-five
pounds purchase money was to be repaid to D.
In 1799 the heir of the vendor, he having died, (btained a complete title to
the land by patent, and the vendee did not die uatil seven years afterwards.
After his death, in 1806, no step was taken by his heirs or devisees, for the
purpose of asserting any claim to a performance of the contract for the sale
of the land, until 1819; and no suit was commenced, until 1823. In the
mean time, the property has materially risen in value, from the general
improvement and settlement of the country.
By the -court: The objection from the lapse of time, is -decisive.' Courts of
equity are not in the habit of entertaining bills for a specific performance,
after a considerable lapse of time, unless upon very special circumstances.
Even where-time is not of the essence of the contract, they will not interfere, where there have been long delay and laches on the part of the party
seeking a specific performance. And especially will they not interfere,
where there has, in the mean time, been a great change of circumstances,
and new interests have intervened. In the present case, the bill is brought
after a lapse of twenty-nine years.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Tennessee.
The case, as stated in the opinion of the Court, was as follows.
The suit was brought in February 1823, for a specific performance of a contract, made in January 1704, for the sale of
land, under the following circumstances. On the 6h of January 1794, John Rogers, of Virginia, executed his bond to
James Dickinson, of the-same state, in the penal sum of two
thousand pounds, upon condition, after reciting that Rogers had
on that day sold to Dickinson a tract of lbnd lying in Ken-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.1

tucky, containing about twelve hundred acres, for one hundred and twenty pounds, that if Rogers, his heirs or assigns,
shall make, or cause to be made to Dickinson, or his assigns,;
a good and lawful deed for the land, when required, then the
obligation to be void. On the same day, Dickinson executed
to Rogers a counter bond, iii the penal sum of two hundred and
forty pounds, upon condition, after reciting the sale of the same
land to Dickinson, and the receipt byRogersof forty-five pounds,
part o f the consideration money, "that if Rogers shall, on or
before the 1st day of January 1795, make a fair and indisputable
title in fee simple to Dickinson, &c. of the said tract or parcel of
land, and Dickinson, after that conveyance being made, shall
pay to Rogers the further sum of seventy-five pounds lawful
money; but if no such conveyance of said land shall be made,
then the said Rogers stands indebted to the said Dickinson in
the sum of forty-five pounds already advanced as mentioned
aforesaid, then this obligation to be void, or else to remain in
full force and virtue." At the time of this contract of-sale,
Rogers had no patent for the land ; but only a plat and certificate of survey of it upon a military warrant. Rogers died
in April 1794, without children, unmarried and intestate,
leaving his father, George Rogers, his heir at law, who then
lived in Virginia, and afterwards died there in March .1802,
having, by his last will, devised the land in controversy, of
which he had obtained a patent in 1799, to his two sons, Edmund Rogers and Thomas Rogers (the defendants), and to
his four daughters, to each of them one sixth part; and constituted his said sons trustees for his four daughters during their
lives, and afterwards for their children respectively in fee, with
power to sell the same, &c. He also appointed his two sons
executors of his will.
Dickinson continued to reside in Virginia until his death, in
1806; and by his last will, he devised his estate to his wife
Mary Diokinson, under whom the plaintiff, Ann Holt, claimo,
as her daughter and sole heiress at law, the land in controversy.
The suit is brought against the defendants, Edmund and
Thomas Rogers, without making the four daughters, or any
of them or their representatives, parties.
The circuit court dismissed the bill of the complainants, and
they prosecuted this appeal.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

The case was submitted to the court on printed arguments,
by Mr Bibb, for the appellants; and by Mr Tompkins, for the
appellees.
The argument for the appellants stated, that the defendants,
by their answers, exhibit the obligation from Dickinson to
Rogers, above recited, and rely on two defences:
1st. " That the obligation from Rogers to Dickinson, and
from Dickinson to Rogers taken together, leaves it entirely optional with said Rogers whether he would convey the land or
not: and if he did not convey it, he was then bound to pay
forty-five pounds."
2dly. Length of time.
Upon hearing, the circuit court dismissed the bill.
As to the first defence set up by the defendants, the counsel
for complainant believes it is not tenable.
Rogers bound himself, absolutely and unconditionally to
convey the land to Dickinson, at no fixed day, but "when required." The bond of Rogers to Dickinson recites the transaction as a sale, not as a security for money lent. Tile penalty
is two thousand pounds, evidently intended to enforce a conveyance. The bond friom Dickinson to Rogers is in the penalty
of two hundred and forty pounls ; the condition recites the
transaction as a sale of the land for one hundred and twenty
pounds, and the payment of forty-five pounds thereof. It is an
obligation upon Dickinson to pay the residue of the purchase
money on or before the 1st day of January. 1795 ; and thereis annexed thereto, as a precedent condition to be performed
by Rogers, " the conveyance of a fair and indisputable title
in fee simple." "Aftei that conveyance being made," Dickinson was to pay the residue of the price. If the conveyance
was made before the 1st January 1795, yet Dickinson was not
bound to pay the balance until that day.
Dickinson held Rogers's obligation to convey "when required." But Dickinson had paid part only of the price. And
the residue, seventy-ive pounds, was not to be paid until the
1st of January 1795; and not then, unless the conveyance of
the land should be then completed: Dickinson was to be secure
by a conveyance, before he was bound to pay the balance of
the. purchase money. Accordingly, Dickinson executed his

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

bond to pay the residue of the purchase money on the 1st
January 1795, subject, however, to the condition that a conveyance of the land to Dickinson should precede. the payment
of the seventy-five pounds to Rogers. Rogers could not demand the seventy-five pounds before the 1st of January 1795,
nor then, unless he conveyed the land. And although he
might not be able then to give a fair and indisputable*title, yet,
"after that conveyance being made," Dickinson was bound
to pay the farther sum of seventy-five pounds to save the
penalty of his obligation to Rogers. This seems .tobe the fair
meaning of the condition of Dickinson's bond to Rogers.
'Dickinson's evidence of the contract obliged Rogers to convey the land, but no time was limited; Rogers had his whole
life,. unless hastened by request, But the bond -held by Rogers
on Dickinson concurred with the bond held by Dickinson in
reciting a sale of the land ; and assisted to hasten Rogers to
convey, because lie was not entitled to receive tie residue of
the purchase money until he did convey.
But, according to the defence set up, Dickinson had no right
to demand the conveyance; Rogers was not bound to convey;
and Dickinson was at his mercy. Rogers might refuse a conveyance, and Dickinson, having paid forty-five, pounds for the
land, had no evidence in his possession of his right to recover
back that sum so paid. Rogers held the evidence of his right
to refuse a conveyance, as well as-the evidence of Dickinson's
right to forty-five pounds, in his own possession, in a bond upon
which Rogers could maintain a suit, but upon which Dickinson
could not. According to this construction, Dickinson held a
bond on Rogers for two thousand pounds, with condition, reciting the sale of a tract of land, and obliging him to convey;
and upon such conveyance made then, this obligation to be
void; but Rogers held a paper which likewise recited the -le
of the land, and his obligation to convey, but superadded this
farther condition to this same bond: "but if no such conveyance qf said land shall be made," "then this obligation to be
void."
A bond for one hundred pounds, with condition that if the
obligor did not pay fifty pounds by a given day, the bond to be
void, was adjudged to be a repugnant condition, and that the
bond was obligatory. Wells v. Ferguson, 2 Salk. 463.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

The court will not construe two deeds, both of which recite
a sale of land, and a contract for a conveyance, in such manner as to make the one repugnant to the other, and avoid the
obligation to convey; when both may well stand together
without contradiction, and each have its appropriate effect and
use in affirmance of the sale, and enforcing the stipulations of
each party.
On its face, the obligation to Dickinson is plain and unequivocal. It is ad obligation for the conveyance according
to the: recited sale of a tract of land. It is free from doubt,
and needs no construction. Shall this unequivocal obligation
be destroyed by construction of another obligation which recites the same sale, the obligation to-convey, the receipt of
forty-five pounds in part- payment for the land, and by an obligation upon the purchaser to pay the residue of the purchase
money to the vendor, after conveyance made, in pursuance of
the sale . Both obligations can well stand together, and each
have its appmpriate use. The first to oblige the vendor to
convey ; the second to oblige the purchaser, after sucl conveyance, to pay the residue of the purchase money, part
thereof having been paid.
It seems that Rogers had no option to refuse to. convey,
after he or his heirs should obtain a fair title, which the purchaser was willing to accept. But, if Rogers could not have
obtained a fair title, clear of dispute, whereby Dickinson refused to accept the title, then Rogers would have been liable
to refund the money which he had received. Inability for
want of title, and wilful refusal to convey with a title, are very
different breaches in their nature and their consequences.
2d. As to the length of time.
It is to be remembered that this is not a case of adverse
hostile possession. It is a suit by the obligee against the heirs
and executors of the obligor. The obligor and his heirs and executors, as goon as the title was petfected, held the land in trust,
to be conveyed in satisfaction of the contract withThe ancestor.
There is no statute of limitation to suits on bonds, to operate
as a legal bar. But the defence at law, from length of time,
is founded on presumption of payment. After twenty years,
where no demand has been made, and no interest has been
paid during that time, a jury may presume payment or satis-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

faction; but the rule as to twenty years is not, in itself, a
legal bar. It is a circumstance for the jury to found a presumption upon. The lapse of a shorter time, aided by other
circumstances, as that the parties lived near to each other,
frequently saw each other, settled other accounts, &c., may
be the foundation of a presumption of payment. So circumstances may repel the presumption. See Oswell's Executors
v. Legh, I Term Reports 271.
Presumption of payment from lapse of time is a reasonable
rule, and may be rebutted by any facts which destroy the reason of the rule. Dunlop v. Ball, 2 Cranch 184, 1 Peters's Cond.
Rep. 383. In that case, the bond was executed in 1783, not
sued upon until 1802, after a lapse of twenty-nine years. Yet
the presumption of payment was repelled. The breaking out
of the war in 1775; its continuance until September 1783; the
exceptions of certain periods of time from the statute of limitations by the laws of Virginia; the obstructions to recovery of the
British debts until 1793; were the circumstances relied on to
repel the presumption of payment, notwithstanding the lapse
of twenty-nine years, without demand, or payment of interest.
The rule adopted by the supreme court of the United States
was, thart twenty years must have elapsed, exclusive of the
plaintiff's disability ; and therefore reversed the opinion of the
circuit court, which did not recognise the circumstances in
this case which oppose the presumption, which would have
arisen from the length of time which has elapsed since the
date of the bond. See this same case. 1 Peters's Cond. Rep.
383. In Boltz and Kilker v. Buliman, 1 Yeates 585, the
presumption from length of time was repelled, because,
"where the limitation act does not apply, that period shall
not be computed in judging of the legal presumption of payment ;" also that " the bond was in possession of the widow,
soon after the death of her first husband, until the death of
her second husband," was a consideration to repel the presumption. In Newman v. Newman, (1 Starkie's Rep. 81)
the presumption was rebutted by absence abroad. In Goldhawk v. Duane, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 324, the court adjudged
that the residence of the parties in different countries, was a
circumstance to repel presumption of payment.
VOL. V1iJ.-3 D

SUPREME COURT.
[IHolt and Wife v. Rogers.]

The rule in chancery is .the same as at law: after twenty
years, and no interest paid during that time, payment is presumed,, "unless something appears to answer that length of
tine." Humphreys v. Humphreys, 3 P. Wins 397."
In Giles v. Barmore, 5 John. Ch. Cases 545, the chancellor
declares, presumption, from length of time, prevails in equity
as at law. A court of equity makes the presumption on the
facts before it, as a jury would be authorized to do if the evidence was submitted to them.
Having sufficiently established that the rule in equity and
at law is the same; that the presumption from length of time
is a reasonable rule, and may be rebutted by circumstances;
and having cited examples of rebutting circumstances : the attention of the court is called to the rebutting circumstances
which in this case appear fully sufficient to answer and repel
the presumption from lapse of time.
This bond bears date 6th January 1794. The obligor,
John Rogers, died in April 1794, in less than four months after
the date of the contract. The obligor, Dickinson, lived in
Richmond: the heir of Rogers lived in Caroline, fifty miles
off: George Rogers the heir of John, the obligor, died in
Caroline county in 1802, and devised his lands to his two sons
Edmund and Thomas, his executors: his death was in about
eight years after the date of the contract. At the time of,
and before, and ever after, the death of George Rogers, the
father and heir of the obligor John, one of his devisees, Edmund, was a citizen of Kentucky, continually residing there.
The devise of the Kentucky lanDsl was to these two sons, and

to the survivor; so that Dickinsoi. .iust have gone to Kentucky
to obtain the title. The patent did not issue until the 7th
March 1799. The land was in Kentucky; the patent issued in
Kentucky to the heiv of John Rogers; that heir died in March
1802, in three years after the issuing of the grant from the
state. - But this patent, although for the same tract sold and
described in John Rogers's bond, yet issued to William Marshall
for one hundred acres, and to George Rogers for the residue
jointly. But this interest of Marshall was not partitioned until
the year 1815. At that time, the defendants were both residents of Kentucky. Dickinson had died in Norfolk, Virginia.
Edmund, as before stated, had resided there since 1783.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
(Holt and Wife.v. Rogers.]

In 1819, only four years after the defendants had ability to
convey the land, the complainants pursued their claim, and
again in May 1829; again in August 1820; and finally, by
suit, in February 1823. But between the date of the bond in
1794, and the removal of Thomas Rogers to Kentucky in 1811,
a period short of eighteen years had elapsed; and both parties
then lived in different states-the legal representative of Dickinson in Norfolk, Viiginia; the legal representatives of John
Rogers, in Barren county, Kentucky. No presumption of
payment or satisfaction had then arisen, and the removal to
Kentucky was by the defendant ; the period after 1811 till suit,
must be excepted from the twenty years, according to the cases
before cited of Dunlop v. Ball, 2 Cranch 184, 2 Cond. Rep.
383; Goldhawk v. Duane, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 324; Newman
v. Newman, I Starkie 81. When Thomas Rogers, the defendant, devisee and executor, was about to remove in 1811, from
Caroline county, Virginia, to Kentucky, he, for safety, as he
says, then caused the bond of Dickinson to Rogers to be recorded in Caroline county court. This shows that when this
defendant was departing for Kentucky, he was sensible that
this transaction was not settled, satisfied, or extinguished.
As the obligor, John Rogers, died in less than four months
after the date of the obligation, no presumption of payment or
satisfaction can arise as having been made by John Rogers.
None is pretended. The defendantst are possessed of the papers
of John R ogers, and exhibit a receipted account paid by him
to Dickinson the day before the bond for conveyance of the land
bears date. And also produce Dickinson's bond for the balance of purchase money. No loss of papers is pretended.
The contract was on the 6th January 1794, touching the conveyance of a tract of land in Kentucky) then unpatented.
John Rogers undertook for himself and his heirs and executors
and administrators, to obtain the patent and make the conveyance to Dickinson, his heirs, or assigns. The patent was
never obtained until 1799, and then William Marshall was a
tenant of one hundred acres of the survey ; by the act of Edmund Rogers, the surveyor, brother, and finally one of the
executors, devisees, and claimants, under the said obligor, and
that interest not separated until 1815.
During all this ime, George Rogers, the heir of John, and

SUPREME. COURT.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

the executors and devisees of the-heir, were in possession of the
contract, fully apprised of it-bound to do the first acts, by
procuring the title, and tendering a conveyance; and yet never
did do the first act towards fulfilling the contract. No satisfaction is pretended. The heirs at law of John Rogers and
his representatives never lived in the neighbourhood of Dickinson, or his representatives; never, at any time, did they live
nearer than fifty miles, and for a great part of the time much
further apart' and before twenty 'years had run, and before
the. defendants were ready to convey, they were in the state of
Kentucky, in Barren county, and the representatives of Dickinson in Norfolk, Virginia.
These circumstances are fully sufficient at law and in equity
.o rebut the presumption from lapse of time. It is manifest
that no satisfaction in land or money has ever been made to
Dickinson, or his representatives, by the obligor or his representatives.
Rogers was bound to do the first acts : to acquire the patent
and a fair title, and to tender a conveyance. They took until
1815 to place themselves in a posture to convey a fair and undisputed title. Within due time thereafter the complainants
pursued their rights. The defendants now would take advantage of their own laches to defeat the complainants !
The counsel for the appellants insists, therefore, that the decree of dismissal was erroneous, in this1st. That the complainants were entitled to a conveyance of
so much of the land as had not been alienated by the defendants
before suit brought; and for satisfaction in money for the part
"onveyed away. •
2d. If the court would not decree the land, yet they ought
to have decreed that the sum of forty-five pounds, with intere3t,
should be refunded.
3d. That the decree of aboolute dismissal was erroneous:
it should have been without prejudice to a suit at law upon the
bond.
Mr Tompkins, for the appellees. On the 6th day of January
1794, John Rogers executed his bond in the penalty of two
hundred pounds, with condition, to convey to James Dickinson
a survey of twelve hundred acres of land on Drake's Creek,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

in Kentucky, when required, for the consideration of one hundred and twenty pounds ; part of which (forty-fiye pounds) is
stated in the condition of the obligation to have been paid.
At the.same time, James Dickinson executed his bond to
John Rogers in the penalty of two hundred and forty pounds,
with a condition annexed, reciting his purchase of the land
and the stipulated consideration, and that forty-five pounds,
part thereof, had been paid, and binding himself to pay seventyfive pounds, the residue of the price, on the making of the conveyance ; but providing, that if the title should not be made
on or before the 1st day of January 1795, the obligation should
be void, and Rogers should stand indebted to Dickinson in the
sum of forty-five pounds, the money advanced. Both these
instruments bear the same date, and are attested by the same
witnesses.
John Rogers afterwards died at the Eagle tavern, then kept
by Dickinson, in Richmond, in April 1794, without children,
unmarried and intestate.
George Rogers, the father and heir at law of John Rogers,
had many years resided, andstill continued to reside in Caroline county, Virginia, until some time in March 1802; when"he
departed this life, having first duly made-his last will and testament, whereby, among other property, he devised the land
in contest to the defendants, Thomas and Edmund Rogers
and his four daughters, to each one equal sixth part; but
Thomhs and Edmund Rogers are constituted trustees for the
four daughters during their lives, and afterwards for their
children respectively in fee, with power to sell, &c. They
are also appointed executors by the testator,
James Dickinson removed from Richmond to Norfolk, where
he continued to reside until his death, in 1806.
Edmund Rogers removed from Virginia to Kentucky in
1783, and never qualified as executor to his- father's will.
Thomas Rogers removed to the same state. in 1811, having
resided in Caroline county, Virginia, up to that time.
This suit is prosecuted by William C. Holt and Ann his wife,
(the said Ann claiming to be heir at law of Mary Dickinson,
who is alleged to be the devisee of James Dickinson) against
Edmund Rogers and Thomas Rogers only, as the devisees of
George Rogers, the father and heir at law of John Rogers,

SUPREME COURT.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

deceased. The complainants pray for a decree, compelling
Thomas and Edmund Rogers to convey to them the tract of
land described in the instruments of writing executed by John
Rogers and James Dickinson. This statement comprises the
material facts of the case.
Waiving, for the present, all objections for the want of parties, it is, on the part of the defendants, contended, that the
complainants have shown no right to relief. The two instruments of writing, simultaneously executed, and forming but
one entire contract, should be construed together; and thus
considered, the plain meaning of the parties is, that the transaction was to be considered a sale of the land in case a conveyance of the title should be made by the time stipulated,
but not otherwise. In the event of a failure to convey within
that time, Rogers was to. repay the moiney received, or rather
to discharge the debt which had previously accrued, and
Dickinson's bond for the residue of the sum of one hundred
and twenty pounds was to be void. Such are the express
terms of that part of the contract which was subscribed'by
Dickinson. The lapse of time is relied on by the defendants
in bar of the complainants' demand, if they ever had any.
Dickinson resided in the neighbourhood of John Rogers, and
his legal representatives, about twelve years after the execution of the contract; during all which time he seems to have
Thomas Rogers, the
made no complaint of its violation.
only acting executor of his father's will, did not remove to
Kentucky until five years after the death-of Dickinson; and
still there was no demand made on him, either for the conveyance of the land or the payment of the money. "It was not
until the latter part of the year 1819, that any claim whatever
was' even suggested against the devisees of George Rogers,
deceased; and almost thirty years had elapsed between the
time of the alleged violation of the contract and the commencement of this suit. It is presumable, that Dickinson
himself understood the contract according to the construction
now contended for; for it does not appear that he ever made
any provision for paying taxes on the 4and after,' as he had
done before the time of making the deed had expired. Rogers
having been unable to convey the title within the prescribed
time, Dickinson was not-bound to pay him the additional sum

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

of seventy-five pounds. His obligation to do this had, in the
event provided for, become void, and Rogers was only bound
to repay the sum of forty-five pounds which he had receivedand after the unreasonable delay of the complainants and their
ancestor in asserting this claim, without any excuse whatever,
for that which is alleged in the bill has been disproved, the
legal presumption is, that the debt has been paid.
But if this presumption cannot be maintained, and although
the foregoing construction of the contract should be considered
incorrect; still the relief prayed for, ought not to be granted
after such extraordinary delay and negligence on the part of
the complainants, and those under whom they claim. They
have waited un-til it would be unreasonable to expect the testimony of living witnesses as to the adjustment of the claim.
The land, in the mean time, has increased in value sevenfold,
and may have passed into the hands of innocent purchasers;
such is alleged to be the fact, as to the share of Edmund
Rogers.. Under such circumstances a court of chancery will
not interfere, but leave the parties to their remedy at law.
It is farther'insist*1, that the complainants have failed to
bring the necessary parties before the court. All persons
having an interest in the suit, ought'to be made parties, either
as complainants or defendants. In this case, the four daughters of the testator are each entitled to one sixth part of the
land during their lives, with remainder to their children respectively in fee ; and they cannot be divested of their interest
without giving them an opportunity of asserting their rights.
Any decree in this case against Thomas and Edmund Rogers
would not, of course, conclude the other devisees who are not
defendants; and the court will not entertain a suit when it is
apparent, that, for the want of proper parties, the decree can
be of no avail in finally settling the controversy. And although
the daughters of George Rogers may have an equitable interest only, it is not the less necessary that they should be
made defendants. The cestui que trust is a necessary party
to a suit in chancery, brought against the trustee, concerning
the trust property. Calverly v. Phelp et al., 6 Mad. Chan.
Rep. 144.
The complainants' bill, has, therefore, been properly dismissed by the circuit court, and the decree ought'to be affirmed.

SUPREME COURT.
(Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
After stating the case, fie proceeded:
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of Kentucky district dismissing the bill in equity, brought by the
appellants against the appellees.
Three points have been made at the argument by the appellees, either of which, if established, would- be fatal to the bill
in its present shape ; and two of them would be fatal in any
shape. The first is, that the contract of sale was not absolute,
but terminated by the non. fulfilment of the conditions at the
end of the stipulated period : the second is, that th6 lapse of
time is a bar to all equity in the plaintiffs: and the third is,
that the proper parties for a decree are not before the court.
In the first place then, was the contract such as it is represented to be by the appellees ? We are of opinion, that taking
into view the whole transaction, its proper interpretation is such
as their argument supposes. It is true, that the bond of Rogers
to Dickinson, taken alone, presents only the common case of a
contract for a sale of land at a specific price, With an undertaking to make a good and lawful deed of the land, When required
by the vendee. But the other bond, executed contemporaneously by Dickinson to Rogers, is to be taken into consideration
in ascertaining the true nature of the transaction. That bond,
however inaccurate in its phraseology, shows, that the real
contract between the parties was, that "Rogers should make a
fair and indisputable title to Dickinson of the land, on or before
the 1st of January 1795; and if no conveyance was then made,
then Rogers was to stand indebted to Dickinson in the said
sum of forty-five pounds. Now, we think, that no other just
interpretation can, under the circumstances, be put upon this
language, than that the parties intended, that Rogers should
perfect his title to the land by a patent, and should make a
conveyance of an indisputable title to Dickinson, on or before
the 1st of January 1795 ; and if not then made, the contract
of sale was to be deemed rescinded, and the forty-five pounds,
What
purchase money, -was to be repaid to Dickinson,
strengthens this interpretation is, that the forty-five pounds
was not at the time actually paid, but was merely the amount
of an antecedent debt due from Rogers to Dickinson ; and the
bond of the latter contains no stipulation on his part, to pay

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.]

the balance of the purchase money, except upon a conveyance
made within the prescribed period. If the parties had intended
,'Ihe sale to be absolute, the bond of Dickinson would have contained an absolute agreement to pay that balance, as the other
.bond did an absolute agreement to make a conveyance, when
required. We think too, that the total omission of Dickinson,
in his lifetime, to take any st(p to enforce the sale, furnishes a,
strong corroboration that he so understood the matter.
But in the next place, if this difficulty could be (as we think
it cannot be) surmounted, the objection from the lapse of time
is-equally decisive. Courts of equity are not in the habit of
entertaining bills for a specific performance, after a considerable
lapse of time, unless upon very special circumstances. Even
Where time is not of the essence of the contract, they will not
interfere, where there has been long delay and laches on the
part of the party seeking a specific performance. And especially will they not interfere, where there has, in the mean time,
been a great change of circumstances, and new interests have
intervened. In the present case, the bill is brought after a
lapse of twenty-nine years. It is true, that the vendor died
within the year, and that he had not, at the time of the contract, a cot flete title to the land ; but a complete title was
Ifterwards obtained by his father, who was his heir, in the year
1799 ; and Dickinson did not die until seven years afterwards.
During the period of eleven years after Dickinson had a perfect
right (if ever) to demand a strict performance of the contract;
he never took a single step to a,:sert his right, or to compel performance. After his death in 1806, no step was taken by his
heirs or devisees, for the purpose of asserting any claim, until
1819 ; and no suit was commenced until 1823. The manner
in which this delay is accounted for in the bill, is wholly unsatisfdictory. The grounds stated are, the distance of the partias
from each other, their intervening deaths, the difficulty of
ascertaining who were the heirs, and the residence of the latter
in a different state. But any reasonable diligence would have
enabled Dickinson and his legal representatives to have asceitained who the heirs of Rogers were. His father and heir
resided in the same state with Dickinson for many years; and
the acting executor under the will of the father did not remove into Kentucky until several years after the probate of the
VOL. VIII.-3

F.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holt and Wife v. Rogers.)

will. There is, therefore, no ground, upon which the gross
laches or indifference of the parties can be reasonably excused.
And such a long silence does, as we have already intimated,
justly lead to the conclusion of a consciousness, that the right,
if any, was exceedingly doubtful. In the mean time, the property has materially risen in value, from the general improvement and settlement of the country, and thus furnishes an
additional reason for not disturbing the existing rights of property.
This view of the case renders it unnecessary to consider the
other point, as to the non joinder of proper parties.
The bill contains no alternative prayer for a return of the
forty-five pounds, if .,pecific performance should not be decreed;
and, under the circumstances, we are of opinion, that it ought
not to be decreed under this bill, upon the prayer for general
relief, it not being a case specially made by the bill. The decree of the court below will, therefore, be affirmed. As the
general dismissal of the bill will not, in our judgment, under
the circumstances, operate as a bar to future proceedings'at
law, to recover the forty-five pounds, if an action be otherwise maintainable; we do not think it necessary to-dismiss
the bill without prejudice, thereby throwing the burthen of the
costs of the reversal upon the defendant. The plaintiff may,
therefore, well be left to his legal remedy, such as it is, for any
indemnification under the contract.
Decree affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

