128

SUPREME COURT.

THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. JOHN

T.

RITOHIEJJUN., AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.
The Bank of, the United States and others, under the authority of the dct of
the legislature of Maryland, passed in the year 1785, entitled an act for enlarging the powers of the "high court of chancery," under which the real
estates of persons descending to minors, and persons non compos mentis,
were authorized to be sold for the debts of the ancestor, proceeded against
the real estate of A. R., for debts due by him ; and in 1826 the estate was
sold by a decree of the circuit court of the district of Columbia, exercising
chancery jurisdiction. Afterwards, in 1828, some of the infant heirs of A.
R., by their next friend, filed a bill of review against the administrator
of A. R., the purchaser of his real estate, and others, stating various errors
in the original suit and in the decree of the court, and prayed that the
same should be reversed. Held, that a bill of review can be sustained
in the case.
From the language of the fifth section of the act, some doubt was entertained
whether the act conferred a personal power on the chancellor, or was to be
construed as an extension of the jurisdiction of the court. If the former,
it was supposed that a bill of review would not lie to a decree made in execution of the power. On inquiry, however, the court are satisfied, that in
Maryland, the act has been construed as an enlargement of jurisdiction,
and that decrees for selling the lands of minors and lunatics, in the cases
prescribed by it, have been treated, by the court of appeals of that state, as
the exercise of other equity powers.
In all suits brought against infants, whom the law supposes to be incapable of
understanding and managing their own affairs, the duty of watching over
their interests devolves i in a considerable degree, upon the court. They
defend by guardian to be appointed by the court, who is usually the nearest
relation not concerned, in point of interest, in the matter in question. It is
not error, but it is calculated to awaken attention that, in this case, though
the infants, as the record shows, had parents living, a person not appearing from his name, or shown on the record, to be connected with them, was
appointed their guardian ad litem.
The answer of the infant defendants, in the original proceeding, is signed by
their guardian, but not sworn to. It consents to the decree for which the
bill prays; and, without any other evidence, the court proceeds to decree
a sale of their lands. This is entirely erroneous.
The statute under
which the court acted, authorises a sale of the real estate, only where the
personal estate shall be insufficient for the payment of debts, when the
justice of the claims shall be fully established, and when, upon consideration of all circumstances, it shall appear to the chancellor, to be just and
proper that such debts should be paid by.a sale of the real estate. Inde.
pendent of these special requisitions of the act, it would be obviously the
duty of the court, particularly in the case of infants, to be satisfied on these
points.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.J
The insufficiency of the personal estate of A. R. to pay his debts, is stated in
the answer of his administrator, but is not proved ; and is admitted in that
of the guardian of the infants, but his answer is not on oath ; and if it was,
the court ought to have been otherwise satisfied of the fact.
The justice of the claims ma~e by the complainants in the original proceeding,
is not established otherwise, than by the acknowledgement of the infant
defendants in their answer, that, " according to the belief and knowledge
of their guardian, they are, as alleged in said bill, respectively due." The
court ought not to have acted on this admission. The infants were incapahie of making it, and the acknowledgement of the guardian, not on oath,
was totally insufficient. The court ought to have required. satisfactory
proof of the justice of the claims, and to have established such as were just,
before proceeding to sell the real estate.
There was error in thooriginal pron.eedings in ordering the sale of the real
estate of A. R. for the payment of his debts, before the amount of the debts
should be judicially ascertained by the report of an auditor.
The eighth section of the law which authorises the sale of real estate descending to minors, enacts, " that all sales made by the authority of the chancellor under this act, shall be notified to, and confirmed by the chancellor,
before any conveyance of the property shall be made." This provision is
totally disregarded. The sale was never confirmed by the court; yet the
conveyance has been made. It is a fatal error in the decree, that it directs
the conveyance to be made on the payment of the purchase money, without
directing that the sale shall first " be notified to, and approved by" the
court.
The conveyances of the real estate, made under the original proceeding, were
proparly set aside by the decree of the court below. The relief might be
very imperfect, if, on the reversal of a decree, the party could, under no
circumstances, be restored to the property which had been improperly and
irregularly taken from him.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for .the
county of Washington, in the distict of Columbia.
The appellees filed their bill of complaint in the circuit
cotrt, in the nature of a bill of review against the appellants,
in which they set forth, that in the year 1825, the appellants
filed their bill against the complainants and others, as heirs at
law of Abner Ritchie deceased, under the act of assembly of
Maryland of 1785, chap. 72, sec. 5, alleging themselves to be
the creditors of said Abner Ritchie in the several sums of
money mentioned in said bill ;-that John T. Ritchie, son of
said Abner, and one of said defendants, had obtained letters of
administration upon the estate of said Abner ;-that complainants had frequently applied to him for the payment of their
debts, which he refused; saying, that he had not assets of the
said estate to pay them, or any part thereof, and that said AbVOL. VIII.-lt

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

ner had died without leaving., personal estate to discharge the
debts due by him ;-that said Abner died possessed of real
estate described in an exhibit filed therewith,, and that the
defendants are the heirs at law of the said Abner, and pray
process, &c. against them. The bill of review proceeds to
aver, that said process did accordingly issue, and that before
said these complainants appeared to the same, an-order was
obtained by the solicitor for the then complainants, appointing
Thomas Turner guardian, to appear and answer for them:
that this order was obtained without their knowledge or approbation, and without,,it having been made to appear that ti
said parties were infants, and without it appearing, by the
terms of the said order, that Turner was appointed guardian
for these parties: that said Turner did, however, appear for
them as their guardian, and filed an answer for these complainants, admitting the truth of all the allegations in the bill : that
said bill is not on the oath of said pretended guardian, as is
usual. They further state, that John T. Ritchie, Sen. tiled
his answer to said bill, and alleging, that he himself was a
large creditor of deceased, suggested a reference of the various
claims to an auditor. That in the year 1826, B. L. Lear,
solicitor for said complainants, and T. Swann, also solicitor of
said court, misled by some person or persons, entered into an
agreement to set the cause for hearing, and did consent that
a decree should pass, and which was passed by said court,
decreeing that said real estate should be sold, and that trustees
should convey the same, and that these parties, on their arrrival
at age, should release to the purchasers all their title to the
same.
That said sale was accordingly made, and said T.
Ritchie, Sen. became-the purchaser, and hath received a conveyance.
The parties aver, that Mr Swann had no authority to appear
for them, or to enter into any'consent or agreement on their
behalf, or that any decree should be entered against them; and
that said proceedings were had without their knowledge or
assent, and have never been acquiesced in ; that their'friends
and natural guardians were overlooked and unconsulted. That
they are aggrieved by said decree, and ought not to be bound
thereby-that they ought not to convey theirjestate as by the
decree is directed, that said decree is erroneous, and ought to
be reversed-and assign several errors:

JANUARY TERM 1834.

13i

[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

1. There is no allegation in the bill or evidence filed in the
cage, that Abner Ritchie died without leaving personal estate
sufficient to pay his debts.
2. That there is no allegation or evidence that his real estate
descended to a minor.
3. That said decree was made without any legal or sufficient
answer by these complainants, and without the severairmatters
contained in the bill being taken pro confesso against them.
4. That theie is neither allegation nor proof, that either of
said defendants was a minor, and incapable of answering
without a guardian
5. That the court appointed a guardian, ad litem, without
naming the infant defendants, or causing them to be brought
into court to have a guardian appointed, and without any
averment or proof that either of them was a minor.
6. That the order appointing a guardian is vague, uncertain
and void.
7. That the answer of Turner, professing to be guardian,
&c. not being under oath, is insufficient and void.
8. That said decree purports to be by consent, whereas, it
appears, that these complainants never appeared to said suit,
in person or by guardian, and therefore, never could have
assented, and cannot, as minors, be bound by the consent of an
attorney.
9. That there is not sufficient matter alleged in the bill to
sustain the decree, if the parties had been competent to assert.
and had asserted.
10. Because the decree, contrary to right and equity, and
the uniform rule and practice of the court, directs the trustee
to convey, without a ratification of his sale.
1. Because the decree is an absolute one, without giving
conplainants a day after they shall arrive at age, to show
catise against the decree.
The bill then avers the death of Henry Carbery, one of the
complainants to the first bill, about three years before the filing
of said bill, and prays a review and reversal, &c.
Several of the defendants appeared, and disclaiming any
interest, &c., assent to the review and reversal
John T. Ritchie answers, averring: the correctness of the
proceeding, and prays a confirmation of what has been done.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

The Bank of the United States, and Unibn Bank of Georgetown, answering, admit that the original was filed as stated,
and require proof of the further allegations of complainants;
they aver the sufficiency and correctness of the former proceedings, and deny that there is any sufficient cause for a
review, &c.
The circuit court decreed a reversal of the original decree,
and annulled all the proceedings had under it, declaring the.
parties to be restored to their original rights.
The proceedings in the former case, constitute the only
evidence in the case of the review.
For the appellants, it will be contended,
1. That no decree can be set aside or reversed on a bill of
review, for any reason not appearing on the face of the decree
itself, whereas most of the objections here urged, were dehors
the decree.
2. Because such of the reasons as are alleged to appear on
the face of the decree itself, are wholly insufficient
3. Because a bill of review will lie only where the original
decree, of which complaint is made, has been fully executed
by the party complainant; whereas, the contrary is apparent
on the face of the bill of review.
4. Because the decree of reversal transcends the power of
the court, and extends further than the court had jurisdiction
to decree.
5. Because it is in other respects inequitable and illegal.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe, for the appellants; and
by Mr Marbury, for the appellees.
Mr Coxe, for the appellants.
The appellees filed their bill of review in the circuit court,
for the purpose of reversing a decree of that court, passed several years since.
Various grounds of reversal are assigned, as. well in the proceedings, as in the decree ; and many allegations are introduced, which are whollyirrelevant in a bill of review, but which
are unsupported by any testimony. They would, in an English court of chancery, be deemed scandalous and impertinent.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

The circuit court reversed their former decree, and from this
judgment the parties aggrieved have entered this appeal.
It will be contended,
1. That among all the grounds assigned for the.reversal of
the original decree, none are to be regarded, excepting those
which point out error on the face of the decree itself.
Error in the proceedings, in the want of conformity of the
decree to the evidence, ought to be taken advantage of, either
by petition for a rehearing, or by appeal ; and where the original proceedings are infected with fraud, an original bill lies to
vacate them on that ground. But the peculiar and appropriate
object of a bill of review is, to obtain a reversal for some defect,
apparent on the face of the decree, or for some, cause arising or
discovered since the date of the decree.
It is urged however, that the chancery practice of Maryland
varies essentially from that of England ; it not being customary here to introduce into the decree, the matters upon which
it is based. Certainly, a somewhat looser practice has prevailed, than is known in the English courts; but the legal result
contended for, cannot flow from it. The character of the bill
of review is still the same ; and there is no precedent or dictum
by any Maryland chancellor sustaining the ground relied upon.
The party aggrieved is not without remedy; he has his appeal, he may have a re-hearing; but it is no legitimate conclusion, from the fact that we have introduced a looser practice,
that the whole nature, object and design of the bill of review
shall, therefore, be changed. The case in 1 H. and Gill,
393, 424, shows, that in Maryland, the English rule still
prevails.
This view of the character of this proceeding, dispenses with
the necessity for examining in detail, the reasons assigned for
a reversal of the original decree: or for showing upon what
slender foundation, either of fact or law, they rest.
The four last are all that purport to come within the legitimate scope of a bill of review.
8. The decree purports to be by consent; whereas it appears that these complainants never appeared to the suit.
Here again we are required to examinie the previous proceedingsto determine the validity of the objection.
The proceedings show that Mr Turner, a highly respectable

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

gentleman, acted as guardian, That Mr Swann acted as
counsel. In this summary way, the validity of their authority
and acts cannot be questioned.
9. That there. is not sufficient matter alleged in the bill to
sustain the decree. Here again we are driven to the previous
proceedings, which cannot be done on a bill of review.
10. Because the decree directs the trustee to convey without a previous ratification of his proceedings. This may be
unusual; but it is neither contrary to equity or justice ; it is
a matter clearly within the discretion of the court. 12 Johns.
521,528.
The act of 1785, ch. 72, p. 8, is merely directory to chancellor, and may be waived by consent.
11. Because the decree does riot, on its face, give complainants a day in court.
In general, it may be admitted, that this shot id constitute
part of the decree ; but that 'rule never has prevailed when the
decree directs a sale. Booth v. Rich, 1 Vern. 295. If there
be any error in this, it is one of mere surplusage, directing the
infant to convey when he comes of age, which may be erased
from the decree, as superfluous. Even according to the strictest rules'of the English chancery, this being a decree for a
sale, it was not necessary to give the infants a day in court.
This, however, is a statutory proceeding under the laws of
Maryland. The act of 1785, ch. 72, s. 8, confers the general
authority, but'gives no day in. court to infants. The act of
1799, ch. 78, s. 4, gives a day to infants, against whom such
decree may be had, if they are non residents.
This decree having been obtained by consent, cannot be made
the subject of a review. 12'Johns. 521 ; Ambl. 229, 534,
535; 1 Harr. Ch. 142, 143.,
The facts must be admitted, as stated in the decree.
Mr Marbury, for the appellees.
The object of this appeal is, to reverse a decree of the circuit
court on a bill of review, filed by the appellees, to annul a preceding decree of that court, directing the sale of the real
estate of Abner Ritchie, the father of the appellees, who are
mino.rs, on an alleged deficiency of his personal assets-a proceeding authorised by an act of assembly of Maryland, passed

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v; Ritchie et al.]

in the year 1785, ch. 72, and now in force in this district.
The bill embodies the exceptions to the original decree, some
of which appear on its face ; others are dehors the decree, and
can be detected only by reference to the pleadings in the original cause.
it has been. objected,.by the counsel for the appellants, that
on a bill of review, filed for error in the decree, nothing but
the-decree can be read, and no objection can be taken, unless
the error appear in the body of the decree ; that it is not
allowable to look into the pleadings on the evidence, only so
far as the decree may recite them.
There can be no doubt, that such is the rule in the English
court of chancery, founded upon an early ordinance, establisheQ
with reference to the mode of preparing the decree in that
country. If, however, the rule be rigidly applied to the
practice of the courts in the United States, itwill amount to
an abolition in those courts, of the mode of relief by bill of review, except in cases where there has been newly discovered
evidence.
In the English courts, the substance of the pleadings, and
such facts as the court allows to have been proved, are recited
in the decree, as the basis of the court's judgment ; but in our
courts, the decree contains no such recital; it is a simple declaration of the court's judgment or order in the case, referring
to the proceedings-it is only by reference to those proceedings,
that any error, which may ekiist in the decree, can be detected
and exposed.
The new practice, which is believed to be universal in
this country, in framing the decree, requires a corresponding
change in the rule relating to bills of review, by which the
plaintiff should be permitted to look into the proceedings, and
not be confined to the face of the. decree : and it is believed,
that it was with reference to.this diversity, that the court of
appeals of Maryland, in delivering their opinion in the case of
Hollingsworth v. M'Donald, 2 Har. and J. 237, which was
on a bill of review, say, "nothing appears on the face of the
proceeding, to show error in the decree."
There are several English cases to justify the adoption of
such new rule; viz. that the plaintiff, in a bill of review, should
not be concluded, by the omission of the officer, Whose duty it

SUPREME COURT.
(Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

was to prepare the decree, to make the proper recitals, I.Vern.
214, 215, 216 ; 2 Ca. in Chan. 161.
A doubt has been suggested, whether a bill of review can
be maintained, when the plaintiff has the right of appeal, and
the period within which such appeal should be taken, has been
limited by law. This suggestion is founded upon the idea,
that the law limiting the appeal, is a virtual repeal of the remedy by bill of review. This remedy, by review in the court
,vhere the error was made, has its origin in an ancient ordinance or rule of practice-has become the law of the court and
of the land, to which suitors may, of right, resort; and ought
not to be put aside, or repealed by implication: but if consistent
with subsequent enactments, should be allowed to remain.
Hitherto it has been considered as existing, notwithstanding
the limitation of the period of appeal in Maryland. 2 Har.
and J. 237 ; 1 Gill and J. 398 ; 10 Wheaton 149.
The rule which requires the performance of the decree by
the plaintiff, before filing his bill of review, will always effectually prevent a resort to this remedy, merely for delay.
There would seem to be nothing in the objection, tha4t as
the statute which confers on the court jurisdiction in the original case, is silent as to this remedy, that therefore there can
be no review by the court of its decree : the statute places the
subject within the control of the court, to be dealt with according to its usages and practice ; not so with' the bankrupt laws,
which have been referred to ; they prescribe the mode of proceeding, and exclude the idea of the application of the ordinary
practice of the chancery court in their administration.
There is one other preliminary objection. It is said, that as
the original decree was made by consent of the appellees, and
so indorsed by their attorney, that they are estopped thereby ;
and cannot object, even if errors be apparent on the face of
the decree.
The defendants in the original cause, the appellees in this,
were minors-as such, they could not appear and defend the
cause by an attorney. An infant can appear by guardian
only, who is appointed by the court, Cooper's Eq. P1. 109.
The answer of an infant by his guardian, and the admissions contained in it, are not binding on him. Coop. 324.
Lord Hardwicke held, that an infant could admit nothing. 2

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et a].]

Atk. 377. The court wili not conclude an infant, or make an
absolute decree against him, though by his own consent, or the
consent of his parents, except in some special cases. 7 Johns.
R. 581, 593 ; Cur. Gan. 466 ;.1 Dessaus. 158.
If it were admitted that an unexceptionable decree, Whether
made on proof in the cause, or by consent of parties, being the
act of a competent tribunal, would be binding as well on an
infant as an adult ; it would not then follow that an erroneous
decree would bind an infant, though made by consent of an
attorney appearing on the record for him. It must be conceded that an erroneous decree., made on the proof in a cause,
may be reversed for error appearing on its face ; as where an
absolute decree is made against an infant defendant. So such
,iioneous decree, taken by consent of the infant, his guardian
or attorney, is reversible in like manner ; for an infant is noD
within the maxim, "consensus tollit errorem."
Again, it is objected, that the original decree in this cause
has not been performed, and that a-bill of review will not lie
until the decree has been performed. The rule is admitted;
but there is an exception, which embraces the case of the appellees. By the original decree,.they are required to do nothMg, except "to convey, as they severally come to the age of
twenty-one years, their interest and estate in the property, detreed to be sold, to the purchasers at the trustee's sale." When
the act required to be done by a decree, will, if performed, extinguish the party's rights at common law, as making an assurance, releasing or cancelling a bond ; performance is not required, but such party may proceed with his bill of review, and
leave the decree unperformed. Cooper's Eq. P1. 90.
These preliminary objection-s being answered, the several
errors assigned in the bill of review are to be considered. The
fifth section of the act of 1785, 6h. 72, authorises the chancellor to decree the sale of real estate, which descends, or is
devised to, a minor, if the intestate or devisor should not leave
personal estate sufficient to pay his debts, after such minor
has been summoned, and hath appeared. The first and second
objections refer to the bill, in 'which there is no allegation
that the intestate died without leaving personal estate to pay
his debts, or thathis land descended to a minor. The declaration of the administrator, mentioned in the'.bill, is hot the
VOL. Vi.,-9

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v.Ritchie et al.]

averment of the complainants, and the want of such averment is not helped by the suosequent interrogatories. Cooper's
Eq. P1. 12, 13.
The third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh assignments of
error, also refer to the proceedings, and being taken together,
amount to this, 1st. That there was an illegal appointment
of a guardian. 2d.' That the infant's answer by the guardian,
if duly appointed, was void.
The appointment of a guardian in the case, was illegal,
because the infants were not before the court-they had not
been summoned as the law required. The appearance of an
attorney, in their names, was illegal and void. Minors should
be brought before the court, to have a guardian assigned ; or
a commission should issue to some fit person, to assign a guardian for them. Cooper 109 ; I Har. Ch. 474.
The guardian's answer was void, because not sworn to by
him. 1 Har. Ch. 474, 477, 7 Johns. R. 581.
The eighth, tenth and elevent assignments of error refer
to matter appearing on the face of the decree itself.
The, eighth. "That the decree wap taken by consent of an
attorney ;" whereas, the act of assembly, giving jurisdiction in
the case, requires, " that the justice of the creditors' claim
should be fully established;" "that the court should inquire
into all the circumstances," "so that it. should appear to the
chancellor, to be just and proper to decree a sale of the land,"
descended or devised to the minor. This was omitted: the decree was made without reference, or inquiry, te know whether
it would be just anci proper, and for the benefit of the infants,
that such decree should be made. 3 Johns. C. R. 361.
The tenth. The eighth section of the act of 1785 requires,
"'that all sales, made by authority of the chancellor, under this
act, shall be notified to, and confirmed by the chancellor, before any conveyance of the property shall be made." The
decree directs the trustee to convey the propertv to the purchaser, on the payment of the purchase money, without waiting
for the ratification of the court; and thus violates the provisions
of the statute, for which it may be reversed on a bill of review.
Cur. Can. 384; Cooper's Eq. Pt. 90.
The eleventh. The decree requires the infant defenuan' 3, as
they severally come to the age of twenty-one years, to convey

JANUARY TERM 1834.,
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

the property decreed to be sold to the purchasers at the trustee's
sale, and there is no saving clause in their favour. If there
be an absolute decree against a minor, and no day given him,
it is reversible on a bill of review. 3 Johns. Ch. R. 368 ; 2
Madd. Ch. Pr. 538.
It haF been insisted on, that the omission in the decree, to
give a day to the minor, is, in this case, no error,.because it is
a decree for the sale of land for the payment of debts: to which
it is answered, that when the infant is decreed to join in the
conveyance, even in a sale under a mortgage, lie is entitled to
a day. The court will not direct an infant to part with his inheritance, withoif a day being reserved to him in the decree.
3 Johns. C. .H. 361 ; I Ball. and Beat. 551 ; 3 Pow. on Mort.
985, new ed. note z.
The circuit crourt, in their decree on the bill of review, not
only reverse the original decree, but vacate the sale made under it, and the deed from the trustee to the purchase!-, and from
such purchaser to others, who are all parties in the original
cause, and in this case. This has been objected to, but is
according to the authorities. The court may proceed, to restore
the plaintiffs to the situation in which they would have been,
had the decree never passed. 2 Mad. Ch. P1. 542; 1 Hen.
and Munf. 350"
Mr Coxe, in reply, contended, that -the cases cited from
Vernon~s Reports, and the chancery cases referred to by the
counsel for the appellees, did not warrant the conclusion, that
there had been a change of the practice in framing the decrees
of a court of chancery. The case cited from Mason's Report's,
did not call for a.decision as to the mode of framing the decree.
The general rules upon the matter are fully recognized, in
relation to bills of review in those cases.
The appellees might have presented a petition for a rehearing of the case; but having adopted a bill of review, they must
submit to the established rules of practice, in reference to such
a proceeding. Cited, 1 Harris and Gill's Reports 423. The
English rule has been fully adopted in the courts of Maryland.
A bill of review is not a favourite in courts of equity: and
the original proceeding in this case being on a statute; and no

SUPREME COURT.
[Balk of the United States v. Ritchie et ar.]

bill of review having been given by the statute, no right to
such a practice is to be derived by implication.
The statute, in conferring a new right and remedy, mitst
be strictly pursued. It takes away the rights of infants. To
allow infants a day in court, after coming of age, would be
defeating the whole object of the act. Its object was, to enforce the payment of debts out of the lands of the debtor;
necessarily affecting the- rights of infants.
The court, in reversing the original decree, has 'exceeded
its powers, by reinstating the parties in their original rights.
This may be the general rule, and proper in some cases; but
such a rule cannot apply in such a case as this. John T.
Ritchie, the elder, had conveyed the property to a purchaser,
at a sale made by trustees; and subsequent purchasers cannot
be ousted of their titles. The parties to be ieinstated, must
be those only, who were the parties to the original bill.
The reversal must be restricted to the mere reversal of the
original decree; and whatever had been done, under that decree, so tar as strangers to the proceeding had derived rights
under the sale as bona fide purchasers, must remain.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree pronounced by the United
States court for the District of Columbia, sitting in chancery,
for the county of Washington.
The Bank of the United States and others, alleging themselves to be creditors of Abner Rit6hie deceased, instituted this
suit in chancery against John T. Ritchie administrator, and
one of the heirs of the said Abner, and against JohtT. Ritchie,
Jun. and others, who were the infant heirs of the said Abner,
praying that his real estate may be subjected to the payment of
the debts due to them, and that so much of the said estate might
be sold as would satisfy their claims.
The bill charges, that Abner Ritchie died, possessed of a
considerable estate, not having left personal estate sufficient to
pay his debts.
The subpoena was returned, executed on John t. Ritchie,
the other defendants not found. On being called, tney appeared by attorney, whereupon, on motion of the plaintiffs,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

Thomas Turner was appointed guardian to appear and answer
for the infant defendants. The infant defendants answer that,
according to the belief and knowledge of their guardian, the
said claims are, as alleged in said bill of complaint, 'due and
owing to the several coirplainants; and that Abner Ritchie did
die, leaving personal property insufficient for the payment of
his debts, having, as is alleged,, real property, &c; and that they
have no objection to the sale of a part thereof, sufficient to pay
his debts. The answer is not sworn to by the guardian.
The answer of John T. Ritchie administrator, and one-of
the heirs of Abner Ritchie, admits that his intestate died considerably indebted; suggests that the claims of the complainants should be referred to an auditor, alleges that he is himself
a creditor, and that 'the personal assets of his testator are insufficient for the payment of his debts. He is willing that the
real estate should be sold, and the proceeds applied to the payment of deb's
The cause- came on to be heard by consent, and on the 21st
day of June 1826, the court also. by consent of parties, decreed
that the real estate of Abner Ritchie deceased, or such parr
thereof as may be necessary for the purpose, be sold for the
payment of the debts due to the complainants, and of such
other creditors as should come in, &c., within the time prescribed in the decree, A trustee was appointed to make the
sale, who, after giving bond with surety, and advertising tne
real property left by the said Abner, or so much thereof as
might be deemed sufficient to satisfy his debts, at least three
weeks, should proceed to sell the same to the highest bidder;
one fourth of the purchase money to be paid in cash, and the
residue in four equal instalments, at six, -twelve, eighteen and
twenty-tour months ; for which the trustee is to take the notes
of the purchaser, the property to stand as security for the payment of the purchase money. And, upon payment of said
notes and interest, the spid trustee, and the heirs of Abner
Ritchie, as they respectively attain- the0age o twenty-one
years, shall convey in fee. The trustee was directed to report
his proceedings to the court at the succeeding term, and to pay
into court the net proceeds of the first payment, and on payment of the balance, was to convey. The court appointed
Joseph Forrest to report on such claims on the estate of Abner

SUPREME COURT.
tBank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

Ritchie, as should be proved to him before the first Mondayin
the succeeding November, and the administrator of Abner
Ritchie was directed to exhibit to him the settlement of his
administration'account with the orphan's court.
On the 28th of March 1828, the trustee reported,
that after
giving bond, and advertising as requitfed by the decree, he had,
on the 17th day of July 1826, sold the property at public sale,
to John T. Ritchie,.the highest bidder, for the sum of two
thousand seven hundred and fifteen dollars. That Mr Ritchie,
having produced satisfactory evidence of his having paid all
the debts, and becoming the only creditor to an am6unt exceeding the amount of sales, he had made to him a deed conveying
the property.
On the 10th of June 1828, the auditor nade his report, in
which he disallows several claims to a large amount, made by
John T. Ritchie, against the estate of Abner Ritchie.
In 1828 some of the infant heirs of Abner Ritchie, by their
next friend, filed their bill of review against the complainants
in the original suit, and against John T. Ritchie, the administrator of Abner Ritchie, and the purchaser of his.real estate,
and against such of the other defendants as do not become
plaintiffs; in whichthey state the proceedings in the original
suit, and assign various errors in the decree ; for which, and
for other ervors therein, they pray that the same may be reviewed and reversed, that the deed made by the trustee to the
defendant John T. Ritchie, and all deeds made by him to the
other defendants, may be declared void, and that the sales made
by the trustee may be set aside.
The infant defendants answer by their guardian, and admit
the allegations of the bill. The other defendants also answer,
and insist on the original decree.
The cause came on to be heard in May term 1830, by consent, when the court, being of opinion that there was manifest
error in the original proceedings and on the face of the decrees,
did adjudge, order aind decree, that the same should be reversed and annulled, and that all proceedings of the trustee
therein named, and all sales and deeds made by him by virtue
thereof, to the defendant John T. Ritchie, or any other person,
and-all deeds made by the said John T. Ritchie of the'said
real estate, to either of the other defendants, or for their use,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

so fatr as respects the interest of any of the heirs of Abner
Ritchie, except the said John T. Ritchie, Senior, should be
utterly null and void, and that the complainants be restored to
their original estates.
Frord this decree the Olefendants appealed to this court. A
doubt has been suggested, whether a bill of review could be
sustained in this case. The parties proceeded under an.act of
the legislature of Maryland, passed in the year 1785, ch. 72,
entitled, "an act for enlarging the power of the high court of
chancery." The fifth section enacts, " that if any person
hath died, or shall hereafter die, without leaving personal estate sufficient to discharge the. debts by him or her due,-and
shall leave real estate, which descends to a minor,, or person
being idiot, lunatic, orl non compos mentis, or shall devise real
estate to a minor, or person being idiot, lunatic, or non compos
rnentis, or who shall afterwards become non compos mentis, the
chancellor shall have full power and authority, upon application
of any creditor"of any deceased persoi, after summoning such
minor, and his appearance by guardian, to be appointed as
aloresaid, and hearing as albresaid, or after summoning the person being idiot, lunatic, or non composamentis, and his appearance by trustee, trustees, or committee, to be appointed as aforesaid, and nearing as aforesaid, and the justice of the claim of
such creditor is fully established ; if, upon consideration of all
circumstances, it snlall appear to the chancellor to be just and
proper that such debts should be paid by a sale of such real es.tate, to order the whole, or part of the real estate so descending
or, devised, to be sold, for the payment of the debts due by? the
deceased."
From the language of this section some doubt was entertained, whether the act conferred a personal power on the
chancellor, or was to be construed as an extension of the jurisdiction of the couit. If he former, it was supposed that abill
of review would not le to a decree made in execution of the
power Qn inquiry, however, we are satisfied, that in Maryland, the act has been construed as an enlargement of jurisdiction, and that decrees for selling the lands of minors and
lunatics, it,the cases prescribed by it, have been treated, by
the court of appeals of that state, as the exercise of other,equity
powers.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.

We proceed then to examine the original decree, and the
errors assigned in it.
In all suits brought against infants, whom the law supposes
to be incapable of understanding and managing their own
affiiirs, the duty of watching over their interests devolves, in a
considerable degree, upon the court.(a) They defend by
guardian to be appointed by the court, who is usually the nearrest relation' not concerned, in poinit of interest, in the matter
in question. (b) It is not error, but it is calculated to awaken
attention that, in this case, though the infants, as the record
shows, had parents living ; a person not appearing from his
name, or shown on the record to be connected with them, vas
appointed their guardian ad litem.
He was appointed, on the motion of the counsel for the
plaintiffs, without bringing the minors into court, or issuing a
commission for the purpose of making the appointment. This
is contrary to the most approved usage,(c) and is certainly a
mark of inexcusable inattention. The adversary counsel is not
the person to name the guardian to defend the infants.
The answer of the infant defendants is signed by their guar.
dian, but not sworn to. It consents to the decree 'for which
the bill prays, and, without a'w other evidence, the court proceeds to decree a sale of their lands. This is, we think, entirely erroneous. The statute under which the court acte1,
authorises a sale of the real estate. only where the personal
estate shall be insufficient for the payment of debts, when the
justice of the claims shall be fully established, and when, upon
consideration of all circumstances, it shall appear to the chancellor, to be just and p'roper that such debts should be paid, by
a sale of the real estate. Independent of these special requisitions of the act, it would be obviously the duty of the court,
particularly in the case of infants, to be satisfied on these points.
The insufficiency of the personal estate of Abner Ritchie to
pay his debts, is stated in the answer of his administrator ; but
is not proved, and is admitted in that of the guardian-of the
(a) 4 Har.and Johns. 126, 270, 548; 5 Har. and Johns. 459; 5 Har. and
Gill 504 ; Coop. Eq. pl. 2 ,
(b)Coop. Eq. pl. 29.
(c) Coop. Eq. pi. 10 9.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al].

infants, but his answer is not on oath ; and if it was, the court
ought to have been otherwise satisfied of the fact.
The justice of the claims made by the complainants, is not
established otherwise, than by the acknowledgement of the
infant defendants in their answer, that, " according to the belief and knowledge of their guardian, they are, as alleged in
said bill, respectively due."
IThe court ought not to have acted on this admission. The
infants were incapable of making it, and the acknowledgement
of the guardian, not on oath, was totally insufficient. The
court ought to have required satisfactory proof of the justice of
the claims, and to have established such as were just, before
proceeding to sell the real estate.
Without knowing judicially that any debts existed, or the
amount really due, or the value of the real estate, the court
directed, "that the real estate of the said .Ritchie, or such part
thereof as may be necessary for the purpose, be sold, for the
payment of debts of said Ritchie to complainants, and to such
other creditors of said Ritchie, as shall come in and bear their
proper proportions of the costs and expenses of this suit,
and shall exhibit their claims, with the proper proof thereof,
to the auditor hereinafter appointed, &c." The decree does not
postpone the sale until the claims, should be exhibited to the
auditor ; and, consequently, so far as other creditors were concerned, leaves the trustee without information as to the quantity of property it would be his duty to sell. He accordingly
sold the wholeestate.
The eighth section of the law which authorizes the sare of
real estate descending to minors, enacts, " that all sales made
by the authority of the chancellor under this act, shall be notified to, and confirmed by the chancellor, before any conveyance
of the property shall be made." This provision is totally disregarded. The sale was never confirmed by the court ; yet the
conveyance has been made. It is a.fatal error in the decree,
that it directs the conveyance to be made on the payment of
the purchase money, without directing that the sale shall first
"be notified to, and approved by" the court.
There are radical errors apparent on the face of the decree,

which show that the interests of the infants have not been protected as is required by law. and usage ; and tfiat great injusVOL. VIII.-T

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie et al.]

tice may have been done them. The decree, therefore, ought
to have been reversed.
The appellants contend, that, even admitting the propriety
of reversing the original decree, the circuit court ought to have
stopped at that point, and not to have set aside the conveyances
which were made under its authority.
All the persons affected by the decree now under consideration, were parties when it was made. The bill of review prays
for the relief which the court granted, and states all the facts
which entitled them to that relief. The power of the court
was, we think, competent to grant it; if it was required by the
principles Of equity and justice. The relief might be very imperfect, if, on the reversal of a decree, the party could, under
no circumstances, be restored to the property which had been
improperly and irregularly taken from him. Cooper, in his
Equity Pleading, page 95, says, "the bill may pray, simlly that the decree may be reviewed and altered, or reversed in
the point complained of, if it has not been carried into execution ; but if the decree has been carried into execution, the
bill should also pray the further decree of the court, to put the
party complaining of the former decree into the situation in
which he would have been, if that decree had not been executed." "A supplemental bill may likewise be added, if any
event has happened which requires it.",
In addition to these general principles which sustain the
rule laid down by Cooper, circumstances exist, which require,
in an eminent degree, its.application to this particular case.
The decree itself was disregarded by the trustee, in executing
the conveyance. It directed him to receive one fourth of the
purchase money in cash, and the residue in four equal instal-.
ments. The first payment is to be brought into court, and he
is to make the conveyance on receiving the last. He is not
authorised to pay the money to the creditors. The court has
not entrusted to him the right of deciding on the debts, and
disposing of the purchase money. He is only to receive it befoie he conveys; and, consequently, should hold it subject to
the order of the court.
It does not appear that he has ever received a cent. He
undertakes to settle the account of Mr Ritchie, the purchaser,
and to convey the property to him, in violation of the decree;

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. Ritchie ot al.]

oni being satisfied by him that he had paid all the debts, and
was himself a creditor to an amount exceeding the purchase
money.
He had no right to be satisfied of these facts. The court
had not empowered him to inquire into, or decide on them.

He

has transcended his powers ; and with the knowledge of "
purchaser, and in combination with him, has executed to him
a deed which the law did not authorise. This whole proceeding was irregular, and ought to be set zside. The plaintiffs
in the original suit Will then be at liberty to prosecute their
claims according to law.
The court is of opinion, that there is no erior in the decree
of the circuit court, and that it be affirmed With costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record frora the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsl; on cotisideration whereof, it is
ordered, adjudged and. decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court, in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

