JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V.

MosEs E. LEvI.

The decree of the superior court of East Florida i confirming grants of land
claimed by the appellee, affirmed in part.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
The case was submitted to the court by Mr Call, for the
United States; and by Mr White, for the appellee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL dehvered the opinion of the
Court.
Moses E. Levi presented his petition to the superior court for
the district of East Florida, praying that his claim to sixty-five
thousand acres of land might be declared valid, and confirmed
to him, according to several different grants and surveys under
svhich he derived title. He is not himself a grantee of any
one of the tracts, but is a purchaser from various persons.
The first claim stated in his petition, is to.twenty thousand
acres of land, derived from Philip R. Younge.
On the 22d of February 1817, governor Coppinger granted,
in full title, to Philip R. Younge, for services, " twenty-five
thousand acres of land, south of the place known by the name
of Spring Garden, in this form : twelve thousand acres of them,
adjoining the lake or pond called Second, and known by the
name of Valdes, and the remaining thirteen thousand acres
on the pond farther above the preceding, known by the name
of Long Pond, the whole west of the liver St John's."
This survey was made oni the 2d of August 1819, under an
order granted by the governor, of the 25th of May of the same
year.
The certifioate and plat of the surveyor, show that the
twelve thousand acre tract lies on the lake called Second, but
omits to state that it was also known by the name of Valdes.
The thirteen thousand acre ,tract is stated to be on the long
lake, called in the grant, Long Pond.
The fair presumption, under all circumstances, no objection

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Levi.]

to identity having been made in the superior couit for the
district, is, that the places are the same.
The surveyor has returned another plat, describing eight
thousand acres, part of the-thirteen thousand acre tract, which,
with the twelve thousand acre tract, were sold to the petitioner
by William Tiavers, who purchased the same from the grantee.
The second claim stated in the petition, is to ten thousand
four hundred'acres of -land, part of a larger tract of fifteen
thousand acres, for which Antonio. Huertas obtained a concession from the governor of East Florida, on the 15th of September 1817. This land was divided into four tracts, one of
which, amounting .o ten thousand four hundred acres, was
sold
and conveyed by Huertas to the petitioner.
"The
concession grants the land as asked in
the petition.
The prayer of the petition is for a grant of fifteen thousand
acres of land, on a stream which runs from the west and
unites itself with the river St John, at about twelve miles south
of lake George, the survey being to commence at four or five
miles west of the river St John, and the said stream dividing
the said tract id two parts." The full title was issued on the
10th day of April 1821, and the survey was made on the 5th
day of the same month. It conforms to the concession, except
that it does not state the distance from the St John, at which
the survey commenced. This tract was confirmed to Antonio
Huertas, as well as to Moses E. Levi; but the conveyance to
Levi appears in the proceedings, and is admitted by the
counsel for Huertas and for Levi.
The third claim stated in the petition, is to two other tracts
of land, comprising together seven thousand four hunidred acres,
part of a tract of ten thousand acres, originally conceded in
absolute property to Pedro Miranda, on the 10th day of September 1817, by the governor of East Florida. These seven
thouLsand four hundred acres of land have come, by regular
conveyances, from Miranda to the petitioner.
The concession grants the land described in the petition.
It lies on a stream running from the west, and entering the
river St John, and called in English the Big Spring, about
twenty-five miles south of St George's lake, one of the fronts

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Levi.]

of the said tract to be on St John's river, and to be divided in
two parts by the stream aforesaid.
The survey was' made on the 5th of April 1821, and cQnforms, in all respects, to the concession.
The fourth claim stated in the petition is to two other tracts
of land, comprising together eight thousand acres, being part
of a larger parcel, containing ten thousand acres, granted in
absolute property to Fernando de la Maza Arredondo, on the
20th of March 1817, the title to which eight thousand acres
the petitioner derives from the grantee.
The land contained in the concession, is described in the
petition as lying, "1five thousand of them, in a hammock to be
found five or six miles east of Spring Garden, and the remaining five thousand west of the river Sc John, contiguous to a
creek called Black Creek, near Fleming's Island, and the pond
called Doctor's Lake." Four thousand acres in each of these
tracts have been conveyed to the petitioner, and the surveys
conform to the concession.
The fifth claim of the petitioner is to twenty thousand acres,
part of a tract of twenty-two thousand acres, granted to George
J. F. Clarke. The complete title was made by the governor
on the 17th of December 1817. The land is described in the
grant as lying "in the hammocks, known under the names of
Cuscowillo and Chachala, situate west of the place of the river
St John's, where there was a store of the house of Pant'on,
Leslie & Co., and about thirty miles from it."
The survey was executed on the 2d of August 1819, in
pursuance of an order from the governor, dated the 20th of
April of the same year. It conforms to the grant.
The judge of the superior court. for the district of East Florida decreed in favour of the validity of all these claims, and
confirmed them to the petitioner, to the extent of the several
concessions, grants and surveys, under which they were respectively held.
The validity of the several grants depends on the principles
which were discussed and decided in -the case of the United
States v. Clarke, so that the only question remaining undecided
respects the conformity of the surveys with the valid title.
This conformity exists in every case, unless it be in the tract of
ten thousand four hundred acres, derived from Antonio Huertas.
VOL. vIn.-3 L

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Levi.]

In that concession, the land is required to lie on a stream,
which is sufficiently designated, the survey to commence four
or five miles from the St John's. The land lies on the stream
which is required, but its distance from the St John's is not
.mentioned. Two decrees of confirmation are entered for this
tract. One a separate decree on the 23d, and the other a general decree on the whole claim, on the 26th of May 1832.
This court is of opinion that ther'e is no error in so much of
the decrees of the superior court of the district of East Florida
as declares the claim of Moses E. Levi to be valid, and in so
much of the said decree as confirms to the petitioner the lands
conveyed to him contained in the grant to Philip R. Yourige
on the 22d of February 1817, in the grant to Pedro Miranda
on the 10th day of September 1817, in the grant to Fernando
de la Maza Arredondo on the 20th of March 1817, and in the
grant to George J. F. Clarke on the 17th of December 1817,
as described in the said decree; and- this court doth affirm the
same so far as respects the land claimed by the petitioner in
these several grants and concessions.
But this court is of opinion, that there is error in so much
of the decree pronounced on the 23d of May 1832, and in so
much of the decree pronounced on the 26th of the same month,
as confirms the title of the said Moses E. Levi to the land contained intthe concession made to Antonio Huertas, according
to the boundaries described in the said decrees, and doth so far.
reverse the same; and doth farther adjidge and dectee, that the
said cause be remanded to the superior court for the district of
East Florida, with directions to conform, in all things, to this
decree: and if it shall appear to that court that the tract of ten
thousand four hundred acres has not been surveyed, according
to the concession made to Antonio Huertas on the 15th of
September 1817, that the same be resurveyed, on the land contained in the said concession, and be decreed and confirmed to
the petitioner if the same be now vacant,

This cause came on to be: heard on the transcript of the record from the superior court for the eastern district of Florida,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, this
court is of opinion that there is no error in so much of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Levi.]

decrees of the superior court of the district of East Florida, as
declares the claim of Moses E. Levi to be valid, and in so much
of the said decree as confirms to the petitioner, the lands conveyed to him contained in the grant to Philip R. Younge, on
the 22d of February 1817; in the grant to Pedro Miranda on
the 10th day of September 1817; in the grant to Fernando de la
Maza Arredondo on the 20th of March 1817; and in the grant
to George J. F. Clarke on the 17th of December 1817, as described in said decree, and this court doth affirm the same so far
as it respects the land claimed by the petitioner in these several
grants and concessions. But this court is of opinion that there
is error in so much of the decree pronounced on the 23d of
May 1832, and -in so much of the decree pronounced on the
26th of the same month, as confirms the title of the said Moses
E. LeA to, the land contained in the concession made to Antonio
Huertas according to the boundaries described in the said decrees, and doth so far reverse the same, and doth further adjudge and decree that this cause be remanded to the superior
court for the district of EastFlorida with directions to conform
in all things to this decree, and if it shall appear to that court.
that the tract of ten thousand four hundred acres has not
been surveyed according to the concession made to Antonio
Huertas on the 15th of September 1817, that the same be resurveyed on the land contained in the said concession, and be
decreed and confirmed to the petitioner if the same be now
vacant.

