JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR V. THE

UNION

BANK OF GEORGETOWN.

In conformity with the charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company,
an inquisition, issued at, the instance of the company, by a justice of the
peace, in the county of Washington, -District of Colunibia, addressed to the
marshal of tie district, was executed and returned to the circuit court of
the county of Washington, estimating the value of the lands mentioned irk
the warrant, and all the damages the owners would sustain by cutting the
canal through the land, at one thousand dollars. Certain objections being
filed to the inquisition, the court quashed the same ; and a writ of error was
brought on this judgment.
By the court: The order or judgment, in quashing the inquisition in this
case, is not final. The law authorises the court," at its discretion, as often
as may be necessary, to direct another inquisition to be taken." The order
or judgment, therefore, quashing the inquisition, is in the nature of an order
setting aside a verdict, for the purpose of awarding a venire facias de novo.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
This case was argued by Mr Coxe and Mr Swann, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Key, for the defendant.
Mr Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

In pursuance of a warrant of inquisition issued at the instance
o ,he Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, by John Cox, a
justice of the peace, in and for the county of Washington, in
the District of Columbia, and addressed to the marshal of the
said district, an inquest of office was held by the said marshal,
on certain lands in the said warrant mentioned, lying in the
said county. The inquisition of the marshal and jurors, returned to the circuit court for the county of Washington, estimhted the value of the lands in the warrant mentioned, and all
the damages that the owners thereof would sustain by cutting
the said canal through the said land, at one thousand dollars.
Upon the return of the said warrant, the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company by their counsel, moved the court for. an order to have the same affirmed and recorded, unless good cause

SUPREME COURT.
(Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Union Bank of Georgetown.]

be shown to the contrary. At a subsequent day, the Union
Bank of Georgetown appeared by attorney, and filed certain
objections to the said inquisition, which being argued, it was
considered by-the court, that the said inquisition be quashed;
which judgment was brought before this court, by writ of error.
This proceeding is in conformity with the charter of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, which was originally
passed by the legislature of Virginia, in January 1824; and
afterwards by the legislature of Maryland, in December of the
same year. The act of Virginia was ratified and confirmed by
the congress of the United States, in March 1825; so far as may
be necessary for enabling the company formed by authority of
the act, to cary into effect the provisions thereof in the District
of Columbia..
The charter empowers the president and directors of the company "to agree with the owners of any land t irough which
the said canal is intended to pass, for the purchase, or use and
occupation thereof; and in case of disagreement, to apply to
a justice of the peace of the county in which the land may
lie, for a warrant of inquisition, on which such proceedings are
directed as have been had in this case. The officer is to return
this inquisition to the clerk of his county, ,nJd unless good cause
be shown against it, it shall be affirmel, by the court and recorded ; but if the said inquisition shuld 'be set aside, or if,
from any cause, no inquisition shall b,, returned to such court
within a reasonable time, the said coart may, at its discretion,
as often as may be necessary, direcc another inquisition to be
taken, in the manner above prescribed."
Before entering on themerits of the judgment of the circuit
court for quashing this inquisition, a preliminary question is
made to the jurisdiction of this coulrt. Its appellate jurisdiction is extended by the act of congress, creating the circuit
court for the district, to "any final judgment, order or decree,
in said circuit court, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, shall exceed the Value, &c"*
The order or judgment in quashing the inquisition in this
case, is not final. The law, authorises the couri, "at its discretion, as often -as may be necessary, to direct another inquisition to be taken." The order or judgment, thereforej quashing

JANUARY TERM 1834.

261

[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Union Bank of Georgetown.]

the inquisition, is in the nature of an order setting aside a verdict, for the purpose of awarding a venire facias de novo.
The writ of error is to be dismissed, the court having no
jurisdiction of the cause.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the.District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that this writ
of error be, and the same is hereby dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

