JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. ANTONIO HUERTAS.
The decree of the superior court of East Florida, confirming a concession of
land by governor Kindelan, to the appellee, affirmed.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
This case was submitted by Mr, Call, for the United States;
and by Mr White, for the appellee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellee had obtained a concession for ten thousand
acres of land, from governor Kindelan, in March 181-,U
The petitioner, in his application to the governor, sets forth
many and great services rendered to the government, in the
course of which he had sustained considerable loss, in the last
insurrection. He also states that he has ten children, and
fourteen slaves.
Governor Kindelan, in his decree making the concession,
states his own knowledge of the facts set forth in the petition,
but grants the ten thousand acres, with the precise condition
to use the same for the purpose of raising cattle, "without
having the faculty of alienating the said tract, without the
knowledge of this government."
On the 20th of July 1816, governor Coppinger granted a
complete title to this land. His grant recites the decree made
by governor Kindelan, and the boundaries of the land. This
claim was laid before the board of commissioners, and recommended for confirmation. Don Antonio Huertas presented his
petition to the court for the district of East Florida, by which
tribunal his claim was adjudged valid. It was confirmed to
him to the extent, and agreeably to the boundaries as in the
grant, and the plat of the survey of said land, made by
Andrew Burgevin, on the 19th of September 1818, and filed ii)
the cause.
No cxception can be taken to this decree, unless the survey

SUPREME COURT.
EUnited States v. Huertas.J

made by Burgevin varies from the grant. The description in
the survey corresponds, in many respects, with that in the
grant; but does not pursue its calls with such regular precision
as to prove, completely, their exact identity. But as this objection was not taken in the superior court for the district,
where a survey could have been ordered, if deemed necessary;
as the testimony in favour of identity greatly preponderates ;
and as the judge appears to have entertained no doubt that the
survey represented truly the land granted: this court thinks the
judgment ought not to be reversed on that account. It is,
accordingly, affirmed.-

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of tJie
record from the superior court for the eastern district of Florida,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed by this couf t, that the decree of
the said superior court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, in all respects.

