SUPREME COURT.

LESSEE OF AMOS BINNEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. THF CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL.COMPANY.
The declaration in ejectment was dated on the 22d of May 1831, and the
judgment was .rehdered on the 14th of January 1832. The. plaintiff in
ejectment counted on a demise made by Amos Binney, on the lt day of
January 1828. His title, as shown in the abstract, commenced on the 17th
of May 1828, which is subsequent to the demise on which the plaintiff
counted. By the court: Though the demise is a fiction, the plaintiff must
count on one, which, if real, would support his action.
The counsel for the defendants insisted, that, if the cafise could not be decided on its supposed real merits, it ought to be remanded to the circuit
court, for the purpose of receiving such modifications as will bring before
this court those questions of law on which the rights of the parties depend.
By the court: Where error exists in the proceedings of the circuit court,
which will justify a reversal of its judgment, this court may send back the
cause, with such instructions as the justice of the case may require, But
if, in point of law, the judgment ought to be affirmed, it is the duty of this
court to. affirm it. This court cannot, with propriety, reverse a decision
which conforms to law, and ren".d a cause for further -proceedings.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States, for the
county of Washington, in the district of Columbia.
An action of ejeetment was commenced in the circuit court,
by agreement, on the-14th day of January 1832. The declaiation counted on a demise from the lessor of the plaintiff,
dated the 1st of January 1828, for the term of fifteen years.
The declaration was afterwards amended, by adding, "a demise from John K. Smith, and a demise from the heirs of
Amos.Cloud (their names to be left in blank, or considered as
properly instituted in the record) and anoither from John Way."
The following agreement, signed by the counsel for the
plaintiff, was also filed in the circuit court.
"The. plaintiff's title depends on the title papers herewith
shown to the court, the due authentication of which is admitted : viz. the patents for Amsterdam and White Haven, and
the several mesne conveyances, decrees; &c., from the patentees down to the plaintiffs; and it is admitted,, that the
plaintiff's lessor, J. K Smith, was in possession in June 1812,
when the condemnation hereinafter mentioned, was made of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Lessee of Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Comptuiy.]

land comprised within said condemnation, and that it is a part
of the -said two tracts of land.
"It is adtnitted, that the Potomac Company, in the year
1793, condemned certain lands, as appears'by their saidinquisition and condemnation, and plot hereto annexed, for their
canal and locks through the aforesaid tracts of land, and other
adjacent tracts as noted on said plot.
"And it is admitted, that, on the 23d of June 1812, an inquisition was held, and condemnation had by said company, as appears by the papers hereto annexed; and it-is admitted, that the.
location of the land, solast condemned, and the new locks erected thereon, and the old locks erected on the land condemned as
aforesaid, in 1793, is truly shown by a plot thereof, made out
by Thomas F. Percell and William Bussard, hereto annexed.
"And itis further admitted, tfiat the Potomac Company,
after said respective condemnations, entered upon the lands
so condemned, and erected thereon the locks as shown in the
said plot, and continued. in possession until transferred to the
defendants, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, which
latter company, have continued in possession ever since.
"Upon which-case agreed, it is submitted to the court to say,
1st. Whether the plaintiff has shown title? and 2d. Whether
the 'condemnation of 1812, aforesaid, divested the plaintifPs
title, and gave a valid title to the Potomac Company?
"It is agreed, that all the papers, plots, &c,, mentioned and
referred to in the afbregoing case agreed, may be omitted in
the record of this case, and may be used in the supreme court,
as if contained in the recoro."1
The circuit court gave judgment for the defendants, and the
plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Key and Mr Jones, for' the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr Coxe and Mr Swann. for the defendants.
The court gave no opinion upon the general questions discussed by the counsel in the cause; the only points decided
were upon the demise in the declaration, and on the application of the counsel of the plaintiffs in error, if the cause could
not be decided on its supposed real merits, to remand it to the
circuit court. "That the pleadings should receive such rood-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

ifications, as will bring before the court those questions of law,
on which the rights oif the partics depend."
Mr Swann and Mr Coxe, for the defendants in error.
The suit was brought in January 1832, and the demise is
laid in the declaration, on. the 1st of January 1828. Tile
lessor of the plaintiff, Amos Binney, acquired his title in May
1828. The other lessors had no title. By the plaintiff's own
showing, they had parted with their title long before the demises in the declaration. 'I ie plaintiff must recover on his
own title, and that title as shown in the declaration, and in
the process. The title must have existed at the time the suit
was commenced, and must exist at the time of the trial of the
cause. Cited Adams on Ejectment; 5 Harr. and Johns. Rep.
173; 3 Har. and Johns. Rep. 13.
Mr Jones and Mr Key, for the plaintiff in error.
The objection to the demise, should have been made at
some previous stage of the cause. Cited, Runnington on
Ejectment 213; Adams 288; Laws of Maryland of 1785.
The objection of the defendants in error to the demise, ought
not to operate to produce an affirmance of the judgment of the
circuit court. If the plaintiff in error has merits, the court, by
remanding the case, so that the pleadings may be modified,
will afford to the parties an opportunity to have the real questions in the case finally adjudged.
Mr Chief Justice MARSH ALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought by the lessee of
Amos Binney, in the court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, sitting in the county of Washington. It was
agreed by the parties that the declaration should be amended,
by adding a demise from J. K. Smith, one from the heirs of
Amos Cloud, and one from John Way. This amended declaration, however, does not appear in the record, and was not
filed in the circuit court.
The following statement is made, as forming a case agreed:
The plaintiff's title depends oR the title papers herewith
shown to the court; the due authentication of wbich is ad-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

mitted, viz. the patents for Amsterdam and White Haven, and
the several mesne conveyances, decrees, &c. from the patentees
down to the plaintiffs; and it is admitted that the plaintiff's
lessor, J. K. Smith, was in possession in June 1812, when the
condemnation hereinafter mentioned was made of the land
comprized within said coftdemnation, and that it is a'part of
the said two tracts of land.
It is admitted that the Potomac Company, in the year 1793,
condemned certain lands, as appears by their said inquisition
and condemnation and plot hereto annexed, for their canal and
locks through the aforesaid tracts of land, and other adjacent
tracts, as noted on said plot.
And it is admitted, that on the 23d of June 1812, an inquisition was held, and condemnation had by said company, as
appears by the papers hereto annexed ; and it is admitted thatthe location of the land so last condemned, and the new locks
erected thereon, and the old locks erected on the. land condemned, as aforesaid, in 1793, is truly shown by a plot thereof
made out by Thomas F. Pdrcell and William Bussard, hereto
annexed.
And it is further admitted that the Potomac Company, after
said respective condemnation, entered upon the lands so condemned, and erected thereon the locks as shown in the said
plot, and continued in possession until transferred to these defendants, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company; which
said company have continued in possession ever since.
Upon which case agreed, it is submitted to the court to say,
first, whether the plaintiff has shown title ? and, second, whether the condemnation of 1812 aforesaid divested the plaintiff's
title, and gave a valid title to the Potomac Company ?
It is agreed, that all the papers mentioned and referred to in
the aforegoirg case agreed, may- be omitted in the record of
this case, and may be used in the supreme court as if contained in the record.
The circuit court decided both points in favour of tb" defendants ; and the plaintiffs have brought the cause before this
court by writ of error.
The abstract laid before the court by consent of parties, does
not show a regular title in the plaintiff; and the case does not,
we think, find a possession of twenty years, anterior to the
VOL, VIII.-2 c

SUPREME COURT.
[Binney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

inquisition, which would constitute a title in ejectment. It
presents evidence fron which a jury might lie justified in finding possession; evidence from which possession maybe inferred,
but the court cannot infer it.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contend, that the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, who claim their title under
the inquest, have admitted it; and are not now at liberty to
controvert it. On the influence of ,the inquest in this cause,
some contrariety of opinion prevails among the judges; but
-the defendants in error have made a preliminary question,
which, if decided in their favour, will terminate the present
suit,.
The declaration in ejectment is dated on the 22d of May
1831, and the judgment was rendered on the 14th of January
1832. The plaintiff in ejectment counts on a demise made by
Amos Binney, on the 1st day of January 1828. His title, as
shown in the abstract, commenced on the 17th of May 1828,
which is subsequent to the demise on which the plaintiff counts.
Though the demise is a fiction, the plaintiff must count on one,
which, if real, would support his action.
We find in the record an entry that the declaration is amended, by adding a demise from J. K. Smith, one from the heirs
of Amos Cloud, and another from John Way. These counts,
however, do not appear, and the court would feel great difficulty in framing them.
If this difficulty could be overcome, the abstract shows that,
J. K. Smith conveyed all his title on the 17th of May 1828,
before this action was commenced.
It. also shows that the title of Amos Cloud's heirs was conveyed from them by deeds bearing date in 1816 and 1819.
John Way, the remaining lessor of the plaintiff, conveyed
his title by deed, dated the 6th of October 1815.
Had these additional counts been filed, neither of the lessors
possessed any title when this ejectment was brought, or when
it'was tried. The case, therefore, could not haive been aided
,.y counts on demises from them.
The counsel for the defendants have insisted, that if the
cause cannot be decided on its supposed real merits, it ought
to be remanded to the circuit court, for the purpose of receiving
such hnodifications as will bring before this court those ques-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
EBinney v. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.]

tions of law on which the rights of the parties depend. Where
error exists in the proceedings of the circuit court, which will
justify a reversal of its judgment, this court may send back the
cause, with such instructions as the justice of the case may
require. But if, in point of law, the judgment ought to be
affirmed, it is the duty of this court to affirm it. (a) We cannot,
with propriety, reverse a decision which conforms to law, and
remand a cause for further proceedings.
The judgmet of the circuit court is affirmed with costs.

This cause carire on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it. is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court be, and the same is hereby affirmed with
costs.
(a) 6 Cranch 268, 2 Cond. Rep. 367.

