SUPREME COURT.

THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES; APPELLANTS V. JACOB
WHITE, DAVID CUMMINS, AND ROBERT BENNEFIL.
The twentieth of the rules made by this equrt at February term 1822, for the
regulation of procbdings in the circuit courts in equity cause, prescribed,
Sifa plea or demurrer be overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall be
thereafter received ; and the defendant shall proceed to answer the plaintiff's bill ; and if he fail to do so within two calendar months, the same, or
so much thereof as was covered by the plea or demurrer, may be taken for
confessed, and the matter thereof be decreed accordingly."
By the terms of this rule, no service of any copy of an interlocutory decree,
taking the bill pro confesso, is necessary, before the final decree; and therefore it cannot be insisted on as a matter of right, or furnish a proper ground
for a bill of review. If the circuit'court should, as matter of favour and discretion-, enlarge the time for an answer, or require the service of a copy be.
fore the final decree ; that may furnish a ground why that court should not
proceed to a final decree, until such order was complied with. But any
omission to comply with it, would be a mere irregularity in its practice; and
if the court should afterwards proceed to make a final decree without it,
would not be error for which a bill of review lies; but it would be to be redressed, if at all, by an order to set aside the decree for irregularity, while
the court retained possession and power over the decree and the cause.
No practice of the circuit court, inconsistent with the rules of practice establish~ed by this court for the circuit courts, can be admissible to control them.
The principle is unquestionable, that all the parties to the original decree
ought to join in the bill of review.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio'
The case, as stated by Mr Justice STORY, was as follows.
The Banlk of the United States, in 1826, brought a bill in
equity against the appeilees, and Hugh Glenn, James Glehn
and Thomas Graham.
The object of the bill was to set
aside certain conveyances of real estate, made by the appellee,
White, to the other appellees, Cummins and Bennefil, upon
which estates the bank, as judgment creditors of White, the
Glenns and Graham, had levied executions to satisfy those
judgments. The bill charged the conveyances to be fraudulent.
Th appellees appealed, and filed a aemurrer to the bill ; and
at the July term of the court in 1828, the demurrer was overruled, and the cause remanded to the rules, and a rule taken
for an answer in sixty days. At the September rules 1828,

JANUARY TERM 1834.

263

[Bank of the United States v. White et al]

an entry "decree pro confesso" was minuted in the rule book;
and thereupon the cause was continued from term to term until
July 1830, when a final decree was entered, as follows: "it
appearing to the court, that the defendants in this cause are
in default for answer, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed, that
the matters set forth intlhe complainants' bill, be taken as confessed and true; and the court therefore order and decree, that
the several deeds set forth in the complainants' bill, as' having
been made by the said 'Jacob White, without any valuable consideration, and with a view to delay and hinder the complainants in the collection of their debts set.forlh in the bill, ai'e void;
and that the same are therefore fraudulent as to the complainants. It is therefore ordered, adjudged and'decreed, that the
several, tracts of land, in said several deeds described, are liable
to be sold for the satisfaction of the said several judgments,
held by the said complainants against said Jacob White and
others, mentioned and set forth in the complainants' bill. And
.it is further ordered, that so far as said deeds may interfere
with the complainants in their collection of their said judgments, the same are hereby declared void ; and the said defendants are perpetually enjoined from setting up or asserting
title under the said deeds, as against the complainants, or arty
persons vho may claim as plirchasers at sales made on execution under any or either of the said judgments, held by the
c.omplainants ; and it is further ordered, that the'said conyplainants recover of the*said defendants their costs in this behalf
expended."
In July,1830, the appellees filed the present lill of review,
for the purpose of reversing the foregoing decree; and the
charging in the bill is, that the decree was irregularly and
illegally made and entered as a final decree ; when, according
to law, and the rules of the circuit court, the same ought only
to have been entered as an interlocutory decree, and a copy
thereof served upon the appellees before the same became
final. The appellants filed an answer, admitting the proceedings and decree to have been as stated in the bill of review.
But the answer avers, that at the time when the demurrer was
overruled, the solicitor for the appellees gave the court and
the solicitors for the appellants notice, that the appellees, then
defendants in the cause, do not wish to file any answer to the
said bill. And theanswer expressly denie, that any error.or

SUPREME COURT.
IBank

of the United States v. White et at.]

irregularity exists in said decree; or that the same was erroneously entered; or that the decree ought to have been interlocutbry: and it does not, admit that a copy ought to have been
served upon the appellees previous to rendering a final decision
thereon, after they had appeared and demurred to the said bill.
The cause was set down for a hearing upon the bill of review and answer; and at the hearing, the circuit court reversed
the original decree, for the reasons stated in the bill of review.
The Bank of the United States appealed from this decree .of
reversal.
A printed argument was delivered to the court, in which
Mr Fox and Mr Caswell, for the appellants, contended, that
the decree, reversing the original decree, was erroneous.
1st. Because all the parties interested in the original decree
were not parties to the bill of review.
2d. Because after defendants in a chancery cause have appeared and demurred to a bill, it is not necessary to serve them
with copies of any decree made in the subsequent progress of
the cause.
3d. That even admitting the necessity of the service of such
a decree in ordinary cases; in the present case, the pleadings
show a waiver of a compliance with the rule, the answer not
being replied to.
The appellants contend that a decree on a bill of review is
one from which an appeal can be taken. 10 Wheaton 146,
6 Cond. Rep. 44. It is a final determination of the suit; and
in case the party plaintiff succeeds, he gains the right of litigating again a matter once decided. It is precisely like a writ of
error in its effects. The decree made on a bill of review, is the
subject of a new bill of review. Cooper's Equity 92; 2 Cha.
Prac. 633; Mitford's Pieading 79, 80; 1 Vernon 417.
And it makes no difference in this respectwhether the original decree was reversed or sustained, on the proceeding t@
review.
If a decree reversing a former decree is the subject matter
for a new bill of review, it follows as a matter of course, that
the decree is final; because none but a final decree can be
either reviewed or reversed : and if final, then it is such a decree as can be appealed from.
In support of the first error assigned, the appellants consider

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Dank of thp United States v. White et al.]

the law as settled, that in bills of review, as in cases of writs
of error, all parties to the original suit must be made parties,
either plaintiffs or defendants, to the proceeding brought to be
reviewed. Cooper'sEq. 95; Beames's Pleas in Eq. 314. In the
present case neither the Glenns nor Graham were made parties
to the bill of review.
In support of the second error assigned,/it is contended, that
after -defendant in chancery has once appeared and demurrer'
to a bill, it is not necessary to give him any further notice of
the proceedings in the cause. A decree nisi need in no case be
served upon such a paity. The omission to file an answer is
an admission, oil his part, that the case is correctly stated in the
bill, and that he has no valid defence to offer.
The twentieth rule established by the supreme court, for the
practice of the courts of the United States, does not require the
service of a copy of the decree. On the contrary, it is expressly
provided, that if the defendant fail to answer the plaintiff's bill
within two months (after the demurrer be overruled), the bill
"may be taken as confessed, and the matter thereof be decreed accordingly." The clause attached to the sixth rule in
these words, "which decree shall be absolute, unless cause be
shown at the term next succeeding that to which the process
shall be returned executed," is altogether o mitted in the
twentieth rule.
By the ordinary rules of practice' in courts of chancery, no
decree could be taken pro confesso, until the defendant had
entered an appearance. The plaintiff had no remedy against
the obstinacy of the defendant, in refusing to enter his appearance. To remedy this defect in the administration of justice,
the statute of 5 Geo. 2, ch. 25, Ivas passed, by which the courts
are authorized- to enter an appearance for the defendant, and
the cause is then prosecuted in the same manner as though th
defendant had voluntarily appeared.
Wd suppose the object of the sixth rule, is to enable the complainant to proceed without an actual appearance. 'The provisions of the sixth and seventh rules embrace substantially
the provisions of the British statute, and the same construction
applied to the estate, must be applied to the rules. I Har.
Cha. Prac. 203; 1 Newland's Cha. Prac. 97.
If the court had intended to require the service of a copyof
VOL. viii.-2 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. White et al.]

the decree, pro confesso, in cases where an appearance had
been entered, and demurrer filed and overruled, language
would have been, used leaving no doubt of such intention.
Such a requisition being contrary to the settled practice of the
English courts, would not have been permitted to rest on mere
inference or implication.
In support of the third error assigned, it is contended, that if
the court should be of the opinion that a copy of the decree
ought to have been served previous to its being finally entered;
yet it is manifest in the present case that the service of the decree was waived. The court were distinctly informed that the
defendants in the cause did not wish or intend to file an answer; under such circumstances it would have been useless to
have served a copy of the decree upon the parties; without an
answer, no other decree could have been pronounced than the
one entered; and as it was known no answer would be filed,
the service of a copy of the decree would have been a useless
act. It is tantamount to a consent that the decree shall be
entered. 5 Johns. Cha. 68.
Why may not a party rest his case upon a demurrer? He
knows the facts are correctly stated in the bill. He finds the
law arising from those facts against him :upon what principle
of law or justice is a party so circumstanced obliged to pay the
expense of a copy and service of such a decree ?
Mr Sergeant, also, for the appellants, after presenting to the
court the printed arguments of Mr Fox and Mr Caswell, stated
that the whole case turned upon the rules for the regulation
of equity proceedings in the circuit courts, as established by
this court. He particularly referred to the twentieth rule;
and he contended that the proceeding in the circuit court of
Ohio was against those riles. Those rules were established for
the general regulation of proceedings in chancery cases, and
they form a part of the law of the land.
A bill of review must be founded on new matter, and this
ofa peculiar character. But there is no allegation of new matter in this proceeding. The paries in this case demurred to
the bill. They were thus in court, and there was no necessity
under the rules of practice to serve a copy of the subsequent
decree upon them. But, in addition to this, the solicitor of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
.Bank of the United States v. White et al.]

original defendants expressly declared the defendants had nothing to allege against the. original bill. This is conclusive
upon the appellees. They were bound by the admissions of
their solicitor.
Mr Hammond, for the appellees.
The first error alleged is, that all the parties interested in
the original decree, were not parties to the bill of review.
We reply that none were affected by that decree but White,
and Cummins, and Bennefil, who claimed under him. Not.hing
was decreed affecting the other. parties. The decree did not
touch them. Consequently they could not, properly, be complainants in a bill of review. As it respected them, there was
nothing to be reviewed.
The second error alleged is, that the appellees having appeared and demurred, although their demurrer was overruled,
and the cause remanded to the rules for further proceeding,
service of a deciee nisi was not necessary.
The supreme court of the United States have established
rules of practice touching this point. The circuit courts may
not give them, every where, exactly the same construction;
but may blend with them, in that construction, an existing
practice. Theie is no reason why a cause, at the rules, upon
rule for answer, shouid be distinguished from a decree pro
confesso, for non appearance. The object of serving on the
respondent himself, a decree ni6i, is, that the court may be
assured he is wilfully in default. This is alike indispensable,
in every case, where a decree pro confesso is to be taken. The
supreme court will not readily control the circuit court in deciding any matter respecting its own practice. So it is decided
in Duncan v. The United States, 7 Peters 451, 452. The decision of the circuit court, in the case now under consideration,
is predicated upon its own knowledge of its own practice. That
decision is in aid of a full and fair administration of justice, and,
therefore, ought to be sustained if possible.
The third error assigned, assumes that the pleadings, in this
case, involve a waiver of the rule. That is, there being no
replication, the allegation, in the answer to the bill of review,
that the counsel for the appellees, the respondents in the origi-

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. White et al.]

nal suit, declared in court that the appellees did not wish to file
an answer to the original bill, is a fact confessed.
There can be nothing in this. No declarations of counsel,
in court, unless formally made and recorded, or noted in writing, can authorise a departure from the established modes of
practice. It seems an odd apology for error in a decree, that
opposing counsel made declarations that induced the party to
commit that error. Butwe go further: we maintain that parties
are not to be concluded by loose and general declarations of
counsel. Parties are as well to be protected against these, as
against the apprehended negligences, which the service of a
decree nisi is intended to prevent.
It is denied that any declaration, of either the party himself,
or of his counsel, can be set up in answer to a bill of review,
for error on the face of the record, unless such declaration
appears in the record of the proceedings, or on the face of the
decree. With these remarks the case is submitted.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
After stating the case, he proceeded:
Several objections have been taken by the appellants to the
decree. In the first, place, it is said- that all the parties to the
original decree are not made parties to the bill of review. How
this matter is, does not distinctly appear, as the proceedings on
the original bill, though made a part of the bill of review, are
not, as they ought to have been, spread upon the present record.
The principle is unquestionable, that all the parties to the original decree ought to join in the bill of review ; but, for aught
that appears, no decree was ever had against the other defend.
ants. If this constituted the turning point of the cause, we
should deem it necessary to award a certiorari, as there is reason, fipm the answer, to doubt if any decree was had against
the otl~er defendants, not made parties to the bill of review.
In tlte next place, it is. objected, that, after an appearance
and de~nurrer overruled, it is not necessary to serve the party
defendant with a copy of the decree, taking the bill pro confesso, for want of art answer. The answer to the bill of review
having expressly de"Pied any error and irregularity in the decree, and not having admitted that the service of any such

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Bank of the United States v. White et at.]

copy is necessary, that matter was directly put in controversy;
and the cause having been set down for a hearing upon the
bill and answer, without a replication, it is difficult to perceive
how this court can take judicial notice of what the practice of
the circuit court is upon this subject, when that practice is the
very hinge of the controversy. But it is iot, in our opinion,
necessary to enter upon this point ; because, we are of opinion
that the decree is perfectly regular without the service of any
copy, according to the rules prescribed by this court, in equity
causes, to the circuit courts ; and no practice of the circuit
court, inconsistent with those rules, can be admissible to control
them.
The twentieth of the rules, made by this court at
February term 1822, in equity causes, is as follows. " If a
plea or demurrer be overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall
be thereafter received; and the defendant shall proceed to
answer the plaintiff's bill ; and if he fail to do so within two
calendar months, the same, or so much thereof as was covered
by the plea or demurrer, may be taken for confessed, and the
matter thereof be decreed accordingly."
.By the terms of this bill, no service of any ccpy of
an interlocutory decree, taking the bill pro confesso, is necessary, before
the final decree ; and, therefore, it cannot be insisted on as a
matter of right; or furnish a proper ground for a bill of review.
If the circuit court should, as matter of favour and discretion,
enlarge the time for an answer, or require the service of a copy
before 1he final decree ; that may furnish a ground why that
court should not proceed to a final decree, until such order was
complied with. But any omission to comply with it, would be
a mere irregularity in its practice; and if the court should afterwards proceed to make a final decree without a compliance
with it, it would not be error for which a bill of review lies ; but
it would be to be redressed, if at all, by an order to set aside the
decree for irregularity, while the court retains possession and
power over the decree and the cause.
In the present case the circuit court did proceed to make a
final decree, after taking the bill pro confesso. There is no
error on the face of that decree. It conforms to the requisitions
of the rules of this court ; and wve are, therefore, of opinion, that
it is not liable to reversal upon the present bill of review,

270

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. White et al.]

The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court, with directions to dismiss the bill of
review.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration
whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court,.that
the decree of the said circuit court in this causebe, and the
same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to
to dismiss the bill of review in this cause.

