JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. WALTER
JONES, ADMINISTRATOR OF BENJAMIN G. ORR.
A treasury transcript, produced in evidence by the United States, in an action on a bond for the performance of a contract for the supply of rations
to the troops of the United States, contained items of charge which were
not objected to by the defendant. The defendant objected to the following
items, as not proved by the transcript: CCFebruary 19th, 1818, for warrant
1680, favour of Richard Smith, dated 27th December 1817 and 11th February 1818, twenty thousand dollars." And on the 11th of April of the same
year, another charge was made ",for warrant No. 1904, for the payment
of his two drafts, favour of Alexander M'Cormick, dated 11th and 17th of
March 1818, for ten thousand dollars." And on the 14th of May of the
same year, a charge was made " for warrant No. 2038, being in part for a
bill of exchange in-favour of Richard Smith for twenty thousand dollars,
twelve thousand eight hundred and thirty-two dollars and seventy-eight
cents." And one other warrant was charged June 22d, "for a bill of exchange in favour of Richard Smith, dated June 22d, 1810, four thousand
dollars; ' and also a warrant to Richard Smith, per order, for eight thousand
dollars." J1hese items, the circuit court instructed the jury, were not sufficiently proved, by being charged in the account and certified under the act
of congress.
By the ccurt: The officers of the treasury may well certify facts which come
under their official notice, but they cannot certify those which do not come
within their own knowledge. The execution of bills of exchange and orders
for money on the treasury, though they may be "connected with the settlement of an account," cannot be officially known to the accounting officers. In such cases, however, provision has been made by law, by which
such instruments are made evidence, without proof of the hand-writing of
the drawer. The act of congress of the 3d of March 1797, makes all copies
of papers relating to the settlement of accounts at the treasury, properly
certified, when produced in court annexed to the transcript, of equal
validity with the originals. Under this provision, had copies of the bills
of exchange and orders, on whicit these items weie paid to Smith and
M'Cormick, been duly certified and annexed to the transcript, the same
effect must have been given to them by the circuit court, as if the original
had been produced and proved. And every transcript of accounts from the
treasury, which contains items of payments made to others, on the authority of the person charged, should have annexed to it a duly certified copy
of the inst,'unent which authorised such payments. And so in every case,
where the government endeavours, by suit, to hold an individual liable for
acts of his agent. The agency, on which the act of the government was
founded, should be made to appear cy a duly certified copy of the power.
The defendant would be at liberty to impeach the evidence thus certified;
and, under peculiar circumstances of alleged fraud, a court might require
the production of the original instrument. This, however, would denend

376

SUPREME COURT.

(United States v. Jones.]
discretion of the court, and could only be enforced
of
the
upon the exercise
by a continuance of the cause until the original should be produced.
The following item in the treasury transcript was not admissible in eividence.
" To accounts transferred from the books of the second auditor for this
sum, standing to his debit, under said contract, on the books of the second
auditor, transferred to his debit on those of this officer, forty-five thousand
dollars." The act of congress, in making a " transcript from the books
and proceedings of the treasury" evidence, does not mean the statement of an account in gross, but a statement of the items, both of the
debits and credits, as they were acted upon by the accoUnting officers of
the department. On the trial, the defendant shall be allowed no credit on
vouchers, which have not been rejected by the treasury officers, unless it
was not in his power to have produced them; and how could a proper
effect be given to this provision, if the credits be charged in gross? The
defendant is unquestionably entitled to a detailed statement of the items
which compose his account.
The defendant, in an action by the United States, where a treasury transcript
is produced in evidence by the plaintiffs, is entitled to the credits given to
him in the account; and in claiming those credits, he does not waive any
objection to the items on the debit side of the account. He is unquestionably entitled to the evidence of the decision of the treasury officers upon
his vouchers, without reference to the charges made against him. And
he may avail himself of that decision, without in any degree restricting
his right to object to any improper charge. The credits were allowed
the defendant on the vouchers alone, and without reference to the particu
lar items of demand which the government might have against him. And
the debits, as well as the credits, must be established on distinct and legal
evidence.
The defendant is entitled to a certified statement of his credits, as allowed by
the accounting officers, and he has a right to claim the full benefit of them,
in a suit by the government; and under no circumstances has the govern.
ment a right to withdraw credits which have been fairly allowed.
The law has prescribed the mode by which treasury accounts shall be made
evidence, and whilst an individual may claim the benefit of this rule, the
government can set up no exemption from its operation. In the performance of their official duty, the treasury officers act under the authority of
law; their acts are public, and affect the rights of individuals as well as
those of the government. In the adjustment of an account, they sometimes
act judicially, and their acts are all recorded on the books and files of the
treasury department. So far as they act strictly within the rules prescribed
for the exercise of their powers, their dtcisions are, in effect, final ; for if
an appeal be made, they will receive judicial sanction. Accounts amounting to many millions annually, come under the action of these officers. It
is, therefore, of great importance to the public, and to individuals, that
the rules by which they exercise their powers, should be fixed and known.
In every treasury account on which suit is brought, the law requires the
credits to be stated as well as the debits. These credits the officers of the
government cannot properly either suppress or withhold. They axe made
evidence in the case, and were designed by the law for the benefit of the
defendant.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
In April 1821, the plaintiffs instituted an action of debt
against Benjamin G. Orr, on a bond, joint and several, executed by Benjamin G. Orr, Alexander M'Connick and William O'Neale, to the United States, on the 21st day of November 1816, in the penal sums of sixty thousand dollars, with
the condition annexed, that "if the said obligor, &c., shall
in all things well, and truly observe, perform, fulfil, accomplish,
and keep all and singular the covenants, conditions, and agreements, whatsoever, which on the part and behalf of the said
Benjamin G. Orr, his heirs, executors or administrators, are or
ought to be observed, performed, fulfilled, accomplished, and
kept, comprised or mentioned in certain articles of agreement
or contract, bearing date 21st day of November 1816, made
between George Graham, acting secretary of war, and the
said Benjamin G. Orr, concerning the supply of rations to the
troops of the United States within the Mississippi territory, the
state of Louisiana, and their vicinities north of the Gulf of
Mexico, according to the true intent, meaning, and purport, of
the said articles of agreement or contract."
The contract was dated on the 21st day of November 1821,
was made by Orr with the acting secretary for the department of war, and stipulated, that Orr, his heirs, &c. "shall
supply and issue all the rations, to consist of the articles hereinafter specified, that shall be required of him or them, for the
use of the United States, at all and every place or places where
troops are or may be stationed, marched, or recruited, within
the limits of the Mississippi territory, the state of Louisiana,
and their vicinities, north of the Gulf of Mexico, thirty days'
notice being given of the post or place where rations may be
wanted, or the number of troops to be furnished on their march,
from the 1st day of June 1817 until the 31st day of May
1818, both days inclusive."
The defendant, Orr, having died after the institution of the
suit, it was proceeded in against Walter Jones, his administrator de bonis non, at May term 1829, who took defence in the
action, and after oyer of the bond and condition, and the contract, pleaded performance, &c.
The plaintiffs replied, that Orr did not perform the contract
VOL. vx.-2 x

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

entered into by him in that, although the United States
advanced and furnished him with large sums of money on
account of the contract, and although the accounts of the said
Benjamin G. Orr, in relation to the articles of agreement-aforesaid, have been duly and finally settled by the accounting
bfficers of the government of the United States; and, upon the
said settlement, there was found to be due to the United States,
from the said Benjamin, the sum of three thousand six hundred
and fifty-four dollars and forty-six cents, of which the said
Benjamin had due notice.
To this replication there was a rejoinder and issue, and on
the 31st of December 1831, the cause was tried, and a verdict
and judgment rendered for the defendant.
The plaintiffs filed two bills of exception.
The first exception set forth the evidence, produced and
relied upon by the plaintiffs, to be an account stated by the
accounting officers of the treasury against Orr, under the contract refered to in the bond, upon which the balance of three
thousand six hundred and fifty-four dollars and forty-six cents
was claimed, and which, according to that account, was due
to the United States. The plaintiffs produced no other evidence. The whole amount of debts in the account was one
hundred and forty-one thousand and seventy-eight dollars and
twenty-four cents. The defendant admitted some charges in
the account for moneys paid to Orr, by warrants of the treasury, amounting to twenty-eight thousand five hundred dollars,
but objected to the competency of the account to charge him
with any other item. The charges admitted were,
1817. June 9, for warrant No. 521, received by him on
account $10,000; Sept. 18, for part 953, do. $5,000; Oct.
6, for do. 1072, do. $8,500; Aug. 1, for do. 2419, do. $5 000
-$28,500.
Among the items objected to were the following:
1818. Feb. 19, for warrant No. 1660, favour of Richard
Smith, dated 27th Dec. 1817, and 11th Feb. 1818-$20,000.
1818. April 11, for warrant No. 1904, for the payment
of
his two drafts, favour of Alexander M'Cormick, dated I1th and
17th March 1818, for $5,000 each-10,000.
1818. May 14, for warrant No. 2038, being in part of a
bill of exchange in favour of Richard Smith for $20,000$12,832 78.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

1818. June 22, for warrant No. 2210, for a bill of exchange
in 1818.
favour of Richard Smith, dated 22d June 1818-$4;000.
June 22, for warrant No. 2420, to Richard
Smith,
per order-$8,000.
1818. June 22, to accounts transferred from the books of
the second auditor for this sum, standing to his debit under
said contract, on the books of the second auditor, transferred
to his debit on those of this office-$45,000.
The circuit court instructed the jury, that the accounts were
not competent to charge the defendant with the items objected
to, and the plaintiffs excepted to this instruction.
Second exception. The defendant then insisted, that he was
entitled to credit for the several sums credited to Orr in the
account for supplies, in execution of the contract, and prayed
the court so to instruct the jury; to which the plaintiffs objected, unlessjury were also instructed that the defendant could
not rely on the account and claim the credits therein, without
making the items of charge therein contained also evidence
before the jury. The court gave the instructions prayed for by
the defendant, without adding the further instruction prayed
for by plaintiffs; to which instruction and refusal the plaintiffs
excepted.
The plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the
United States; and by Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the defendant.
For the United States, it was insisted:
1. That the first exception was well taken, the account
stated being, under the acts of congress, and the provisions of
the contract, competent evidence to charge the defendant1st. With all the items of charge therein contained; and if
not, then:
2d. It was, at all events, sufficient to charge him with the
moneys received on the various warrants specified in the account.
II. The second exception was well taken.
Ist. The account was one entire document, and the defen-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

dant, if he elected to rely on any part thereof, was bound,
by the general rules of evidence, to take the whole as evidence, so far as it was pertinent to the subject matter of the
suit.
2d. There is the more reason for adhering to the general
rule in this case, because the account was stated by a public
officer, to whom, by law, and by the contract of the parties,
the duty of settling the accounts in question, was to be referred.
The arguments presented to the court on this case, and on
the following case, are reported together to avoid repetition.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought into this court by a writ of error to the
circuit court for the District of Columbia.
The action was commenced against B. G. Orr, in his life
time, to recover from him a sum of money which remained in
Fs hands as a balance of moneys that had been advanced to
him on an army contract. Issue being joined, the cause was
submitted to a jury; and the exceptions taken by the plaintiffs,
to the ruling of the court on the trial, present the points for
consideration.
"The attorney for the United States produced and read to
the jury the contract or articles of agreement between George
Graham, acting secretary of war, &c. and the said B. G. Orr,
dated 21st November 1816, and the bond of said Orr and his
sureties, A. M'Cormick and W. O'Neale, of the same date,
with the condition thereof, being the same contract and bond
above set out, &c. The attorney of the United States then
produced and read to the jury the account stated by the accounting officers of the treasury, against the said Orr ; and
claimed to recover in this action the balance. of three thousand
six hundred and fifty-four dollars and forty-six cents, in the said
account stated."
To certain items contained in this account the defendant's
counsel objected ; but no objections were made to four items
charged for treasury warrants issued to Orr, amounting to the
sum of twenty-eight thousand five hundred dollars.
The first charge excepted to, was made as follows: "Feb-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jdnes.]

ruary 19th 1818, for warrant 1680, favour of Richard Smith,
dated 27th December 1817, and 11 th February 1818, twenty
thousand dollars." And on 11th April of the same year,
another charge was made, "for warrant No. 1904, for the payment of his two drafts, favour of Alexander M'Cormick, dated
11th and 17th March 1818, for ten thousand dollars." And
on the 14th May of the same year a charge was made "for
warranc No. 2038, being in part for a bill of exchange in favour
of Richard Smith, for twenty thousand dollars,-twelve thousand eight hundred and thirty-two dollars and seventy-eight
cents." And one other warrant was charged June 22d, "for a
bill of exchange in favour of Richard Smith, dated June 22d
1810, four thousand dollars; and also a warrant to Richard
Smith, per order, for eight thousand dollars.
These items the court instructed the jury, were not sufficiently proved, by being charged in the account and certified
under the act of congress.
This instruction, the attorney-general insists, was errroneous;
and that these items should have been admitted as proved, on
the same principle as the four items to which no objection was
made. That, if the government shall be required to produce
the authority on which the warrants were issued to Richard
Smith and Alexander M'Cormick, on the same principle, the
original warrants issued in the name of Orr, and on.which his
receipts for the moneys are indorsed, should be proved. That
it is as likely that some one may have fraudulently obtained
these warrants from the treasury, by personating Orr, as that
the bills of exchange or orders, on -hich the warrants were
issued to his agents, were forgeries.
The officers of the treasury may well certify facts which
come under their official notice, but they cannot certify that
which does not come within their own knowledge.
In the case of the United States v. Buford, 3 Peters
12, the
court say, that "1an account stated at the treasury department, which does not arise- in the ordinary mode of doing
business in that department, can derive no additional validity
from being certified under the act of congress. Such a statement can only be regarded as establishing items for moneys
disbursed, through the ordinary channels of the department,
where the transactions are shown by its books."

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

The issuing of the warrants to Orr was an official act, " in
the ordinary mode of doing business in the department," and
the fact is proved by being certified as the act of congress
requires.
But the execution of bills of exchange and orders for money
on the treasury, though they may be "connected with the
settlement of an account," cannot be officially known to the
accounting officers. In such cases, however, provision has
been made by law, by which such instruments are made evidence, without proof of the hand writing of the drawer.
In the second section of the act of 3d March 1797, it is pro.
vided, that "all copies of bonds, contracts, or other papers, relating to, or connected with the settlement of any account
between the United States and an individual, when certified
by the register to be true copies of the original on file, and authenticated under the seal of the department, maybe annexed
to the transcripts, and shall have equal validity, and be entitlzd
to the same degree of credit, which would be due to the original papers, if produced. and authenticated in court."
Under this provision, had copies of the bills of exchange and
orders, on which the above items were paid to Smith and
M'Cormick, been duly certified and annexed to the transcript,
the same effect must have been given to them by the circuit
court, as if theoriginals had been produced and proved. And
every transcript of accounts from the treasury, which contains
items of payments made to others, on the authority of the
person charged, should have annexed to it, a duly certified
copy of the instrument which authorised such -payments.
And so in every case, where the government endeavours, by
suit, to hold an individual liable for the acts of his agent; the
agency on which the act of the government was founded,
should be made to appear, by a duly certified copy of the power.
The defendant would be at liberty to impeach the evidence
thus certified, and, under peculiar circumstances of alleged
fraud, a court might require the production of the original instrument. This, however, would depend upon the exercise of
the discretion of the court, and could, only be enforced by a
'continuance of the cause until the original should be produced.
The following item was also objected to by the defendant's
counsel. "To accounts transferred from the books of the sec-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

ond auditor for this sum, standing to his debit, under said contract on the books of the second auditor, transferred to his
debit on those of this office, forty-five thousand dollars."
This item was properly rejected by the circuit court. The
act of congress, in making a "transcript from the books and
proceedings of the treasury" evidence, does not mean the statement of an account in gross, but a statement of the items, both
of the debits and credits, as they were acted upon by the accounting officers of the department. On the trial, the defendant
shall be allowed no credit on vouchers, which have not been
rejected by the treasury officers, unless it was not in his power
to have produced them; and how could a proper effect be
given to this provision, if the credits be charged in gross I
The defendant is unquestionably entitled to a detailed statement of the items which compose his account.
Several other items charged against Orr, were rejected by
the circuit court, and which are embraced by the bill of exceptions, but they present no point which has not been already
considered.
The second bill of exceptions was taken to the instruction of
the court, that the defendant was entitled to the credits given
to him in the treasury account; and that in claiming these
credits, he did not waive any objection to the items on the
debit side of the account.
On the part of the government it is contended, that this
instruction is erroneous. That if the defendant relied for his
defence on any part of the treasury account, he was bound to
take the whole account as stated, and I Wash. C. C. Rep. 344,
and 3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 28, are referred to as sustaining this
doctrine.
There can be no doubt, that if the defendant be called upon
to render an account on which the plaintiff seeks to charge
him, the account cannot be grbled, but must be taken entire.
And so where a plaintiff renders an account, at the instance of
the defendant, to be used jr"his defence ; the account thus
rendered is considered as the admission of the party, and its
parts cannot be separated.
But the treasury account does not seem to rest upon the same
principle.
The accounting officers of the treasury act upon the accounts

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

and give to the credits, as entered, their official sanction. The
vouchers of an individual are all submitted to these officers,
and their decision has always been considered as conclusive
upon the government, but not so as against the individual.
The law expressly provides, that rejected items may be allowed
by the court. The law makes the treasury account, when
properly certified, evidence,; and every item correctly charged
in the account, is prima facie established by the transcript. If,
as in the present suit, certain items are charged to an individual, which the treasury officers cannot know officially to be
correct, and no other evidence in support of them be adduced,
they, should be rejected, as was done by the circuit court in this
cause; but no such )bjection can be made to the credits entered
on the account against Orr. They are all founded upon supplies which he furnished to the troops of the United States
under his contract. These ciedits have been all examined and
allowed by the accounting officers of the treasury department,
and all the vouchers on which this action of the treasury took
place, remain in that department.
The defendant is entitled to a certified statement of his credits, as allowed by the accounting officers, and he has a right
to claim the full benefit of them, in a suit by the government;
and under no circumstances has the government a right to
withdraw credits which have been fairly allowed.
In the present case, the government, to sustain its action
against the defendant, gives in evidence a treasury account
duly certified. This account, so far as it represents the official
action of the treasury, is made evidence by law; but it contains
several items of debits, which, unsupported by other evidence,
are not proved by the transcript. Now, must these items be
admitted by the defendant, if he claim the credits which have
been allowed him in the same account? The credits have been
duly examined and sanctioned, and the law mai es them evidence for the defendant as well as .the plaintiffs; but the items
objected to, though charged in the same account, are not
thereby made evidence, and without further proof they must
be rejected by the court. Would not the rule be as novel as
unjust, which should require the defendant, in a case like this,
to admit debits against him, unsupported by proof, if he claims
credits in the same account, properly entered and legally proved.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
(United States v. Jones.]

The law has prescribed the mode by which treasury accounts
shall be made evidence, and whilst an individual may claim
the benefit of this rule, the government can set up no exemption from its operation. In the performance of their official
duty, the treasury officers act under'the authority of law ; their
acts are public, and affect the rights of individuals as well as
those of the government. In. the adjustment of an account,
they sometimes act judicially, and their acts are all recorded
on the books and files of the treasury department. So fas as
they act strictly within the rules prescribed for the exercise of
their powers, their decisions are, in effect, final; for if an appeal be made, they Will receive judicial sanction. Accounts,
anounting.to many millions annually, come under the action
of these officers. It is, therefore, of great importance to the
public and to individuals, that the rules by which they exercise their powers should be fixed and known.
Could any thing be more unjust, than for the government to
withhold from an individual credits, which its own officers had
decided and certified to be just and legal, until he should admit
certain charges made against him, hut which are unsupported
by evidence ? On what mist the de'fendant rely to establish
his credits in this case ? The transcript of the treasury ? His
vouchers are in the treasury, and having been allowed, must
remain on file ; and he can only ask the accounting officers
for the evidence of this allowance. Had his vouchers-been
rejected, he might have obtained them from the department,
and submitted them to the jury which tried his cause in the
circuit court. And may the evidence of this allowance be
withheld unless the defendant shall admit certain items as
debits which are unsupported by proof? But still more than
this, when the evidence is before the jury, introduced by the
plaintiffs and relied on by them, may they withdraw the credit
side of the account, because the defendant will not consent to
be charged with certain items, illegally.
The defendant is unquestionably entitled to the evidence of
the decisior, -)f the treasury officers upon his vouchers, without
reference to the charges made against him. And in this suit,
he may avail himself of that decision, without in any degree
restricting his right to object against any improper charges.
The credits were allowed to the defendant on the vouchers alone,
VOL. vii.-2 Y

SUPREME COURT,
[United States v. Jones.]

and without reference to the particular items of demand which
the government might have against him. And the debits, as
well as the credits, must be established on distinct and legal
evidence.
It is clear that the government had no right to garble the
treasury statement which was offered in evidence in the circuit court, nor to impose any condition on the defendant, in
claiming the credits which had been allowed him. In every
treasury account on which suit is brought, the law requires
the credits to be stated as well as the debits. These credits
the officers of the government cannot properly either suppress
or withhold. They are made evidence in the case, and were
designed by the law for the benefitfof the defendant.
In neither of the bills of exception does it appear to this
court, that the circuit court erred in their instructions io the
jury: their judgment must, therefore, be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washing-

ton, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed.

