220

SUPREME COURT.

JAMES M'CUTCHEN AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS V. JAMES MARSHALL AND OTHERS.

Patrick M'Cutchen, of Tennessee, died in 1810, having previously made his
last will and testament; by which will, among other things, he bequeathed to
his wife Hannah, during her natural life, all his plaves, and provided that
they, naming them, should, at the death of his wife, be liberated from slavery, and be for ever and entirely setfree; except those that were not of age,
or should not have arrived at the age of twenty-one years at the death of
his wife ; and those were to be subjdct to the control of his brother and
brother-in-law, until they were of age, at which period they were to be set
free. As to Rose, one of the slaves, the testator declared, that she and
her children, after the death of his wife, should be liberated from slavery,
and for ever and entirely set free. Two of the slaves, Eliza and Cynthia,
had children born after the death of the testator, and before the death of his
wife: nothing was said in the will as to the children of Eliza and Cynthia.
After the decease of the wife, the heirs of the testator claimed all the slaves;
and their increase, as liable to be distributed.to, and among the next of kin
of the testator; alleging, that by the laws of Tennessee, slaves cannot be
set free by last will and testament, or' by any direction therein. That if
the law does authorize emancipation, that they are still slaves until the
period for emancipation; and that the increase, born after the death of the
testator, and before their mothers were actually set free, were slaves, and
as such were liable to be distributed. By the court: The laws of Tennessee fully authorize the emancipation of slaves, in the manner provided
by the last will and testament of Patrick M'Cutchen.
As a general proposition, it would seem a little extraordinary to contend, that
the owner of property is not at liberty to renounce his right to it, either
absolutely, or in any modified manner he may think proper. As between
the owner and his slave, it would require the most explicit prohibition by
law, to restrain this right. Considerations of policy, with respect to this
species of property, may justify legislative regulation, as to the guards and.
checks under which such manumission shall take place; especially, so as to
provide against the public's becoming chargeable for the maintenance of
slaves so manumitted.
It is admitted to be a settled rule in the state of Tennessee, that the issue of
a female slave follows the condition of the mother. If, therefore, Eliza
and Cynthia were slaves when their children were born, it will follow, as
matter of course, that their children are slaves also. If this was an open
question, it might be urged with some force, that the condition of Eliza
and Cynthia, during thejlifo of the widow, was not that of absolute slavery4
but was, by the will, converted into a modified servitude, to end upon the
death of the widow, or on their arrival at the age of t enty-one years,
should she die before that time. If the mothers were not absolute slaves,
but held in the condition just mentioned, it would seem to follow, that their
children would stand in the same condition, and be entitled to their free-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]
dor on their arrival at twenty-one years of age. But the course of decisions
in the state of Tennessee, and some other states where slavery is tolerated,
goes very strongly, if not conclusively, to establish the principle, that females thus situatedp are considered slaves. That it is only a conditional
manumission, and until the contingency happens, hpon which the freedom is to take effect, they remain, to all intents and purposes, absolute
slaves. The court do not mean to disturb this principle. The children
of Eliza and Cynthia must, therefore, be considered slaves.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for
the district of West Tennessee.
!n the circuit court of West Tennessee, the appellants, James
M'Cutchen and others, citizens of Missouri, Kentucky, Ohio
and Mississippi, complainants, filed a bill against James Marshall and others, citizens of the state of Tennessee, defendants.
The bill states that some time in the year 1812, one Patrick
M'Cutchen, at that time, and for many years before, a citizen
of Williamson county, in the state of Tennessee, departed this
life. Previous to his death, the said, Patrick M'Cutchen made
and published his last will and testament, which was, after his
death, proved before the court of pleas and quarter sessions of
said county of Williamson, and established and admitted to
record in said county as his last will and testament. A copy
of said last will and testament was an ixed to the. bill. The
whole of the persons nominated in the will as executor and
executrix, qualified as such, and took upon themselves the
burthen of executing the same. Of the said executors, Samuel
M'Cutthen and annan M'Cutche are dead, leaving James
Marshall the sole surviving executor of tne will. Patrick
M'Cutchen, the testator, departed this life without issue ; and
Hannah M'Cutchen, the widow of the said Patrick, although
she intermarried after the death of the said Patrick with one
James Price, also died without issue. By the provisions of the
will, said Hannah M'Cutchen, the widow of the said Patrick,
only held under it a life estate in such portion of the property
of the said Patrick as was therein devised and bequeathed to
her, which estate has, consequently, terrminated by her death.
The bill charges that they, together with the defendants to
this bill, except the defendant James Marshall, are the legal
heirs and distributees of the said Patrick M'Cutchen, deceased.
The said Patrick also left as his distributees and heirs at law
the defendant James M'Cutchen, a brother of said Patrick, and

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

Alexander and William Buchanan, children of a deceased
sister of said Patrick, but who resides without the jurisdiction
of the court, and are, therefore' not made parties t the bill.
The will of the: said Patrick M'Cutchen,. after giving certain
legacies to his relatives, devises "to his wife Hannah, during
her natlural life, the tract of land on which the testator livedi
together with all the residue of his personal property, of every
kind, including the slaves which shall remain after the payment of his debts, and the legacies afterwards, to be used as
she may think proper; the slaves, nevertheless, to be subject
to the arrangement to be made in a subsequent article of the
testament."
The sixth article of the will is' in these terms.
"It is my will and desire that my negro man slave named
Jack, aged about twenty-four years; also my negro man slave
named Ben, aged about nineteen years; also my negro woman
slave named Rose, aged about twenty-six years, together with
what children she may hereafter have, if any, before the
death of my wife Hannah; also my negro girl slave named
Eliza, aged about eleven years; also my negro girl slave named
Cynthia, aged about seven years; also my negro boy slave
named Thomas, aged about four years.; also my negro girl
slave named Harriet, aged about two years; also my negro
girl slave named Maria, aged about two months; the four last
mentioned slaves being the children of the above mentioned
Rose, shall all and each, at the time of the.death of my beloved
wife Hannah, to whom they are given during -her natural life,
as mentioned in the third article, be liberated from slavery,
and for ever and entirely set free: provided, those who are not
now of age or shall not have arrived at the age of twenty-one
years at the happening of the death df my beloved wife Hannah, shall be subject to the -following disposition, viz. Eliza
shall be at the control and under the direction of my brother
Samuel M'Cutchen aintil her arrival at, the age of twenty-one
.years, and then be set free; Cynthia, Ben, Tholhas, Harriet
and Maria, shall be at the control and under the direction of
James Marshall, my wife's brother, until they shall each, respectively, arrive at the age of twenty-one years; at which
time, or times, they are to be each, respectively, liberated, and
for ever set free."

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

The bill charges that the slaves mentioned in the will, and
owned by the testator, with their increase, are liable to be distributed to the complainants and the; defendants, Marshall
excepted, as his legal representatives; but that James Marshall refuises to distribute them, or any of them, and denies that
they are any part of the estate by him to be distributed, alleging
that by the terms of the will they are to be set free at the times
specified in the will., That the said James Marshall did present a petition to the county court of Williamson county, praying the court to set free a certain number of the said slaves,
to wit, Jack, Ben, Thomas, Eliza and Cynthia ; and the
court, supposing they had power to do so, granted the prayer
of the petition, and declared them free; which proceedings the
bill charges were coram non judice and void, as the court had
no Power to set the said negroes free, unless the testator had,
in his life time, presented a petition for the purpose.
The bill further charges, they are advised that by the laws
of the state of Tennessee slaves cannot be set free by last will
and testament, or by any directions therein ; and that, consequently, all the said slaves, with their increase, are liable to be
distributed among the legal representatives of the testator.
That if the law authorized a testator to direct his slaves to be
set free by a given period, or at their arriving at a particular
age, yet they are still slaves until that period arrives ; and
that all their inicrease, born after the death of the testator, but
before they were actuallyset free, are slaves, and as such are
liable to distribution.
The bill prays for an account of the hire of the slaves, and
for their distribution, and for an injunction, &c.
The defendant, James Marshall, executor of the last will
and testament of Patrick M'Cutchen, demurred to the bill, and
the circuit court sustained the demurrer, and ordere4 the bill
to be dismissed.
The complainants appealed to this court.
The case was submitted to the court on printed arguments,
by Mr Benton, with whom were Mr Washington and Mr Yerger,
for the appellants; and Mr White, for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellant first reterred the court to the
following extract from the will..

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

"I give and bequeath to my beloved wife Hannah, during
her natural life, the tract of land on which I now live, together
with all its appurtenances and the residue of the slaves, the
slaves subject to an arrangement to be made in a subsequent
article of this testament."
They said,
That tile slaves, in a subsequent part of the will he directs
to be set free at the time of tile diath of his wife Hannah,
to whom he had given them for life.
In enumerating his slaves he says, that "Rose and such
children as she shall have before his wife dies, shall be set
free," In relation to the rest of his female slaves, he directs
them to be set free, but says nothing of their children.
1st. In the case of Hope v. Johnston, it was decided by the
supreme court of this state, that where a testator directs that
his slaves shall Le set free, his executors can have them set
free upon petition in the same manner as the deceased could
in his life time, See the case, Yerger's Rep.
If this case be the law, it is probable that all the slaves
who were directed to be set free at the death of Mrs
M'Cutchen, would be entitled to their freedom ; but still a
question arises as to the children who were born before- that
period.
Mrs M'Cutehen had but a life estate : the slaves, after her
death, belonged to the distributees of M'Cutchen, until they
are set free. The will does not of itself operate as a gift of
freedom; the assent of the state must be had before they can
be free; this may never be given.
It is settled in this state, that the increase of slaves born
during the continuance of a particular life estate, does not belong to the tenant for life. Glasgow v. Flowers, 1 Hay's Rep.
234, and Tems v. Potter, same page; Preston v. M'Gaughty,
Cooks Rep. 113.
It was the early doctrine of the courts, that a limitation of
chattels for life, gave the absolute interest, but that notion is
now exploded; and, consequently, where slaves are given for
life, with remainder over, the first legatee takes only the specific
interest given, and the right of absolute property rests in the
remainder man. The cases above cited, and 2 Roper on Legacies, 351. So, where there is a devise for life alone, the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

propertyafter life interest, rests in the distributees. Berth v.
Leymom, 3 Condensed Chancery Rep; 660, or 4 Russell's Rep.
263.
In this case, then, there was a devise for life, of the stave:,
with a reversion or vestod interest in the distributees of M'Cutcheft-subject, however, to be divested by the court, upon petition, setting them free. That it is a vested interest, subject
to be divested, is proved by the case of Doe v. Martin, 4 Term
Rep.
The next question is, what is the condition of children born
after a time has'been fixed for their mother to obtain her freedom, but before the time arrives, and before she is actually
free ?
In this case it would seem that the testator only intended
that his then slaves should be free, and not their issue, except
Rose's, because he expressly says that Rose shall be free at
the death of his wife, and all her children born before that
period. But in speaking of the other female slaves, he directs
them to be'set free, but says nothing of their issue. But independent of this, the law is clear, that the issue must follow
the condition of the mother. In M'Cutchen's will, the slaves
were not free ; they had only a right to future freedom, and
that depending upon a contingency, to wit, whether the
county court would grant the petition. Until the period
arrives when they are to become free, they remain slaves;. if
they die before that time, they die slaves: they are in fact
slaves; but entitled to be set free in future.
Suppose a man devises, that if A is elected president, his
female slave B shall be free,-she has a child born, and after
its birth A is elected :-is not the child a slave, although its
mother, after that event has happened, is free ? Was it not
born whilst the mother was a slave ? Surely it was.
Most of our rules (except statutory provisions) are derived
from :the civil law. By the civil law, the issue of slaves entitled to future liberty, or entitled to it at a fixed time, or upon a
contingency, it born before the period arrives or the contingency happens; are slaves. See authorities collected in Judge
Green's opinion, 2 Randolph's Virginia Rep. 241, 242.
In Virginia, the question in the c~se of Maria v. Surbaugh,
the case above alluded to in 2 Randolph, has been very learnVOL. VIL-2 D

SUPREME COURT.
tMbCuteben at al. v Ovsagall et al.]

westigated, aMn it was decided that the issue were

edly,
slaves.
Ir.Kentucky, the same principle has been established. 2
Bibb's Rep. 298.
So in Louisiana. Cato-v. Dorgenny's heirs, 8 Martin's Rep.
218.
So in Maryland. 6 Harr. and Gill, or Harris and Johnson.
At the time those negroes were born, to whom did they belong ? Not to the tenant for life, that is clear. Not to their
mothers, for they were slaves at the time, and could hold no
property. They must have belonged to the distributees, because their mothers did ; subject only to have their interest
divested upon the happening of a contingency.
At the instant they were born, they were born the property
of the distributees. This property cannot be divested, because
authorizing a divestiture only applies to their mothers.
willthe
theBut
case of Hope and Johnson is not admitted to be law.
According to the laws of Tennessee, no man can emancipate
his slaves, by will. The acts of 1777 ch. 6, 1779 ch. 12,
1788 ch. 20, and 1801 ch. 27, all declare that no slave shall
be emancipated except for meritorious services, to be adjudged
of by the county court. These acts, in their details, prescribe
the method of proceeding in cases of emancipation; require
security to be given that the slave to be mainumitted shall not
become a public charge; and provide for the sale of the slave,
when the master suffers him to go at large, or attempts to free
him, without complying with the directions of the law.
Emancipation, therefore, cannot take place consistently with
these acts, by mere testamentary regulation.
It would, at.first view, seem to be strange, that a man could
not renounce any right possessed by him. But slaves are a
species of property, the right to which the policy of society
forbids to be relinquished, without the sanction of the public
authorities. Their assent, in the present instance, was not
given during the life time of the testator; and so soon as he
died, the situation of the property was so altered that it could
not be given without the precedent application of the succeeding owners. The declaration, therefore, which is contained in
the will under which these negroes claim their freedom,
amounts to nothing mote than an expression of a wish or in-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

tention on the part of the testator, that they should be free;
but no act of manumission was consummated by the will.
To counteract this position, the case of Hope v. Johnson, decided by the suprefne court of Tennessee, will probably be
cited. That case, when properly understood, so far as it contains any thing touching the present controversy, is an authority for M'Cutchen. The will of David Beattie was as follows
-" I will and bequeath that -the plantation -Inow.Jive on,
be sold at public or private sale, to the best advantage, and the
proceeds thereof laid out in lands in the Indiana Territory, as
well situated as can be procured, and the right thereof vested
in my negroes, which I now own, to wit, London, George, &c.
each and all of whom I give their entire freedom, and the settling of them on the above named lands, under the direction
of my executor." Robert Johnson was the executor. Mrs
Hope, the sister of Beattie, and his only heir at law, filed a bill
against the executor to enjoin him from executing that part of
the will which related to the sale of the land and investment
of the proceeds, upon the ground of its being a-void devise, as
the negroes could not be emancipated by will, and as they
were the objects of the devise in question. The direct object
of the bill was not to prevent the emancipation of the slaves,
but that matter was incidentally involved in the question growing out of the devise of the land. Mrs Hope set up no claim
to the negroes in her bill; she was willing that they might
be just as free as the testator wished them to be; she only contended for the land, that having descended from her father
The case came on before the court, in the first instance, upon
a motion by the executor to dissolve the injunction. Whyte,
judge, delivered a very able, elaborate, and learned opinion
in support of the.injunction, and of the grounds assumed in the
bill. Haywood and Emmerson, judges, without either dissolving the injunction, or refusing to do, (and that was the
issue which they were called upon to decide) made the collateral order, that the injunction should be held up twelve
months longer, to give the executor an opportunity of procuring the emancipation of the slaves, by any means by which it
could be accomplished. Previous to the date of this very order,
an application had been unsuccessfully made by, the executor
to the county court of Davidson, to.have said -negroes emanci-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.)

pated. It cannot escape the observation of the supreme, court
of the United States, that had said negroes been then (at the
time of moving for tht, dissolution of the injpunction) actually
free, or that had they been then capable of taking by devise,
the executot would hafe been entitled to an unconditional dissolution of the injunction. The cours6 taken by judges Haywood and Emmerson, therefore, unprecedented as it was,
proves, however, that until there was a complete emancipation
of the negroes, they could not be devisees, and also that they
were-not ipso facto emancipated by the will. These are the
reasons which have authorized us to say, that the case of Hope
v. Johnson, so far as it.has any bearing upon this case, operates
in favour of the appellants.
The executor, taking advantage of the hint afforded by the
aforesaid anomalous order of judges Haywood and Emmerson,
applied, to the legislature, and obtained the passage of a special
law, having no reference to any body in the world but him,
Robert Johnson, and to no other case of emancipation but that
of Beattie's negroes ; not pretending to lay down any general
rule upon te subject, or to legislate beyond that particular
case; whereby the said executor was authorized and empowered to prefer a petition to any county or circuit court, other
than that of Davidson, for the emancipation of said negroes ;
and said law further enacted, that the sentence or decree of
such court, when made, should be valid, and should entitle the
negroes to their freedom. In pursuance of that law, by which
the legislature assumed omnipotence, an application was subsequently made to the circuit court of Sumner county, and the
judge of that court sustained the constitutionality of a statute
which undertook to divest private vested rights.
After the decree of Sumner circuit court was obtained, under
the circumstances and in the manner aforesaid, establishing
the freedom 6f Beattie's negroes ; the counsel of the executor,
not relying altogether upon the validity of the decree, entered
into a written agreement with the counsel of MJrs Hope, whereby it was admitted that the negroes were free, and should be
so considered, whatever the supreme court might determine iln
relation to the land. In this agreement, the counsel of MiHope were certainly overreached, as it precluded any discussion
as to the legau .ondition ot the negroes, before said decree of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

Sumner circuit court, and by virtue of it. The object of Mrs
Hope in sanctioning said agreement of her counsel, was merely
to waive any claim to the negroes as property, and to go exclusively for the recovery of the land. But, by admitting that
said negroes had been emancipated by the decree, or were so
at any rate, the necessary implication arose that they were
capable of being so emancipated, notwithstanding the legal
rights of Mrs Hope, as attaching to them from the situation in
which they were left at Beattie's death ; and the conclusion,
that the emancipation of them not having been effected in the
testator's lifetime, they belonged to the executor as assets, and
afterwards went to the distributee, was entirely repelled. In
this state of the case it was brought to a final hearing, and the
bill dismissed, Whyte, judge, still dissenting ; and the strength
of the argument in favour of the executor, was rested upon'the
fact that the negroes were then free, if not by the decree, by
the said written agreement.
It will be seen from the particular phraseology of Beattie's
will, that his land was not devised to his negroes ; but the
direction was, to his executor, to sell it, and invest the proceeds
in the purchase of other land in Indiana, and to invest his
negroes with thc title to that, and settle them upon it. If it
can be considered as a devise of the land to the executor, as a
trustee, it was well enough, provided the trust was of such -a
nature as could be executed. If, however, cestui que trust
was incapable of-taking, the devise to the executor was just as
void as it he himself had been under such a disability. In
this case, the negroes not having been freed by the will of
J3eattie, they descended as property, contemporaneously with
the origin of the devise of the land to the executor, in trust for
them ; and, consequently, there was no cestui que trust that
could be recognized as such, for whose benefit the trust could
be executed, ir which could sustain the devise in trust.
4 Wheaton 1, Baptist Association v. Hart.
To avoid the operation of the principle last adverted to, the
counsel for the executor contended; that the portion of Beattie's
will above quoted, amounted to an executory devise of the land
in favour of the negroes.. And that if the object of an executory devise have not a natural existence, or have no civil
capacity, at the death of the devisor, b-.t should afterwards

SUPREME COURT.
rM'Cutchen et al. v, Marshallet al.]

acquire it ; that the devise is good, if the contingency upon
which it is to take effect, happen within proper-time. The
general principle here stated, is undoubtedly true ; but it is
very much qualified in its application to the case of Hope v.
Johnson. To give it effect, the object of such a devise must
be capable in its own nature of coining into existence, or of
acquiring the requisite faculties to take, independently of the
conflicting and inconsistent rights of other persons to the subject of the executory devise ; and it must actually come into
existence, and acquire the faculties, before such adverse rights
accrue. As, for example, an executory devise to an unborn
child, is good, provided the child be born before the devise is to
take effect. Bpt if it be not born at the time the devise is to
take effect, although, had it been born, it would have taken

the property ; yet, not being then born, the property will go in
a different direction ; and having once gone in tlat direction,
it cannot afterwards be recalled, notwithstanding the child
designated as the executory devise, should be subseque tly
born.

Again, if a person attainted is an executory devisee,

'the devise will take effect, provided the attainder be reversed
before the time. appointed for that purpose. But, suppose the
attainder be not reversed until after the arrival of the time, and
the property in the mean time should be cast upon another,,in
that case it is very manifest, that the right of that other to it
would be good, and the subsequent -reversal of the attainder
could make no difference. Applying the principle thus explained to the case of Hope v. Johnson, and it will be seen
that, although there might have been an executory devise of
the land to the executor, yet, as the negroes were the executory devisees, who were slaves, and as such went as property
to the distributees, before they were emancipated, (if ever they
were emancipated at all) they could not, therefore, take the
land, or its proceeds, by virtue of such subsequent emancipation ; and, indeed,,that, they were not, and could not be endowed with the capacity to take. To get over this difficulty,
Johnson's counsel founded himself upon the agreement and
admission of Mrs Hope, that the negroes had been emancipated
by virtue of the decree of Sumner circuit court; and from that
fact,, he declared their capacity to take and hold land, as executory devisees.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutehen et al. v. Marshall et LI.]

Whether the direction contained in Beattie's will relativo to
the disposition of his land, does amount to an executory devise
of it, which may well be doubted, it is foreign to my present
purpose to inquire. I have now gone through the analysis
which I intended, of the case of Hope v. Johnson ; and I have
but one or two observatioms more to make concerning it. It
will probably be cited by the opposite counsel as a decision
upon a statute of a state, by its own tribunal ; and he may, in
that view, claim for it a particular weight upon the supreme
court of the United States. -How far is it a decision or exposition 6f a state statute ! Only so far as to settle that slaves
cannot be emancipated by will. And so far as I have before
stated, it is an authority for M'Cutchen. But, so far as it respects executory devises, or devises in- trust, it is a decision
founded on the general principles of the common law, and is
no more to be regarded by the supreme court of the United
States, than would be the decision of any other tribunal equally
respectable.
By the laws of Tennessee, and the practice under themr
petitions for emancipation are always preferred by the owners
of slaves, who are desirous of conferring on them freedom ;
and the only object of such petitions is to obtain the public
sanction, and give the. requisite guarantee that the slaves, if
superannuated, shall not become a charge to the community.
And the county court, which is the public organ for this purpose, has to judge of the policy and propriety, in a moral point
of view, of increasing the number of this species of population,
Such being the case, there- is no necessity for the service of
process on any one ; the, very party to be affected by the decision, to wit the owner of the slaves, being the petitioner and
in court. But in the proceeding before Sumner circuit court,
under the special statute before referred to, Robert Johnson,
the executor of Beattie, was the petitioner ; and Mrs Hope, the
distributee, to whom the negroes really belonged, was not
cited to defend the petition, nor required by the law to be
notified in any way ; nor was she in court, and the act of the
court upon the petition was wholly ex parte.
I Hope v. Johnson is, moreover, a solitary decision, of a very
important character, which has not been generally acquiesced
in. And as a proof that it has not been considered as sustain-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al.v. Marshall et al.1

ing the principle determined by it,
the act of 1829, cb. 29, was
passed ; for the provisions of wbvich there would have beep no
necessity, if the law had been as attempted to be settled in that
case. That act merely carries out the principle of Hope v.
Johnson, by making it the duty of an' executor, where the will
of a testator directs his slaves to be set free, to prefer a petition
to the court for that purpose ; and gives the court power, "if
it shall appear to them that the slaves ought of right to be set
free," so to order 'it ; he giving bond and security as required
by former acts. It further provides, that if the executor fails
or omits to prefer such petition, any person may file a bill in
equity as the friend of the negroes, for the same purpose. The
act further contemplates, that if the petition is filed, it must be
done in the county court ; in which case, it requires no notice
to the distributee. And although the act is silent as to the
process or manner of proceeding, in case the prochein ami of
the negroes should file a bill in equity ; yet, it is to be presumed,
that it was intended that the proceeding there was to be after
the manner of that court. Upon this act, and his petition to
the county court under it, Marshall, the executor of M'Cutchen, founds himself, in addition to the authority of the case
of Hope v. Johnson,
The answer to that view of the case is simply this. That
by inevitable implication, according to the terms of the said
act of 1829, slaves cannot ipso facto be freed by Will. That
they are to receive their freedom by an act to be performed
after the death of the testator. Then what was the legal
condition of the slaves in controversy, eo instanti that the
testator died ? They were undoubtedly slaves still. And if
so, they were the property of some person, inasmuch as the
title to them could not be in abeyance. That person' must
have been the distributee, subject to the right of the executor
to them as assets for the payment of debts. They were not
needed as assets, as the attempt to emancipate them shows.
Then how have the distributees been divested of their property?
It is said, by this act of the executor, done after the. death of
the testator, and the order of the county court made thereon; to
whigh the distributee was neither a party nor a privy, and concerning which he had no notice whatever, Now it is humbly
apprehended, that the gift of freedom to slaves must proceed

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutehen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

from the owner, with the sanction of the court; and that it
can, by no possibility, be derived from one who is not the
owner, although he may sustain the character of a court, or of
an executor ! And it is apprehended further, that it was not
competent for the court and the executor to divest the distributee of his property wi.hout affording him any opportunity
whatever to prevent it.
If it were competent for a testator to free his slaves by will,
it would be a most alarming doctrine to creditors. To prevent
such a prejudice to creditors, no act of assembly has ever gone
so far as to prescribe that it might be done; and I presume
that no court, of common prudence, would permit an executor
to do it, under any circumstances, until-he first adduced proof
that the creditors were all satisfied, and his administration completed. If then slaves directed to be set free by a testator,
could be considered as property for any purpose, after his death,
they must be subject to all the incidents of property ;.and would
consequently go to the distributee after the satisfaction of cred19
itors. '
The case of Hope v. Johnson is very imperfectly reported.
This is a true and full history of it.
Mr White, for the appellees, contended
That the laws of Tennessee do not prohibit the emancipation of slaves by last will and testament, and that the executors are authorized to observe the directions of the will, if the
sovereign power, through the medium of' t eir legislature or
the judicial tribunals, assent to such emancipation. The next
of kin have no vested interest to be affected by such acts of
the legislature, or decisions of any tribunal in whom jurisdiction is reposed.
The act of North Carolina of 1777, chap. 6, sec. 2, which was
in force in Tennessee, provided, "that no negro or mulatto
shall hereafter be sct free, except for meritorious services, to be
adjudged of and allowed by the county court, and license first
had and obtained thereupon." The act of the legislature of
Tennessee of 1801, chap. 27, see. 1, repealed and modified the
former law, and allowed owners of slaves t6 petition the county
court in all cases, not restricting their power to the case where
meritorious services were performed. By the act of 1801, if
VOL. VIILi-2 E

SUPRviIE COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

the court, upor ox.amining the reasons set forth in the petition,
are of opinion that acceding to the same would be consistent
with the interest and policy of the state, tie chairman thereof
reports on the petition. Under the restrictions of that law
slaves can be emancipated. By the act of 1829, chap. 29, in
force on the 26th November 1830, when the present bill was
filed, it was made the duty of an executor, where a testator
had by his will directed any slaves to be set free, to petition the
county court accordingly, and if the executor refused, the
slaves were authorized to file a bill for their freedom. Upon
what ground can the argument be supported, that the directions of a testator to emancipate his slaves are void, and that
the executor holds them in trust for the next of kin? It must
be because there is a positive law forbidding such a mode of
emancipation. No such law exists. The act of 1777, it is
true, provided that no slave should be emancipated but for
meritorious services, and the, county court was the tribunal to
adjudge whether those services had been performed. To adjudge between whom? The master and the state. The act
of 1801 leaves out the restriction, and gives the county court
general powers, because the legislature had been harassed by
the frequent applications for emancipation.
The question
arising in this cause has been decided in the supreme.court of
errors and appeals, in the state of Tennessee, in the case of
Anne Hope v. Robert Johnson, executor of the will of David
'Beattie, which was finally decided in January 1826, and a
copy of the record in that cause, and the-opinion of the court
is submitted for the inspection of this honourable'court. In that
case the testator had given his slaves their freedom, and the
bill was filed by the next of kin and heir at law,.stating that
the devises directing the emancipation of the negroes, and the
purchasing of lands, were void, and an injunction was granted
to prevent the removal of the negroes.
The cause first came on to be heard on the 4th September
1821, and the supreme court ordered that the executoi-or any
other of those appointed in said will, who might take upon
themselves the execution thereof, should- be allowed twelve
months from that time, to' procure the emancipatiboi of said
slaves by any legal means whatever. In January 1826, the
cause was finally heard, and the court in the decree pronounced

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.I

tat the devises and bequests in the will were legal and valid,
and that thereby the executors had full power and authority
to procure the emancipation of the negroes; and to sell and dispose of real estate for the use of the negroes. In their opinion
the court says, "that no particular mode of emancipation is
specified by either the act of 1777 ch. 6, or of 1801 ch. 27. As
between the master and the slave, the intent and volition of the
master to emancipate may be made known by any species of
instrument that will completely evince it, and then nothing
more is wanted, but the assent of the state expressed by its organ the court, wlich may show its determination by reporting
on the petition and certifying the same, and by causing both
the petition and report to be filed amongst the records of the
court. The mind and desire of the owner may be as well expressed by will, as by deed or any other instrument; and when
it is made known by his will the duty of his executor is to use
such legal meansas may be effectual for the completion of his
purpose." No decision adverse to this has been made by the
supreme court of Tennessee, and the principles established by
that decision are believed to be conclusive, in favour of an
affirmance of the decree of the circuit court. The only other
case in Tennessee known to the counsel of the defendants,
where the power of emancipation by will is alluded to, is the
case of M'Cutchen v. Price, 3 Haywood's Reports 212. The
court says, that "a testator may direct that the executor shall
endeavbur to procure the emancipation of his slaves; and if the
executor can do so, then all claims founded upon the legal impossibility of doing so vanish."
It i s true that in North Carolina it has been decided in the
case of Haywood v. Craven's executors, 2 North Carolina Law
Repository "557,and some other cases that a devise to emancipate slaves is void. But these decisions are not applicable to
the state of things in Tennessee, for in North Carolina they
have no law similar
tthe act of Tennessee of 1801, ch. 27,
'sec. 1, before mentioned. Their decisions are founded upon
the acts of 1741, .ch. 24, sec. 56, and 1777, ch. 6, sec. 2; and
their court§ say, that such devises are repugnant to positive
provisions by statutes which have pointed out one method only,
in. which slaves can be liberated, and that in one case-only, to

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al.v. Marshall et a.]

wit, lor meritorious services. Such is not the law of Tnnessee,
and therefore the decisions in North Carolina hiave no application.
It is the settled law of Tennessee, that the issue of a female
slave follows the condition of the mother. The case of
Timms v. Potter, 1 Haywood's Reports 234; Craig and others
v. Estis, Cooke's Reports 381; Preston v. M'Gaughey, Cooke
113, establish that the issue belong to the iemainder van,
and not to the tenant for life. These cases have never
been disputed. If then the children were born of mothers
who were not absolutely slaves, but only for a limited period
having a right to their freedom; if the executor colld procure the assent of the legislature, or of the sovereign power:
does it not follow, that the children are entitled also to the
privilege of freedom ? What was the situation of the mother
at the time of the birth of the child ? The executors were
iequired to procure her emancipation at the death of the wife
of the testator. She was not a slave in the usual meaning
of the word, she was entitled to freedom unless that right was
refused from principles of public policy, and a court of equity
will not prevent the executor from complying with the directions of the testato;, upon the application of next of kin who
Lad no vested interest at the time of the death of the testator.
2. But suppose the directions for emancipation are void, are
the complainants entitled to sustain this bill ? By the codicil
to the will, Elizabeth Larkins is made sole residuary legatee of
the personal propei ty, which should remnain at the death of his
wife. Then the executor, if he could not legally emancipate
the slaves, would hold them in trust for the residuary legatee
and not for the next of kin. Slaves are personal property by
the laws of Tennessee.
Mr Justice TuiouPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up by appeal from the decree of the circuit
cotut of the United States for the district of West Tennessee,
by which time bill of the complainauts was dismissed. The bill
states, that Patrick M'Cutchen, a citizen of the' state of Tennessee, departed this life some time in the year 1812, having
shortly befo,'e, in the same year, made his last will and testament., which, after his death, had been duly pioved and re-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

corded. By which will, the testttor among othier things,
bequeathed to his wife Hannah, during her natura' life, all his
slaves, and provid.ed, that they, specifying them by name,
should, at the death of his wife, be liberated from slavery, and
for ever and entirely set free ; except those that were not of
age, or should not have arrived at the age of twenty-one years
at the death of his wife. And those were to be subject to the
control, and under the direction of his brother and brother-inlaw, until they were of age ; at which period they were to be
liberated. Samuel M'Cutchen, James Marshall, and his wife
Hannah, were made executors, and all qualified. Patrick
M'Cutchen died without issue. His widow had the possession
of the slaves during her life. And James -Marshall is the only
surviving executor. The bill further states, that the complainants and the defendants, except James Marshall and two
others, vho are not made parties, because they reside out of
the jurisdiction of the court, are the distributees and nsxt of
kin to the testator, and that the slaves and their increase are
liable to be distributed toand among the complainants and the
other next of kin ; and that the executor, James Marshall,
refuses to distribute them, because the will directs their emancipation. And that he has actually presented a petition to the
county court of Williamson, and procured the emancipation.of
some of them. And the bill charges, that the county court
had no power to emancipate upon the application of an executor. That, by the laws of Tennessee* slaves cannot be set free
by last will and testament, or by any directions therein. That
if the law does authorise emancipation, that they are still slaves
until the period for emancipation ; and that the increase born
after the death of the tnstator, and before their mothers were
actually set free, are slaves, and, as such, liable to be distributed. The bill then states the names of the several children,
,born after the death of the testator ; and prays an account of
hire, and the distribution of all thb slaves and their increase ;
and an injunction to prevent the executor florn proceeding to
establish the freedom of the negroes, or removing them beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and also for general relief.
This statement of the allegations in the bill, thus far, is all.
that is necessary for the purpose of raising the material questions in the case, viz. the right of the owner of slaves in the

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

state of Tennessee, to manumit such slaves by his last'will and
testament. To this bill there is a demurrer by the executor
Marshall, for want of parties, and also because there is no
equity in the bill. The other defendants not having appeared,
the bill is taken for confessed by them, and set f~t hearing.
ex parte.
The demurrer admits the facts stated in the bill, and the
question already mentioned is raised for the consideration bf
the court.
As a general proposition, it would seem a little extraordinary
to contend,-that the owner of property is not at liberty to renounce his right to it, either absolutely, or in any modified
manner he may think proper. -As between the owner and his
slave, it would require the most explicit prohibition by law,
to rest-rain this right. Considerations of policy, with respect
to this species of property, may justify legislative regulation,
as to the guards dnd checks under which such. manumission
shall take place ; especially, so as to provide against the public's becoming chargeable for the maintenance of slaves so man"
umitted. Itbecomes necessary, therefore, to inquire what legislative provision has been made in the state of Tennessee on this
subject; and it will be found, that the legislature has been gradually relaxing the restrictions upon the right of manumission.
By the act of North Carolina of 1777, ch. 6, sect. 2, which was
in force in Tennessee, it is declared, that no negro or mulatto
shall hereafter be sei flee, except for meritorious services, to
be adjudged of, and allowed by the county court. The act of
Tennessee of 1801,'ch. 27, sect. 1, modified the former law, and
-allowed the owners of slaves to petitiULI the county court in all
cases ; setting forth the intention and motive for such emancipation, without any restriction as to meritorious services.

And if the county court, upon examining the reasons set
forth in the petition, shall be of opinion, that acceding to the
same would be consistent with the interest and policy of the
state, they are authorised to allow the manumission, under the
provisions therein prescribed, to guard against the slave, so
manumitted, becoming a public charge for maintenance.

This act does not, in terms, extend the right of application
to the county court for the manumission of slaves, to any one,
except the owner of the slaves. And it is argued, on the part

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

of the appellants, that no such application can be made by executors ; and that the declaration and direction in the will of
Patrick M'Cutchen, in relation to the manumission of his
slaves, amounts to no more than an expression of a wish on the
part of the testator, that his slaves should be free ; but did
not amount to a manumission, or confer any authority on the
executor to .consummate the manumission, by application to
the county court. And the power of the county court to
manumit on the application of the executor, is denied; and
their proceedings in the present case, alleged to be entirely
void.
This questiou came under the consideration of the court of
appeals in the state of Tennessee, in the case of Anne Hope v.
Robert Johnson, executor of David Beattie, decided in January 1826. In that case Beattie, by his will, directed certain
parts of his property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be
laid out in'lands in the.Indiana Territory ;'the right to which
he vested in the negroes he then owned, naming them. "Each
and 6ll of whom I give' their entire freedom, and the settling
of them on the above lands, under the direction of my executor." The bill was filed by the next of kin and heir at law ;
alleging, that the direction, with respect to the manumission
of the slaves, and the puirchase of the land, was void. The
court decided that the devises and bequests in the bill, were
legal and valid ; and that thereby the executor had full power
and authority to procure the manumission of the slaves; and
to sell and dispose of the estate for their use, according to the
directions in the will.
The court, in pronouncing their opinion, say, "that no particular mode of emancipation is specified, either by the act of
1777, or of 1801. As between the master and the slave, the
intent and volition of the master to emancipate, maybe made
known by any species of-instrument that will completely evince
it; and then nothing mote is wanted but the assent of the
state, expressed by its organ, the court ; which may show its
determination by reporting on the petition, and certifying the
same ; and by causing both the petition and the report to be
filed among the records of the court. The mind and, desire of
the owner may be as well expressed by will, as by deed or any
other instrument; and when it is miade known -by his will, the

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

duty of his executor is, to use such legal means as may be
effectual for the completion of his purpose."
This is a judicial interpretation by the highest court in the
state, of one of its own statutes, which has always been held
by- this court as conclusive ; especially if such interpretation
has not been called in question in its own tribunals and no
case has been referred to, tending in any measure to shake
this decision. And indeed, it is very much strengthened, if
not absolutely confirmed, by the subsequent act of 1829, ch.
29, by which it is made the duty of an executor or administrator with the will annexed, where a testator had, by his will,
directed any slaves to be set free, to petition the county court
accordingly, and if the executor or administrator shall fail or
refuse to do so, the slaves are authorised to file a bill for their
freedom, under certain regulations pointed out by the statute
(Digest. Ten. Laws 327, where all the laws are collected).
This act having been passed since the death of the testator
in the case now before us, and since the manumission by the
county court of Williamson county (as is presumed, though
that time does not appear in the record), may not ratify and
confirm the manumissions in the present case. Yet laving
been passed since, the decision.in the case of Hope v. Executor
of Beattie, it may well be considered a legislative sanction of
the construction which had been given by the court of appeals
to the act of 1801.
At all events, the decision in the case of
Hope v. Executor of Beattie, must be considered as settling
the construction of the act of 1801, and authorising the executor to petition the court for the manumission of the slaves, and
justifying the proceedings of the court theieupon.
This construction of the act of 1801, puts,,at rest the claims
of wie appellants to all the slaves, except the children of the
females, which were born after the death of the testator, and
before the death of his widow, to whom all his slaves were
bequeathed, during her natural life. And this class includes
the children of Eliza and Cynthia only. For, with respect to
Rose and her children, the testator declares, that upon the
death of his wife, they sbuallt be liberated from slavery, and fbr
ever and entirely set, free.
The question thcn arises, how the children of Eliza and
Cynthia, born during the continuance of the life estate of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

Widow, are to be considered. It isadmitted to be a settled
rule in the state of Tennessee, that the issue of a female slave
follows the condition of the mother. If, therefbre, Vliza and
Cynthia were slaves when their children were born, it will follow as matter of course, that their childien are slaves also,
If this was an open question, it might be urged with some
force that the condition of Eliza and Cynthia, during the life
of the widow, was not that of absolute slavery; but was, by
the will, converted into a modified servitude, to end upon the
death of the widow, or on their arrival at the age of twenty-one
years, should she die before that time. If the mothers were
not absolute slaves, but held in the condition just mentioned,
it would seem to follow, that their children would stand in the
same condition, and be entitled to their freedom on their arrival at twenty-one years of age. But the courje of decisions
in the state of Tennessee, and some other states where slavery
is tolerated, go very str'mgly, if not conclusively, to establish
the principle, that females thfis situated, are considered slaves.
That it.
is only a conditional manumission, and that, until the
contingency happens, upon which the freedom is to take effect,
they remain, to all intents and purposes, absolute slaves. And
we do nbt mean to disturb that principle. Cook's Reports 131,
381 ; 2 Randolph 228; 1 Haywood 234. The children of
Eliza and Cynthia must, therefore, be considered. slaves : and
the question arises, whether the allegations in the bill are sufficient to call upon the executor to account for their wages,
or to restrain him from taking any measures to establish their
freedom.
The bill charges, that Pleasant and ten others, naming them,
the children of Cynthia and Eliza(or perhaps Rose), were all
born after the death of the said Patrick, and before the time
arrived, when, by the directions of the said will, they vere to
be set free ; and that they are (if no others) to be distributed
among the representatives of the said Patrick ; and prays,
that the executor, James Marshall, may be compelled to distribute said slaves among the complainants, and account for
their hire in the proportions to which tihey are entitled.
We think these allegations are too vague and uncertain to
call upon the executor to account, in any manner, for t ose
clhildren.
VOL. Viii.-09 F

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cutchen et al.v. Marshall et al.]

In the first place, it is left entirely uncertain which of
the persons named, are the children of Eliza or Cynthia.
They are alleged to be the children of Eliza and Cynthia (or
perhaps Rose); that is, perhaps the children of Rose. Now,
if they, or any of them, are the children of Rose, such children
are expressly manumitted by ihe will. In the next place, it
is not alleged which of them are the children of Eliza, and
which of Cynthia. And, by the will, a special and different
disposition is made of these two. The testator directs, that
Eliza shall be at the control and under the direction of his
brother, Samuel M'Cutchen, until her arrival at the age of
twenty-one years, and then to be set free. And, that Cynthia
shall be at the control and under the direction of James Marshall, until she arrives at the age of twenty-one years, when
she shall be liberated and for ever set 'free.
The bill does not charge the appellee with having the possession or control of these children ; or that lie has received
any wages for, or on account of them. Nor, under the various
dispositions of these slaves, by the will of Patrick M'Cutchen,
will the law charge the surviving executor with a breach oi
trust or neglect of duty, in not taking the charge and management of these children. If they are slaves, and the complainants have a right to them, they have an adequate remedy at
law, to assist and enforce that right.
But it is contended, on the part of the appellee, that, independent of all other considerations, the appellants have no
right to these slaves, or any part of them. -for, by the codicil
to the will, Elizabeth Larkins is made sole residuary legatee of
the personal property which should remain at the death of the
testator's wife; and that slaves in Tennessee, being personal
property, the executor holds them in trust for the residuary
legatee, and not for the next of kin.
We do not, however, think (his is- the true construction of
the codicil. It professes to explain one of the articles in the
will, bt, not to maL-e a different disposition of the property
mentioned in that article. The article referred to, is the fifth,
which in the will reads thus: "I will and bequeath to the
said Patrick M'Cutchen, fourth son of my brother, Samuel
M'Cutchen, and to Elizabeth Larkins, daughter of John Larkins, by his first wife, Margaret, jointly and equally, the land

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[M'Cutchen et al. v. Marshall et al.]

on which I now live, with all its appurtenances, together with
all the resid'iw of my pcreono.l property (slaves excepted) which
shall remain after payment of my just debts, &c., to take effect
at -the death of my beloved wife, &c.".
The codicil reads thus: "whereas some doubts maybe entertained respecting the construction of the fifth article, and as I
find upon review of the subject, I have not expressed my meaning with sufficient perspicuity, I declare this to be my will'and
meahing of the said fifth article ; Patrick M'Cutchen, named
in that article, is to be the.joint legatee with Elizabeth Larkins of the land only, and Elizabeth Larkins sole residuary
legatee of the personal property which shall remain at the death
of my wife."
The personal property referred to in the codicil, must mean
the same personal property mentioned in the fifth article, otherwise the codicil would not be what it professes to be, explanatory of that article, but would be a different disposition of the
property. The codipil must, therefore, be read with the same
exception of the slaves as is contained in the fifth article. And
that the testator did not intend to include any slaves in this.
codicil is very evident, because by the will, at the death of his
wife, all his slaves were to be manumitted; so that there could
be no slaves to pass under the residuary clause in the will, or
the codicil.
But upon the other grounds stated in this opinion, we think
the bill contains no equity which entitles the appellants to relief. And the. decree of the circuit court dismissing the bill,
is accordingly affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from-the circuit court of the United States, for the district of West Tennessee, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed. by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

