GORHAM MFG. CO v. TAX COMM.
Counsel for Parties.

GORHAM MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. STATE
TAX COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 5. Argued April 21, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. A taxpayer who has not exhausted the remedy provided before
an administrative board to secure the correct assessment of a tax,
will not be heard to assert its invalidity in a suit to enjoin its
collection. P. 270.
2. So hed, where a foreign corporation attacked on constitutional
grounds a tax for the privilege of doing business in New York,
assessed, on the basis of allocated income, under Art. 9-A of the
New York Tax Law, as amended in 1918, but had failed to exercise
its right under § 218 of that Article to apply for a revision and
obtain a hearing before the State Tax Commission, at which it
might have submitted evidence, and upon which, if it appeared
that the account included taxes which could not have been lawfully demanded, the Commission would have been required io
resettle the same "according to law and the facts," and adjust
the tax accordingly.
274 Fed. 975, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed, upon final hearing, a bill to enjoin collection of
a tax. See the next case, post, p. 271.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. George Carlton
Comstock, Mr. Robert C. Beatty and Mr. Harold T.
Edwards were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General of the State of
New York, and Mr. C. T. Dawes, for appellees, submitted.
Mr. Ernest G. Metclfe and Mr. Randolph W. Branch,
by leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
19458*-25-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Gorham Manufacturing Company brought this
suit in equity in the District Court to enjoin the collection
of a tax assessed against it under Article 9-A of the Tax
Law of New York, alleging that the provisions of this
Article were in conflict with the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment and the commerce clause of the
Constitution. The District Court, upon final hearing,
dismissed the bill. 274 Fed. 975. And this direct appeal
was prosecuted. Jud. Code, § 238.1
This Article 2 provides that for the privilege of doing
business in the State every foreign manufacturing and
mercantile corporation 8 shall pay in advance an annual
franchise tax, to be computed by the State Tax Commission, at the rate of three per centum, upon the net income
of the corporation for the preceding year. §§ 209, 215.
This net income is "presumably the same" as that upon
which the corporation is required to pay a tax to" the
United States, § 209; but the amount thereof as returned
to the United States is subject to any correction for fraud,
evasion or errors, ascertained by the Commission. § 214.
If the entire business of the corporation is not transacted
within the State, the tax is to be based upon the portion
of such ascertained net income determined by the proportion which the aggregate value of specified classes of the
This case was formerly before this Court in Gorham Manufacturing Co. v. Wendell, 261 U. S. 1, in which a substitution of parties was
allowed.
2This Article was inserted in the Tax Law (Consol. Laws of 1909,
c. 60, p. 4021), by the Laws of 1917, c. 726, p. 2400, and thereafter
amended by the Laws of 1918, c. 271, p. 927, c. 276, p. 938, and c.
417, p. 1q59, all of which were in effect when the tax in question was
assessed. The references in the opinion are to the provisions as they
stood after these amendments.
a With certain exceptions not here material.

GORHAM MFG. CO. v. TAX COMM.
265

Opinion of the Court.

assets of the corporation within the State bears to the
aggregate value of all of such classes of assets wherever
located. § 214. The corporation shall make the Commission a report showing the State of 'its organization
"and the kind of business transacted "; the amount of
its net income for the preceding year as returned to the
United States, and, if inaccurate, the amount claimed to
be its net income; the value of the specified classes of its
assets, within the State and wherever located; and such
other facts as the Commission may require for the purpose
of making the computation required. § 211. The Commission shall audit and state the account and compute
the tax thereon. § 219a.
If within one year after the account is audited and
stated the corporation files an application for revision,
"the commission shall grant a hearing thereon and if it
shall be made to appear upon any such hearing by evidence submitted to it or otherwise, that any such account
included taxes or other charges which could not have been
lawfully demanded, or that payment has been illegally
. . . exacted of any such account, the commission

shall resettle the same according to law and the facts,
and adjust the account for taxes accordingly." § 218.
The determination of the Commission upon any application for revision may be reviewed, both upon the law and
the facts, upon certiorari by the Supreme Court, on all
the evidence, papers and proceedings before the Commission, and, if found erroneous or illegal, the account shall be
corrected and restated; and from any determination by
the Supreme Court an appeal may be taken to the Court
of Appeals. §§ 199, 219.
4 But no certiorari shall be granted unless the full amount of the
tax, interest and other charges audited and stated in the account, has
been "deposited" with the State Comptroller. § 219.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

The Gorham Company is a Rhode Island corporation,
engaged, under its charter, in the business of manufacturing and selling silverware, bronze and metal ware. All
of its manufacturing is done in Rhode Island. It has
there its main office and sells its ware to customers in all
the States of the Union and some -foreign countries. It
also has a branch office and showrooms in New York City,
where it keeps on hand a stock of its ware, partly samples,
makes sales to customers from such stock and takes orders
for ware to be shipped from the Rhode Island factory.
In 1917, however, it also engaged extensively in the manufacture and sale of munitions. No part of this business
was carried on in New York.
The Company, in 1918, made a report to the Commission in compliance with the Tax Law. In this report,
both as originally filed and later amended, it stated that
the business which it transacted was "manufacturing and
selling silverware, bronze and metal ware"; gave the
amount of its net income for the year 1917 as determined
by the United States, claiming only one deduction therefrom, namely, the amount paid for federal income taxes,
and stated the aggregate values of the classes of its assets
specified in the Tax Law, both in New York and wherever
located. It did not, however, show that it was also engaged in manufacturing and selling munitions, that its net
income as reported was derived to any extent from that
business, or that it did not manufacture any ware in
New York.
The Commission thereupon audited and stated the
Company's account, and computed the tax thereon, of
which it gave the Company notice.5 The Company, how5 The amount of this tax was somewhat larger than that which
would result, as a matter of calculation, from the figures set forth in
the Company's -report. It is stated in the opinion of the District
Court that the "tax as actually assessed contained a duplication of the
accounts receivable." And it is conceded that the Commission did
not deduct the federal income taxes from the net income.

GORHAM MFG. CO. v. TAX COMM.
265

Opinion of the Court.

ever, did not apply to the Commission for a revision of
the account and resettlement of the tax, but, within less
than one year after the account had been audited and
stated, brought this suit in the federal court to enijoin the
collection of the tax.
The Company insists that the inclusion in the net income upon which the tax was based of the income derived
from business not carried on in New York, in the manufacture and sale of munitions and the manufacture of
ware, and the allocation of that net income to New York
by the statutory ratio into which only certain assets
entered, has resulted in an assessment against it of a tax
based upon an allocated income greatly in excess of that
in fact derived from the business of selling ware which it
carried on within the State. The grounds upon which it
challenges the constitutionality of the law are, in substance, as summarized in its brief: (1) That a State cannot constitutionally levy a tax computed on an allocated
part of the total net income of a foreign corporation,
where the allocation includes certain arbitrarily selected
factors, none of which are determinative of net income,
and omits other factors equally important, and the result
is to allot more income to the State than was earned there
and employ income totally unrelated thereto to enlarge
the measure of the tax; and (2) That such a tax upon the
income earned without the State by a foreign corporation
engaged principally in interstate commerce, is a direct
burden upon such commerce.
We are of the opinion, however, that, without reference
to these constitutional questions, the bill was properly
dismissed by the District Court because of the failure of
the Company to avail itself of the administrative remedy
provided by the statute for the revision and correction of
the tax.
A taxpayer who does not exhaust the remedy provided
before an administrative board to secure the rorrect as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opiniom of the Court.

266 U. S.

sessment of a tax, cannot thereafter be heard by a judicial
tribunal to assert its invalidity. Farncomb v. Denver,
252 U. S. 7, 10; Milheim v. Moffat Tunnel District, 262
U. S. 710, 723; McGregor v. Hogan, 263 U. S. 234, 238;
First NationalBank v. Weld County, 264 U. S. 450, 455.
The Company did not report to the Commission any of
the facts upon which it now challenges the validity of the
tax. Its report indicated that its net income was derived
solely from carrying on in New York and elsewhere the
unitary business of manufacturing and selling ware.
After the account had been audited and the tax computed,
it was entitled, as a matter of right, to make application
for a revision of the tax and to a hearing before the Commission, at which it might submit evidence; and if it
appeared that the account included taxes which could not
have been lawfully demanded, the Commission was required to resettle the same "according to law and the
facts ", and adjust the tax accordingly. The Company,
however, made no application to the Commission for a
revision of the tax; it submitted no evidence to the Commission as to any of the matters on which it now relies,
either as to the inclusion of profits derived from the munitions business or otherwise; and it did not request the
Commission to resettle the tax on the ground of any error
or invalidity, in matter either of fact or law.
Under these circumstances we think that the Company,
having failed to avail itself of the administrative remedy
provided by the statute for the correction of the tax, was
not entitled to maintain a bill in equity for the purpose
of enjoining its collection.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

