226

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

SUNDERLAND v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 79. Argued October 16, 1924.Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The United States is not bound by a decree of a state court, to
which it was not a party, quieting title to restricted Indian land
against the Indian in favor of his attempted grantee, but may have
both the conveyance and the decree set aside by suit in the federal
court. P. 232.
2. The fact that land has become subject to jurisdiction of a State and
exclusively within the control of her laws does not prevent the
United States from restricting for a limited time the right of a
tribal Indian to alienate it, when purchased for him with funds
derived from the sale of other lands originally subject to a like
restriction. Such restriction not conflicting with any statute, rule
of law or policy of the State, the question of supremacy of power
does not arise. Id.
3. The validity of such a restraint on alienation imposed by the United
States is not to be tested by the power of an ordinary grantor to
impose a like restraint on an ordinary grantee. P. 233.
4. So long as the Indians remain wards of the Government, the interposition of the strong shield of the federal law is justified, to the
end that they be not overreached or dspoiled in respect of their
property of whatsoever kind or nature. P. 234.
5. In view of the general protective policy towards the Indians,
statutory authority to the Secretary of the Interior to remove
restrictions on allotted lands in the Five Civilized Tribes " under
such rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of
the proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians as he may
prescribe" (Act of May 27, 1908, § 1, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312), justifies
a rule that where lands are purchased for Indians of the restricted
class with the proceeds of sale of restricted allotted lands the deed
of the lands purchased shall contain a like restriction. Id.
6. Also, the authority of the Secretary to withhold his consent to a
proposed investment of such proceeds of sale subject to his control, includes the lesser authority to allow the investment upon
condition that the property bought shall be impressed with a like
control. P. 235.

SUNDERLAND v. UNITED STATES.
226

Argument for Appellant.

7. Evidence held sufficient to show that restrictions on alienation in
a deed to an Indian were directed by the Secretary of the Interior.

P. 235.
287 Fed. 468, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court setting aside,
at the suit of the United States, a deed made to the appellant by a half-blood Creek Indian, and a decree of an
Oklahoma court quieting the title against the Indian in
the appellant's favor.

Mr. E. G. Wilson and Mr. J. M. Springer, with whom
Mr. W. H. Thompson was on the brief, for appellant.
Congress cannot authorize the Secretary of the In.terior to impose restrictions on released Indian lands that
have passed into private ownership and are subject to the
taxing power of the State and the jurisdiction of her
courts and to the freedom of trade and commerce.
The Tenth Amendment gives to the State the exclusive
right to legislate concerning the lands within her borders,
not the property of the United States. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; United States v. Harris, 106
U. S. 629; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Kansas
v. Colorado,206 U. S. 46, 89, 92; Martin v. Waddell, 16
Pet. 367; Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 How. 471; Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S.
324; St. Louis v. Myers, 113 U. S. 566; Packer v. Bird,
137 U.S. 661; Hardinv. Jordan,140 U. S. 371; Kaukauna
Water Co. v. Green Bay Co., 142 U. S. 254; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; St. Anthony Falls Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349; Kean v. Calumet Canal Co.,
190 U. S. 452; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 15i;
Federalist (Hamilton's Essays No. 78); Coyle v. Smith,
221 U. S. 559; Case v. Toftus, 39 Fed. 730.
United States v. Law, 250 Fed. 218, has no support
either in the act, or in reason, and is in direct conflict with
McCurdy v. United States, 246 U. S. 263; United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

v. Gray, 284 Fed. 103; and United States v. Ransom, 284
Fed. 108. See also U. S. Fidelity &fGuaranty Co. v. Hansen, 36 Okla. 459; Francisv. Francis,203 U. S. 233. Distinguishing, Tiger v. Western Inv. Co., 221 U. S. 286;
United States v. Gray, 201 Fed. 291; United States v.
Thurston County, 143 Fed. 287; National Bank of Commerce v. Anderson, 147 Fed. 87; and United States v.
Yakima County, 274 Fed. 115, relied upon by the court
in the Law Case.
It was the policy of the act to cast the Indian upon his
own resources, so far as possible, first, by conferring authority upon the Secretary to release restrictions against
alienation; and second, by granting to the Secretary the
authority to dispose of the proceeds of the restricted lands
for the benefit of the Indian. When the investment is
once made, all authority of the Secretary immediately
ceases. See § 5, Act of 1908. Had it been the intention
of Congress to restrict against alienatioh property purchased by the Secretary, it would have said so.
By the Oklahoma Enabling Act, § 3, the power of the
United States is extended no farther than to lands held
by an Indian tribe, or nation, and the property belonging
to the United States.
The evidence in this case is wholly insufficient to support the judgment and conclusion of the trial court.
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Wells were on the brief, for
the United States.
The Secretary was authorized to impose restrictions
upon alienation of the land purchased with trust funds.
The prime purpose of the Act of May 27, 1908, was to
make subject to the taxing power of Oklahoma lands allotted to certain classes of members of the Five Civilized
Tribes who were represented to Congress as competent to
manage their property without supervision. The stand-

SUNDERLAND v. UNITED STATES.
226

Argument for the United States.

ard of competency adopted by Congress was the quantum
of Indian blood. Congress was not entirely convinced that
half-bloods were capable of unsupervised management of
their property, and while it was willing to "take a chance"
on their capacity, yet it cast an anchor to windward by
preserving the homestead. But to provide for cases
where the restriction upon alienation might work to the
detriment of the Indians and the removal of the restriction might be to his best interest, Congress enacted (§ 1)
"that the Secretary of the Interior may remove such restrictions, wholly or in part, under such rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds
for the benefit of the respective Indians as he may prescribe." This language leaves no doubt of the intent of
Congress to give the Secretary broad discretion in the exercise of the power conferred. It is he to whom is intrusted the determination of what is for the benefit of
the Indian.
It is significant that Congress appeared to have considered that removal of restrictions would onIy occur when
a sale of the land was contemplated, and the inference is
that the Secretary would exercise his power only where a
sale of the restricted property was deemed advantageous
to the Indian and more beneficial to him than its retention
would be. Noteworthy also is the fact that not only
were the rules and regulations of the Secretary to govern
the sale of the property but also the disposal of the proceeds. Congress considered one just as important as the
other. The need of supervision and restraint in the disposal of the proceeds is abundantly demonstrated by the
transactions in the instant case.
The test of the validity of the regulations is their reasonableness, appropriateness, and their consistency with
the law by which they were authorized. United States v.
Morehead, 243 U. S. 607; LaMotte v. United States, 254
U. S. 570.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

The regulation under which the Secretary acted passes
that test. But even if there were doubt about it, the
doubt should be resolved in favor of the validity of the
regulation, for it is clear that it is beneficial to the Indian.
United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278.
The appellant apparently conceives the power of the
Secretary, so far as the proceeds of the sale axe concerned, as limited to approving or vetoing a proposed investment of them without condition. If that were correct
it is difficult to see the need of rules and regulations governing the disposal of the proceeds. So limited an authority would not make them necessary. The rule is that
such powers are to be broadly construed to accomplish the
purpose of Congress. Parker v. Richard, 250 U. S. 235;
LaMotte v. United States, 254 U. S. 570.
The continuing, by § 1 of the Act of 1908, of restrictions
on the homesteads of Indians in the same class as Perryman, was in furtherance of the policy of protecting and
safeguarding the Indians. When Perryman's homestead
allotment was sold that policy obtained as to the proceeds
which were substituted for the homestead. There was
merely a change in the form of that to which the duty
extended. The proceeds were trust funds. Being such,
the investment of them in other property impressed it
with the same trust. United States v. Thurston County,
143 Fed. 287; National Bank of Commerce v. Anderson,
147 Fed. 87.
While the language of the act is that "the Secretary of
the Interior may remove restrictions," yet it really
amounts to an authority to the Secretary to sanction a sale
of the resricted land.
Other legislation with respect to sales of lands and disposal of the proceeds evidences the policy of Congress to
consider the proceeds as trust funds and to authorize
supervision of and control over them. Acts of March 1,
1907, 34 Stat. 1015; May 29, 1908, § 1, 35 Stat. 444; June

SUNDERLAND v. UNITED STATES.
226

Opinion of the Court.

25, 1910, § 1, 36 Stat. 855. See Rider v. La Clair, 77
Wash. 488.
In addition to the case at bar, the Circuit Court of
Appeals has upheld the power of the Secretary and the
validity of this restriction in the deed. in United States
v. Law, 250 Fed. 218, and in United States v. Smith,
288 Fed. 356.
United States v. Gray,284 Fed. 103 (dismissed for want
of jurisdiction, 263 U. S. 689), and United States v.
Ransom, 284 Fed. 108 (affirmed per curiam, 263 U. S.
691), involved the question whether lands purchased with
restricted or trust funds were subject to state taxationa very different question from that of the power of the
United States to control its Indian wards in the disposition of such lands. The same is true of Mcurdy v.
United States, 246 U. S.263.
The legislation granting such power is constitutional,
Tiger v. Western Inv. Co., 221 U. S. 286; Blanset v.
Cardin, 256 U. S. 319; Bunch v. Cole, 263 U. S. 250;
Sperry Oil Co. v. Chisholm, 264 U. S.488; and does not
conflict with the Oklahoma Enabling Act.
There was no error in the admission of evidence.
MR. JUSTICE SuTmRAIwD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Nathaniel Perryman, a Creek half-blood Indian, was
allotted a homestead, with restrictions against alienation
until April 26, 1931, subject, however, to removal, wholly
or in part, by the Secretary of the Interior, '"under such
rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians as he may prescribe." § 1, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312.
Upon application, the Secretary removed the restrictions
from a portion of the homestead, which was then sold, the
proceeds of the sale being retained by the Secretary. Subsequently a portion of the proceeds was used to purchase

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

another tract of land (the subject of the present controversy), such purchase being authorized by the Secretary upon condition that the deed of conveyance contain
a clause restricting the alienation of the land so purchased until April 26, 1931, "unless made with the consent of and approved by the Secretary of the Interior."
The deed was made accordingly and duly recorded in the
records of Tulsa. County, Oklahoma. Perryman, thereafter, without the consent of the Secretary, sold and conveyed the land to the appellant. A decree of an Oklahoma state court was obtained in a suit against Perryman,
to which the United States was not a party, quieting title
in appellant. The United States then brought this suit
in the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of
Oklahoma to cancel and set aside the conveyance of the
land to appellant and annul the decree of the state court.
The District Court rendered a decree in favor of the
United States, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 287 Fed. 468.
Upon the appeal here, appellant does not seriously challenge the decree in so far as it annuls the decree of the
state court (Bowling v. United States, 233 U. S. 528, 534535; Privettv. United States, 256 U. S.201, 203), but confines his attack to that portion of the decree canceling the
deed. The grounds relied upon are: (1) That Congress
is without power to authorize the imposition of restrictions upon the sale of lands within a State which have
passed to private ownership; (2) That Congress has not,
in fact, conferred upon the Secretary such authority; and
(3) That there is no competent, relevant or material evidence sufficient to support the decree of the trial court.
First. The power of Congress is challenged upon the
ground that the land had become subject to the jurisdiction of the State and was exclusively within the control
of its laws. The general rule is not to be doubted, that
the tenure, transfer, control and disposition of real prop-

SUNDERLAND v. UNITED STATES.
226

233

Opinion of the Court.

erty are matters which rest exclusively with the State
where the property lies, United States v. Fox, 94 U. S.
315, 320-321; but it by no means follows that a restriction
upon alienation, limited as it is here, may not be imposed by the United States as a condition upon which a
purchase of private lands within the State will be made
for an Indian ward. The question is argued as though
there had been an actual invasion of or an interference
with the authority of the State to regulate and condition
the transfer of land within its boundaries. But there is
no such invasion or interference. If Congress, in fulfillment of its duty to protect the Indians, whose welfare is
the peculiar concern of the 'Federal Government, deems
it proper to restrict for a limited time the right of the individual Indian to alienate land purchased for him with
funds arising from the sale of other lands originally subject to a like restriction, we are not aware of anything
which stands in the way. The State of Oklahoma is not
concerned, since there is no state *statute,rule of law or
policy, which has been called to our attention, to the contrary effect. If there were, or if the power of state taxation were involved, we should consider the question of
supremacy of power; but no such question is presented by
this record.
Nor are we called upon to determine whether a qualified and limited restraint upon the alienation of a fee
simple title, imposed by an ordinary grantor upon an ordinary grantee, would be valid, even though not offensive
to the rule against perpetuities. However that may be,
we do not doubt the power of the United States to impose such a restraint upon the sale of the lands of its
Indian wards, whether acquired by private purchase and
generally subject to state control or not. Such power rests
upon the dependent character of the Indians, their recognized inability to safely conduct business affairs, and the
19458o-25--19

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

peculiar duty of the Federal Government to safeguard
their interests and protect them against the greed of others
and their own improvidence. See and compare Libby v.
Clark, 118 U. S. 250, 255; United States v. Paine Lumber
Co., 206 U. S. 467, 473; Blanset v. Cardin, 256 U. S. 319,
326; Bunch v. Cole, 263 U. S. 250, 252; Sperry Oil Co. v.
Chisholm, 264 U. S. 488, 493. And the power does not
fall short of the need; but, so long as they remain wards
of the Government, justifies the interposition of the
strong shield of federal law to the end that they be not
overreached or despoiled in respect of their property of
whatsoever kind or nature. United States v. Kagama,
118 U. S. 375, 383-4.
Second. The statute imposes the restriction upon the
alienation of the Indian's allotted lands and this, it is said,
precludes an extension of the restraint to lands purchased
for him. The authority given the Secretary to remove
such restrictions, under prescribed rules and regulations
"concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds for
the benefit of the respective Indians," it is further insisted, ends with the disposal of the proceeds and does not
extend so far as to permit him to impose restrictions upon
the alienation of land purchased with such proceeds. The
Secretary did not construe the statute so narrowly, but,
acting under it, among other rules, prescribed that,
"Where lands are purchased for the use and benefit of
any citizen of the Five Civilized Tribes, of the restricted
class, payment for which is made from proceeds arising
from the sale of restricted allotted lands . . . the
superintendent . . . shall cause a conveyance of such
lands to be made on a form of conveyance containing an
habendum clause against alienation or encumbrance until
April 26, 1931."
When the general protective policy of Congress in dealing with the Indians is borne in mind, it reasonably can-

SUNDERLAND v. UNITED STATES.
226

Opinion of the Court.

not be doubted that the authority conferred upon the
Secretary to make rules concerning the "disposal of the
proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians" is
broad enough to justify the rule in question. Since the
allotted lands could not be sold or encumbered without
his consent, and since the proceeds of any sale thereof
were subject to his control and could only be disposed ,of
with his approval and under such rules as he might prescribe for the benefit of the respective Indians, the extension of such control to the property in which the proceeds were directly invested would seem to be within the
statute fairly construed. Indeed, we think the authority
of the Secretary to withhold his consent to the proposed
investment of the proceeds subject to his control, includes
the lesser authority to allow the investment upon condition that the property into which the proceeds are converted shall be impressed with a like control. See United
States v. Law, 250 Fed. 218; United States v. Thurston
County, 143 Fed. 287, 290-291; National Bank of Commerce v. Anderson, 147 Fed. 87, 90. It is unnecessary to
review the decisions said by appellant to justify the contrary conclusion. Upon examination they are all found to
be readily differentiated from the case under consideration.
Third. The only suggestion contained in appellant's
brief which seriously relates to the sufficiency of the evidence, is that the proof fails to establish that the Secretary
imposed restrictions specifically upon the sale of the land
in question. There was received in evidence a telegram
from the Department, purporting to grant authority to
purchase the land for Perryman and directing the use of
"a restricted form of deed." We are unable to see how
this could have referred to anything else than the requirement of the rule heretofore quoted. It is said further
that the telegram was not recorded in any office so as to

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

give constructive notice to appellant or the public. It
was not necessary that it should have been. The conveyance made by its authority, embodying the restriction required by the rule, was recorded, and that was enough.
The remainder of appellant's brief under this head resolves itself into a mere challenge of the competency or
relevancy of certain documentary evidence, including the
telegram just mentioned, admitted, over objection, by the
trial court. The assignment of errors contains no suggestion that the erroneous admission of evidence would be
relied upon. The rulings of the court, therefore, admitting
such evidence are not before us.
Decree affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MOSER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 99.

Argued October 21, 1924-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. While the doctrine of res judicata does not apply to unmixed questions of law, a fact or right distinctly adjudged cannot be disputed in a subsequent action between the same parties, even upon
another demand and though the original determination was
reached upon an erroneous view or application of the law. P. 241.
2. A determination of the status of an individual upon which his
right to recover depends is as conclusive as a decision upon any
other matter. P. 242.
3. Where a retired naval officer had obtained judgments in the Court
of Claims for installments of increased pay under an Act of March
3, 1899, providing "that any officer of the Navy . . . who
served during the civil war, shall, when retired, be retired with
the rank and three-fourths the sea pay of the next higher grade,"
and sued there again for another installment, held, that the Government was estopped from maintaining that his service during the
civil war as a cadet in the Naval Academy was not service
within the meaning of the statute, that question having been determined against it in the previous litigation. Id.
58 Ct. Clms. 164, affirmed.

