BIDDLE v. LUVISCH.
Statement of the Case.

BIDDLE, WARDEN OF THE UNITED STATES
PENITENTIARY AT LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS,
v. LUVISCH.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 96. Argued October 21, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
A certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals should submit definite
questions of law arising upon the record and not send up in effect
the whole case. Only substantial matters in approved form should
be so presented.
Certificate dismissed.
CERTIFICATE

from the Circuit Court of Appeals asking

instructions, in a case of habeas corpus appealed to it

from the District Court. The body of the certificate is
given below in a footnote.1
'The appellee had been indicted in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan in three counts,
to which he entered a plea of guilty, and thereupon was sentenced
to confinement in the United States Penitentiary at Leavenworth,
Kansas, for five years. While in prison he applied to the District
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas for a writ of
habeas corpus, and upon a hearing of the petition a judgment was
entered discharging him from imprisonment on the ground that none
of the three counts in the said indictment to which he had entered
a plea of guilty and was sentenced, constituted a violation of any
law of the United States. Each of the three counts is based upon
the same facts, except that the first count charges the making of a
plate to be in the likeness and similitude of certain plates designed
by the Dominion of Canada, a foreign government, for the printing
of the genuine issues of certain obligations and securities of said
Government. The second count charges him with possession of that
plate, and the third count charges him with the sale of 1,200 counterfeit prints from said plate in the likeness and similitude of the
genuine obligations and securities of that foreign Government. The
description of these securities and obligations of the Dominion of
Canada is set out in each count, and for this reason we deem it

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for Biddle, Warden.
Mr. I. J. Ringolsky, with whom Mr. L. S. Harvey, Mr.
M. L. Friedmanand Mr. Win. G. Boatright were on the
briefs, for Luvisch.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNODS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This certificate fails to meet often announced requirements and must be dismissed. It does not submit one
only necessary to set out the first count of the indictment, which
differs from the other counts only as stated. That count, omitting
the jurisdictional allegations, charges that the defendant "did then
and there unlawfully, wilfully, feloniously and knowingly, and without lawful authority, cause and procure to be made and engraved
a certain zinc half-tone plate in the likeness and similitude of certain
plates and impressions designated by a certain foreign government,
to wit, the Dominion of Canada, for the printing of the genuine
issues of certain obligations and securities of the said foreign government, to wit, certain inland excise stamps of the denomination of one
cent, bearing the following words and figures, to wit: The numerals
' 1912 ' at each end and in the center of said stamp, and the words
'Certified manufactured in the year'; and the signature of, to wit,
'J. W. Vincent,' and a large scroll numeral ' 1,' all on the left side
of the center of said stamp, and in the center thereof the word
'Ottawa' above the numerals '1912,' and beneath said numerals
the word 'Canada,' and on the right of the center of said stamp
appears first the word 'cent' and then 'bottled in bond under excise
supervision, Deputy Minr. Inland Revenue."
It is further certified that the following question of law is presented by the appeal prosecuted by.the warden of said penitentiary,
the respondent in the court below, the decision of which is indispensable to a determination of the case, and to the end that this
court may properly discharge its duty, it desires the instruction of
the Supreme Court upon it:
Do the counts of the indictment, or any of them, charge the commission of a criminal offense against the United States as in violation of §§ 147 and 161 of the Act of March 4, 1909 (35 Stat. 1088)
known as the Penal Code of 1910?

HOUSE v. ROAD IMP. DIST.
173

Syllabus.

or more definite questions of law arising upon the record
but, in effect, asks decision of the whole case. Waterville
v. Van Slyke, 116 U. S. 699, 700, 704; Jewell v. Knight,
123 U. S. 426, 433; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60, 63, 65;
United States v. Union PacificRy. Co., 168 U. S. 505, 512,
513; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Williams,
205 U. S. 444, 452; Hallowell v. United States, 209 U. S.
101, 106, 107.
The constantly increasing demands upon us make it
highly important that only matters which are both substantial and in approved form should be presented.
Certificate dismissed.

HOUSE v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2,
OF CONWAY COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
HOUSE v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 5,
OF CONWAY COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

Nos. 92 and 93. Argued October 17, 20, 1924.-Decided November
17, 1924.
1. Where the decision of a State Supreme Court construed a road
district statute as allowing twenty-eight days' notice by publication
to land owners of proceedings to assess for benefits and adjudged
that the notice published, read with the statute, sufficiently described the lands affected, held, that contentions that the statute
did not provide due process of law were too insubstantial to
support a writ of error. P. 176.
2. The objection that a statute assessing lands for a road improvement is arbitrary and void as to plaintiff because the improvement
could not benefit his lands while other lands actually benefited
were not included in the district assessed, held clearly without
merit. P. 177.
Writs of error to review 158 Ark. 330, 357, dismissed.

