DUCKETT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147

149

Opinion of the Court.

jury directly due to his failure to act as required on the
ground that possibly it might have been prevented if
those in secondary relation to the movement had done
more. Frese v. Chicago;Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
263 U. S. 1, 3.
Judgment reversed.
A. W. DUCKETT & COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 108. Argued October 23, 24, 1924.--Decided November 17, 1924.

Possession of terminal property, including a pier on which the claimant had a lease from the owner, was requisitioned and taken by the
President temporarily for war purposes (Act of August 29, 1916,)
under a general public notice and promise of compensation. Held
that claimant's leasehold interest being part of the res, was taken,
and that a promise upon the part of the Government to pay for
it was implied. P. 151. Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States,
261 U. S. 502, distinguished.
58 Ct. Clms. 234; id., 403, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for the value of a leasehold interest in
property requisitioned during the late war.
Mr. Don R. Almy, with whom Mr. Ernie Adamson was
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTicE

Om S delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a claim against the United States for the value
of the claimant's interest in Pier No. 8 of the Bush
Terminal Company under a lease that ran through Sep-

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

tember 30, 1919. The claim is based upon an implied
contract alleged to have arisen from a taking for war
purposes, for such time as might be necessary, of described portions of the Bush Terminal docks and warehouses, including the claimant's pier. The Court of
Claims dismissed the petition for want of jurisdiction
upon the ground that the facts found excluded as matter
of law the possibility that a contract should be implied
and that therefore there could be no claim. Hill v.
United States, 149 U. S. 593.
Under the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, 39 Stat. 619,
645, giving the President authority to take possession of
any system of transportation, he took possession through
the Secretary of War of the Bush Terminal, in Brooklyn,
New York, including Pier No. 8, the Secretary issuing
a general order dated December 31, 1917, "To whom it
may concern," which stated that "possession and control
is hereby taken . . . of the following described parts
of a system of transportation . . . ; that is to say,
of those portions of the Bush Terminal docks and warehouse property described" &c. "Steps will be promptly
taken to ascertain the fair compensation to be paid for
the temporary use by the Government of the premises."
Notice of this order was served on the Bush Terminal
Company on or about January 3, 1918, and at about the
same time the receiver of A. W. Duckett & Company
was notified that "the Bush Terminal has this day been
requisitioned for the use of the embarkation service of
the United States Army, and possession thereof has
passed to the United States," and he was directed to
make arrangements for vacating the premises. As the
result of conferences the United States took possession
of the pier at midnight, January 31, 1918.
It is unnecessary to go into the details of what was
done later, as the acts that we have stated determined
the relations of the parties. On the face of those acts

DUCKETT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
149

151

Opinion of the Court.

it seems to us manifest that the United States, although
not taking the fee, proceeded in rem as in eminent
domain, and assumed to itself by paramount authority
and power the possession and control of the piers named,
against all the world. Ordinarily an unqualified taking
in fee by eminent domain takes all interests and as it
takes the res is not called upon to specify the interests
thai happen to exist. Whether or not for some purposes
the new takers may be given the benefit of privity with
the former holders, the accurate view would seem to be
that such an exercise of eminent domain founds a new
title and extinguishes all previous rights. Emery v.
Boston Terminal Co., 178 Mass. 172, 184. Farnsworth
v. Boston, 126 Mass. 1, 8. In such a case we no more
should expect to hear it argued that leaseholds were not
to be paid for than that the former fee simple should
not be, on the ground that it was gone and a new fee
begun. A right may be taken by simple destruction for
public use. United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333, 339.
See Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S. 530, 538. Here
the taking purported to be a taking of the Bush Terminal
docks, &c.-not of the title of the Bush Terminal Company, but of the things, to whomsoever they belonged.
The notice was "to whom it may concern." The claimant was turned out like the others. We can see no
ground for attributing to the United States the extraordinary intent to recognize and pay for other interests
but to exclude the claimant. The order made no such
distinction but promised fair compensation, seemingly
to all, and the subsequent appointment of a board of
appraisers contemplated payment to tenants. Any arrangement that the Government may have made later
with the owner to pay to it what might be due to the
tenants or some of them did not affect the claimant's
rights.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502,
which was thought to give some color to the decision
below, has no bearing upon the present question. There
the Government made a requisition of th6 entire product
of a Steel Company for a year. On the assumption that
the Government thereby made it impossible for the Steel
Company to perform a contract to sell a large quantity
of steel plate to the claimant, the decision was that
nevertheless the contract was not taken. The contract
was no part of the res taken and whatever might be the
collateral consequences of the appropriation liability for
them was not an incident of the Government's act. 261
U. S. 510. Here the claimant's possession under its lease
was a part of the res, and therefore was within the implied
promise to pay. Whatever the effect of the taking there
was a contract implied in fact by the President's order
and there is no doubt concerning the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims. United States v. North American
Transportation& Trading Co., 253 U. S. 330.
Judgment reversed with directions to award proper
compensation to the appellant.
COMMONWEALTH TRUST COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH v. SMITH ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 7. Argued February 29, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. On appeal from a decree dismissing a bill because of refusal to
bring in additional parties, the merits are not open but only the
question whether such parties were necessary. P. 159.
2. Parties are necessary who have such an interest in the matter in
controversy that it can not be determined -without affecting that
interest or leaving the interests of those who are before the court
in a situation that might be embarrassing or inconsistent with
equity. Id.

