OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

tiff on his appeal contends that under the Interstate Commerce Act there cannot be two freight rates in effect at
the same time between the same points on the same commodity dependent upon the invoice under which it is
shipped, and that the courts below erred in making the
deduction. But we think that the question whether rates
that might be so produced would be unlawful was not
involved in the case. The ore covered by the original
contract was not shipped from Kennett to Bartlesville
and Altoona at the same time, nor would it have been if
there had been no breach; and it was not shown that any
other zinc ore was so moved. If different rates had been
exacted for contemporaneous transportation of ore to the
same destination, or its equivalent, a question between
the carrier and shipper might have arisen. But on the
facts of this case :do such question was involved. The
cost of transportation on the resale was less than it would
have been if the buyers had accepted all the ore. Both
courts so found. The seller was not entitled to charge
against the buyer anything on account of the expense of
resale in excess of the amount it paid. It was not entitled
to be put in a better position by the recovery than if the
buyers had fully performed the contract. Plaintiff's appeal is without merit.
Decree affirmed.
THE FERRIES COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 46. Argued October 8, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
A ten year lease of ferry property provided that, at its termination,
the property leased, including any additions and betterments that
might be made by the lessee, should be valued by appraisers, and
that if such valuation were less than the value of the property as
similarly appraised when the lease was made, the lessee should
pay the difference, but, if more, the lessors should pay it. During

FERRIES CO. v. UNITED STATES.
260

Opinion of the Court.

the war, when the term had nearly run, the United States, by
agreement with the-parties, took over the operation of the ferries,
under stipulations that the lease should then terminate, that appraisal should be made as*of that time, as if the lease had then
regularly terminated, and that any money thus found due the
lessee or lessors, as the case might be, should be paid to the one
so entitled, and charged against the other, by the United States.
Held, that an award for the lessee, based largely on conditions
and values existing before the advent of war prices, correctly
interpreted the lease and agreement, and that the lessee was not
entitled to set the award aside, or to any relief in a court of equity.
P. 263.
57 Ct. Chns. 616, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition.

Mr. W. R. L. Taylor, with whom Mr. Hugh C. Davis
and Mr, Hugh W. Davis were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
George Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTCE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The city of Portsmouth and the county of Norfolk,
Virginia, made a lease of the Norfolk Ferries operating
between Portsmouth, Norfolk and Berkeley for a term of
ten years, beginning April 1, 1909, to plaintiff's assignor.
The properties consisted of boats, their equipment,
wharves and bther property used for the operation of the
ferries. All the property turned over to the lessee, except
land, was taken by the lessee upon the inventory and
valuation thereof made by a board of appraisers selected
under a prior lease then about to expire. It was agreed
that at the termination of the lease the property so accepted, including any boats which might be purchased
or built by the lessee for the operation of the ferries, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

any improvements made by the lessee should be inventoried and valued by a board of five disinterested persons.
And it was provided that if such yaluation should be less
than the value of the property turned over to the lessee
by the lessors, the lessee should pay the difference, but
if more, the lessors should pay the difference.
Under date of October 8, 1918, the lessors, the plaintiff
and the United States (acting by the Bureau of Industrial
Housing and Transportation of the Department of Labor)
made an agreement, by which the United States took over
the operation of the ferries. It was provided that the
lease should terminate at the time of the turning over of
the properties to the Bureau and that "the appraisal
provided for in said lease shall take place as of
the time that the ferries shall be taken over by the Bureau
instead of at the regular termination of the said lease, as
therein provided, and said appraisal shall be made in the
same manner as if the said lease had regularly terminated
at the date that the said ferries are taken over by the
Bureau . . ." It was agreed that if, as a result of the
appraisal, plaintiff was found to be entitled to any money
from the lessors, it should be paid by the Bureau and
charged to lessors, and that if the lessors were found to be
entitled to any money from the plaintiff it should be paid
to the Bureau and credited to lessors. The ferries were
taken over and their operation was commenced by the
Bureau, November 1, 1918.
The appraised value of the properties as of March 31,
1909, was $152,274.40. The appraised value as of October
31, 1918, determined under the agreement, was $164,928.68. This valuation, except as to certain items
amounting to $33,688.65, was based on prewar conditions
and values. The Court of Claims found that the value
of the properties as of the last mentioned date, based on
war prices and values then prevailing, was $289,575.80.

FERRIES CO. v. UNITED STATES.
260

]263

Opinion of the Court.

It is clear that, under the agreement of October 8, 1918,
the United States was bound,-and it was stated by its
counsel that it has been willing,-to pay plaintiff the
difference between the appraised value of the properties
turned over to lessee, March 31, 1909, and the appraised
value of those turned over by plaintiff, October 31, 1918.
But, by its petition in this action, plaintiff asserted that it
was entitled to have that value determined on the basis of
prices prevailing October 31, 1918, alleged that this was
$343,702.16, and prayed that the appraisers' valuation be
set aside, and that the court determine the value and give
plaintiff judgment against the United States for the
amount thereof.
The Court of Claims found the facts as indicated above.
As a conclusion of law, it decided that the petition should
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. It entered judgment that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, and
that the petition be dismissed.
Plaintiff was not entitled to recover the value of the
properties it turned over to the United States. There
was no expropriation. The transfer was made under the
agreement.
The valuation under the agreement was not required
to be made on the basis of war conditions and prices then
prevailing. The appraisal was to take place as of the
time, and it was to be made as if, the lease had terminated.
The purpose of the two appraisals provided for in the
lease,-one at the beginning and the other at the end of
the term-was to find the changes which had occurred in
the value of the properties due to changes in condition of
the things received by the lessee at the beginning and
returned to lessors at the end of the term, and also the
changes due to retirements, additions and betterments
during the term. It is apparent from the provisions of
the lease,-and in his argument before the court plaintiff's

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

counsel conceded,-that it was not intended that any gain
or loss to lessors or lessee should result from differences
between unit prices existing at the beginning of the term
and those prevailing at its expiration. Plainly, it was not
the intention of the agreement to give plaintiff the benefit
of high prices then prevailing. It was not the owner, and
its lease was about to expire. On the basis of the appraisals provided for in the lease, it would have been
entitled to receive no more than $12,654.28. The parties
knew that prices in October, 1918, were much higher than
those on which the appraisal of March 31, 1909, was made,
and that, if they were to be taken as the basis of appraisal
under the agreement, plaintiff, by mere rise of prices
applicable to property it did not own, would profit enormously. It was not in position to exact any such amount.
The provisions of the agreement show that the parties
intended to make no change in the basis of valuation.
The appraisal was to be made as if the lease had terminated and on the same basis of prices and conditions.
This so plainly appears from the language of the agreement that elucidation is not necessary.
Plaintiff did not seek to recover on the basis of the
appraisal made under the agreement with the United
States, but on the contrary, it assailed that valuation as
null and void. The only ground of attack relied on in this
Court was that the appraisers misconstrued and misapplied the agreement. But, as above indicated, we hold
there was no misinterpretation. The facts found are not
sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to have the award set
aside, or to any relief in a court of equity. Therefore, the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to grant equitable
relief need not be considered.
Judgment affirmed.

