OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By opinion handed down November 17, 1924, ante, 113,
this Court sustained the contention of the Commissioner
of Immigration that the respondents should not have been
discharged under the writ of habeas corpus as directed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, but agreed with that court
in its criticism of the action of the immigration authorities
in dealing with the respondents here, and made modifications and additions to the order of that court. Counsel
for the respondents in a petition for rehearing now ask
additional modifications. Of these, the Court deems it
proper to grant two.
1st. Nothing in the order of this Court shall prejudice
an application on behalf of Zenia Waldman to the discretion of the Secretary of Labor under § 21 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, 39 Stat. 874, 891,
to accept satisfactory security against her becoming a
public charge and on its being furnished to admit her to
this country.
2nd. Nothing in the order of this Court shall prejudice
an application for release on bail of the respondents pending compliance with the mandate of this Court.

EBERT ET AL. v. POSTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN.

No. 153.

Argued December 12, 1924-Decided January 12, 1925.

1. Subsections 2 and 3 of § 302 of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil
Relief Act of March 8, 1918, as amended September 3, 1919,
which provide for stays of proceedings to foreclose mortgages
whether in court or in pais under powers of sale, are to be construed with § 101 (2), defining "period of military service," and

EBERT v. POSTON.
548

549

Opinion of the Court.

do not include proceedings taken prior to the passage of the act
or prior to the commencement of the military service of the owner
of the mortgaged property. P. 552.
2. Section 205 of this act, which provides "that the period of
military service shall not be included in computing any period'
now or hereafter to be limited by any law for. the bringing of any
action by or against any person in military service,
whether such cause of action shall have accrued prior to or during
the period of such service," does not apply to a statutory right
to redeem real estate, after foreclosure through advertisement and
sale under a power-of-sale mortgage, by payment of the sum bid
with interest and fees without resort to court proceedings. P.
553.

3. The judicial function in construing a statute is limited to ascertaining the intention of the legislature therein expressed. P. 554.
221 Mich. 361, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Supreme Court of Michigan which reversed a decree dismissing a bill to redeem
land from a foreclosure made by advertisement and sale
at public vendue.

Mr. P. J. M. Hally and Mr. Elmer H. Groefsema, with
whom Mr. Thos. J. Bresnahan was on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mrs. Regene Freund Cohane and Mr. Louis Cohane
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of certiorari granted, 263 U. S. 694, to review a decree of the Supreme Court of Michigan involving the effect of the Federal Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act, March 8, 1918, c. 20, 40 Stat. 440, as amended
September 3, 1919, c. 55, 41 Stat. 282, upon a foreclosure
of land made under the laws of that State. 221 Mich.
361. There is no controversy concerning any provision

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

of state law. The question presented is solely one of the
construction of the federal act.'
The statutes of Michigan provide that a mortgage of
real estate duly recorded which contains a power of sale
may, without resort to any proceedings in court, be foreclosed by advertisement and sale at public vendue. The
deed to the purchaser, which is to be promptly deposited
with the register of deeds for the county in which the
land is situated and appropriately endorsed, vests in the
grantee or his assigns all the right, title and interest of the
mortgagor, upon the mere lapse, without redemption, of
one year from the date of the sale. The statutes provide
for redemption at any time within the year, also without
resort to any proceedings in court, by paying to the purchaser, or the register, the sum which was bid for the property with prescribed interest and fees. If this is done,
the deed becomes void; the register destroys it; and an
appropriate entry is made in the registry to clear the title.
Compiled Laws of Michigan, 1915, c. 249.
In 1920, Poston brought this suit in a court of the State
to redeem a parcel of land from a foreclosure made by advertisement and sale at public vendue pursuant to the
statutes. The purchasers at the sale and a grantee under
them, the petitioners here, were joined as defendants.
The mortgage, given in 1916, had been assumed by Poston when he purchased the land in 1917. The foreclosure
sale was duly made on February 5, 1918. There was no
redemption within the year. After February 5, 1919, the
deed, which had been deposited with the register, was delivered by him to the purchasers. The right of redemption, despite the lapse of the statutory period of one year,
1

In a motion for rehearing filed in the state Supreme Court constitutional questions were discussed. That court, in denying the petition, refused, under its settled practice, to consider them, because
they had not been urged in the original brief. They are not urged
here.

EBERT v. POSTON.
548

Opinion of the Court.

was asserted under the Federal Civil Relief Act. That
Act was passed about a month after the sale. Poston en-'
listed in the army, on September 29, 1918-nearly eight
months after the sale. He was discharged on May 14,
1919--more than three months after the expiration of one
year from the date of sale. On July .24, 1919-that is,
nearly eighteen months after the date of the foreclosure
sale-negotiations were begun by Poston which later
ripened into a tender. Under the law of Michigan, these
negotiations followed by the tender constituted a sufficient
basis for the bill to redeem, provided the period of redemption given by the statue had not then expired. The
trial court dismissed the bill. On appeal, the Supreme
Court of the State held that, by reason of the federal Act,
the one-year period for redemption had been extended
by the length of the period of military service, and that,
consequently, the extended period had not yet expired on
July 24, 1919. Whether the federal Act was correctly
construed is the question for decision.
The court below recognized that the Act does not in
terms cover the case of a sale by advertisement made before the passage of the Act. Its conclusion that the federal Act extended the statutory period of redemption rests
upon the following reasoning. Under the laws of Michigan, the mortgagees might have brought proceedings in
chancery to foreclose the mortgage, Compiled Laws, 1915,
§ § 12676-12692, instead of proceeding by advertisement.
If they had sued in chancery, that court would, by reason of the federal Act, have possessed the power to stay
execution of its own decree after a sale made thereunder,
provided application was made to it before expiration of
the time therein fixed for redemption. Therefore the
Act should be construed so as to accomplish a like result
in the case of a foreclosure by advertisement. The provisions in the Act which are relied upon in support of this
conclusion are § 302 and § 205. The former (set forth in

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

the margin ') is the only section which mentions mortgages or powers of sale. The latter (also set forth in the
margin ') relates to the statutes of limitation of actions.
We are of opinion that neither section supports the conclusion, and that it is erroneous.
Subsection 2 of § 302 deals with proceedings brought
in court to foreclose mortgages. Subsection 3 deals with
sales under powers of sale, whether brought in court or
effected in pais, as by advertisement. Neither subsection
includes within its scope proceedings taken prior to the
Sec. 302. (1) That the provisions of this section shall apply only
to obligations originating prior to the date of approval of this Act and
secured by mortgage, trust deed, or other security in the nature of
a mortgage upon real -or personal property owned by a person in
military service at the commencement of the period of the military
service and still so owned by him.
(2) In any proceeding commenced in any court during the period
of military service to enforce such obligation arising out of nonpayment of any sum thereunder due or out of any other breach of the
terms thereof occurring prior to or during the period of such service,
the court may, after hearing, in its discretion, on its own motion, and
shall, on application to it by such person in military service or some
person on his behalf, unless in the opinion of the court the ability
of the defendant to comply with the terms of the obligation is not
materially affected by reason of his military service(a) Stay the proceedings as provided in this Act; or
(b) Make such other disposition of the case as may be equitable
to conserve the interests of all parties.
(3) No sale under a power of sale or under a judgment entered
upon warrant of attorney to confess judgment contained in any such
obligation shall be valid if made during the period of military service
or within three months thereafter, unless upon an order of sale
previously granted by the court and a return thereto made and
approved by the court.
3 See. 205. That the period of military service shall not be included
in computing any period now or hereafter to be limited by any law
for the bringing of any action by or against any person in military
service or by or against his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns,
whether such cause of action shall have accrued prior to or during
the period of such service.
2

EBERT v. POSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

548

passage of the Act or prior to the commencement of the
military service. By their own words, subsection 2 applies to suits commenced "during the period of military
service," and subsection 3 to sales made "during the
period of military service or within three months thereafter." But the definition given in subsection 2 of § 101
to the words "period of military service" makes the
words used in § 302 mean that part of the military service
which follows "the date of approval of this Act." Thus,
a decree for foreclosure may be stayed, or otherwise disposed of, under § 302 only if the suit was commenced
after the passage of the Act and during the period of
military service. And, likewise, it is only sales made
after the passage of the Act and during military service
that are invalidated if made without leave of court.
Section 205 does not apply to transactions which are
effected without judicial action. The statutory right to
redeem from a sale by advertisement is not a right of
action. It is a primary right as distinguished from a
remedy. The defeasible title of the purchaser at the
sale becomes absolute if the mortgagor fails to avail himself of the right within the statutory period. The purchaser's title is extinguished if it is availed of. The bill
in equity is merely the remedy by which the right, if
still existing, may be enforced.
There is a further contention that the broad purpose
of the Act declared in § 100,1 demands that it be liberally
4

Sec. 100. That for the purpose of enabling the United States the

more successfully to prosecute and carry on the war in which it
is at present engaged, protection is hereby extended to persons in
military service of the United States in order to prevent prejudice or
injury to their civil rights during their term of service and to enable
them to devote their entire energy to the military needs of the Nation,
and to this end the following provisions are made for the temporary
suspension of legal proceedings and transactions which may prejudice
the civil rights of persons in such service during the continuance of
the present war.
19458'-25-----39

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

construed to include the situation presented by this case.
Persuasive legislative reasons for distinguishing between
the cases explicitly cared for by § § 302, 205, and the
present case suggest themselves. We have no occasion
to state them. The judicial function to be exercised in
construing a statute is limited to ascertaining the intention of the legislature therein expressed. A casus omissus
does not justify judicial legislation. Compare United
States v. Weitzel, 246 U. S. 533, 543. This Act is so carefully drawn as to leave little room for conjecture. It deals
with a single subject and does so comprehensively, systematically, and in detail. There are in the Act an aggregate of 36 sections and 27 subsections. To ensure certainty, separate provision is made for each of the several
classes of transactions to be dealt with and for the situations likely to arise in each. To promote clarity, the Act
is divided into six articles, each dealing with a different
branch of the subject. The difference in treatment accorded to transactions taking place during a period of
military service after the passage of the Act as distinguished from those occurring before, is not limited to
mortgages and other secured obligations dealt with in
§ 302. A like distinction is made in the Act in respect to
other classes of transactions.5 Such care and particularity
in treatment preclude expansion of the Act in order to include transactions supposed to be within its spirit, but
which do not fall within any of its provisions. Without
resort to the common rule that statutes are ordinarily to
be construed as prospective in operation, Shwab v. Doyle,
258 U. S. 529, 534, it is clear that Congress did not intend
5 Compare provisions concerning taxes and assessments, § 500;
rent, § 300; rights to public lands, § 501; insurance, § 405; installment purchases, § 301; defaults in actions, § 200; staying of actions,
§ 201. In the case of attachment and garnishment, § 203, the
provision explicitly includes both proceedings commenced during
military service and those commenced before.

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
548

Syllabus.

to deal with sales on foreclosure made before the passage

of the Act.'
We need not consider the contention of the petitioners
that the owner of the right of redemption from a sale by
advertisement under the Michigan laws is not an owner
of real property within the meaning of subsection 1 of
§ 302 of the federal Act. Nor need we consider the contentions of the respondent that there was no proof of a
legal foreclosure and that, independently of the federal
Act, he was entitled to redeem. The latter present questions wholly of state law.

Reversed.
OZARK PIPE LINE CORPORATION v. MONIER ET
*AL., CONSTITUTING THE STATE TAX COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI
No. 181.

Argued November 26, 1924.-Decided January 12, 1925.

1. A Missouri statute requires every corporation not organized under
the laws of that State but engaged in business therein to pay an
annual franchise tax equal to one-tenth of 1% of the par value
of its capital stock and surplus employed in business in the State.
Rev. Stats. 1919, §§ 9836-9848.. Held, that the tax is one upon
the privilege or right to do business. P. 562.
2. Such a tax cannot constitutionally be exacted of a foreign corporation whose business in the taxing State consists exclusively in the
operation of a pipe line for transporting petroleum through the
State in interstate commerce, and in ownership of property, maintenance of its principal office, purchase of supplies, employment of
labor, maintenance and operation of telephone and telegraph lines
and automobiles, and other acts within the State, all exclusively
for the furtherance of such interstate commerce, and constituting
the means and instruments by which it is conducted. P. 563.
6 Taylor v. McGregor State Bank, 144 Minn. 249; Wood v.

Vogel, 204 Ala. 692; Bell v. Buffinton, 244 Mass. 294.

