RICHARDSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
537

541

Opinion of the Court.

cost to the claimant may have been less than the amount
for which it was sold.
Nor can there be any recovery on the theory that under
the contract executed by the contracting officer in January, 1919, the United States agreed to pay $10,521.22 or
any other sum, for depreciation loss on the schooner. This
contract, not having been approved by the Board of Contract Review, became by its own terms, of no binding force
or effect whatever.
The petition does not state a cause of action against the
United States; and the judgment is
_

Affirmed.

L. RICHARDSON & COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 142. Argued December 10, 11, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
Allegations of a petition in the Court of Claims held insufficient to
show an agreement upon the part of the United States to purchase
claimant's wool.
58 Ct. Chns. 717, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dis-

missing a petition upon demurrer.
Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by L. Richardson & Company,
Inc., to recover damages for the breach of an agreement al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

leged to have been made by the United States for the purchase of a quantity of wool, grading higher than fiftysixes, imported by the claimant from South Africa. The
United States demurred to the petition on the ground that
it did not state a cause of action. This demurrer was sustained, without opinion, and judgment entered dismissing
the petition. 58 Ct. Clms. 717.
In November, 1917, the President issued a Proclamation
prohibiting the importation of wool and other enumerated
articles into the United States, except under licenses
granted by the War Trade Board, in accordance with its
regulations or orders.1 In December, the Board issued a
regulation requiring every applicant for a wool import
license to sign an agreement granting the United States
an option to purchase all or any part of the wool covered
by the application, for ten days after its custom house
entry, at a specified price basis. In January, 1918, this
was superseded by another regulation issued by the Board,
requiring that the importers of wool should sign agreements granting such options of purchase to the United
States, before the delivery or release of the wool to them.
Thereafter, as appears from exhibits to the petition, the
Quartermaster General of the Army wrote certain letters
containing announcements as to the grades of wool on
which it was intended to exercise the options granted to
the Government by the importers. These are described
in the petition as "regulations issued by the Quartermaster General in behalf of the War Department;" and it is
alleged that under them he exercised the options on the
grades of wool enumerated and thereby made " purchases"
of such wool. Two of them were written to the Wool Administrator, an official in the Quartermaster Corps. In
one of these, dated April 1, 1918, the Wool Administrator
was directed to announce, among other things, that the
'40 Stat. 1721. This Board had been established by the President
by an Executive Order of Oct. 12, 1917.

RICHARDSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
541

543

Opinion of the Court.

Quartermaster Corps would not exercise the option in
respect to wool finer than fifty-sixes that had been
bought prior to April 1, but reserved the right to exercise it on wool bought on or after that date. In the
other, dated May 17, the Quartermaster General an.
nounced that the War Industries Board having then fixed
the price of wool in the United States, he would "until
further notice" exercise the import license option on all
imported wool, except that grading above fifty-sixes
bought prior to April 1, and certain wool grading forties
and below.; and directed the Wool Administrator to distribute this information to all importers interested. The
petition alleges that this "regulation" was issued through
the Wool Top and Yarn Branch of the Quartermaster'
General's Office, and was an exercise of the option retained
by the Government under the "regulation" of April 1,
on all wool imported into the United States after April 1
that graded above fifty-sixes.
The petition further alleges, in general and indefinite
terms, without giving details, and omitting many specific
dates, that "subsequent to April 1, 1918, and prior to
July 12, 1918," the claimant purchased 7168 bales and
1518 bags of South African wool of the grade finer than
fifty-sixes, and duly executed the proper import license
applications and the options and agreements to sell to the
Government as required under the January regulation of
the War Trade Board; that under said options and agreements and by the "regulation" of May 17, the Government agreed to buy this wool and to pay the claimant
therefor "$1,434,045.60, being the price fixed by the War
Industries Board"; that "subsequent to May 17," the
"Government officers" cancelled the claimant's import
licenses and issued new ones requiring that the wool be
consigned to a designated Government agency and that
the bills of lading be assigned to the Quartermaster Gen-

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

eral; 2 that on July 18, when the claimant sought to charter
a vessel from the Shipping Board to transport a part of
the wool, it was required to guarantee that only wool destined for the Quartermaster General would be carried;
that on December 23, 1918, the Wool Administrator, who
"was authorized by the Quartermaster General and by
the Government to buy and accept said wool," wrote the
claimant a letter stating that he had notified its agent
that he would take 17,200 bales of wool therein described,
including the said 7,168 bales and 1,518 bags, which, it is
alleged, "he so agreed to buy;" that the claimant inported said wool and offered delivery thereof to the Government, but that although the Government accepted and
paid for part of said 17,200 bales it arbitrarily refused
to accept and pay for said 7,168 bales and 1,518 bags;
that the claimant was forced to dispose of this wool, and
obtained the best possible price therefor, realizing, after
deducting the cost of resale, $270,746 less than the price
fixed by the War Industries Board; and that the claimant
was caused to lose this sum by the Government's refusal
to accept and pay for this wool "as it had agreed to do."
The claimant prays judgment for this sum on account
of the violation of "said agreement" of the United States
to purchase and pay for the wool, and for general relief.
The petition does not show whether the claimant
bought this wool before or after the "regulation" of May
17. And it does not show the dates on which the claimant either applied for the import licenses, executed the
option agreements, shipped the wool from South Africa,
imported it into the United States, or tendered delivery
to the Government.
'It appears from the petition that on July 12 the War Trade Board,
after consultation with the War Industries Board and War Department, issued a "ruling" revoking all outstanding licenses for the
importation of wool from South Africa and other countries on shipments made after July 28, and providing that no licenses for such
importations should be issued except to the Quartermaster General.

RICHARDSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
541

545

Opinion of the Court.

It is clear that the demurrer was rightly sustained.
The facts alleged do not show that any authorized
officer of the Government entered into any "agreement"
to purchase the claimant's wool, as claimed in the petition. The letter of May 17 from the Quartermaster
General to the Wool Administrator-which is incorrectly
characterized in the petition as a "regulation" issued in
behalf of the War Department-manifestly did not constitute an exercise of the options granted to the Government to purchase any or all wools finer than fifty-sixes
bought after April 1, but was merely an announcement
of the intention of the Quartermaster General as to the
exercise of such options, and, at the most, an instruction
to the Wool Administrator in reference to the exercise
thereof. It neither constituted an agreement to purchase any or all of the wools that might be imported by
any particular importer, nor a purchase of them. Nor is
it alleged in the petition that at the time the claimant's
wool was imported, the "regulation" of. May 17 was in
force, or that the Quartermaster General had not given
"further notice" in reference to the exercise of the
options on wools imported after the Armistice.
There is no averment that either the "Government
officers" who required the bills of lading to be assigned
to the Quartermaster General, or the Shipping Board
which required a guarantee that a vessel chartered by the
claimant should carry only wool destined for the Quartermaster General, had, or assumed to have, any authority
to purchase wool for the Government; and it is clear that
their actions did not constitute an agreement binding the
United States to exercise the options on any of the wool
thus imported.
Nor does the Wool Administrator's letter of December
23 constitute an agreement to purchase the wool. The
letter itself, a copy of which is exhibited with the petition,
shows no such agreement. It merely notified the claim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Order.

266 U. S.

ant that the Wool Administrator had written to its agent
stating that he would take 17,200 bales of wool-which
apparently had not then been imported-or the "scoured
product" thereof. It does not appear to be an exercise
by the Government of any options previously executed
by the claimant; it mentions no prices; and it states that
as to 14,200 bales of this wool which the claimant had
bought in the grease, the "scoured product" would be
taken, on the basis of a 35 per cent. shrinkage. The
petition does not allege that the claimant had given the
Government any options to purchase the wool on this
basis, or that the proposal of the Wool Administrator to
take it on this basis was ever accepted by the claimant.
In short, it does not appear that any agreement was ever
reached between the claimant and the Wool Administrator as to the terms and conditions on which the wool
should be taken by the Government.
It is unnecessary to review in detail various contentions
urged in behalf of the claimant. They show no error in
the judgment of the Court of Claims; and it is
Affirmed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN

No. 13, Original.

EQUITY.

Order entered January 5, 1925.

Order receiving report of Commissioners on the survey, location and
marking of a part of the Texas-Oklahoma boundary along Red

River, and limiting the time for objections or exceptions.

The commissioners heretofore designated to run, locate
and mark upon the ground portions of the boundary line
between the States of Texas and Oklahoma, where it
follows the course of the Red River, having this day

