FULLERTON CO. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.
433

435

Syllabus.

sawn cross braces, all securely bolted together, with a
curtain of round piles bolted against the upstream face.
It is driven into the bed of the river and extends out
about seven hundred feet from the east bank, approximately at right angles to the channel. Its special purpose is to slacken the current, induce deposits of sediment and eventually build out the shore; and in this way
to improve the channel and aid navigation. Proceeding in a thick fog the "Panoil" struck this dike, shoved
thirty feet of the channel end upstream, and so damaged
it as to require rebuilding at an expense of two thousand
dollars.
Appellants maintain that as the dike is an aid to navi-

gation the court below had jurisdiction of the alleged tort,
within the doctrine of The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361,
and The Raithmoor, 241 U. S. 166. We think the principle of those cases does not go so far. The dike constitutes an extension of the shore, and must be regarded
as land. The mere fact that its presence may affect the
flow of the water and thereby ultimately facilitate navigation is not enough to bring the injury within the admiralty jurisdiction. Cleveland Terminal & Valley R. R.
Co. v. Cleveland S. S. Co., 208 U. S. 316; The Troy,
id. 321.
Affirmed.
FULLERTON-KRUEGER LUMBER COMPAINY v.
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF MINNESOTA.

Nos. 152 and 179.

Argued December 12, 1924.-Decided January
5, 1925.

1. A statute should not be construed retrospectively, unless express
language or necessary implication requires. P. 437.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

2. Transportation Act, 1920, ยง 206, par. (f), providing: "The
period of Federal control shall not be computed as a part of the
periods of limitation in actions against carriers or in claims for
reparation to the Commission for causes of action arising prior to
Federal control ", does not apply to causes barred by limitation
before its passage. P. 437.
156 Minn. 20 affirmed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota which reversed a judgment recovered
by the Lumber Company in an action to recover excessive charges alleged to have been exacted by the Railway
Company on shipments between points within the State.
The writ of error is dismissed.
Mr. P. L. Solether, with whom Mr. John Junell was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error and petitioner.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn appeared for defendants in error
and respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.
After suing out the writ of error, No. 152, the Lumber
Company obtained a certiorari, No. 179, to review the
same judgment. The record plainly discloses that a
right under an act of Congress was claimed below and
denied. The cause is properly here by certiorari and
upon it the issue can be decided. That adequate ground
for the writ of error was specially set up below is not
clear. It will be dismissed.
On January 24, 1921, the original action was brought
in the District Court, Hennepin County, to recover excess
freight charges demanded by respondents between November 25, 1912, and September 16, 1913, in violation of
ยง 4347, Minnesota General Statutes, 1913. Admitting
original liability, the Railway Company relied upon the
local statute of limitation, fixing six years as the time
within which such actions must be begun. To this the

FULLERTON CO. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC.
435

437

Opinion of the Court.

reply was that the prescribed period of limitation had
been extended by paragraph (f), ยง 206, Federal Transportation Act 1920, 41 Stat. 456, 462, which provides, "The
period of Federal control shall not be computed as a part
of the periods of limitation in actions against carriers or
in claims for reparation to the Commission for causes of
action arising prior to Federal control." And upon the
sole point of law thus raised the cause is before us.
The petitioner maintains that Congress intended to
revive actions against carriers when the period designated by the state statute for bringing them had expired
during federal control and asserts that the mischief to be
remedied indicates such purpose and the ordinary meaning of the words employed discloses it. The respondent
insists that a statute should never be given retroactive
effect where another construction is fairly permissible, as
here; that if in the circumstances the act of Congress be
so construed it would create new causes of action and thus
permit the taking of property without due process of law.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota. held, rightly, we
think, that the Transportation Act was not intended to
revive or restore rights of action barred before it became
effective.
"It is a rule of construction, that all statutes are to be
considered prospective, unless the language is express to
the contrary, or there is a necessary implication to that
effect." Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328, 347; Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596, 599; Twenty Per Cent. Cases, 20
Wall. 179, 187; Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S.
536, 559; Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 529, 534. And see
Hopkin v. Lincoln Trust Co., 233 N. Y. 213.
Applying this rule, we find no circumstances existing
when the statute in question was enacted, nor any language therein, which shows that it should be applied to
causes barred by limitation before its passage.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

