TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
1

17

Syllabus.

to pass. The alleged oral statements and the written confession should have been excluded.'
Reversed.
TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION OF ST.
LOUIS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 115. Argued March 3, 4, 1924.--Decided October 13, 1924.
1. Certain railway companies, defendants in a suit successfully prosecuted by the United States under the Sherman Law, instituted
contempt proceedings against their codefendants, not to vindicate
the authority of the court, but to enforce rights which the petitioners claimed under the original decree and alleged that the respondents were violating. The United States did not join in the
complaint or participate in the hearing in the
District Court, but
aligned itself with the petitioners on appeal. Held, that the conthan he told of; that he had caught him in several contradictory
statements and witness said: 'We are all firmly of the belief that you
know who killed those men'; sat and watched him and looked at him
carefully and for a long time after I would tell him those things and
would say, ' Now, you think it over,' and stayed right there with him.
"Q. Your purpose in telling him those things was to make him
talk?
"A. My purpose was to get him to tell me the truth about this
case.

"Q. Answer the question, will you?
"A. Well, he had to talk."
. .
Practically every admission he made was in answer to
question witness asked himelf; 'had gotten practically everything that
I thought was important,' and left the details to Burlingame and
Kelly."
6 Compare Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 631; Weeks v.
United States, 232 U. S. 383, 398; Slverthorne Lumber Co. v. United
States, 251 U. S. 385, 392; Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298;
Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313, 316; Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263
U. S. 149, 155; and "Progress of the Law, 1921-1922, Evidence,"
[Chafee] 35 Harv. L. Rev. 428, 439.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

tempt proceedings were civil and remedial, and not criminal.
P. 27.
2. The authority of a justice of this Court to allow appeals and grant
supersedeas does not depend upon and is not limited by Rule-36, or
any other rule of the Court. It includes appeals under the Expedition Act of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823, Rev. Stats.,
§§ 999, 1012. P. 28.
3. Upon an appeal by parties adjudged in contempt of a decree,
where the question is whether the decree was broad enough to forbid the conduct complained of, appellees cannot be heard to claim
that the decree should have been enlarged unless they took a
cross appeal. Id.
4. In contempt proceedings for its enforcement, a decree will not. be
expanded by implication or intendment beyond the meaning of
its terms when read in the light of the issues and the purpose for
which the suit was brought; and the facts found must constitute
a plain violation of the decree so read. P. 29.
5. The making of railroad rates is a legislative and not a judicial
function; and as a general rule the question of the reasonableness
of rates of interstate carriers or of their divisions of joint rates
will not be considered by the courts before application has been
made to the Interstate Commerce Commission. P. 30.
6. The original decree in this case, (a suit by the United States
against the Terminal Association, its subsidiaries and the proprietary railroads owning its stock, to prevent monopoly and restraint
of trade in violation of the Sherman Act, United States v. St.
Louis Terminal, 236 U. S. 194,) does not regulate rates, or prescribe divisions of joint rates or fix liability for transfer charges;
and expressly provides that these matters may be dealt with by
the Interstate Commerce Commission. P. 31.
7. Therefore, contempt proceedings will not lie to determine whether
the "west side" proprietary railroads have paid more than their
fair share of charges for services of the Terminal Association or
to require the "east side" proprietary railroads to make payments
on that account to the "west side" railroads; and refusal to pay
such charges is not contempt of court. Id.
8. Assuming that the issuing by the Terminal Association of bills
of lading and passes from points on its lines to distant points
beyond them is not included in the business allowed under the
original decree, proprietary railroads not shown to have been
injured by it are not entitled to relief against it in contempt
proceedings. P. 32.
Reversed.

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

Argument for Appellees.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court adjudging
appellants guilty of contempt, committed by disobeying
a decree.
Mr. R. V. Fletcher and Mr. T. M. Pierce, with whom
Mr. L. J. Hackney, Mr. Alex. P. Humphrey, Mr. Morison
R. Waite, Mr. T. W. White, Mr. D. P. Williams and Mr.
1. L. Howell were on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Joseph M. Bryson and Mr. Edward J. White, with
whom Mr. William F. Evans, Mr. William F. Dickinson,
Mr. Charles S. Burg and Mr. Edward T. Miller were on
the brief, for Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company et a., appellees.
I. The order adjudging contempt and prescribing the
means and method whereby it may be purged in no manner invades the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, but is the proper exercise by the court of its
right and duty to protect its decree. Cf. Fischerv. Hayes,
6 Fed. 63; Toledo Scale Co. v. Computing Scale Co., 261
U. S. 399. The District Court found that the Association
was not acting in good faith as the impartial agent of the
various railroad companies; that this condition was
brought about by the domination of the Association by the
east side lines, and its acquiescence therein; that by
reason of such domination the east side lines compelled
the west side lines to pay the Association's charges for supplying and operating facilities for interchange of certain
traffic; and it held that the natural and proper punishment to be inflicted was a refund to the west side lines of
the amounts they had been thus unlawfully required to
pay. That procedure is strictly judicial, and is not only
not a proper subject for consideration by the Interstate
Commerce Commission but is a matter over which it has
no jurisdiction.
Another finding deals with the action of the Association
in issuing bills of lading for transportation of through

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

266 U. S.

freight from points on its lines to points beyond its lines,
and the use of passes by passengers between such points.
It was impossible from the record to escape the conclusion
that the Association was guilty of this practice after the
decree the same as before.
Subdivision (a) of par. 3 of the order does not attempt
to specify all the acts of the Association upon which was
based the conclusion that it was not acting in good faith
as the impartial agent of the various railroad companies.
Subdivisions (b), (c) and (d) deal with particular instances reflecting such violation, but recourse can be had
to the various opinions in this case, particularly the unanimous findings of the four circuit judges, for ascertaining
other particulars evidencing such partiality.
The east side lines contend that the question to be determined by this Court is, whether there is anything in
this proceeding or in law to warrant the court of first instance to determine what shall be the tariffs of the east
side lines, or what shall be the division between the east
side lines and the west side lines of rates on traffic passing
from East St. Louis through St. Louis to points beyond.
The District Court did not attempt to fix rates or divisions, nor did it assert that it had any authority to do so.
It did, however, assert its lawful authority to forbid the
east side lines, through their domination of the Association, from requiring the west'side lines to pay more than
their share of the expense of furnishing and operating
the terminal facilities, the evidence showing that the west
side lines had been forced to pay all the Association's
charges for furnishing and operating facilities for the
transfer of through freight both eastbound and westbound.
The order did not specify any revision in tariffs; on the
contrary, the opinion upon which the order is based in
terms declares that the tariff questions are within the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87, distinguished.

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

21

Argument for Appellees.

II. The jurisdiction of the courts was not ousted by
Transportation Act, 1920.
III. The west side lines had not only the right, but for
self protection were under duty, to institute this contempt proceeding. One of the basic purposes of the
Anti-Trust Act is to protect, not to destroy, rights of
property. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
1, 78.
It is fundamental that a contempt proceeding where the
relief sought is civil and remedial, is not a criminal proceeding in the sense that the criminal element dominates
the case. A proceeding of this nature is between the original parties and is instituted and tried as a part of the
main case. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221
U. S. 418. The penalty assessed against the contemnors
may be ordered paid to another party to the suit for damages it may have suffered as a result of the contemptuous
violation of the decree. Morehouse v. Giant Powder Co.,
206 Fed. 24; Merchants' Stock & Grain Co. v. Board of
Trade, 201 Fed. 20; Kreplik v. Couch Patents Co., 190
Fed. 565; Union Tool Co. v. Wilson, 259 U. S. 107; In re
North Bloomfield Gravel Min. Co., 27 Fed. 795; Wells,
Fargo& Co. v. Oregon Ry. & Nay. Co., 19 Fed. 23; Secor
v. Singleton, 35 Fed. 378; Matter of Christensen Engineering Co., 194 U. S. 458; Cary Mfg. Co. v. Acme Flexible Clasp Co., 187 U. S. 427. Contempt proceedings
may be instituted in the main cause by motion. Phillips
Co. v. Amalgamated Assn., 208 Fed. 335.
IV. The only question involved on this appeal is the
jurisdiction of the District Court as a federal court. That
jurisdiction being conceded, the judgment should be
affirmed.
V. The effect of the operating agreement, the various
opinions in this cause and the final decree, is to constitute
the rails of the Association extensions of the rails of the
proprietary companies.

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for the United States.

266 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, for the United
States, submitted.
Opposing counsel would seem to contend that paragraph
6 of the decree authorized them to bring about a situation
more destructive and disastrous to the public interest and
the terminal situation in St. Louis than ever existed prior
to the filing of the original bill and the announcement of
the opinions and decrees of this Court; that, in adjudging
the Association a combination and conspiracy in restraint
of trade and commerce under the Sherman Act, the Court
has authorized them to engage in other activities which
place them not only beyond the Sherman Act but to far
greater advantage than if the original bill in equity had
never been filed.
The argument that anything contained in Transportation Act, 1920, "abated this whole litigation" need not
seriously be considered.
That the Transportation Act has not repealed the Sherman Act as applicable to combinations of railroad companies is obvious from the late case of United States v.
Southern Pacific Co., 259 U. S. 214, which was argued and
decided more than two years after the Transportation Act
was passed.
Paragraph 8 of § 407, is irrelevant, since it is not claimed
that any order has been made by the Commission or applied for under § 407.
Should not the Association be dissolved in toto in pursuance of the opinions of this Court and the decrees
entered on its mandates? On motion of the Government,
or on its own motion, this Court has the power to
require it. Continental Ins. Co. v. United States, 259
U. S. 156.
Mr. John F. Lee and Mr. George M. Block, by leave of
Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

Opinion of the Court.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In November, 1905, the United States filed complaint in
the Circuit, now District, Court for the Eastern District
of Missouri against the Terminal Railroad Association of
St. Louis, two bridge companies and a ferry company, subsidiaries of the Association, certain railroad companies
which owned the cipital stock of the Association, and the
individuals who represented the shareholders on the Board
of Directors of the Association. The names of the defendants are given in a note printed in the margin of the
opinion in United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S.
383, 390. The complaint alleged a combination in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209,
and prayed a dissolution of the Association. Under the
Expedition Act of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823,
four Circuit Judges heard the case and entered a decree
dismissing the complaint. On appeal to this court, there
was a reversal. The case was remanded, and, March 2,
1914, a final decree was entered in the District Court in
favor of the United States, in accordance with the mandate of this court. United States v. St. Louis Termxcd,
supra, 411. See also Ex parte United States, 226 U. S.
420. There was another appeal (236 U. S. 194) and, February 7, 1917, the District Court modified its decree in
accordance with the direction of this court. The substance of the decree, as modified, so far as here material,
is as follows:
"1. The Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis is
an unlawful combination contrary to the Anti-Trust Act
of July 2, 1890 (26 Stat. 209), when it and the various
bridge and terminal companies composing it are operated
as railroad transportation companies. The combination
may, however, exist and continue as a lawful unification
of terminal facilities upon abandoning all operating methods and charges as and for railroad transportation and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

fining itself to the transaction of a terminal business such
as supplying and operating facilities for the interchange
of traffic between railroads and to assist in the collecting
and distributing of traffic for the carrier companies,
switching, storing and the like, and modifying its contracts
as herein specified. An election having been made to continue the combination for terminal pu.rposes, the defendants are therefore perpetually enjoined from in anywise
managing or conducting the said Terminal Railroad Association or any of its constituent companies and from operating any of the properties belonging to it or its constituents otherwise than as terminal facilities for the railroad
companies using the same, and from making charges
otherwise than for and according to the nature of the
services so lawfully authorized to be rendered. Provided,
however, that the right of said Terminal Railroad Association as an accessory to its strictly terminal business
to carry on transportation as to business exclusively
originating on its lines, exclusively moving thereon, and
exclusively intended for delivery on the same is hereby
recognized, and nothing in this decree shall be construed
to deny such rights."
Paragraph 2 of the decree directs a reorganization of the
contracts between the defendant railroad companies and
the Terminal Association by providing for the admission
of any railroad to joint ownership and control of the combined terminal properties on terms of equality with the
then proprietary companies, and for the use of the terminal facilities by any railroad not a joint owner upon such
terms as will, in respect of use, character and cost of service, place every such railroad upon as nearly an equal plane
as may be, with respect to expenses and charges, as that
occupied by proprietary companies, and by eliminating
from the existing agreement any provision which restricts
any proprietary company to the-use Qf the facilities of the
Terminal Association.

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

25

Opinion of the Court.

Paragraph 3 abolishes the practice of billing to East St.
Louis or other junction points and then rebilling traffic
destined to St. Louis or points beyond.
Paragraph 4 abolishes any special or so-called arbitrary
charge for the use of the terminal facilities in respect of
traffic originating within the so-called 100-mile area that
is not equally applied in respect of traffic originating outside of that area.
Paragraph 5 extends the effect of the decree to all
railroad companies thereafter admitted to ownership or
use of the terminal facilities..
Paragraph 6 is as follows: " Nothing in this decree shall
be taken to affect in any wise or at any time the power of
the Interstate Commerce Commission over the rates to
be charged by the Terminal Railroad Association, or the
mode of billing traffic passing over its lines, or the establishing of joint through rates or routes over its lines, or
any other power conferred by law upon such commission."
The cause was reserved for such further orders and decrees as might be deemed necessary.
Certain defendant railroad companies, for convenience,
are called the west side lines.1 Certain others are called
the east side lines2 The Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Company and the Wabash Railway Company
each has a line which enters St. Louis from the east and a
line which enters it from the west, but they are aligned
with the east side lines on this appeal. The capital stock
1

Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company; St. Louis-San

Francisco Railway Company; Missouri Pacific Railroad Company,
and the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company.
'Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern Railroad Company; Chicago &
Alton Railroad Company; Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St.

Louis Railway Company; Illinois Central Railroad Company; Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company; Southern Railway Company;
Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company; St.
Louis Southwestern Railway Company; Chicago, Burlington &

Quincy Railroad Company, and the Wabash Railway Company.
19458°-25---6

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

of the Association is owned in equal amounts by all these
companies, and they are called proprietary companies.
In August, 1920, the west side lines filed a petition and
motion in the District Court to have the Terminal Association and its subsidiaries, and the east side lines and
also their representatives on the Board of Directors of the
Terminal Association adjudged guilty of contempt of
court for violating the decree. The parties so complained
of (appellants here) appeared and moved to dismiss the
petit-ion and also filed answer. An examiner was appointed, and, after the taking of evidence and a hearing,
the court denied the motion to dismiss and entered its
decree that the appellants "have continuously since the
entry of said final order and decree, in contempt of this
court, violated the terms thereof and are still violating its
said terms-"(a) In that defendants, the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis and its subsidiary companies are not
acting in good faith as the impartial agents of the various
proprietary lines.
"(b) In that the proprietary lines other than the petitioners, through the domination and control of the Board
of Directors of defendant, the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis and its subsidiaries, compelled the petitioners to pay the Terminal Railroad Association its transfer charges for supplying and operating facilities for the
interchange of both through east bound and through west
bound freight traffic between the east side lines and the
west side lines.
"(c) In that the defendants [the east side lines above
named]

.

.

.

have not paid and are not now paying

the reasonable transfer charges of defendant, the Terminal
Railroad Association of St. Louis and its subsidiary companies on west bound through freight to the rails " of the
petitioners and other defendants whose lines enter St.

Louis from the West.

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

Opinion of the Court.

"(d) In that the said Terminal Railroad Association
has been issuing bills of lading or receipts taking the place
of bills of lading usable for the transportation of through
freight from points on its lines to distant points beyond
its lines, and has been issuing passes usable by passengers
riding on passes or tickets from points on its lines to
distant points beyond its lines."
And the decree commands that within 60 days the appellant companies cease violating the final decree in the
respects above set forth, and that the east side lines "be
and they are hereby required to pay within 60 days after
the amount of same shall have been ascertained and determined for the use and benefit of said west side lines
. . . the total amount of the transfer charges of defendant Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis and
its subsidiary companies paid by said west side lines on
west bound through freight of said east side lines to the
rails of said west side lines at St. Louis, Missouri; from
the date of the entry of said final decree, to wit; March 2,
1914, to the date of this order. . . ." And the decree
prescribed and directed how such total amount should be
determined.
In these proceedings, the United States did not join in
the complaint or participate in the hearing in the District Court, but has since appeared and is aligned with the
appellees. The proceedings were instituted by the west
side lines, not to vindicate the authority of the court, but
to enforce rights claimed by them under the original
decree. The controversy is between them and the east
side lines as to whether the former or the latter shall bear
transfer charges on. west bound through freight. The nature of the proceedings is civil and remedial, not criminal.
See In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. 448, 458; Bessette v. W. B.
Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324; Gompers v. Bucks Stove &
Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 441, et seq.; Re Merchants'
Stock Co., Petitioner,223 U. S. 639; Morehouse v. Giant

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Powder Co., 206 Fed. 24; Merchants'Stock & GrainCo. v.
Board of Trade, 201 Fed. 20, 23.
This appeal was taken under the Expedition Act of
February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823. Appellants applied to the Circuit Judges for allowance of appeal and
supersedeas. The appeal was allowed and supersedeas
was granted on condition, among others, that, commencing
60 days after the entry of the decree, the east side lines
pay to the Terminal Association and its subsidiaries
charges for transferring westbound through freight from
the east side lines to the rails of the west side lines. Appellants, being unwilling to accept that burden, applied to
a justice of this court, who allowed their appeal and, upon
the giving of appropriate security, granted supersedeas
without requiring such payments to be made pending the
appeal. Appellees assert that the allowance of the appeal
was under Rule 36 which provides that an appeal from
a District Court may be allowed and supersedeas granted
by a justice of this court, in cases provided for in §§ 238
and 252 of the Judicial Code; that thereby the case was
brought under § 238, and that the question of jurisdiction
is all that may be considered on this appeal. The contention is without merit. The authority of a justice of
this court to allow appeals and grant supersedeas does not
depend upon and is not limited by Rule 36 or any other
rule of this court. See Hudson v. Parker, 156 U. S. 277,
284. The Expedition Act gives the right of appeal in
this case, and the appeal was properly allowed by a justice of this court. Revised Statutes, §§ 999, 1012. Sage
v. Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 712, 715; Brown v. McConnell,
124 U. S. 489.
The original decree was not enlarged by the decree appealed from. And, as there is no cross appeal, no question
is presented as to the right of the appellees to have it
amended so as to impose any additional condition on the
continued existence of the combination as unified ter-

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

Opinion of the Court.

minal facilities. PeoriaRy. Co. v. United States, 263 U.
S. 528, 536. The question whether the east side lines are
bound to pay transfer charges on west bound through
freight depends upon the proper construction and application of the original decree.
In contempt proceedings for its enforcement, a decree
will not be expanded by implication or intendment beyond
the meaning of its terms when read in the light of the
issues and the purpose for which the suit was brought; and
the facts found must constitute a plain violation of the
decree so read. See United States v. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co., 142 Fed. 176, 182, 183; In re Cary, 10 Fed. 622,
625, 626; Ophir Creek Water Co. v. Ophir Hill Mining
Co., 61 Utah, 551, 556; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Miller, 112 Ky. 464, 472; Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v.
Smith, 52 Wis. 140, 143; Sullivan v. Jones & Laughlin
Steel Co., 222 Pa. St. 72, 85, 86; Weston v. Lumber Co.,
158 N. C. 270, 273; Deming v. Bradstreet, 85 Conn. 650,
658; Porous Plaster Co. v. Seabury, 1 N. Y. S. 134. The
statement of the decree appealed from [subdivision (a)]
that the Terminal Association and its subsidiaries are not
acting in good faith as the impartial agents of the various
proprietary lines is too general and vague, when considered by itself, to constitute a specification of facts
amounting to contempt of court. The meaning and application of this general language is to be limited by the specification of details which follow it in (b) and (c) of the
same section. Atkins v. DisintegratingCo., 18 Wall. 272,
302; Bock v. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628, 634, 635; Brunson v.
Carter Oil Co., 259 Fed. 656, 664.
The original decree does not require the east side lines
to pay the charges for transferring west bound through
freight. No provision so directs, and there is nothing in
the circumstances to indicate that the court intended to
prescribe the amount of such transfer charges or to fix
liability therefor. United States v. St. Louis Terminal,

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

236 U. S. 194, 204. The suit was brought by the United
States to prevent restraint of trade and monopoly in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. It did not relate to
the transfer charges or division of joint rates. All the
proprietary companies were defendants. The pleadings
presented no issue between the west side lines and the
east side lines; and no controversy between them was
determined by the decree.
The practice of "breaking" the rates on west bound
through freight at the east bank of the Mississippi River
in East St. Louis has prevailed since 1877. That is, joint
rates on freight moving from the east through St. Louis
to points in the west have been considered as made up of
an amount to cover the haul to the east bank of the river
and an amount to cover the haul beyond that point. The
former has been divided among the carriers hauling to the
east bank of the river; the balance among those hauling
from that point,-including the Terminal Association and
its subsidiaries making the transfer from the lines on the
east to the lines on the west side of the river. It has also
been the practice at this crossing to "break" the joint
rates on east bound through freight at the same place.
All rates have been set forth by tariffs; and the divisions
of the charges among the participating carriers have been
shown by their division sheets filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission. The practice has been the same
on all competing routes crossing the river at points between East St. Louis and Dubuque.
The making of rates is a legislative and not a judicial
function. Keller v. Potomac Electric Co., 261 U. S. 428,
440; Ohio Valley Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S.
287, 289; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett,
231 U.. S. 298, 305; Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Humboldt S. S. Co., 224 U. S. 474, 483; Prentisv. Atlantic
Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 226. The division of joint
rates is also legislative in character. The Interstate

TERMINAL R. R. ASSN. v. U. S.
17

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Commission is authorized to establish through
routes and joint rates and to prescribe conditions upon
which such routes shall be operated, and to fix divisions
of such rates among carriers. § 15 (1), (3), (6), Interstate Commerce Act, § 418, c. 91, 41 Stat. 485, 486. It is
well settled as a general rule that the question of the
reasonableness of rates or of divisions of joint rates will
not be considered by the courts before application has
been made to the Commission. Texas & Pacific Ry. v.
Abilene Cotton O. Co., 204 U. S. 426, 440; Robinson v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S. 506; Mitchell Coal Co.
v. Pennsylvanid R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 247, 254-261; Skinner & Eddy Corporationv. United States, 249 U. S. 557,
562; United States v. Abilene & Southei&Ry. Co., 265
U. S. 274. The Terminal Association and its subsidiaries
are common carriers by railroad and, like the proprietary
companies, are subject to regulation by the Commission.
The original decree does not purport to regulate rates or
prescribe divisions of joint iates, or fix liability for such
transfer charges. On the other hand, it expressly provides
that it shall not affect in any wise or at any time the power
of the Commission over charges to be made by the Terminal Association or its subsidiaries, or any power conferred by law upon the Commission. In the exercise of its
powers under existing law, the Commission is untrammeled by the decree and may make and regulate rates on
through freight and the divisions thereof. As the original
decree does not prescribe charges or fix divisions of joint
rates, contempt proceedings will not lie to determine
whether the west side lines have paid more than their fair
share of the charges for the services rendered by the
Terminal Association, or to require the east side lines to
make the payments specified in the decree appealed from.
The refusal or failure of the east side lines to pay the
charges in controversy or any other transfer charges is not
contempt of court.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

The issuing of the bills of lading, receipts and passes
referred to in the decree [subdivision (d) ] appealed from
is not expressly forbidden by the original decree. But assuming in favor of the west side lines that such issuing is
not included in the terminal business which the combination is permitted to do, it is not shown that any injury to
them has resulted therefrom, or that they are entitled to
any relief. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra,
451.
Decree reversed.
LOVE ET AL. v. GRIFFITH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE

COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FIRST SUPREME

JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 12. Argued October 6, 1924.-Decided October 20, 1924.
1. A party who plainly asserted a federal right in a state trial court
and whose appeal from an adverse judgment was dismissed by a
higher state tribunal upon the ground that the case, after judgment, had become moot, is' entitled to the judgment of this Court
on whether such dismissal in effect denied, or failed duly to recognize, the right asserted; and local rules as to the extent of review
will not necessarily determine the decision here. P. 33.
2. Where plaintiffs, as qualified electors, unsuccessfully sought to
enjoin, as violative of the Constitution, the enforcement of a rule
made by a City Democratic Executive Committee that negroes
should not be allowed to vote at a particular Democratic primary
election, their bill praying no other relief, and, months later,
their appeal to a higher state tribunal was dismissed upon the
ground that, the election having been held, the cause of action
had ceased to exist and that the appeal would not be entertained
on the question of costs alone, held, that the dismissal did not
violate their constitutional rights. P. 34.
236 S. W. 239, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals of
Texas which dismissed an appeal from a judgment dismissing a bill for an injunction.

