TOD v. WALDMAN.
108

Syllabus.

to hold that under that act a mere suspension of the
vessel's activity in merchant trade destroyed its quasi
personal responsibility for its wrongs done or its liabilities

incurred in that trade. In view of the relation of the
Act of 1920 to the'Act of 1916, unless the words of the
proviso of ยง 2 of the Act of 1920 make any other construction unreasonable, the mere laying up of the vessel
before suit brought under the act should not prevent a
libel in personam against the United States for a claim
which under the Act of 1916 might be enforced against
the vessel itself, The words of the proviso may reasonably and more liberally be interpreted as a limitation that
the vessel is a merchant vessel and shall not have lost its
character as such. Thus construed, ยง 2 gives the District
Court jurisdiction in such a case as this.
Decree reversed.
TOD, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION, v.
WALDMAN ET AL.
CERTIORAR" TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 95.

Argued October 20, 21, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. When it is found, in habeas 'corpus, that aliens, refused admission
to the country and held for deportation, were denied a right of
appeal to the Secretary of Labor, accorded by the Immigration

Law and regulations, they should not therefore be discharged from
custody and their bail be released, but the order should secure
them the appeal and remand them to custody of the immigration
authorities pending decision by the Secretary. P. 118.
2. In such cases, questions such as educational qualification of an
immigrant in a foreign language, or the probable effect of a physical
defect on future ability to earn a living, which determine the right
of admission, should be remitted to the Department rather than
be decided by the court in the habeas corpus proceeding. P. 119.
3. In determining upon the admissibility of an alien, the immigration

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

authorities should pass upon the issues made by the applicant, and
its record, and the return in habeas corpus, should reveal the
proceedings and rulings in detail. P. 119.
4. An order in habeas corpus remanding immigrants to the custody
of the immigration authorities for a further hearing, should be
followed by their discharge if the hearing be not granted seasonably.
P. 120.
289 Fed. 761, reversed. See also, post, p. 547.
Tins is a certiorari to a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, discharging Mrs.
Szejwa Waldman and her three minor children as relators in a writ of habeas corpus. The writ was issued by
the District Court for the Southern District of New
York, to Robert E. Tod, Commissioner of Immigration
at Ellis Island. That court dismissed the petition and
remanded the relators. Mrs. Waldman and her children,
reaching New York from Europe, were, after examination, detained at Ellis Island on August 28, 1922, for deportation, on the ground that they were liable to become
public charges if admitted to the United States, and also
because the mother was an illiterate person. She appealed to the Department of Labor, which directed the
case to be reopened before a Board of Special Inquiry
for the purpose of according her a reexamination regarding her ability to read Yiddish and Hebrew, with direction if she did not pass it, to deport her and her family,
without further reference to the Department. She was
reexamined. She alleged in her petition that, although
she was able to read in Yiddish, she was declared illiterate
and she and her family were ordered deported on the next
sailing, and were refused appeal from this decision. She
further alleged that she and her family were seeking admission to the United States to avoid religious persecution in their home in Proskurow (once in Russia and now
in the Ukraine), that she escaped from there in 1919, and
after seventeen months spent in securing a passport to
this country came here as a refugee, that, if she is de-

TOD v. WALDMAN.
113

Statement of the Case.

ported from the United States, she must be returned
to Proskurow and that she and her children would be in
danger of death; that she and they, as refugees from religious persecution, are exempt by the immigration
statute from the operation of the literacy test, but that
their claim as such refugees had not been considered by
the Commissioner of Immigration or the Secretary of
Labor pursuant to the rules of the immigration bureau,
although the facts were fully shown in her sworn evidence before the Commissioner. Her petition further
alleged that relatives of hers, who are responsible citizens and residents of the United States, are willing to
furnish a satisfactory bond that the Waldman family
will not become public charges; indeed, that they are
themselves willing and able to agree to support the
family.
The return asked that the writ be quashed because it
did not appear that there was no evidence before the
Department upon which the warrant could be based, or
that the issues sought by the petition now to be litigated
in the court had not already been determined by the Department of Labor adversely to the aliens. The return
exhibits the records of the Department and the evidence
taken, and a medical certificate showing that one of the
daughters, Zenia Waldman, is afflicted with a dislocation
of the left hip, causing shortening of the left leg and
lameness, which may affect her ability to earn a living;
and that for this, and for failure of the mother to pass
the language test, all the aliens were properly ordered excluded; that on appeal, after a careful consideration, the
Second Assistant Secretary directed that the case be re.opened before a Board of Special Inquiry; that another
hearing was given by a different Board of Special Inquiry, the minutes of the prior hearing being made a part
of the evidence taken and other evidence introduced, a
copy of which is annexed; and that the board duly and

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

unanimously reaffirmed the former order of exclusion.
The return concludes:
"The proofs and record of the proceedings before mentioned having been duly transmitted to him, the Secretary of Labor, after carefully considering the evidence
presented in the record, duly affirmed the excluding decision of the board and directed the deportation of the
aliens herein; and for the cause of the detention of the
said aliens complained of in the petition herein, deponent
says that the said aliens are and since the receipt of said
writ of habeas corpus have been held under and in obedience to said writ ".
The prayer was that the writ of habeas corpus be dismissed and the aliens remanded to the custody of the
Commissioner, to be dealt with in accordance with the
order of exclusion.
The Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the failure of
the return to set out the details of the test as to the
knowledge of Mrs. Waldman in Yiddish and Hebrew, at
the first and second hearing, was improper; that the test
directed in both Hebrew and Yiddish, which the statute
recognized as different languages, was a double one for
which there was no warrant in the statute. Without
stressing these defects, the court, pointing out that by
ยง 17 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29,
39 Stat. 874, 887, and regulations duly issued thereunder,
when a case is referred back to a Board by the Bureau or
Department, in order that additional evidence may be
taken, and a new decision is rendered by the Board, the
reopened hearing shall be "of the same nature and be
subject to the same conditions, limitations, and privileges
as an original hearing ", held that the departmental order
reopening the case was illegal in that it took away the
right of appeal after the second examination, and that
the warrant of deportation was void. The Circuit Court
of Appeals further held that the record so left the case

TOD v. WALDMAN.
113

Argument for Petitioner.

of the child Zenia that it must be assumed that the
decision to exclude her was not affirmed by the Department of Labor and that the Department may well have
disagreed with the local board as to whether or not the
physical defect would interfere with the ability of Zenia
to earn a living. The order of the District Court was
reversed with directions to enter an order discharging the
relators and releasing their bail.
An application for a rehearing was made to the Circuit
Court of Appeals to modify its order so as not to discharge the relators and their bail, but to direct that the
trial court might itself proceed to hear the issues and
determine the admissibility of the appellants. The Circuit Court of Appeals declined to make this modification,
but said that, as the judgment was not res judicata, the
executive authorities might rearrest the relator and institute further proceedings to test the legality of her being
in the country. It is the discharge of the relators and
their bail by the Circuit Court of Appeals of which the
Government complains.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Where the trial court, on habeas corpus, finds the alien
has not been accorded a fair hearing, it is its duty to
determine the right of the alien to enter the United
States, and this duty exists not only where the right of
entry is based upon claimed citizenship but equally where
the right of entry is based upon the claim, as here, that
the alien is able to meet the literacy or other requirements
of the immigration laws. Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253
U. S. 454; Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276; Hoey
Lum Qung v. Johnson, 299 Fed. 246; Wong Wing Sing
v. Nagle, 299 Fed. 601.
Mr. Max J. Kohler for respondents.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

MR. CHiEF JUsTmE TAFT, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
We think that the complaint of the Government is well
founded. The petitioners in the writ of habeas corpus
were aliens who had not been legally admitted to the
country-that is, neither the immigration authorities nor
the court had held that they were entitled to admission.
The immigration authorities had ordered their deportation. The Circuit Court of Appeals merely found that
in the course of the examination by the immigration
authorities the relators had not been given a fair opportunity to appeal to the Secretary of Labor as provided
by the statute. This denial of appeal did not give to
them a right to admission to the country. In the due
and orderly disposition of the writ of habeas corpus,
relators should not have been discharged and their bail
released, but the order should have been framed so as
to secure the benefit of the appeal to the relators, to
which the court by its decision had held them entitled.
To discharge them was to take them out of the proper
custody of the government authorities pending their admission or exclusion, was to entail upon the Government
the affirmative and initial duty of re-arresting them and
was improperly discharging the security for their response
to any lawful order of the immigration authorities. The
mere fact that by re-arrest the Government would not be
confronted by any judgment of res judicatadid not suffice.
The power of the court in such a case is indicated by
ยง 761 of the Revised Statutes in reference to habeas
corpus. The section provides that a court or justice or
judge shall proceed in a summary manner to determine
the facts of the case by hearing the testimony and arguments and thereupon to dispose of the party as law and
justice require. The law and justice here required under
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals was that the

TOD v. WALDMAN.
113

Opinion of the Court.

case should be sent to the District Court with instructions
to remand the petitioners to the custody of the immigration authorities, to await the result of the appeal from
the judgment of deportation to the Secretary of Labor.
Counsel for the Government urge that under three
decisions of this Court, Chin Yow v. United States, 208
U. S. 8, 13, Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253 U. S. 454, and
Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, the question with
respect to which the petitioners have not been given a
fair hearing should now be remanded to the District
Court for its decision. Without saying that the circumstances might not arise which would justify such a variation in the order from that which we now direct, we do
not think that the course taken in the cases cited should
guide us here. In those cases the single question was
whether the petitioner was a citizen of the United States
before he sought admission, a question of frequent judicial inquiry. Here the questions are technical ones involving the educational qualifications of an immigrant
in a language foreign to ours, and the medical inquiry as
to effect of a physical defect on the probability of a child's
being able to earn a living or of becoming a public charge.
The court is not as well qualified in such cases to consider
and decide the issues as the immigration authorities.
The statute intends that such questions shall be considered and determined by the immigration authorities. It
would seem better to remand the relators to the hearing
of the appeal, by the Secretary and his assistants, who
have constant practice and are better advised in deciding
such questions.
We concur with the Circuit Court of Appeals in its
criticism of the record in this case in that it does not set
out more fully the details of the test applied in the examinations. The record is defective also in not showing
the definite rulings of the Commissioner or the Board bf
Inquiry on the issues made by Mrs. Waldman in her

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

evidence. This made clear her claim that she and her
children were refugees from religious persecution relieving
her from an educational test; but no finding appears in
the record on this point either by the Board or the Department on appeal. The mere implication that the claim
must have been passed on adversely to her because the
language test was applied is not enough. If the necessary finding was in fact made, it should be made part of
the record. We agree -with the Circuit Court of Appeals
also that the absence from the record of any finding by
the, Department on appeal as to the issue whether the
lameness of Zenia, one of the children, affected her ability
to earn a living or made her likely to become a public
charge, is a defect. The inquiry and finding should have
been made. If made, the record should disclose it. If
not made, the inquiry should be made and the finding
recorded.
We see no reason, therefore, why upon the appeal
which it is now decided the Secretary of Labor must
afford the relators, he should not consider and make a
definite finding on the issues made by the petition, to wit,
first, whether the relators are not relieved from the test
as to language because they are refugees from religious
persecution; second, whether, if it be necessary, a proper
test as to the reading knowledge of Yiddish only, which
Mrs. Waldman had, was sufficient to meet the requirements of the statute, and, if not, to order another; and,
third, whether the lameness of Zenia Waldman is likely to
affect her ability to earn her living or to make her a
public charge. The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and modified in accordance with this
opinion, with instructions to remand the petitioners to the
custody of the immigration authorities to await the hearing on the appeal before the Secretary of Labor. Failing
the granting and hearing of the appeal within thirty days
after the coming down of the mandate herein, the re-

MELLON v. ORINOCO IRON CO.
Statement of the Case.

113

lators and their bail are to be discharged.

Mahler v.

Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 46.
Reversed and remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY OF
THE UNITED STATES, ET AL. v. ORINOCO
IRON COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 491. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 13, 1924.Decided November 17, 1924.
The Act of February 27, 1896, c. 34, 29 Stat. 32, directs that moneys
received by the Secretary of State from foreign governments in
trust for citizens of the United States or others, shall be deposited
in the Treasury; and that the Secretary of State shall determine
the amounts due claimants from such funds and certify the same
to the Secretary of the Treasury who, upon presentation of such
certificates, shall pay the amounts so found to be due; the act appropriating such funds in the Treasury "for the payment to the
ascertained beneficiaries thereof of the certificates herein proVided for."
Held, that the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury in paying such
certificates is ministerial; and that, where the claimant named in
a certificate held as trustee ex maleficio for another whose equity
the Secretary of State had remitted to the courts, the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia had jurisdiction of a suit brought
by such beneficial owner against the other in which the Secretary
of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United States might be
impleaded, be required to pay over the money to a receiver, and
be enjoined from making other disposition of it. Houston v.
Ormes, 252 U. S. 469. P. 125.
54 App. D. C. 218; 296 Fed. 965, affirmed.

by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United States from a decree of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, which affirmed a
APPEAL

19rW8"25--12

