KUNHARDT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
531

537

Counsel for Parties.

of the proviso. It is unnecessary to review in detail the
various contentions urged in his behalf. We do not find
them sufficient to sustain the judgment; and it must be
and is
Reversed.
KUNHARDT

& COMPANY,

INC.

v.

UNITED

STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 141.

Argued December 10, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. In order to comply with the demand of government officials that it
deliver goods at a port in this country, as required to do by its contracts of sale with the United States, claimant was obliged to forego
a profitable disposition of a vessel it owned and prepared her
for the transportation, before the contracts were canceled. Held,
that there was no taking of the vessel under eminent domain, and
that the United States was not liable for the depreciation of her
sale value. P. 540.
2. There can be no recovery on an agreement of the United States
to pay the amount by which the cost of equipment provided for
performance of a war contract exceeds its value at termination of
the contract, as determined by appraisers, where cost and appraisal
are not alleged and depreciation is not shown. Id.
3. A contract adjusting a claim under canceled war contracts, which
by its terms was not binding until approved by a board of contract
review, was of no force without such approval. P. 541.
58 Ct. Clms. 718, affirmed.
. APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismiss-

ing a petition on demurrer.
Mr. Raymond H. Hudson for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan appeared for
the United States. The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Lovett and Mr. Lisle A. Smith, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief.
194"58°--25--38

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD

266 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment dismissing, on demurrer, a petition filed by Kunhardt & Co., Inc., against
the United States. 58 Ct. Clms. 718.
The material facts alleged in the petition and shown by
the accompanying exhibits, are these: The claimant is
a New York corporation, engaged in importing. On
September 10, 1918, the Director of Aircraft Production
issued to it a purchase order for the growth of 50,000 to
75,000 bushels of castor beans, to be delivered by the
claimant, at a specified price, at Puerto Cortez, Honduras,
or, at the option of the Government, at a specified higher
price, at any United States port on the Gulf of Mexico.
On September 16 this order was incorporated in a contract
between the United States and the claimant. In October
the government officers insisted that as they were having
difficulty in finding transportation and the claimant had
a schooner, the Herbert May, it should provide transportation for the beans from Honduras and Guatemala to
New Orleans-as it could be required to do under the option reserved respecting the place of delivery. The claimant, having no use for the schooner, was then negotiating
its sale and had received an offer of $75,000. But as this
was the only means of transportation available to it, the
claimant, it is alleged, was "forced " to retain possession
of the schooner, and had it prepared for the trip to the
West Indies. On November 6 the Director of Aircraft
Production issued to the claimant a second purchase order
for 75,000 to 100,000 bushels of castor beans, to be grown
or purchased in Honduras or Guatemala and delivered at
New Orleans, at a specified price. This order was incorporated in a second contract between the United States
and the claimant, dated November 12, although executed
later. This contract contained a provision that if the Di-

KUNHARDT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
537

539

Opinion of the Court.

rector of Aircraft Production should terminate it prior to
completion, the United States should, among other things,
pay the claimant" on account of depreciation or amortization of plant, facilities, and equipment" provided by the
claimant for the performance of the contract, the amount
by which their cost to the claimant should exceed their fair
market value at the time of such termination, as determined by three appraisers. On November 14 the Director
of Aircraft Production suspended the second contract,
and a few days later cancelled both contracts. The claimant, then having no use for the schooner, sold it for
$40,000, the highest price obtainable, thus, it is alleged,
suffering "a loss from depreciation in the value of the
schooner of $35,000." Negotiations were subsequently
had for settlement of the losses caused to the claimant by
the cancellation of the contracts. In January, 1919, the
contracting officer and the claimant executed a contract
providing that its claim should be settled for $35,000, including $10,521.22 for depreciation loss on the schooner.
This contract provided that it should not become binding
until approved by the Board of Contract Review; and it
was not so approved. In May, 1919, the' contracting
officer and the claimant executed another contract of
settlement-which was duly approved-under which the
United States paid $24,478.78.as full compensation for the
services rendered and expenditures and obligations incurred by the claimant under both of the purchase contracts,1 and in discharge of all its claims thereunder except
that "for depreciation on schooner," which was reserved.
The petition prays judgment for $35,000, the amount of
the loss alleged to have resulted to the claimant from depreciation in the value of the schooner, and for general
relief.
1This contract recited that the second purchase contract bad superseded the first. This does not otherwise appear from the allegations
of the petition.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

The demurrer to the petition is based on the ground
that the facts therein set forth do not state a cause of action against the United States.
This demurrer was properly sustained. It is clear that
on the facts alleged the depreciation in the sale value of
the schooner cannot be recovered on the theory which the
claimant here urges, that this is compensation for a taking
of the schooner "under eminent domain" in the performance of "obligatory orders or requisitions" for the sale
and delivery of the castor beans. The United States did
not requisition or take over the schooner, or appropriate
its use. The first purchase contract gave the United
States the option to require the castor beans to be delivered at any Gulf port in the United States; and the second specifically required them to be delivered at New Orleans. The United States, therefore, was entirely within
its contract rights in insisting that the claimant should deliver the beans at New Orleans, as agreed; and if the
claimant had no other means of so delivering them than
by using its own schooner for that purpose, it was, in preparing so to do, merely conforming to its contract obligation.
There can be no recovery under the provision in the
second contract that if terminated before completion the
United States would pay the claimant for depreciation of
the plant, facilities and equipment provided for its performance. Even if the use for transportation purposes
of a schooner previously owned by the claimant could be
regarded as the providing of a facility or equipment within
the meaning of the contract, the obligation was merely to
pay the difference between the "cost" of the facility or
equipment to the claimant and its value at the termination of the contract, as determined by appraisers. There
is no allegation as to the cost of the schooner; and no averment that its value at the termination of the contract was
determined by appraisers. And for all that appears its

RICHARDSON & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
537

541

Opinion of the Court.

cost to the claimant may have been less than the amount
for which it was sold.
Nor can there be any recovery on the theory that under
the contract executed by the contracting officer in January, 1919, the United States agreed to pay $10,521.22 or
any other sum, for depreciation loss on the schooner. This
contract, not having been approved by the Board of Contract Review, became by its own terms, of no binding force
or effect whatever.
The petition does not state a cause of action against the
United States; and the judgment is
_

Affirmed.

L. RICHARDSON & COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 142. Argued December 10, 11, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
Allegations of a petition in the Court of Claims held insufficient to
show an agreement upon the part of the United States to purchase
claimant's wool.
58 Ct. Chns. 717, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dis-

missing a petition upon demurrer.
Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by L. Richardson & Company,
Inc., to recover damages for the breach of an agreement al-

