MELLON v. ORINOCO IRON CO.
Statement of the Case.

113

lators and their bail are to be discharged.

Mahler v.

Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 46.
Reversed and remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MELLON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY OF
THE UNITED STATES, ET AL. v. ORINOCO
IRON COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 491. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 13, 1924.Decided November 17, 1924.
The Act of February 27, 1896, c. 34, 29 Stat. 32, directs that moneys
received by the Secretary of State from foreign governments in
trust for citizens of the United States or others, shall be deposited
in the Treasury; and that the Secretary of State shall determine
the amounts due claimants from such funds and certify the same
to the Secretary of the Treasury who, upon presentation of such
certificates, shall pay the amounts so found to be due; the act appropriating such funds in the Treasury "for the payment to the
ascertained beneficiaries thereof of the certificates herein proVided for."
Held, that the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury in paying such
certificates is ministerial; and that, where the claimant named in
a certificate held as trustee ex maleficio for another whose equity
the Secretary of State had remitted to the courts, the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia had jurisdiction of a suit brought
by such beneficial owner against the other in which the Secretary
of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United States might be
impleaded, be required to pay over the money to a receiver, and
be enjoined from making other disposition of it. Houston v.
Ormes, 252 U. S. 469. P. 125.
54 App. D. C. 218; 296 Fed. 965, affirmed.

by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United States from a decree of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, which affirmed a
APPEAL

19rW8"25--12

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

decree of the Supreme Court of the District directing
payment of a fund to a receiver and granting an injunction against other disposition of it.
Mr. William R. Harr and Mr. Edward S. Duvall, for
appellee, in support of the motion to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, for appellants, in opposition to the motion.

MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE' TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The subject of this suit is $56,250, now in the Treasury
of the United States, which is the undistributed balance
of an indemnity of $385,000 received by the Secretary of
State from Venezuela. This was in satisfaction of the
claim of the Orinoco Company, Limited, hereafter known
as the Limited Company, against Venezuela because of
her illegal annulment of the so-called Fitzgerald concession, which by mesne transfers from the original concessionaire had vested in the Limited Company, and of
her ouster of that company. The appellee, the Orinoco
Iron Company, was the lessee of the Limited Company
of mining rights in the concession covering the remainder
of the term of the concession, and was in possession of
them at the time of the ouster. The Iron Company had
engaged actively in mining operations and had expended
$175,000 in exploiting and operating the mines when its
property and rights were thus confiscated.
At the instance of the Limited Company, our Department of State made the claim against Venezuela for the
injuries sustained, and finally a protocol was signed between the two countries whereby Venezuela agreed to
pay and did pay $385,000 to the United States.
By Act of February 27, 1896, c. 34, 29 Stat. 28, 32,
it is provided as follows:

MELLON v. ORINOCO IRON CO.
121

Opinion of the Court.

"Hereafter all moneys received by the Secretary of
State from foreign governments and other sources, in
trust for citizens of the United States or others, shall be
deposited and covered into the Treasury.
"The Secretary of State shall determine the amounts
due claimants, respectively, from each of such trust funds,
and certify the same to the Secretary of the Treasury,
who shall, upon the presentation of the certificates of the
Secretary of State, pay the amounts so found to be due.
"Each of the trust funds covered into the Treasury as
aforesaid is hereby appropriated for the payment to the
ascertained beneficiaries thereof of the certificates herein
provided for."
After the payment was made into the Treasury of the
United States, a controversy arose between the receiver
of the Limited Company, who had meantime been appointed by a Minnesota state court, and the Orinoco Iron
Company, the present appellee, as to who was entitled
to the fund, and the latter sought to have the payment
ordered made to it. The Secretary of State, in a letter
to the counsel of the Orinoco Iron Company said in
answer:
"I desire to say that the Department of State, in
making its determination as to the distribution of awards
or settlements of international claims, is always guided
by certain fundamental rules, which may be roughly
stated as follows:
"The awards are distributed among the original claimants showing themselves entitled thereto, or to the heirs,
representatives, devisees, or legal assignees of such claimants. On occasion the Department also makes payments
to such other persons in such amounts as the parties
above indicated, being determined, shall agree and direct.
Except as to such claimants claiming to share in the
award as claimants, or their heirs, devisees, representatives, or legal assignees claiming to share in the award by

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

reason of such relationship to such claimants, all parties
who allege claims against the fund itself, as also all
creditors of such claimants, or of their heirs, devisees,
representatives, or legal assignees, are in accordance with
the uniform rule and practice of the Department remitted
to the courts for the enforcement of the rights of which
they consider themselves possessed, or to private agreement with the parties in interest,--as they may be
advised."
The Secretary of State accordingly directed the payment of the money to the Limited Company and to other
persons designated by it, and sent proper certificates to
the Secretary of the Treasury for such distribution.
The Orinoco Iron Company then filed this bill in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to restrain
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the
United States from paying the fund still remaining in
the Treasury to the Limited Company and its receiver,
LeCrone, in accordance with the certificate of the Secretary of State, and asked that a receiver be appointed to
receive the fund while the right of the complainant to
appropriate the fund to its claim should be litigated.
The Limited Company and its receiver were made parties,
and the issue between the complainant and the Limited
Company, with respect to this fund, was heard and decided in favor of the complainant and present appellee.
Both the Supreme Court of the District and the Court
of Appeals found that at least $175,000 of the $385,000
of the award was based upon the contributions which the
Orinoco Iron Company had made in execution of its
contract to work the iron mines of the concession, and
that the Limited Company in ignoring and denying all
rights of the Orinoco Iron Company to share in the fund
had been guilty of fraud in appropriating that which was
the equitable interest of the Orinoco Iron Company.
Accordingly the injunction was made permanent, a re-

MELLON v. ORINOCO IRON CO.
121

Opinion of the Court.

ceiver was appointed, and the Secretary of the Treasury
was directed to pay the $56,250 to that receiver, who was
authorized to execute a full acquittance of the United
States as from the parties to the suit.
This is an appeal by the Secretary of the Treasury and
the Treasurer of the United States to which the Orinoco
Company, Limited, and its receiver are not parties. They
took a separate appeal which was dismissed last term, 265
U. S. 598. The question raised on this appeal therefore
does not involve the merits of the controversy between
the Orinoco Iron Company, the appellee, and the Orinoco
Company, Limited, and its receiver. We must assume
here, therefore, that in attempting to take over and deny
to the Orinoco Iron Company the equitable interest of
1hat company, the Orinoco Company, Limited, and its
receiver are as to the Iron Company in the position of
a trustee ex maleficio.
It is contended, on behalf of the Secretary of the Treasury, that his duty in this regard is entirely ministerial,
that he must carry out the behest of the Secretary of
State, who is charged by law with determining who the
proper claimants are, and therefore that, after the decision of the Secretary of State, no court may interfere
between the payment by the Secretary of the Treasury
to the claimant found to be entitled. We consider this
question to be already settled by the decision of this
Court against the Government's contention.
In Houston v. Ormes, 252 U. S. 469, Congress had appropriated $1,200 to pay a claim found by the Court of
Claims to be due to one Susan Sanders. This was a suit,
brought by one who claimed an equitable lien for attorney's fees upon the amount thus appropriated, to enjoin the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer of
the United States from paying the amount due on that
lien to the person named in the appropriation, and to require them to pay the sum claimed to a receiver in the

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

suit pending the hearing and to accept the receipt of the
receiver as in full acquittance of the Government from
the parties to the suit for the amount paid him. The
Court in that case said, p. 473:
"In the present case it is conceded, and properly conceded, that payment of the fund in question to the defendant Sanders is a ministerial duty, the performance
of which could be compelled by a mandamus. But from
this it is a necessary consequence that one who has an
equitable right in the fund as against Sanders may hive
relief against the officials of the Treasury through a mandatory writ of injunction, or a receivership which is its
equivalent, making Sanders a party so as to bind her and
so that the decree may afford a proper acquittance to the
Government. The practice of bringing suits in equity
for this purpose is well established in the courts of the
District (Sanborn v. Maxwell, 18 App. D. C. 245; Roberts
v. Consaul, 24 App. D. C. 551, 562; Jones v. Rutherford,
26 App. D. C. 114; Parishv. McGowan, 39 App. D. C.
184; s. c. on appeal, McGowan v. Parish, 237 U. S. 285,
295). Confined, as it necessarily must be, to cases
where the officials of the Government have only a ministerial duty to perform, and one in which the party complainant has a particular interest, the practice is a convenient one, well supported by both principle and
precedent."
It seems to us that the present case can not be distinguished from the one cited. It is conceded by the
Government that the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury is ministerial and is to pay the amount ordered distributed by the Secretary of State to the persons named
in his certificate. Certainly the action of the Secretary
of the Treasury, in obedience to an appropriation by
Congress, is neither more nor less of a ministerial duty
than the obligation of the Secretary of the Treasury in
the case at bar to act in compliance with the direction of

AVENT v. UNITED STATES.
121

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the Secretary of State. This case is here on a motion
to dismiss or affirm. The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

AVENT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 52.

Argued October 9, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. Where the constitutional grounds for bringing a case to this
Court from the District Court by appeal are frivolous, but there
are other questions urged, the case will be transferred to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 131.
2. That Congress, to meet emergencies, may, consistently with the
Fifth Amendment, require a preference in the order of purposes for
which coal may be carried in interstate commerce; that this does
not trench upon power reserved to the States; that the power
may be delegated to the Interstate Commerce Commission, for
exercise under rules that are reasonable and in the interest of the
public and of commerce; and that violation of the rules may be
made a crime,--are propositions plainly settled by previous deoisions. Transportation Act, Title IV, ยง 402 (15), considered.
P. 130.
3. The objection that an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission unconstitutionally prefers the ports of one State over those
of another, cannot avail a party whom the alleged preference does
not concern. P. 131.
Case transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court fining the
plaintiff for violating a rule of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

Mr. Frank E. Wood, with whom Mr. Edgar M. Powers
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Section 1, par. 15, Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by Transportation Act, 1920, delegates legislative power unlawfully and there is no clear statutory
basis for the charge of a crime.

