AVENT v. UNITED STATES.
121

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the Secretary of State. This case is here on a motion
to dismiss or affirm. The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

AVENT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 52.

Argued October 9, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. Where the constitutional grounds for bringing a case to this
Court from the District Court by appeal are frivolous, but there
are other questions urged, the case will be transferred to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 131.
2. That Congress, to meet emergencies, may, consistently with the
Fifth Amendment, require a preference in the order of purposes for
which coal may be carried in interstate commerce; that this does
not trench upon power reserved to the States; that the power
may be delegated to the Interstate Commerce Commission, for
exercise under rules that are reasonable and in the interest of the
public and of commerce; and that violation of the rules may be
made a crime,--are propositions plainly settled by previous deoisions. Transportation Act, Title IV, § 402 (15), considered.
P. 130.
3. The objection that an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission unconstitutionally prefers the ports of one State over those
of another, cannot avail a party whom the alleged preference does
not concern. P. 131.
Case transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court fining the
plaintiff for violating a rule of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

Mr. Frank E. Wood, with whom Mr. Edgar M. Powers
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Section 1, par. 15, Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by Transportation Act, 1920, delegates legislative power unlawfully and there is no clear statutory
basis for the charge of a crime.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument fok Plaintiff in Error.

2661U. S.

The order of th Commission is repugnant to the Constitution because it transcends the authority delegated
to Congress over interstate commerce, and encroaches
upon the police powers of the States.
The order deprived defendant of property without due
process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The order gave a preference to one port over another,
in violation of el. 6, § 9, Art. I, of the Constitution.
The fuel administrative powers assumed by the Commission were not authorized by § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended. The powers asserted violate
par. 12, § 1, and were not conferred by par. 15. Their
existence is negatived by the subsequent enactment of the
National Emergency Act of September 22, 1922, c. 413, 42
Stat. 1025.
Service Order 23 was not binding on the defendant because it was directed to carriers, not shippers, and its
terms were not published as required by law.
No concession or discrimination was accepted or received by the defendant within the meaning of the Elkins
Act, because there was no advantage knowingly given or
granted by the carrier, nor so charged in the indictment.
The question is not solely one of constitutional law, but
necessarily includes construction of the Elkins Act and
§ 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended.
The validity of the provisions of Service Order 23 has
not been settled by recent adjudications of the courts.
If par. 15, § 1, is construed as authorizing the Commission to enter such an order as Service Order 23, it must
be held void as delegating legislative power unlawfully.
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56;
Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S.
121, and other cases relied upon by the Government, do
not establish that the offense charged is outlined in the
Elkins Act. See United States v. Koenig Coal Co., 1 Fed.
(2d) 738.

AVENT v. UNITED STATES.
127

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion

of the

Court.
Transportation Act, 1920, (February 28, 1920, c. 91,)
Title IV, § 402 (15), 41 Stat. 456, 474, 476, authorizes
the Interstate Commerce Commission, whenever it is of
opinion that shortage of equipment, congestion of traffic
or other emergency requiring immediate action exists in
any section of the country, to suspend its rules as to car
service and to make such reasonable rules with regard to
it as in the Commission's opinion will best promote the
service in the interest of the public and the commerce of
the people; and also, among other things, to give direction for preference or priority in transportation or movement of traffic.
On July 25, 1922, the Interstate Commerce Commission, reciting that in the opinion of the Commission an
emergency which required immediate action existed upon
the railroad lines east of the Mississippi River, ordered
that coal cars should be furnished to the mines according to a certain order of purposes numbered in classes
1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and that no coal embraced in classes 1,
2, 3 or 4 should be subject to reconsignment or diversion
except for some purpose in the'same or a superior class.
The making of gas falls in class 2; the making of Portland
Cement into class 5.
The plaintiff in error was indicted for fraudulently inducing interstate carriers to transport coal seemingly intended to be used to make gas but actually intended to
be used to make Portland Cement in violation of the
Commission's order. A demurrer to this indictment was
overruled and the plaintiff in error pleaded guilty and

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

was sentenced to a fine. Subsequently he moved in arrest of judgment upon the grounds that the order and the
statute if it authorized the order were unconstitutional,
as depriving him of due process of law, and as exercising
a power reserved to the States; and also that the order
granted a preference to the ports of one State over those
of another. The motion was overruled and a writ of
error was taken direct to this Court.
The right to come here depends upon the presence of
some substantial constitutional question. But so far as
such questions are raised we are of opinion that they are
not substantial in view of previous decisions. We must
take it that an emergency contemplated by the statute
existed, as found by the Commission and alleged in the
indictment. That in such circumstances Congress could
require a preference in the order of purposes for which
coal should be carried, consistently with the Fifth
Amendment, is clear and is assumed in Peoria & Pekin
Union Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 528, 532. See
also Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332. Fort Smith & Western R. R. Co. v. Mills, 253 U. S. 206, 207. Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. PuritanCoal Mining Co., 237 U. S. 121, 133.
That it can do so without trenching upon the powers reserved to the States seems to us not to need argument.
That it can give the powers here given to the Commission, if that question is open here, no longer admits of
dispute. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452. United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan
Coal Mining Co., 237 U. S. 121, 133. The statute confines the power of the Commission to emergencies, and
the requirement that the rules shall be reasonable and
in the interest of the public and of commerce fixes the
only standard that is practicable or needed. Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364. Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376, 377. Intermountain

MACKENZIE v. ENGELHARD CO.
127

Syllabus.

Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 486. Mutual Film Co. v. Industrial Commission of Ohio, 236 U. S. 230, 246. Congress may make violation of the Coinmission's rules a
crime. United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506. The
alleged preference of ports if there is anything in the
objection does not concern the plaintiff in error. As
there is no substance in the grounds for the appeal to this
Court and as other matters are urged the case must be
transferred to the Circuit Court of Appeals. United
Surety Co. v. American Fruit Product Co., 238 U. S.
140. Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837.
Transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.
MACKENZIE v. A. ENGELHARD & SONS
COMPANY.
A. ENGELHARD & SONS COMPANY v.
MACKENZIE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 55 and 59.

Argued October 9, 1924.--Decided November 17,
1924.

1. An appeal is a proceeding in the original cause and the suit is
pending until the appeal is disposed of. P. 142.
2. Where the owner of corporate shares, the unendorsed certificate
for which was held by another as collateral to a note, at first prevailed in a suit brought by the latter in a Kentucky court to enforce the note and the lien, and, under permission of the judgment,
withdrew the stock certificate, filed as an exhibit, and procured the
shares to be transferred by the corporation to others, held:
(a) That a final judgment, entered after a reversal, sustaining the
plaintiff's claim, ordering that the shares be publicly sold, and
confirming a sale so made to the plaintiff, was binding, with respect to his ownership so acquired, upon the assignees of the shares,
who so took them pending the appeal, although the plaintiff had
obtained no supersedeas of the original judgment, and, owing to
the tactics pursued by his opponents, had bought them in at far
less than their true value. P. 143. '

