WORK v.* LYNN.
152

Syllabus.

quate for 60,000 acres and no more the amount due is
to be computed at sixty dollars an acre, and if the supply
is found to be adequate only for a smaller acreage a correspondingly higher rate is to be used in the computation.
This theory involves a determination of the total outlay
and of the total area reclaimed. In view of what is comprehended in these questions they should be determined
once for all. Every contract holder has an interest in
them and will be affected by their determination, however made. It is of concern to him, not merely whether
his tract is held to have been reclaimed and to be chargeable with part of the general outlay, but also whether
and to what extent other lands are in the same situation.
In this and other respects what is determined in respect
of other*holders is of direct concern to him. In short,
the interests of the contract holders are so related that
an effective and just determination of the questions can
only be had in a proceeding to which all are parties.
What we have said requires that the decree be
Affirmed.
WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. LYNN, GUARDIAN
OF LASLEY, AN INCOMPETENT OSAGE INDIAN
ALLOTTEE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 17. Argued January 16, 17, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.

1. Under § 4 of the Act of March 3, 1921, c. 120, 41 Stat. 1249,
regulating quarterly payments by the Secretary of the Interior
to the members of the Osage Tribe of their income from interest
on trust funds, bonuses, and royalties, the income of an adult
member who has not received a certificate of competency and
who has been placed under guardianship, as an incompetent person, by an Oklahoma county court, must be paid to such legal
guardian, not to exceed the amount of $1,000 quarterly. P. 168.

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

2. As the duty to make such payments is plain, notwithstanding
the loose framing of the statute, payment may be required of the
Secretary by mandamus. P. 171.
3. But the excess, if any, of such incompetent's income over $1,000,
is not to be paid to the guardian, but to be invested in the
securities, or deposited at interest in the banks, prescribed by the
section, for the benefit of the incompetent, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary. P. 170.
4. The clause of the section requiring all "quarterly payments to
legal guardians" and adults not having certificates of competency
"to be paid under the supervision of the Superintendent of the
Osage Agency," refers to a supervision designed to effectuate the
payments spe6ifically directed, but does not authorize the Secretary
to impose a restriction as to how the money which he is directed
to pay to a guardian shall be invested or deposited by the latter.
P. 169.
5. Under § 3 of the Act of April 18, 1912, however, (c. 83, 37 Stat.
86), the Secretary may invoke action by the county court in
respect of any matter affecting the Indian ward's estate, and is
entitled to full consideration of the matter thus presented. Id.
52 App. D. C. 155; 285 Fed. 889, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the

District of Columbia which sustained the Supreme Court
of the District in awarding a writ of mandamus.
Mr. C. Edward Wright, with whom Mr. John H. Edwards, was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Conrad H. Syme, with whom Mr. James W. Beller
and Mr. D. E. Johnson were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was a petition, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, for a writ of mandamus to compel the
Secretary of the Interior to pay to the relator as guardian
of Rosa Lasley, an incompetent Osage Indian, her share
of certain tribal income. The court sustained a demurrer

WORK v. LYNN.
161

Opinion of the Court.

to the answer, and on the defendant's declining to plead
further, a judgment was entered awarding the writ. The
judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 52 App.
D. C. 155; 285 Fed. 889, and the case is here on writ of
error.
Rosa Lasley is an adult member of the Osage Tribe,
enrolled as such, and entitled to share in the tribal income. She never was given a certificate of competency
by the Secretary of the Interior. In 1919 the county
court of Osage County, Oklahoma, adjudged her an incompetent person arid appointed the relator her guardian.
Up to the end of September, 1921, her share of the tribal
income was regularly paid to the guardian; and he duly
accounted therefor to the county court. But the defendant refused to make further payments unless the guardian would agree to invest the moneys in United States
bonds or Oklahoma state, county or school bonds, or to
place the same at interest on time deposits in Oklahoma
banks. This the guardian declined to do because he believed the power to direct and control the investment of
the moneys, after they were paid to him, was in the
county court. Early in 1922, when the petition was filed,
the income due to the ward and standing to her credit in
the public accounts with the Osages was approximately
$9,000, and further sums were becoming due and being
so credited.
In his answer the defendant justified his refusal to
pay on the ground that in administering the Act of March
3, 1921, e. 120, § 4, 41 Stat. 1249, relating to such payments, he had construed it as meaning that in the case
of an incompetent adult having a legal guardian "all
income available, including any amount in excess of
$1,000 quarterly, should be paid to the guardian ", but
that the payment should, or might in the defendant's
discretion, be made subject to a restriction that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

moneys be invested or deposited as already indicated;
that he had given effect to that construction by adopting
and promulgating regulations embodying such a restriction, and that the guardian had declined to assent to it.
Whether the construction so put on the act is right is
the question for decision. Other prior and related acts
have a bearing on the question.
The Osage Tribe was settled many years ago on a reservation covering all or much of what is now Osage County,
Oklahoma. See c. 310, 17 Stat. 228.
By an Act of June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539, Congress adopted a plan for distributing the lands and funds
of the tribe among its members. Most of the lands were
to be allotted in severalty, partly as homesteads and
partly as surplus land; and the remaining lands, including some town lots and buildings, were to be sold for the
benefit of the tribe: The oil, gas, coal and other minerals
were to be reserved to the tribe for twenty-five years and
leased during that period on royalties. Certain tribal
funds were to be held in trust by the United States for
twenty-five years and then paid to the members. In the
meantime, and as soon as practicable, these funds were
to be segregated and placed to the credit of the individual
members on the basis of a pro ratadivision. The amounts
credited were to draw interest and the interest was to be
paid to the members quarterly. The interest due to
minors was to be paid to the parents, but where the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs became satisfied that the
parents were misusing or squandering the money further
payment might be withheld, and where the parents were
deceased payment was to be made to a legal guardian.
The proceeds from the lands, town lots and buildings
that were to be sold, together with the royalties from oil,
gas, coal and other mineral leases and any money received
from grazing privileges, were to be placed in the Treasury
of the United States to the credit of the individual mem-

WORK v. LYNN.
161

Opinion of the Court.

bers and, subject to deductions not material here, were to
be paid to them in the manner and at the times the interest on the trust funds was to be paid. For a period
of twenty-five years all members .were to be regarded as
without capacity to sell or dispose of the lands allotted
to them, save where adults were given certificates of
competency by the Secretary of the Interior on his finding, after investigation, that they were fully capable of
caring for their own affairs. On the issue of such a certificate the lands of the member other than the homestead were to be taxable, and he was to have the right to
manage, control and dispose of all excepting the homestead.
Some changes in the act were effected by a joint resolution of February 27, 1909, 35 Stat. 1167, and an Act
of March 3 of the same year, c. 256, 35 Stat. 778, but
they are without present bearing.
By an Act of April 18, 1912, c. 83, 37 Stat. 86, Congress
altered the first act in some respects and supplemented
it in others. The only provision then adopted and material here expressly subjects to the jurisdiction of the
local county courts the estates of Osages who are deceased or are orphan minors, insane or otherwise incompetent. That provision is as follows:
"Sec. 3. That the property of deceased and of orphan
minor, insane, or other incompetent allottees of the Osage
Tribe, such incompetency being determined by the laws
of the State of Oklahoma, which are hereby extended for
such purpose to the allottees of said tribe, shall, in probate matters, be subject to the jurisdiction of the county
courts of the State of Oklahoma, but a copy of all papers
filed in the county court shall be served on the superintendent of the Osage Agency at the time of filing, and
said superintendent is authorized, whenever the interests
of the allottee require, to appear in the county court for
the protection of the interests of the allottee. The super-

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

intendent of the Osage Agency or the Secretary of the
Interior, whenever he deems the same necessary, may
investigate the conduct of executors, administrators, and
guardians or other persons having in charge the estate
of any deceased allottee or of minors or persons incompetent under the laws of Oklahoma, and whenever he
shall be of opinion that the estate is in any manner
being dissipated or wasted or is being permitted to deteriorate in value by reason of the negligence, carelessness, or incompetency of the guardian or other person
in charge of the estate, the superintendent of the Osage
Agency or the Secretary of the Interior or his representative shall have power, and it shall be his duty, to
report said matter to the county court and take the
necessary steps to have such case fully investigated, and
also to prosecute any remedy, either civil or criminal, as
the exigencies of the case and the preservation and protection of the interests of the allottee or his estate may
require," etc.
Next came the Act of March 3, 1921, with which we
are particularly concerned. It enlarges the period for
which the oil, gas, coal and other minerals were reserved,
extends the life of all-valid oil and gas leases existing at
the end of the original period and changes the original
plan in some other particulars. Section 4 is the important one here and reads as follows:
"Sec. 4. That from and after the passage of this Act
the Secretary of the Interior shall cause to be paid at
the end of each fiscal quarter to each adult member of
the Osage Tribe having a certificate of competency his
or her pro rata share, either as a member of the tribe or
heir of a deceased member, of the interest on trust funds,
the bonus received from the sale of leases, and the royalties received during the previous fiscal quarter, and so
long as the income is sufficient to pay to the adult members of said tribe not having a certificate of competency

WORK v. LYNN.
161

Opinion of the Court.

$1,000 quarterly except where incompetent adult members have legal guardians, in which case the income of
such incompetents shall be paid to their legal guardians,
and to pay for maintenance and education to the parents
or natural guardians or legal guardians actually having
minor members under twenty-one years of age personally
in charge $500 quarterly out of the income of said minors
all of said quarterly payments to legal guardians and
adults, not having certificates of competency to be paid
under the supervision of the Superintendent of the Osage
Agency, and to invest the remainder after paying all taxes
of such members either in United -States bonds or in
Oklahoma State, county, or school bonds, or place the
same on time deposits at interest in banks in the State
of Oklahoma for the benefit of each individual member
under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the
Interior may prescribe," etc.
While this section is in some respects loosely framed,
we think its purpose and meaning are reasonably plain,particularly when it is examined in the light of the prior
acts, the mischief it was intended to correct and its
legislative history.
When the first act was passed it was believed that the
income to be paid quarterly would not be in excess of
the current needs of the members. For about ten years
that proved to be true. Thereafter increased production
of oil and gas under the leases that were given resulted
in royalties which swelled the income to a point where
the quarterly payments were greatly in excess of current
needs and were leading to gross extravagance and waste.
Administrative measures restricting the payments were
adopted, but their validity was questioned (see Work v.
Mosier, 261 U. S. 352) and the matter was called to the
attention of Congress by the Secretary of the Interior.
The Secretary recommended the enactment of a provision which, as respects all members other than adults

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

with certificates of competency, would enable him, in
his discretion, to limit the payments to amounts deemed
necessary for the maintenance of the members and to
invest the excess for their benefit for such time and in
such manner as appeared to him advisable. A bill to
that effect was introduced but not passed. Instead § 4,
as set forth above was enacted. It evidently is designed
to be comprehensive of payments to members of every
class; to distinguish between such adults as have certificates of competency and such as are without them,
and also between adults and minors; to cover all payments to legal guardians, whether on behalf of incompetent adults or minors, and all payments to parents on
behalf of minor children; to limit the amounts to be paid
where a limit is deemed advisable, and to authorize and
require the investment of the excess in designated securities or time deposits. Unlike the provision that was
proposed and rejected, the section is intended in itself
to limit the amounts to be paid, in so far as they are to
be limited, and to prescribe the manner of investing the
excess. Thus it directly determines the questions which
the rejected provision was intended to commit to the
judgment of the Secretary.
The obviously mistaken use of the words "to pay"
and "to invest" in some of the clauses instead of "shall
cause to be paid" and "shall invest ", or their equivalents, does not introduce any uncertainty into the section
or affect its meaning. The sense is made plain by the
context.
In our opinion the section must be taken as making it
the plain duty of the Secretary to cause the several payments of income to be made in the amounts and at the
times specified, and to invest the excess, where there is
such, in prescribed securities, or to deposit it in prescribed
banks, for the benefit of those to whom it is owing. The
investment clause obviously refers to the moneys which

WORK v. LYNN.
161

Opinion of the Court.

are withheld, not to those which are paid. Where the
payment is to a guardian, the county court alone is empowered to direct and control the investment of what is
paid. This is apparent when the section is read, as it
should be, with § 3 of the Act of 1912, before quoted.
Under the latter the Secretary may invoke action by the
county court in respect of any matter affecting the Indian
ward's estate, and, where he does, he is entitled as of right
to a full consideration of the matter presented; but he
can exercise no direct control over the use or investment
of the money after it is paid to the guardian.
The defendant relies on the clause requiring all payments to guardians and adults without certificates of
competency to be made "under the supervision" of the
superintendent of the Osage Agency; but we think this
clause is not intended to cut down or narrow the others
and that it refers to a supervision designed to effectuate
the payments specifically directed by other clauses, and
gives no warrant for imposing conditions at variance with
such directions. There is ample room for supervision, and
also need of it, without enlarging or narrowing any clause
by construction.
We hold therefore that the Secretary exceeded his authority in imposing a restriction as to how the money
should be invested or deposited after it was paid to the
guardian.
For the purposes of these payments the section assigns
the members to three major classes. The first comprises
all adults having certificates of competency, the second
all adults who are without such certificates, and the third
all minors. The directions for payment take up the
classes in that order. As to the -first the direction is that
the member be paid his full share of the income. Whatever is due is to be paid. As to the other classes the
directions begin with the qualifying words "so long as
the income is sufficient" and then proceed to require
19458o-25---15

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

that specific amounts be paid. As to the third class the
amount is $500 for each member, whether the. payment
is to his parents or to his guardian. As to the second class
the direction, apart from the qualifying words just noticed, is,-" to pay to the adult members of said tribe not
having a certificate of competency $1,000 quarterly except where incompetent adult members have legal guardians, in which case the income of such incompetents shall
be paid to their legal guardians."
In his answer the defendant took the position that
this provision, while limiting each payment to $1,000
out of the member's share where he is without a guardian,
requires that the full share be paid where he has a guardian. Afterwards the defendant changed his position and
came to insist that the limit of $1,000 applies where the
member has a guardian as well as where he is without
one. The courts below acceded to the first position. But
we are of opinion that the later insistence is right. The
directions as a whole show that the personal capacity of
the member is made the test of whether his full share of
the income shall be paid, or only a limited amount deemed
sufficient for his current needs. If he is an adult and has
a certificate of competency showing he is fully capable
of managing his own affairs the full share is to be paid;
otherwise only a limited sum,-$1,000 where he is an
adult and $500 where he is a minor. The clause saying,
"except where incompetent adult members have legal
guardians, in which case the income of such incompetents
shall be paid to their legal guardians ", is not an independent direction but merely an excepting clause showing that the income which under the principal provision
would be payable to the- ward is to go to the guardian.
In this respect it puts guardians of members who are in
the second class on the same plane that the next provision puts guardians of members who are in the third
class. In both cases the guardian is to receive what would

GONSALVES v. MORSE DRY DOCK CO.
161

171

Counsel for parties.

go to the ward if he were not under guardianship, and
no more. This is what naturally would be expected, and
we think it is what the statute intends.
Our conclusion on the whole case is that a writ of
mandamus was rightly awarded, but that instead of commanding the defendant to pay the ward's full share of
the income, it should have commanded him to recognize
and respect the right of the relator to be paid, without
any restriction as to hbw the same should be invested or
deposited, $1,000 quarterly out of the ward's share so
long as it is sufficient for the purpose. Because of the
error in that regard, the judgments of both courts will be
reversed and the case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the District for the entry of a judgment in conformity
with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
GONSALVES v. MORSE DRY DOCK & REPAIR
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 3. Argued October 6, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
An action by an employee for personal injuries attributable to his
employer's negligence and suffered while the employee was engaged
on repairs of a vessel then resting in a dock floating on navigable
waters, is within the jurisdiction of the District Court in Admiralty.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel in admiralty for want of jurisdiction.
APPEAL

Mr. Joseph Larocque for appellant.
Mr. Charles J. McDermott, with whom Mr. Arthur

E. Goddard and Mr. Henry C. Hunter were on the brief,
for appellee.

