178

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254,
265; Miller & Lux v. Sacramento Drainage District, 256
U. S. 129, 130; Valley Farms Co. v. Westchester, 261 U. S.
155, 163, 164.
Writs of ErrorDismissed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v.. CITY
OF DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO TH3E SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 71. Argued October 14, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The right of jury trial in a state court is determined by the

local law, concerning which this Court accepts the decision of the
highest state court. P. 179.
2. When a party in a state court, with full opportunity, offers no
evidence to sustain defenses alleged under the Constitution, a
judgment overruling the defenses does not deprive him of federal
rights. Id.
185 N. C. 240, affirmed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina sustaining a mandamus to enforce an ordinance
of the City which required three railway companies to
eliminate a grade crossing.
Mr. W. M. Hendren and Mr. F. M. Rivinus, with
whom Mr. W. B. Guthrie, Mr. Theodore W. Reath,
Mr. James F. Wright and Mr. L. E. Jeffries were on the
briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James S. Manning, with whom Mr. John H.
Manning and Mr. S. C. Chambers were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By ordinance the City Council of Durham declared
a certain grade crossing dangerous and ordered plaintiffs

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. DURHAM.
178

Opinion of the Court.

in error to eliminate it by constructing an underpass with
proper approaches, etc. They failed to comply; the city
instituted a mandamus proceeding to compel obedience.
The petition, after setting out the facts and circumstances, asked an appropriate decree. Answering, plaintiffs in error attacked the ordinance as arbitrary, unreasonable and subversive of rights guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment; also because it conflicted with
the federal Act to Regulate Commerce by imposing undue expense upon them. The facts relied upon to support
these claims were specified.
Having heard the cause upon complaint, answers and
argument of counsel the trial court, "being of the opinion that no issue of fact for trial by jury is raised upon
the pleadings," made findings of fact, declared the ordinance valid and directed compliance therewith. The
railroads offered no evidence, but asked continuation of
the cause until the next term and that no further proceedings should be taken until the issues of fact raised
by the answers could be decided by a jury. This was
denied and they appealed. The Supreme Court held
refusal to continue the hearing and transfer the cause
to the civil docket for trial by jury was not erroneous,
and said that "the judge was ready to hear and determine the action but the railroads failed to offer testimony
or evidence of any kind whatever."
We are unable to find that plaintiffs in error have been
deprived of any federal right. They had full opportunity to present evidence to support their contentions
in the trial court, but offered none. Neither federal laws
nor Constitution gave them the right to demand trial
by jury when the local statutes and practice prescribed
otherwise. The ordinary rule applies, and we accept the
ruling of the Supreme Court as to the local law. First
National Bank v. Weld County, 264 U. S. 450, 454.
Affirmed.

