NORTON v. LARNEY.
507

Syllabus.

tain such a bill against the subordinate officer alone, without joining his superior, whose acts are alleged to have
been unlawful, would be contrary to settled rules of equity
pleading."
Counsel for appellant directs our attention to other
cases, where this Court proceeded to determine the merits
notwithstanding the suits were brought against inferior
or subordinate officials without joining the superior. We
do not stop to inquire whether all or any of them can be
differentiated from the case now under consideration,
since in none of them was the point here at issue suggested or decided. The most that can be said is that the
point was in the cases if anyone had seen fit to raise it.

Questions which merely lurk in the record, neither
brought to the attention of the court nor ruled upon, are
not to be considered as having been so decided as to
constitute precedents. See New v. Oklahoma, 195 U. S.
252, 256; Teift, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, 222 U. S.
114, 119; United States v. More, 3 Cr. 159, 172; The
Edward, 1 Wheat. 261, 275-276. In any event, this case
falls within the principles definitely established by the
Gnerich and Smith Cases.
Decree reversed with directions to dismiss the bill
for want of a necessary party.

NORTON ET AL. v. LARNEY, A MINOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 146. Submitted December 8, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.
1. An averment in a bill to quiet title to a Creek Indian allotment
that the plaintiff went into possession by authority of treaties

between the Creek Nation and the United States and the laws
of Congress dealing with the lands and individuals of the Creek

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Parties.

266 U. S.

Nation, is insufficient to show that the case arose under those laws
and treaties. P. 513.
2. When a right to land set up by the plaintiff in a suit to quiet
title would be defeated by a construction of an act of Congress
contended for by the defendant, but supported by the opposite
construction, the case arises under a law of the United States,
within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 24. P. 515.
3. If the jurisdictional facts are not alleged in the bill, it is the
duty of the District Court to dismiss the suit, unless those facts
be supplied by amendment. Id.
4. The District Court, while it has control of the record, even after
reversal and remand, can allow the initial pleading to be amended
to show jurisdictional facts appearing of record. P. 516.
5. Such an amendment will also be allowed in this Court (Rev.
Stats., § 954) when the jurisdictional facts are in the record,
and indisputable, and the amendment can occasion no surprise.
Id.
6. Of the findings made by the Commissioner to the Five Civilized
Tribes in enrolling children, under the Act of March 3, 1905, c.
479, 33 Stat. 1071, those upon matters merely incidental or collateral to the direct issues presented by the statute are not conclusive in subsequent proceedings-e. g., as to whether a child's
parents were known by aliases and the precise numbers of their
enrollments. P. 517.
7. A latent ambiguity in such findings, may be resolved by parol
evidence. Id.
8. Where two courts have reached the same conclusion on a question of fact, it will be accepted here unless clearly erroneous.
P, 518.
289 Fed. 395, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court in favor of the
appellee, Larney, in his suit to quiet title tQ land allotted
to him as a citizen of the Creek Nation.
Mr. Nathan A. Gibson and Mr. Joseph L. Hull for
appellants. Mr. Thomas L. Gibson and Mr. Glenn R.
Homer were also on the brief.
Mr. EliasJ. Van Court for appellees. Mr. Clark Nichols
and Mr. Horace D. Reubelt were also on the brief.

NORTON v. LARNEY.
511

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SuTRLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to quiet title to a tract of land in Oklahoma, alleged to have been allotted to Larney, a Creek
Indian, as a distributive share of the lands of the Creek
Nation. The district court rendered a decree for appellees, which upon appeal was affirmed by the circuit court
of appeals. 289 Fed. 395. In the trial court the jurisdiction was in no way called in question; but it was challenged, for the first time, in the circuit court of appeals;
and is challenged here. It is alleged that all "the parties
are citizens and residents of Oklahoma; and the question
of jurisdiction depends upon whether the suit arises under
a law of the United States. The bill avers that Larney
went into possession of the allotment by authority of
treaties between the Creek Nation and the United States
and the laws of Congress dealing with the land and individuals of that Nation. We agree with the circuit court
of appeals that while this allegation is insufficient to establish jurisdiction, Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74; Hull
v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712, 720, it sufficiently appears elsewhere in the record that the suit arose under an act of Congress and its solution depended on the construction and
effect of that act. On this the circuit court of appeals
held the district court had jurisdiction and disposed of
the case upon the merits. The Act of March 3, 1905,
c. 1479, 33 Stat. 1048, 1071, provides: "That the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes is authorized for
sixty days after the date of the approval of this Act to
receive and consider applications for enrollments of children born subsequent to May 25, 1901, and prior to March
4, 1905, and living on said latter date, to citizens of the
Creek tribe of Indians whose enrollment has been approved by the Secretary of the Interior prior to the date
of the approval of this Act; and to enroll and make allotments to such children." In pursuance of that act the

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

commissioner (successor of the commission, Martin v.
United States, 168 Fed. 200) enrolled a child under the
name of Cheparney Larney. The decision of the commissioner recites that, in 1905, a Creek field party went
to the home of this child, then about a year old, to obtain
information in respect of his right of enrollment; that
the parents refused to give any information; and that
the child was thereupon called by the name of Cheparney
Larney, "Cheparney" being a Creek word signifying
"little boy." The important words of the decision are:
"The evidence and the records of this office show that said
CheparneyLarney is the child of Jacob Larney and Bettie
Larney, whose names appear as 'Big Jack' and 'Bettie'
on a schedule of citizens by blood of the Creek Nation,
approved by the Secretary of the Interior March 28, 1902,
opposite Nos. 8291 and 8292 respectively." Thereupon
the commissioner held that Cheparney Larney was entitled to be enrolled under the foregoing act of Congress;
and the application for his enrollment was accordingly
granted. The appellee, Larney, is the son of Jacob and
Bettie Larney, and the evidence shows that the allotment
deed was delivered to Jacob, the father, and that appellee
went into possession of the land under the deed sometime
prior to the commencement of this suit. It appears from
the evidence that Jacob and Bettie Larney are not the
same persons as "Big Jack" and "Bettie," but that they
are citizens of the Creek tribe and actually enrolled, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior at the right
time, under the numbers 7968 and 8631.
On behalf of appellants it was contended that "Big
Jack" and "Bettie," his wife, had three children, the
youngest of whom was known as Cheparney Larney; and
that it is to this child the decision of the commissioner
relates. In support of this contention appellants insisted,
and still insist, that the requirement of the statute,-that
children born to citizens of the Creek tribe "whose enroll-

NORTON v. LARNEY.
511

515

Opinion of the Court.

ment has been approved by the Secretary of the Interior
prior to the date of the approval of this Act" should be
enrolled and receive allotments,--necessitated an identification of the parents of the child and a finding that they
were enrolled with the approval of the Secretary together
with the names and numbers under which they appeared
on the tribal roll. Thus construing the statute, it was
and is insisted that the recital in the decision of the commissioner, that the names of the parents of Cheparney
Larney appear as "Big Jack" and "Bettie" opposite Nos.
8291 and 8292, conclusively establishes that the individual enrolled was the child of the persons identified by
these aliases and numbers. On the other hand, the contention of appellees is that no finding of this character is
required by the statute and that the recital is, therefore,
not conclusive but open to explanation and contradiction.
It thus appears that the right set up by appellees would
be defeated by the construction of the act as appellants
contend; but would be supported by the opposite construction. The case, therefore, in fact is one arising under
a law of the United States within the meaning of § 24,
subdivision 1, of the Judicial Code. See Osborn v. Bank
of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 822; Macon Grocery Co.
v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 215 U. S.501, 506.
Upon this state of facts appearing of record, we are
of opinion that the circuit court of appeals was right in
sustaining the jurisdiction of the trial court. Denny v.
Pironi, 141 U. S. 121, 124-125; Robertson v. Cease, 97
U. S. 646, 648; Sun Printing & Publishing Assn. v. Edwards, 194 U. S.377, 382. It is quite true that the jurisdiction of a federal court must affirmatively and distinctly appear and cannot be helped by presumptions or
by argumentative inferences drawn from the pleadings.
If it does not thus appear by the allegations of the bill
or complaint, the trial court, upon having its attention
called to the defect or upon discovering it, must dismiss

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

the case, unless the jurisdictional facts be supplied by
amendment. But here no action was taken by that court
and none was asked by appellant. Both court and parties proceeded as though the necessary allegations had
been made, as they undoubtedly could have been made
either originally or, under leave of the trial court, by
amendment at any stage of the proceedings, while the
record remained under the control of that court. Mexican Central Ry. Co. v. Duthie, 189 U. S. 76, 77-78. And
if this court should now reverse the decree and remand the cause, that amendment could still be allowed
by the trial court. Continental Ins. Co. v. Rhoads, 119
U. S. 237, 240; Menard v. Goggan, 121 U. S. 253; Robertson v. Cease, supra, pp. 650-651; Home v. George H.
Hammond Co., 155 U. S. 393; Stuart V. Easton, 156 U. S.
46. True, the practice of this court has been to remit
the question of amendment to the lower court unless
the parties consented to an amendment here. Udall v.
Steamship Ohio, 17 How. 17, 18-19; Kennedy v. Georgia
State Bank, 8 How. 586, 610-611. But under § 954,
Rev. Stats., the power of this court, in its discretion, to
allow such amendments (see Kennedy v. Georgia State
Bank, supra; Anonymous 1 Fed. Cas. No. 444), and its
duty to do so in appropriate cases, cannot be doubted.
And where, as here, the jurisdictional facts appear upon
the face of the record; where the very contention of the
party interposing the challenge to the jurisdiction is
such as to plainly establish it, beyond the possibility of
successful dispute, thus eliminating any element of surprise; and where the amendment must necessarily be
allowed by the trial court, it would be mere ceremony
to reverse the decree and remit the purely formal making
of the amendement to the lower court. We shall, therefore, consider the bill as amended to conform to the facts
of record and sustain the jurisdiction of the district court.
See Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 557, 566-567; Thayer
v. Manley, 73 N. Y. 305, 309-310.

NORTON v. LARNEY.
511

Opinion of the Court.

We come then to the merits. The issues to be determined by the commissioner are found in the act of Con-

gress already quoted. A reading of that act demonstrates
that the material facts to be found and, consequently,
those alone which the findings of the commissioner con-

clusively establish, are that the child was born between
May 25, 1901, and March 4, 1905; that he was living on
the latter date; and that his parents were citizens of the
Creek tribe of Indians whose enrollment had been approved by the Secretary of the Interior prior to the date
of the approval of the act. Inquiry as to whether the
parents of the child were known by other names and, if
so, what those names were, as well as the precise numbers under which they were. enrolled, was incidental or
collateral to the direct issue presented by the statute,
which was, 'Were they enrolled with the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior at the proper time? . Recitals
in respect of such matters or of other merely identifying
circumstances such as the exact age of the child, its sex,
etc., Hegler v. Faulkner, 153 U. S. 109, 117-118; Malone
v. Alderdice, 212 Fed. 668; United States v. Lena, 261 Fed.
144, 149, 150; Porterv. United States, 260 Fed. 1, 4, are
not conclusive in subsequent proceedings about the same
subject matter. The principle of res judicata does not
apply to points which come under consideration only collaterally or incidentally. Du chess of Kingston's Case, 2
Smith's Leading Cases (7th Am. ed., Hare & Wallace)
609, 610 (*573); Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, 114;
Campbell v. Consalus, 25 N. Y. 613, 616-617; People
v. Johnson, 38 N. Y. 63, 64-66. But apart from these
considerations, parol evidence was admissible to resolve
the latent ambiguity; disclosed by the record, arising
from the use of names and aliases as though belonging
to the same persons but, in fact, belonging to different
persons.
The evidence in respect of the identity of the child to
whom the allotment was made is conflicting. Upon this

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Counsel for Appellant.

266 U. S.

evidence both courts below found the fact to be that
appellee, Larney, was the person to whom the commission's decision related and to whom the allotment was
made. The well-settled rule of this court is that where
two courts have reached the same conclusion upon a
question of fact it will be accepted here unless clearly
erroneous. Bodkin v. Edwards, 255 U. S. 221, 223;
Baker v. Schofield, 243 U. S. 114, 118. An examination
of the evidence not only fails to disclose such clear error
but; on the contrary, establishes the conclusion of the
lower courts by a clear preponderance.
Decree affirmed.
ERIE COAL & COKE CORPORATION v.- UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 78.

Argued October 15, 16, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. Where by the terms and conditions set forth in the advertisement of a public sale of public property acceptance of a bid will
not be final until execution of a contract between the bidder and
the United States reserving to the Government the right to rescind
the sale within a time specified, the Government may exercise the
option by refusing to make such contract with the bidder to whom
the property has been knocked down, and such refusal gives the
bidder no cause of action against the United States. P. 520.
2. Rev. Stats., § 3744, requiring contracts to be reduced to writing
and signed by the contracting parties with their names at the end
thereof, applies to public sales of surplus supplies by the Secretary
of War under the Act of July 11, 1919, 41 Stat. 105. P. 521.
58 Ct. Clms. 261, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims sustaining , demurrer and dismissing the petition.

Mr. John S. Wise, Jr., with whom Mr. Walter John King
was on the briefs, for appellant.

