OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U.S.

Act, as for a taking, for loss suffered through the abandonment of the "commandeering, process ", where the
owner had retained possession of the property and the
Government had neither accepted, used, or injured it.
Compare Garrison v. City of New York, 21 Wall. 196;
Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.548, 598-9; Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502, 508-9. Nor need
we consider whether it could have been held liable under
the Lever Act, if suit had been brought in the District

Court.
Affirmed.

LAW v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 550.

Argued December 8, 1924.-Decided January 5, 1925.

1. A judgment of the District Court based on a general finding for
the plaintiff in a law case tried without a jury is not reviewable
in the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the ground that the plain-

tiff's evidence failed to sustain the cause of action pleaded by
the complaint.

P. 496.

2. In an action on a contract for insurance issued under the War
Risk Insurance Act, as amended October 6, 1917, jurisdiction of
the District Court is to be exercised in accordance with the laws
governing the usual procedure of that court in actions at law for
money compensation. Id.
3. Error in granting the Government's motion to sit without a jury
in such a case cannot be complained of by the Government. Id.
4. Denial of a motion for special findings cannot be complained of
if not excepted to. Id.
299 Fed. 61, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a judgment for the plaintiff, in an action on
a war risk insurance contract, and directing entry of
judgment for the United States. For the opinion of the
District Court, see 290 Fed. 972.

LAW v. UNITED STATES.
494

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. DeWitt T. Law pro se.
M11r. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTicE BNDmmIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action at law brought in the federal court
for Montana on a contract for insurance issued under the
War Risk Insurance Act as amended October 6, 1917,
c. 105, 40 Stat. 398, 409. The United States filed an
answer denying liability and moved for trial without a
jury. The motion was granted. At the close of plaintiff's
evidence the defendant moved for judgment. The motion
was denied. No special findings of fact were made. Judgment for $3,335 was entered for the plaintiff upon a general finding. 290 Fed. 972. Upon writ of error sued out
by the Government the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment and directed the District Court to enter
judgment for the defendant. 299 Fed. 61. The case is
here on the plaintiff's writ of error under ยง 241 of the
Judicial Code.
The action was brought by the insured. The contract
provided for payment in installments in case of total and
permanent disability. Whether the plaintiff was so disabled was the main issue. The evidence introduced by
him occupies forty pages of the printed record. It disclosed, among other things, that, at the time of enlistment, plaintiff was a common laborer with but several
months of recent high school education; that he was seriously wounded overseas; that, after discharge, he resumed
his studies; that later, in the rehabilitation process, he
entered upon the study of law; and that he acted as his
own counsel in the trial of the case. The Government's
motion for judgment was made on the ground, among

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

others, that plaintiff had failed to prove that he ever had
been, or then was, totally disabled, within the meaning
of the contract of insurance.
The Court of Appeals held that the motion should have
been granted. Its judgment must be reversed and that
of the District Court must stand, because the case was
tried without a jury and there was only the general finding for the plaintiff. Neither the evidence, nor the questions of law presented by it, were reviewable by the Court
of Appeals. To enquire into the facts and the conclusions of law on which the judgment of the lower court
rests was not permissible. Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125;
Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237; Boardman v.
Toffey, 117 U. S. 271. The bill of exceptions and the
assignment of errors do not attempt to present any other
question which is substantial. The petition confessedly
set forth a good cause of action. The District Court had
jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter. Its
decision is final.
The jurisdiction possessed was that to be exercised in
accordance with the laws governing the usual procedure
of the court in actions at law for money compensation.
Crouch v. United States, ante, 180; United States v.
Pfitsch, 256 U. S. 547, 552. The District Court, having
erroneously decided that it was the exceptional jurisdiction concurrent with the Court of Claims, granted the
Government's motion to sit without a jury. Of this error
the Government cannot complain. Nor can it complain
of the denial by the trial court of the motion for special
findings. It did not except thereto. Whether special
findings can ever avail where there was no stipulation in
writing waiving the jury, we need not consider. Compare
Kearney v. Case, 12 Wall. 275; Campbell v. United States,
224 U. S. 99; Cleveland v. Walsh Construction Co., 279
Fed. 57, 60-63.
Reversed.

