NATIONAL PAPER CO. v. BOWERS.
Opinion of the Court.

NATIONAL PAPER & TYPE COMPANY v. BOWERS,
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR
THE SECOND DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 320. Argued November 24, 1924.-Decided December 15, 1924.
1. Congress may exempt foreign and not exempt domestic corporations from taxation of their net income derived from sale abroad of
personal property purchased by them in this country. P. 375.
2. To impose such a tax on domestic corporations while exempting
foreign corporations, is not to violate rights of the former under
the Fifth Amendment. Id.
3. A tax on net income from exports is consistent with Art. I, § 9, par.
5 of the Constitution. Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165. Id.

Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing
the complaint in an action to recover money paid under
protest as an income tax.

Mr. P. J. McCumber, with whom Mr. Franklin Grady
and Mr. Homer Sullivan were on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Nelson T.
Hartson and Mr. Robert P. Reeder were on the brief, for
defendant in error,
MIR.
Court.

JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

The case, displayed by the amended complaint, omitting verbal circumlocutions, is as follows: Plaintiff (plaintiff in error here) is, and was at all of the times mentioned, a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of New Jersey. It is engaged in New York in the
business of exporting, which is defined to be the purchase
of personal property within the United States and the

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

sale thereof without the United States, and has under
the Revenue Act of 1921 been required to pay an income
tax on its net income, part of which is derived from
such foreign business.
At the same time and times, there were foreign corporations engaged in like business of buying personal
property within the United States and exporting and
selling it without the United States. Under §§ 217 and
233 of the Revenue Act of 1921 these corporations were
wholly exempted from payment of the tax on the net income or profits accruing or derived from such business.
On the 15th of March, 1922, the defendant (defendant
in error here), being Collector of Internal Revenue and
acting as such, in pursuance of §§ 230 and 205 of the
Revenue Act of 1921, demanded of plaintiff the sum of
$4,203.91, as due and payable from the plaintiff as onefourth part of its income tax for the fiscal year ending
March 31, 1921, that is, for the months of January, February and March, 1921, and threatened to enforce payment of that sum together with penalties and interest
thereon provided for by the laws of Congress.
Plaintiff, on the 15th of March, 1922, solely to prevent distraint and sale of its property, and protesting
that no tax was due, and that defendant was without
authority to exact or collect the same or any part thereof, paid the tax.
On or about the 6th of December, 1922, plaintiff, in
accordance with law, made a claim in writing to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and demanded the repayment of the tax on the ground that it was illegally assessed; that more than six months had expired since the
filing of the claim for refund as provided for by § 1318
of the Revenue Act, and that no part of the claim had
been remitted or repaid to plaintiff, or to anyone, for
its account. This action was then brought against the
Collector.

NATIONAL PAPER CO. v. BOWERS.
373

Opinion of the Court.

Judgment was prayed for $3,999.08, the amount of the
tax.
Motion was made by the District Attorney to dismiss
the amended complaint on the ground that it did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The motion was granted on the authority of and upon
the reasoning of National Paper& Type Co. v. Edwards,
292 Fed. 633. Judgment was formally entered dismissing the complaint upon the merits.
To review this action and judgment, this writ of error
is directed. The difference in treatment of domestic and
foreign corporations in respect to business of sales in foreign countries, it is contended, is a "hostile discrimination and confiscation of property."
To sustain the charge, plaintiff asserts that its business and that of foreign corporations are done under
exactly the same circumstances and conditions and that
the discrimination hence resulting offends the "due process of law" provision of the Fifth Amendment. Cases
are cited and the deduction from them is declared to be
that "Our whole system of law is predicated on the general, fundamental principle of equality of application of
the law." I
Here the discrimination, if such it can be called, is in
favor of foreign corporations in respect to taxation of
earnings from business done in foreign countries. Clearly
as to such business Congress may adopt a policy calculated to serve the best interests of this country in dealing with citizens or subjects of another country, and may
properly say that, as to earnings from such business, the
foreign subjects or citizens shall be left to the taxation of
their own government or to that having jurisdiction of
the sales. Even if we were to concede, as we cannot,
that the Fifth Amendment in enjoining due process of
law requires as part thereof equality of taxation, it cerTruax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U3. S.

tainly could not be held to apply to a subject matter not
within this country.
Regarding the purchase of articles of personal property within the United States and the mere fact of exportation therefrom, domestic and foreign corporations
may be pronounced alike-may seem to be in the same
relation to taxing legislation. But there is something
else to consider, and its effect. There may be benefit in
the inviting of foreign corporations into the United
States-benefit in their investments and activities; and, as
counsel for the Government points out, the domestic
corporation gets the power of the United States to protect its interests and redress its wrongs in whatever part
of the world its business may take it. And as the Government further points out, the foreign corporation must
look to the country of its origin for protection against
injury and redress of losses occurring in that and other
foreign countries, and not to the United States. The
Government, therefore, contends, and rightly contends,
that domestic corporations are required to pay a tax on
their incomes from all sources while foreign corporations
are taxed only on their income from sources within the
United States because, to repeat, only that income is
earned under the protection of American laws.
And we understand a further contention to be that
the discrimination is the fact that makes the tax on plaintiff a direct burden on and impediment to its business
of exporting, "in violation of Paragraph 5 of Section 9
of Article I of the Constitution of the United States,
which provides that' no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State'". The alleged discrimination is said in some way to emphasize and increase the
violation of that paragraph of the Constitution.
So far as the invocation of Paragraph 5 depends upon
discrimination, what we have said disposes of it; if it be
independent of discrimination and based upon the fact

UNITED STATES v. WEISSMAN.

377

Opinion of the Court.

373

of a tax upon exports, it is completely answered and
disposed of adversely by Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S.
165, and needs no further comment.
The difference in the legislation, we think, is constitutional and justified by the considerations which we have
submitted. The judgment is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. WEISSMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 391.

Argued December 5, 1924.-Decided December 15, 1924.

The proviso of the Criminal Appeals Act "That no writ of error
shall be taken by or allowed the United States in any case where
there has been a verdict in favor of the defendant," applies to a
verdict directed by the court before opening statement or introduction of evidence upon the ground that the indictment failed to
charge an offense. P. 378.
Writ of error dismissed.
ERROR

to the District Court under the Criminal Appeals

Act.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Benjamin Slade, for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error taken by the United States under
the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564; 34
Stat. 1246. The indictment is for a conspiracy to conceal
assets in contemplation of the bankruptcy of Joseph
Weissman, alleged to have continued up to and including
19458° 25-28

