182

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

405--" That in the event of -disagreement as to a claim
under the contract of insurance between the bureau and
any beneficiary or beneficiaries thereunder, an action on
the claim may be brought against the United States in
the district court of the United States in and for the district in which such beneficiaries or any one of them resides." Section 13, Act of 1917, as amended by the Act
of May 20, 1918, c. 77, 40 Stat. 555, 556, includes the
language just quoted from ยง 405.
In United States v. Pfitsch, 256 U. S. 457, we considered
the question of jurisdiction under a statute similar to the
one now before us and, in the course of discussion, pointed
out that the Act of May 20, 1918, conferred upon district
courts original jurisdiction over controversies arising out
of claims against the United States under contracts of
insurance. We adhere to the statement and hold that the
applicable statutes in force when the present proceedings
began did not authorize a direct writ of error from this
Court. The Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to
review the challenged judgment.
Section 19 of the Act approved June 7, 1924, c. 320,
43 Stat. 607, has no application to the present claim.
The cause must be returned to the Circuit Court of
Appeals with directions to proceed.
Case Transferred.
DAVIS, AGENT APPOINTED BY THE PRESIDENT
UNDER THE TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1920,
v. CURRIE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 60. Argued October 10, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
A writ of certiorari will be dismissed if the case as relied on by the
petitioner in argument is not the case as presented in the petition
for the writ.
Writ of certiorari dismissed.

DAVIS v. CURRIE.
182

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of South Carolina which sustained a judgment against
the Director General of Railroads for damages alleged
to have resulted to the plaintiff from the refusal of a
railway gateman to allow him access to a train, accompanied by abusive language, etc.

Mr. Douglas McKay, with whom Mr. Thos. W. Davis
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. L. D. Jennings, with whom Mr. A. S. Harby was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This writ must be dismissed. The petition therefor
declared-The sole question presented is, " Can damages
for humiliation and wounded feelings be awarded the
respondent against the petitioner, the United States
Railroad Administration, under the provisions of the
Federal Control Act, the proclamations of the President
and the general orders of the Director General pursuant
thereto?"
At the hearing counsel relied on the following: "The
judgment against the Director General of. Railroads for
wounded feelings and humiliation arising out of a wanton, willful and malicious act of his servant is unauthorized, involving, essentially, the ii fliction of a penalty
upon the Government." The argument was that although the trial court distinctly limited the jury to actual
damages, nevertheless, it necessarily follows from the
size of the verdict that punitive damages were assessed
against and a penalty was imposed upon the United
States.
The petition did not state the case presented at the bar.
Dismissed.

