94

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

CHICAGO GREAT WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. KENDALL, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE
OF IOWA, ET AL.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. KENDALL, GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF IOWA, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

Nos. 22 and 23.

Argued October 7, 1924.-Decided November 17,
1924.

1. Hearing of an interlocutory appeal from an order refusing a
temporary injunction to restrain a tax but leaving a restraining
order effective pending appeal, should not be delayed to await
the coming of a second appeal on the merits, where the effect
will be an undue delay of state action, contrary to the intent of
Jud. Code, § 266. P. 96.
2. When the jurisdiction of the District Court rests upon a substantial controversy under the federal constitution properly alleged by
the bill, but the same relief would be afforded by the state constitution and laws, the case may be determined by the state rules
without deciding the federal question. P. 97.
3. Unjust discrimination through intentional, systematic undervaluation by state officials of other taxable property of the same
class when plaintiff's property is assessed and taxed much higher,
is ground for an injunction, preventing the taxation of his
property at a higher rate than the property so favored. P. 98.
4. It is not enough, however, that taxing officials have made a
mistake, or that the court, were its judgment properly invoked,
might reach a different conclusion as to the taxes; there must be
a clear, affirmative showing that the difference is an intentional
discrimination adopted as a practice. Id.
5. Such discrimination being shown, the fact that the discriminating
tax is imposed directly by a state board which deals with the
other taxes only as a tribunal equalizing assessments between
counties, does not prevent equitable relief. P. 99.
6. A judgment of the District Court consisting of three judges under
Jud. Code, § 266, refusing a temporary injunction to restrain a
state tax, and based on a finding that in fact the tax is not shown

CHICAGO G. W. RY. v. KENDALL.
94

Opinion of the Court.

to result from arbitrary and intentional discrimination as alleged,
and upon an exercise of that court's sound discretion in the granting or withholding of such injunctions, will not be disturbed by
this Court in the absence of a very clear case against it. P. 100.
Affirmed.
APPEALS by the two railroad companies from orders of
the District Court denying motions for temporary injunctions.

Mr. Donald Evans, with whom Mr. Clifford V. Cox
and Mr. Win. F. Riley were on the brief, for appellant
in No. 22.
Mr. J. G. Gamble, with whom Mr. W. F. Dickinson,
Mr. W. F. Peter and Mr. R. L. Read were on the brief,
for appellant in No. 23.
Mr. Ben J. Gibson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, with whom Mr. Neill Garrett, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

TAT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two bills in equity, one by the Chicago Great
Western Railway Company, a corporation of Illinois, and
the other by the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway
Company, a corporation of Illinois and Iowa, were
brought against the Governor, the Secretary of State, the
Auditor and the Treasurer of Iowa, and another, constituting the Executive Council of the State, to enjoin
the assessments for taxation of the railway properties of
the complainants in Iowa as fixed by the Council. The
injunction was sought on the ground that although,
under the laws and constitution of Iowa, all property,
real and personal, including railways, must be assessed at
its actual value, there was an intentional discrimination
by the Executive Council against complainants, in that
farm lands in the State were assessed at slightly over 38

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

per cent. of their actual value, while the railway of the
Great Western Railway Company in the State was intentionally assessed at 111.5 per cent. of its actual value,
and that of the Rock Island at 75 per cent. There were
averments that the amounts involved in the cases were
more than $3,000 in each. It was charged that such
action was a denial to the railroad companies of the
equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The complainants asserted their
right to relief in equity by injunction, because if the
Executive Council certified their assessments and distributed them to all the counties through which the railways ran, it would entail on the companies a multiplicity
of suits to vindicate their constitutional rights. Complainants moved for temporary injunctions under § 266
of the Judicial Code. The court, consisting of a circuit
judge and two district judges, on the evidence adduced
found that it did not disclose intentional discrimination
by the state taxing tribunals, and denied the motions.
Appeal was taken in both cases to this Court under § 266,
and a continuance of the restraining orders originally
granted on the filing of the bill was asked pending a
hearing of the appeal. This was resisted but was finally
allowed to the extent of enjoining upon a proper bond
the Executive Council from certifying for collection, to
the taxing officials of the counties through which the railways ran, assessments more than ninety-two per cent. in
value of the assessments the subject of complaint. When
these causes were called for hearing in this Court, application was made for a continuance, on the plea that since
November, 1922, when this appeal was allowed, the issue
on the complete pleadings in the District Court had been
referred to a master who had found that there was intentional discrimination, and an early final hearing on the
merits was probable. It was suggested that this Court
would save time by awaiting the coming of a second

CHICAGO G. W. RY. v. KENDALL.
94

'Opinion of the Court.

appeal on the merits. The counsel for the State resisted
continuance and insisted that the State was embarrassed
by withholding taxes due it and that it should not be
delayed longer.

Considering the fact that the Railroad

Companies had succeeded in stopping the State from
collecting part of the taxes for now more than two years
in the face of a full preliminary hearing and adverse

ruling by three judges, and noting the evident purpose
of Congress in the enactment of § 266 to prevent undue

delay in enforcing state legislation and action through
federal judicial intervention, this Court has denied this
request for a continuance and has heard the case.
In the cases before us, we are relieved from considering
and deciding the alleged infringement of the Federal
Constitution, because in view of. the basis for jurisdiction
of the District Court, the cases can be disposed of is a
question of state law.
Jurisdiction of the bill in the Great Western case exists
because of the diverse citizenship of the parties. The
District Court therefore has jurisdiction to enforce the
rights of the complainant under the state constitution
and laws and prevent their violation.
Jurisdiction in the bill in the Rock Island case depends
on the averment that the attempted assessment of complainant's railroad property in Iowa complained of was
at a rate and upon a basis greater than the assessment of
other property of the same class subjected to taxation in
Iowa, and that the suit arises under the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution forbidding any
State to deprive any person of his property without due
process of law or to deny him the equal protection of the
laws. We think this averment, in view of the allegations
of the bill, invoked a substantial controversy under the
Federal Constitution and gave the District Court jurisdiction. Its jurisdiction thus established gave the District Court the authority to determine all questions in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

volved, including questions of state law, irrespective of
the disposition of the federal question, and as the relief
to which the complainant might be entitled would be the
same as that which should be allowed him by the federal
court upon a construction of the state constitution and
laws such as he contends for, the question whether the
acts complained of violated the Federal Constitution need
not be decided. Greene v. Louisville & InterurbanR. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 499, 508; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576,
586; Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 213 U. S.
175, 191. It follows, therefore, that in both the cases
under consideration, the District Court has jurisdiction to
consider and decide whether the complainants in these
cases are so injured by a violation of the state constitution and laws in the taxation of their property as to
entitle them to the equitable remedy of injunction against
the taxing officials made defendants. The averments of
both bills make a case of unjust discrimination against
complainants' property in that there is an intentional,
systematic undervaluation by state officials of Iowa of
other taxable property of the same class, when the complainants' property is assessed and taxed at a much higher
rate. In such cases, the federal authorities render it clear
that the complainants may have the remedy by injunction in equity to prevent the taxation of their property
at any higher rate than that imposed upon the property
of those in whose favor the discrimination exists. Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 160; Greene v.
Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 516;
Taylor v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 88 Fed. 350.
See also Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota County, 260
U. S. 441, 445, and Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield,
247 U. S. 350, 352. It is not enough, in these cases, that
the taxing officials have merely made a mistake. It is
not enough that the court, if its judgment were properly
invoked, would reach a different conclusion as to the taxes

CHICAGO G. W. RY. v. KENDALL.
94

Opinion of the Court.

imposed. There must be clear and affirmative showing
that the difference is an intentional discrimination and
one adopted as a practice.
In Iowa the value of farm lands is'assessed by local
assessors, who fix the value of the properties under § 1305
of the Code Supplement of 1913, in the various taxing
districts. Their assessments are submitted to the local
board of review of the taxing district, and that board hears
the complaints on the part of the property owner or the
part of the public, and makes its findings. This action
is submitted to the county board of supervisors, which
as a board of equalization adjusts and equalizes the find-.
ings between the taxing districts of the county. The
results of action by the county supervisors are sent to
the State Auditor, and by him are laid before the Executive Council sitting as a state board of equalization, which
equalizes them so that there may be as nearly as possible
uniformity as -between the counties. By § 1350 of the
Code, real estate is listed and valued each odd numbered
year. Railway properties are valued for assessment in a
different way from real estate under the provisions of
§ 1336 of the Code of 1897. They are made upon the
taxable value of the entire railway within the State and
are made every year, and are distributed proportionately
to the counties. In case a railway lies partly in the State
and partly without it, the estimate of the value of its
entire rolling stock and movable property is made after
taking into consideration the proportion which the business of that part of the railway lying within the State
bears to the business of the railway without the State.
By § 1334 of the Code Supplement of 1913, a railway is
obliged to submit to the Council for its information many
details concerning its property, tangible and intangible,
upon which to base an estimate of the value of the total
property. These include the par and market values of
the stocks and bonds, its net income and many other cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

cumstances. Thus, the Executive Council assesses the
value of railways in the State directly. It acts only as
an equalizing tribunal, however, upon assessments on
farm lands as between counties. This distinction does
not prevent equitable relief. Even if the taxing tribunals
were different boards and if the complaining taxpayers
were intentionally discriminated against by the united
action of two parts of the taxing machinery of the State,
relief could be granted as shown in the authorities above
cited.
It was agreed between the parties that the average
value for assessing farm lands was 61 per cent. The
Railway Companies contended that the rate as fixed by
the Council was very much higher than this for them.
The three judges in the District Court found that the
Executive Council might reasonably and without arbitrary or intentional discrimination reach the conclusion
that the properties of the two companies in Iowa, tangible
and intangible, were not assessed by the Executive Council in proportion to their actual value substantially more
than the 61 per cent. imposed on farm lands. The court
pointed out that railroad values were very difficult to fix
and there was a wide range within which reasonable men
might differ, and after an examination of the evidence,
concluded they could not find that there was any arbitrary and unconscionable difference between the values
assessed upon the two kinds of property. One circumstance to which the judges below gave weight was the
value ascribed to the properties of these two railway
companies in Iowa by their own admissions in what is
known as Ex parte 74, an investigation by the Interstate
Commerce Commission under the Transportation Act of
1920.
It would take a very clear case upon the record to
justify this Court in setting aside the conclusion of a
court of three judges under § 266 upon what is solely a

NASSAU SMELTING WORKS v. U. S.
94

101

Syllabus.

question of fact and an exercise of sound judicial discretion as to the just balance of convenience in granting or
withholding a temporary suspension of the operation of
a state law in the collection of taxes. This Court must
respect in the fullest degree the sensitiveness of Congress
in hedging about the sovereign power of taxation by the
States and precluding temporiry federal judicial interference with it save in clear cases. The present cases are
not of that character.
Affirmed.

NASSAU SMELTING & REFINING WORKS, LTD.
v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 37. Argued October 7, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
1. The question whether- the District Court, having jurisdiction
under Jud. Code, § 24, of an action brought by the United States,
has statutory power to entertain counterclaims by the defendant
against the Government, involves the jurisdiction of the court as
a federal court. P. 105.
2. A decision, rejecting the counterclaims as not within jurisdiction
conferred by federal statute, is tflerefore reviewable here directly
under Jud. Code, § 238. Id.
3. The objection to a suit against the United States is fundamental,
whether it be in the form of original action, set-off or counterclaim,
and jurisdiction in either case does not exist without specific
congressional authority for it. P. 106.
4. Under the Dent Act, c. 94, §§ 1 and 2, 40 Stat. 1272, allowing
suits against the United States on certain kinds of agreements not
executed in the manner prescribed by law, jurisdiction of such
petitions was confined to the Court of Claims exclusively. Id.
5. A party in the District Court who unsuccessfully sought adjudication under the Dent Act on agreements alleged not to have been
executed in the manner required by law, was thereby precluded
on writ of error here, from the position that they should have been
adjudicated as contracts under Jud. Code, § 24, par. 20. P. 108.
Affirmed.

