OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
548

Syllabus.

to deal with sales on foreclosure made before the passage

of the Act.'
We need not consider the contention of the petitioners
that the owner of the right of redemption from a sale by
advertisement under the Michigan laws is not an owner
of real property within the meaning of subsection 1 of
§ 302 of the federal Act. Nor need we consider the contentions of the respondent that there was no proof of a
legal foreclosure and that, independently of the federal
Act, he was entitled to redeem. The latter present questions wholly of state law.

Reversed.
OZARK PIPE LINE CORPORATION v. MONIER ET
*AL., CONSTITUTING THE STATE TAX COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI
No. 181.

Argued November 26, 1924.-Decided January 12, 1925.

1. A Missouri statute requires every corporation not organized under
the laws of that State but engaged in business therein to pay an
annual franchise tax equal to one-tenth of 1% of the par value
of its capital stock and surplus employed in business in the State.
Rev. Stats. 1919, §§ 9836-9848.. Held, that the tax is one upon
the privilege or right to do business. P. 562.
2. Such a tax cannot constitutionally be exacted of a foreign corporation whose business in the taxing State consists exclusively in the
operation of a pipe line for transporting petroleum through the
State in interstate commerce, and in ownership of property, maintenance of its principal office, purchase of supplies, employment of
labor, maintenance and operation of telephone and telegraph lines
and automobiles, and other acts within the State, all exclusively
for the furtherance of such interstate commerce, and constituting
the means and instruments by which it is conducted. P. 563.
6 Taylor v. McGregor State Bank, 144 Minn. 249; Wood v.

Vogel, 204 Ala. 692; Bell v. Buffinton, 244 Mass. 294.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellant.

266 U. S.

3. The facts that a foreign corporation whose business in a State is
entirely interstate commerce is incorporated for local business also,
and has applied for and received a local license conferring power
to exercise the right of eminent domain, do not empower the State
to tax its right to carry on the interstate business. P. 566.

Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed the appellant corporation's bill in a suit to enjoin
the appellees,--officials of Missouri-from taking proceedings for the revocation of its license to do business
in Missouri and for making the amount of an annual
franchise tax, with penalties, damages and interest, a lien
upon its property in that State.
Mr. Truman Post Young, with whom Mr. Kent Koerner, Mr. William F. Fahey and Mr. John M. Carroll were
on the briefs, for appellant.
I. The Missouri franchise tax is a tax upon the privilege of doing business. Marquette Hotel Co. v. State
Tax Comm., 282 Mo. 213.
II. The maintenance of the office in St. Louis for the
purposes shown in the evidence did not constitute doing
an intrastate business within the State which would be
subject to taxation, nor did the maintenance of the pipe
line nor the other activities described in the evidence.
All of these activities centered around the interstate
business of the company. Cheney Bros. Co. v: Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147; Norfolk, etc., R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; PhiladelphiaS. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; McCall v. California, 136 U. S.
104; Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181.
III. The powers granted to the company in its original Maryland charter are not decisive of the question
as to what, if any, business the corporation does within
the State of Missouri. That question is a question of
fact and not of charter powers.

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
555

Argument for Appellant.

It is obvious that a State cannot tax a foreign corporation for doing business within the State merely because it has the charter power to do so.
IV. The fact that the company obtained a license to
do business in Missouri does not indicate that the company was doing an intrastate business. Norfolk, etc. R.
R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,136 U. S. 114.
Even if the corporation had been originally incorporated in Missouri, it would not be subject to a tax upon
interstate commerce. PhiladelphiaS. S. Co.v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326.
V. No State may levy a franchise or excise tax upon
a company doing solely an interstate business in, through
or across the State. The transportation of oil from one
State to another is interstate commerce. Eureka Pipe
Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265; United Fuel Gas
Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 277; Kansas City, etc. Ry.
Co. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227; Leloup v. Port of Mobile,
127 U. S.640.
VI. Even where a corporation is doing both interstate
and intrastate business, a tax so levied as to include
or compel the payment of a tax upon the interstate
business will be void. Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo & Co.,
223 U. S. 298; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135;
Crew LevicR Co.v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S.292; Looney
v. Crane Ca., 245 U. S. 178; Ludwig v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 216 U. S. 146; Locomobie Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S.146.
VII. This case does not come within the principle of
those cases upholding taxes, in form privilege taxes but
in substance and effect general property taxes, Postal
Telegraph-CableCo. v. Adams, 155 U. S.688; nor within
those holding that where the tax is a tax upon intrastate
commerce the mere fact that the method of computation

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Appellees.

266 U. S.

requires reference to interstate business will not render
it invalid. Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S.
290.
Mr. Jesse W. Barrett, Attorney General of the State
of Missouri, and Mr. J. Henry Caruthersfor appellees.
I. Interstate commerce is a "practical conception,"
and the tax in question to be valid must not, in its practical effect and operation, burden interstate commerce.
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 265; Hump
Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290; St. Louis S.
W. Ry. Co.v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.350.
II. Corporations doing both interstate and intrastate
commerce may be required to pay a franchise or excise
tax.
While a State may not use its taxing power to regulate
or burden interstate commerce, it is settled that a state
excise tax which affects such commerce only indirectly
and remotely, may be entirely valid, where it is clear that
it is not imposed with the covert purpose or with the
effect of defeating federal constitutional rights. Hump
Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S.290; Maine v. Grand
Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.217; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.335; Baltic Mining Co. v.'Massachusetts,
231 U. S. 68; Kansas City, etc. R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242
U. S. 111; Kansas City, etc. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S.
227; U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321;
Schwab v. Richardson,263 U. S.88.
III. The Missouri Franchise Tax Act has been held
by this Court not to be a burden on interstate commerce.
St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Middlekamp, 256
U. S.226.
IV. What is "doing business" by a foreign corporation in a State other than that of its incorporation? The
answer to this question constitutes the sole controversy
presented here.

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
555

Argument for Appellees.

The evidence shows, and the trial court found, that
the plaintiff maintains its principal office in Missouri,
in the City of St. Louis, where it keeps its stock certificate books, books of account, financial reports, bank accounts, pays all the employees, both within and without
the State, purchases supplies within the State, employs
labor within the State, maintains and operates telephone
and telegraph lines and purchases supplies and equipment
therefor in this State; and acquires rights-of-way both
by purchase and condemnation under its right of eminent domain granted to it by the State. It is constantly
entering into and executing contracts for the transportation of crude oil, and of employment and purchases, and
has frequent damage cases by reason of broken and leaking pipe lines which result in overflowing and damaging
the lands adjacent thereto. Settlements and adjustments
of such damages are effected both in and out of the courts
of this State. Material and labor are assembled at the
broken points and repairs made.
The vice-president, secretary, treasurer and other officers maintain their offices and headquarters in their offices
in St. Louis, where telephones are maintained, and the
name of the company appears on the doors of said offices.
Stockholders and directors meetings are held there. All
certificates for the receipt of oil for transportation are sent
to the St. Louis office where the revenue for said transportation is figured and entered of record. The tariff
rates are also kept there and, in fact, the entire business
of the corporation is managed and directed from the St.
Louis office..
The court remarked that these facts were not traversed and were not susceptible of contradiction in any
substantial particular.
In view of the foregoing evidence and finding of facts
and the following decisions, appellees contend that the

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

decree of the lower court should be affirmed. Cheney
Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147; Knights Templars' Indemnity Co. v. Jarman, 187 U. S. 197; Horn
Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305; Board of Trade
v. Hammond Elevator Co., 198 U. S. 424; Diamond Glue
Co. v. U. S. Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611; Connecticut Life
Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Mutual Reserve Ins.
Co. v. Birch, 200 U. S. 612.
V. A finding of fact by a chancellor, who heard the
witnesses, will not be reversed, except in a clear case.
VI. The burden of proof rests upon appellant. Maxwell Land Co. v. Dawson, 151 U. S. 586.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERIAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant is a Maryland corporation. It owns and
operates a pipe line extending from within Oklahoma
through Missouri to a point in Illinois, together with certain gathering lines in Oklahoma. Through this line
crude petroleum is conducted to Illinois and there delivered. Oil is neither received nor delivered in the
State of Missouri. Since it began operatio)ns appellant
has been assessed and has paid general property taxes
upon that portion of its line, and upon its other assets,
in Missouri. It maintains its principal office in Missouri
where it keeps its books and bank accounts and from
which it pays its employees within and without the State,
purchases supplies, employs labor, maintains telephone
and telegraph lines, enters into contracts for transportation of crude oil, and carries on various other activities
connected with and in furtherance of its pipe line operations. Along the pipe line in Missouri there are three
pumping stations the sole use of which is to accelerate the
passage of the oil through the line. It owns and operates
passenger and truck automobiles, but these as well as its
other property in Missouri are used exclusively in the

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
555

Opinion of the Court.

prosecution of its interstate business. In compliance
with the laws of Missouri applicable to corporations
formed in other States desirous of transacting business
in Missouri, appellant filed with the Secretary of State
its articles of incorporation, and amended articles showing
an increase in its capital stock, paid license taxes aggregating $6,401.50, and obtained a license and authority
to engage "exclusively in the business of transporting
crude petroleum by pipe line." It thereby acquired the
right of eminent domain under the laws of the State.
The controversy arises over an attempt on the part
of the State authorities to collect from appellant an annual franchise tax under §§ 9836-9848, Rev. Stats. Mo.
1919, pp. 3015-3020. The statute requires every corporation not organized under the laws of Missouri but engaged in business therein, to pay an annual franchise tax
equal to one-tenth of one per cent. of the par value of its
capital stock and surplus employed in business in the
State. For the purpose of the tax the corporation is
deemed to have employed in the State "that proportion
of its entire capital stock and surplus that its property
and assets in this State bears to all its property and
assets wherever located." The corporation is required to
make an annual report in writing to the State Tax Commission in such form as may be prescribed, giving the
amount of its authorized and subscribed capital stock,
the par value and market value thereof and other specified information, as a basis, with other things, for the
computation of the tax. Appellant, having failed to
furnish this report, was threatened by appellees with an
action in the name of the State to revoke its license and
with such proceedings as would cause the amount of the
tax, together with penalties, damages, and interest, to
become a lien upon its property and thereby create a
serious cloud upon the title thereto. Upon these facts
suit was brought to enjoin appellees from going forward

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

with such action and proceedings, upon the ground that
the statute, as applied to appellant, contravenes the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
After a hearing the court below rendered a final decree
against appellant dismissing its bill.
The tax is one upon the privilege or right to do business, State ex rel. v. State Tax Commission, 282 Mo. 213,
234; and if appellant is engaged only in interstate commerce it is conceded, as it must be, that the tax, so far
as appellant is concerned, constitutionally cannot be
imposed. It long has been settled that a State cannot
lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether
on the transportation of subjects of commerce, the receipts derived therefrom, or the occupation or business
of carrying it on. Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S.
640, 648; Kansas City Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227,
231, and cases cited. Plainly, the operation of appellant's
pipe line is interstate commerce and beyond the power of
State taxation. Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257
U. S. 265, 272; United Fuel Gas. Co. v. Hallanan, 257
U. S. 277. But the contention in justification of the tax
is that appellant is also engaged in doing local business,
the basis of such contention being the facts concerning its
ownership and use of property, other than the pipe line,
and its various acts and activities within the State hereinbefore recited; and, further, that the purposes for which
it is incorporated, as declared in its articles, comprehend
other activities than that of transporting petroleum,
namely, the acquisition and operation of telegraph and
telephone lines, dealing in and transporting merchandise, etc.
An extended review of the decisions of this Court dealing with this phase of the subject is not necessary. All
proceed from the same principles, but range themselves
on one side or the other of the line as the facts do or do
not demonstrate that the tax as a practical matter con-

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
555

Opinion of the Court.

stitutes a burden upon interstate commerce. The facts
upon which these former decisions rest, therefore, must
be borne in mind in applying them to other and alleged
similar cases. If the business taxed is in fact separate
local business, not so connected with interstate commerce
as to render the tax a burden upon such commerce, the
tax is good. An illustration of such a tax is found in
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21, where
this Court upheld a state franchise tax upon a cab service
maintained wholly within the State of New York by the
railroad company to convey passengers to and from its
terminus in New York City, for which service the charges
were separate from other transportation charges. The
principle announced (p. 27) was: "Wherever a separation in fact exists between transportation service wholly
within the State and that between the States a like separation may be recognized between the control of the
State and that of the Nation. Osborne v. Florida, 164
U. S. 650; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420." On
the other hand, in Norfolk, etc. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
136 U. S.114, 120, a Pennsylvania tax of similar character
sought to be imposed upon a Virginia railroad corporation was held bad. The railroad company maintained
an office in Pennsylvania for the use of its officers, stockholders, agents and employees and expended large sums
of money in that State in the purchase of materials and
supplies for its railroad. It owned a small amount of
property in the State. In holding that the tax contravened the commerce clause the Court said:
"Was the tax assessed against the company for keeping an office in Philadelphia, for the use of its officers,
stockholders, agents and employ6s, a tax upon the business of the company? In other words, was such tax a
tax upon any of the means or instruments by which the
company was enabled to carry on its business of interstate commerce? We have no hesitancy in answering

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

that question in the affirmative. What was the purpose
of the company in establishing an office in the city of
Philadelphia? Manifestly for the furtherance of its business interests in the matter of its commercial relations.
. . . Again, the plaintiff in error does not exercise,
or seek to exercise, in Pennsylvania any privilege or
franchise not immediately connected with interstate
commerce and required for the purposes thereof. Before
establishing its office in Philadelphia it obtained from
the secretary of the Commonwealth the certificate required by the act of the State legislature of 1874 enabling it to maintain an office in the State. That office
was maintained because of the necessities of the interstate business of the company, and for no other purpose.
A tax upon it was, therefore, a tax upon one of the means
or instrumentalities of the company's interstate commerce; and as such was in violation of the commercial
clause of the Constitution of the United States."
Heyman v. Hays, 236 U. S. 178, 185-186, involved a
county privilege tax for carrying on a liquor business.
The complainant was a liquor merchant who sold no liquor
directly or indirectly within the State but conducted a
mail order business with persons in other States exclusively. The effort to sustain the tax was upon the
grounds that complainant had a stock of goods within the
State susceptible of being sold therein, that care and attention for the purpose of packing and otherwise must
necessarily be given these goods, that orders for shipment
were received in the State, and that a clerical force or
other assistance was maintained within the State to keep
accounts, supervise the business, receive the price resulting from shipments, and so on. This Court said that assuming these facts they did not take the business out of
the protection of the commerce clause (p. 186): "We
reach this conclusion because we are of opinion that
giving the fullest effect to the conditions stated they

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
555

Opinion of the Court.

were but the performance of acts accessory to and inhering in the right to make the interstate commerce
shipments and therefore to admit the power because of
their existence to burden the right to ship in interstate
commerce would necessarily be to recognize the authority
to directly burden such right."
The present case comes within the reasoning of the
two decisions last cited. The business actually carried
on by appellant was exclusively in interstate commerce.
The maintenance of an office, the purchase of supplies,
employment of labor, maintenance and operation of telephone and telegraph lines and automobiles, and appellant's other acts within the State, were all exclusively in
furtherance of its interstate business; and the property
itself, however extensive or of whatever character, was
likewise devoted only to that end. They were the means
and instrumentalities by which that business was done
and in no proper sense constituted, or contributed to, the
doing of a local business. The protection against imposition of burdens upon interstate commerce is practical
and substantial and extends to whatever is necessary to
the complete enjoyment of the right protected. Heyman
v. Hays, supra, p. 186.
The court below grounded its decision chiefly upon
Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147;
but a review of that case will clearly demonstrate that
it cannot be given the effect thus ascribed to it. Seven
foreign corporations sought to avoid a Massachusetts
excise tax on the ground, among others, that, as imposed,
it contravened the commerce clause of the Constitution.
This Court held the tax invalid as to one of the corporations and sustained it as to the other six. The first of
the six kept a stock of machine parts in the State which
were sold both within and without the State, and the
court simply held that the portion of the business which
was purely local was subject to local taxation. The

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

second did an extensive local business in repairing cars
of its own make and in selling second-hand cars. The
third employed salesmen who took orders for its product
from local retailers and turned them over to be filled
by the nearest wholesaler, and this amounted, as the
Court said, simply to one local merchant buying from
another. The fourth and fifth were mining companies
operating mines in Michigan with offices in Boston where
their directors met, declared and paid dividends, etc.
Interstate commerce was not affected. Indeed, it does
not affirmatively appear that there was any such commerce to be affected. In the case of the sixth the commerce clause was not involved. The remaining case,
(Cheney Bros. Co.), in which the tax was held bad, was
that of a Connecticut corporation engaged in manufacturing and selling silk fabrics. It maintained in Boston
a selling office with an office salesman and four traveling
salesmen who solicited and took orders subject to approval by the home office from which shipments were
made directly to the purchasers. The Court held that
this did not constitute doing a local business, and said
(p. 153): "The maintenance of the Boston office and
the display therein of a supply of samples are in furtherance of the company's interstate business and have no
other purpose. Like the employment of the salesmen,
they are among the means by which that business is
carried on and share its immunity from State taxation."
It will thus be seen that there is nothing in this decision
upon which the decree under review can properly rest.
Its effect is entirely the other way.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that the objects and
purposes specified in appellant's articles of incorporation
are not confined to the transportation of petroleum but
include the doing of other business local in character.
As to this, it is enough to say that none of these powers
were in fact exercised in the State of Missouri; and so

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.
555

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

far as this case is concerned the power to tax depends
upon what was done and not upon what might have been
done. Moreover, the license issued by the State authorized appellant to engage "exclusively in the business of
transporting crude petroleum by pipe line."
Nor is it material that appellaht applied for and received a Missouri license or that it had the power thereunder to exercise the right of eminent domain. These
facts could not have the effect of conferring upon the
State an authority, denied by the Federal Constitution,
to regulate interstate commerce. The State has no such
power even in the case of domestic corporations. See
Philadelphia S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvaiia, 122 U. S.326,
342. The statute as applied to appellant is unconstitutional.
Reversed.
MR.JusTicE BRANDEIS, dissenting.
The Court assumes, without discussion, that if, in Missouri, the company is engaged exclusively in interstate
commerce, the tax assessed upon the Ozark Company is
bad. It concludes, upon discussion, that the business
actually done by the company within that State is exclusively interstate commerce, because the article with
which it deals is not produced within Missouri and the
physical operations of the company within the State
relate directly or indirectly to transporting the article
through it. Under the rule applied, every tax laid by
any State upon the corporate franchise (properly socalled) of every corporation, domestic or foreign, must
be void, in the absence -of congressional authorization,.
where the corporation is actually engaged exclusively in
what is deemed interstate commerce. I find in the Constitution no warrant for the assumption which leads to
such a result.
The tax assailed is not laid upon the occupation, as
was that in Texas Transport & Terminal Co. v. New

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

266 U. S.

Orleans, 264 U. S. 150. Nor is the tax laid upon the
privilege of doing business. It is laid upon the privilege
of carrying on business in corporate form; of doing so
with a usual place of business within the State, and
with power to exercise for that purpose the right of
eminent domain. The office within the State is the corporation's main office. The property physically located
within the State constitutes more than half of all its
property. The operations actually performed within the
State include, among others, mechanical operations indispensable to the conduct of the business, and extensive
auxiliary activities. The business which the company
sought and obtained leave to do in corporate form is
intrastate or interstate or both. The broad powers sought
and granted, it still possesses and seeks to retain.
The immunity from state taxation accorded is not that
enjoyed by federal instrumentalities in the absence of
legislation by Congress authorizing such taxation. See
Thompson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579. It is not the
immunity of a federal corporate franchise, as in California v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 42. It
has not the support of congressional action. The tax is
held void solely on the ground that it is obnoxious to
the Commerce Clause. A state tax is obnoxious to that
provision of the Federal Constitution only if it directly
burdens interstate commerce, or (where the burden is
indirect) if it obstructs or discriminates against such
commerce. Here, there is no contention that, in fact,
the tax assessed either obstructs, or appreciably burdens,
interstate commerce. The tax is trifling in amount.'
I It is now one-twentieth of one per cent. of that fraction of the
whole capital stock and surplus which is proportionate to the fraction

in value of the total assets of the corporation which are located
within the State. The question of a limit upon the amount of the
tax discussed in Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S.
68, 87, and International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 1. S.
135, 140, is not material here.

OZARK PIPE LINE v. MONIER.

569

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

555

There is no contention that, in fact, the tax discriminates against interstate commerce. The tax is applied
alike whether the business done is interstate, or intrastate, or both.2 There is no contention that the statute
discriminates against corporations organized under the
laws of other States. The tax is the same for domestic
corporations as it is for foreign corporations. The citizenship of the corporation is confessedly not of legal significance in this connection.3
Can it be said that !his tax directly burdens interstate
commerce? A tax is a direct burden, if laid upon the
operation or act of interstate commerce. Thus, a tax
is a direct burden where it is upon property moving in
interstate commerce, Champlain Realty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366; Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,
257 U. S. 265; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S.
277; or where, like a gross-receipts tax, it lays a burden
upon every transaction in such commerce, Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 297. But a tax is
not a direct burden merely because it is laid upon an indispensable instrumentality of such commerce, or because it arises exclusively from transactions in interstate
commerce. Thus, a tax is valid although imposed upon
property used exclusively in interstate commerce, Transportation Co. v. Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273, 284; Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299, 306; or, although laid upon net-income derived exclusively from
interstate commerce, United States Glue Co. v. Oak
Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 57.
Compare Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165; Wagner v.
2 If the tax assessed is held void, the statute will, in fact, dis-

criminate against intrastate commerce; for the tax is confessedly
valid as applied to all corporations which do not engage exclusively
in interstate commerce.
3
It applies also to corporations organized under the laws of a
foreign country.
195°25--4

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

City of Covington, 251 U. S. 95. These taxes were held
valid because, unlike a gross-receipts tax, they do not
withhold, "for the use of the State, a part of every dollar
received in such transactions." See 245 U. S., p. 297.
Surely the tax upon the corporate franchise is as indirect
as the tax upon the pipe-line.
I find in the Commerce clause no warrant for thus
putting a State to the choice of either abandoning the
corporate franchise tax or discriminating against intrastate commerce; 4 nor for denying to a State the right
to encourage the conduct of business by natural persons
through imposing, for the enjoyment of the corporate
privilege, an annual tax so small that it cannot conceivably be deemed an obstruction of interstate commerce.

MICHIGAN PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION ET
AL. v. DUKE, DOING BUSINESS AS DUKE CARTAGE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 283.

Argued November 21, 1924.-Decided January 12, 1925.

1. A state law imposing upon all persons engaged in transportation
for hire by motor vehicle over the public highways of the State
the burdens and duties of common carriers, and requiring them
to furnish indemnity bonds to secure payment of claims and liabilities resulting from injury to property carried, when applied to
a private carrier without special franchise or power of eminent
domain and engaged exclusively in hauling from a place within the
State to a place in another State the goods of particular factories
under standing contracts with their owners, violates the Commerce
Clause, by taking from the carrier use of instruments by means of
which he carries on interstate commerce, and by imposing on him
4 See the discussion of Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor,
165 T. S. 194, by Thomas Reed Powell, 32 Harv. Law Rev. 251,
261-2.

