GONSALVES v. MORSE DRY DOCK CO.
161

171

Counsel for parties.

go to the ward if he were not under guardianship, and
no more. This is what naturally would be expected, and
we think it is what the statute intends.
Our conclusion on the whole case is that a writ of
mandamus was rightly awarded, but that instead of commanding the defendant to pay the ward's full share of
the income, it should have commanded him to recognize
and respect the right of the relator to be paid, without
any restriction as to hbw the same should be invested or
deposited, $1,000 quarterly out of the ward's share so
long as it is sufficient for the purpose. Because of the
error in that regard, the judgments of both courts will be
reversed and the case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the District for the entry of a judgment in conformity
with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
GONSALVES v. MORSE DRY DOCK & REPAIR
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 3. Argued October 6, 1924.-Decided November 17, 1924.
An action by an employee for personal injuries attributable to his
employer's negligence and suffered while the employee was engaged
on repairs of a vessel then resting in a dock floating on navigable
waters, is within the jurisdiction of the District Court in Admiralty.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel in admiralty for want of jurisdiction.
APPEAL

Mr. Joseph Larocque for appellant.
Mr. Charles J. McDermott, with whom Mr. Arthur

E. Goddard and Mr. Henry C. Hunter were on the brief,
for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS

266 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Proceeding in admiralty appellant sought to recover
damages for personal injuries received while he was
employed by respondent and engaged in repairing the
steamer "Starmount."
Upon motion the trial court
dismissed the libel, holding that it had no jurisdiction
of the cause.
The libel alleges that respondent had charge of the
work of repairing the shell plates of the steamer, then
resting in a floating dock at Twenty-seventh Street,
Brooklyn; that while employed by respondent and working oh board appellant suffered injuries through the
explosion of a blau torch which the employer negligently
permitted to be out of repair. The prayer was for monition according to the course and practice in admiralty
and for damages.
Since the decree below (June 14, 1921) we have decided
Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S.
479. The opinion there controls this cause unless the
injuries sustained by appellant were not the result of
tort, committed and effective, on navigable waters. In
The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S. 17, 33, this Court
held that repairs to a vessel while in an ordinary dry
dock were not made on land. The Steamship Jefferson,
215 U. S. 130. Here repairs were made upon the ship
while supported by a structure floating on navigable
waters. Clearly, the accident did not occur upon land.
The doctrine followed in Cope v. Vallette Dry Dock Co.,
119 U. S.625, 627, that "no structure that is not a ship
or vessel is a subject of salvage," has no application.
That admiralty jurisdiction in tort matters depends upon
locality is settled.
The judgment below must be reversed.

