32

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

266 U. S.

The issuing of the bills of lading, receipts and passes
referred to in the decree [subdivision (d) ] appealed from
is not expressly forbidden by the original decree. But assuming in favor of the west side lines that such issuing is
not included in the terminal business which the combination is permitted to do, it is not shown that any injury to
them has resulted therefrom, or that they are entitled to
any relief. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra,
451.
Decree reversed.
LOVE ET AL. v. GRIFFITH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE

COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FIRST SUPREME

JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 12. Argued October 6, 1924.-Decided October 20, 1924.
1. A party who plainly asserted a federal right in a state trial court
and whose appeal from an adverse judgment was dismissed by a
higher state tribunal upon the ground that the case, after judgment, had become moot, is' entitled to the judgment of this Court
on whether such dismissal in effect denied, or failed duly to recognize, the right asserted; and local rules as to the extent of review
will not necessarily determine the decision here. P. 33.
2. Where plaintiffs, as qualified electors, unsuccessfully sought to
enjoin, as violative of the Constitution, the enforcement of a rule
made by a City Democratic Executive Committee that negroes
should not be allowed to vote at a particular Democratic primary
election, their bill praying no other relief, and, months later,
their appeal to a higher state tribunal was dismissed upon the
ground that, the election having been held, the cause of action
had ceased to exist and that the appeal would not be entertained
on the question of costs alone, held, that the dismissal did not
violate their constitutional rights. P. 34.
236 S. W. 239, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals of
Texas which dismissed an appeal from a judgment dismissing a bill for an injunction.

LOVE v. GRIFFITH.
32

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. R. D. Evans for plaintiffs in error.
No brief filed for defendants in error.

MR. JusTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a bill in equity alleging that the plaintiffs are
qualified electors residing in Houston, Texas, and of the
Democratic political faith; that on January 27, 1921, the
City Democratic Executive Committee of Houston made
and published a rule that negroes would not be allowed to
vote in the Democratic City Primary Election to be held
on February 9, 1921; that the Committee and Judges of
Election threatened to enforce the rule, contrary to the
Constitution of the United States; and praying an injunction to restrain the Committee and Judges of Election
from carrying out their threats. The bill was filed on
February 3, 1921. On February 5, 1921, it was demurred
to generally, the demurrer maintaining that the rule did
not infringe the Fifteenth Amendment. On February 7,
1921, the demurrer was sustained and the bill was dismissed with costs. The plaintiffs appealed to the Court
of Civil Appeals, but that Court held that at the date of
its decision, months after the election, the cause of action
had ceased to exist and that the appeal would not be entertained on the question of costs alone. It therefore dismissed the appeal with costs. Error is assigned here on
the ground that the Fifteenth Amendment prohibits the
discrimination which was made the basis of the comblaint,
and that the decision denied the plaintiffs their constitutional rights.
When as here there is a plain assertion of federal rights
in the lower court, local rules as to how far it shall be reviewed on appeal do not necessarily prevail. Davis v.
Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22, 24. Whether the right was denied
or not given due recognition by the Court of Civil Appeals

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

266 U. S.

is a question as to which the plaintiffs are entitled to invoke our judgment. Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17,
22. If the case stood here as it stood before the court of
first instance it would present a grave question of constitutional law and we should be astute to avoid hindrances in the way of taking it up. But that is not the
situation. The rule promulgated by the Democratic Executive Committee was for a single election only that had
taken place long before the decision of the Appellate
Court. No constitutional rights of the plaintiffs in error
were infringed by holding that the cause of action had
ceased to exist. The bill was for an injunction that could
not be granted at that time. There was no constitutional
obligation to extend the remedy beyond what was prayed.
Decree affirmed.
McCARTHY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK v.
ARNDSTEIN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 404, October Term, 1922. Petition for rehearing granted October
15, 1923; reargued November 27, 1923.-Decided October 20,
1924.
1. The right to examine the bankrupt in a bankruptcy proceeding,
for the purpose of obtaining possession of property belonging to his
estate, rests wholly upon ยง 21a of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 39.
2. That section, prescribing no rules for the examination, impliedly
adopts the general rules governing admissibility of evidence and
competency and compellabiity of witnesses; it indicates no intention to take from any witness the privilege against self-incrimination, and makes clear the purpose not to differentiate between the
bankrupt and other witnesses, nor between examinations relating to
property from those relating to his acts or conduct. Id.
3. The constitutional privilege against self-incrimination applies to
civil proceedings; and, in this country, whatever the rule in Eng-

