HYGRADE PROVISION CO. v. SHERMAN.

497

Statement of the Case.

HYGRADE PROVISION COMPANY, INC., ET AL. v.
SHERMAN, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE

STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
LEWIS &FOX COMPANY v. SHERMAN, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
ET AL.

SATZ v. SHERMAN, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN' DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 104-106. Argued November 20, 21, 1924.-Decided January 5,
1925.

1. Equity will interfere to prevent criminal proceedings under an unconstitutional statute when that is necessary to effectually protect
property rights. P. 500.
2. A criminal statute is not lacking in due process of law merely because the application of its prohibition may be uncertain in exceptional cases; and the more clearly so where the act defined is made
criminal only when performed with a specific intent to defraud.
P. 501.
3. Laws of New York punishing those who sell or expose for sale
meat or meat preparations falsely misrepresenting them as
"Kosher," or "as having been prepared under and of a product or
nroducts sanctioned by the orthodox Hebrew religious requirements," or who sell or expose for sale in the same place both
Kosher and non-Kosher meat etc., without signs indicating that
both kinds are sold and labeling the articles accordingly, do not
violate the rights of dealers under the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment or infringe the
Commerce Clause. Pp. 501, 503.
Affirmed.

APPEAL S from decrees of the District Court dismissing
the bills in three suits brought by dealers to enjoin the
Attorney General of the State of New York and the District Attorney of the County of New York from proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

ing against the plaintiffs under chapters 580 and 581,
Laws of New York, 1922, respecting the sale of "Kosher"
meat and meat preparations.
Mr. David L. Podell, with whom Mr. Benjamin S.
Kirsh was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Samuel H. Hofstadter,with whom Mr. H. H. Nordlinger was on the brief, for Sherman, Attorney General,
appellee.
Mr. Felix C. Benvenga, with whom Mr. CharlesHenry
was on the brief, for Banton, District Attorney, appellee.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These appeals challenge the constitutionality of cc.
580 and 581, 2 Laws of New York, 1922, pp. 1314-1315,
as being in contravention of the due process and equal
protection of the law clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment and the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States. So far as these cases are concerned, the
statutes are substartially alike, and it is enough to refer
to c. 581 which provides that any person who with intent
to defraud: . . . "4. Sells or exposes for sale any meat
or meat preparation and falsely represents the same to
be kosher, or as having been prepared under and of a
product or products sanctioned by the orthodox Hebrew
religious requirements; or falsely represents any food
product or the contents of any package or container to
be so constituted and prepared, by having or permitting
to be inscribed thereon the word 'kosher' in any language; or sells or exposes for sale in the same place of
business both kosher and nonkosher meat or meat preparations who fails to indicate on his window signs and all
display advertising, in block letters at least four inches
in height, 'kosher and nonkosher meat sold here;' or who
exposes for sale in any show window or place of business

HYGRADE PROVISION CO. v. SHERMAN.
497

499

Opinion of the Court.

both kosher and nonkosher meat or meat products who
fails to display over such meat or meat preparation so
exposed a sign in block letters at least four inches in
height reading 'kosher meat,' or 'nonkosher meat,' as
the case may be," is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Separate suits were brought against appellees to enjoin
them from proceeding against appellants for any alleged
failure to comply with the foregoing statutory requirements or from making any threats of prosecuting or from
conducting any prosecutions by reason of any failure to
label any of the meats sold as "not kosher" or otherwise
interfering with or seeking to prevent the full, free and
unhampered sale of their products without labeling, etc.,
and from injuring their business "by compelling it to
be discredited in standing and reputation, and by having
its merchandise wrongfully branded as 'nonkosher,' in
accordance with the requirements of said enactments."
The several bills allege that appellees " have threatened to prosecute all complaints against persons or concerns engaged as manufacturers, dealers, retailers, or
otherwise in the sale of raw or prepared meat commodities, who are charged with violating the statutes;" that by
reason of these threats and of the fear inspired by the
requirements of the statutes, when called upon at their
peril to determine whether their products are kosher and
label the same, appellants have decided and will continue
to decide that all products sold by them are not kosher;
that such determination has been and will be induced by
the fear that some judge or jury might determine that the
Rabbinical law or the customs, traditions and precedents
of the orthodox Hebrew religious requirements necessitate
that even such meats as appellants sell as kosher are not
kosher. The bills contain allegations tending to show the
impossibility or, at least, the great difficulty of determining with certainty what is kosher according to the Rabbinical law and the customs, traditions and precedents

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 If. S.

of the orthodox Hebrew religious requirements; but appellants allege that whenever they could possibly determine in advance whether any meat commodity in their
honest belief might be called kosher, they have sold the
same as kosher, but not otherwise. The bills aver that
irreparable injury to appellants' business, property, good
will and reputation will result. It does not appear that
any of the appellants has ever been prosecuted for a
violation of the statutes or has ever been specifically
threatened with prosecution, the threats alleged being,
in substance, simply that all violators of the statutes will
be prosecuted. The District Court, in each case, after
a hearing upon an order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction should not issue, upheld the statutes, denied
the injunction and dismissed the bill.
The general rule is that equity will not interfere to prevent the enforcement of a criminal statute even though
unconstitutional. Packardv. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 143;
In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 209-211; Davis & Famum
Manufacturing Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 217.
But appellants seek to bring themselves within an exception to this general rule, namely, that a court of equity
will interfere to prevent criminal prosecutions under an
unconstitutional statute when that is necessary to effectually protect property rights. Packardv. Banton, supra;
Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214. That these
bills disclose such a case of threatened actual and imminent injury as to come within the exception is not beyond
doubt. But upon a liberal view of the decisions above
cited and other decisions of this Court (see Kennington v.
Palmer, 255 U. S. 100, and cases referred to in footnote),
we accept the conclusion of the lower court, based on the
decisions of this Court, that if the statutes under review
are unconstitutional appellants are entitled to equitable
relief; and pass to a consideration of the constitutional
questions.

HYGRADE PROVISION CO. v. SHERMAN. 501
497

Opinion of the Court.

1. The specific complaint is that the word "kosher"
and the phrase "orthodox Hebrew religious requirements" are so indefinite and uncertain as to cause*the
statutes to be unconstitutional for want of any ascertainable standard of guilt. It is in support of this assumption that appellants allege they are unable to determine
with any degree of certainty whether a particular meat
product is kosher, and, when called upon, at their peril,
to make a determination and label the product accordingly, they have decided and will continue to decide that
all of the products sold by them are nonkosher. But
obviously the statutes put no such burden upon them,
since they expressly require that any representation that
a product is kosher must not only be false but made with
intent to defraud. The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York, upholding the validity of a
statute substantially the same as those now under review,
in People v. Atlas, 183 App. Div. 595, 596-597, thus characterized it:
"The purpose of the statute, manifestly, is to prevent
and punish fraud in the sale of meats or meat preparation, and it only operates on those who knowingly violate
its provisions, for it is expressly provided that there must
be both an intent to defraud and a false representation."
It thus appears that, whatever difficulty there may be
in reaching a correct determination as to whether a given
product is kosher, appellants are unduly apprehensive of
the effect upon them and their business, of a wrong conclusion in that respect, since they are not required to act
at their peril but only to exercise their judgment in good
faith, in order to avoid coming into conflict with the statutes. Indeed, putting the statutes aside, such judgment
they would be bound to exercise upon ordinary principles
of fair dealing. By engaging in the business of selling
kosher products they in effect assert an honest purpose
to distinguish to the best of their judgment between

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

266 U. S.

what is and what is not kosher. The statutes require no
more. Furthermore, the evidence, while conflicting, warraiits the conclusion that the term "kosher" has a meaning well enough defined to enable one engaged in the
trade to correctly apply it, at least as a general thing. If
exceptional cases may sometimes arise where opinions
might differ, that is no more than is likely to occur, and
does occur, in respect of many criminal statutes either
upheld against attack or never assailed as indefinite. In
Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376-7, this Court
had before it a similar contention in respect of the AntiTrust Act and disposed of it as follows:
"And thereupon it is said that the crime thus defined
by the statute contains in its definition an element of
degree as to which estimates may differ, with the result
that a man might find himself in prison because his honest judgment did not anticipate that of a jury of less
competent men ...
"But apart from the common law as to restraint of
trade thus taken up by the statute the law is full of instances where a man's fate depends on his estimating
rightly, that is, as the jury subsequently estimates it,
some matter of degree. If his judgment is wrong, not
only may he incur a fine or a short imprisonment, as
here; he may incur the penalty of death."
See also, Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212
U. S.86, 109; Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426, 434; Sligh
v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S.52; Coomer v. United States, 213
Fed. 1, 5. Many illustrations will readily occur to the
mind, as for example statutes prohibiting the sale of
intoxicating liquors and statutes prohibiting the transmission through the mail of obscene literature, neither
of which have been found to be fatally indefinite because in some instances opinions differ in respect of
what falls within their terms. Moreover, as already suggested, since the statutes require a specific intent to de-

FARMERS NAT. BANK v. WILKINSON.

503

Syllabus.

497

fraud in order to encounter their prohibitions, the hazard
of prosecution which appellants fear loses whatever substantial foundation it might have in the absence of such
a requirement. Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343,
348.
2. Lewis & Fox Co. is a Massachusetts corporation conducting a general provision supply business including the
shipment and sale of original packages into and within
the State of New York. It is this situation which forms
the basis of the contention that the commerce clause is
violated. It is enough to say that the statutes now assailed are not aimed at interstate commerce, do not impose a direct burden upon such commerce, make no discrimination against it, are fairly within the range of the
police power of the State, bear a reasonable relation to
the legitimate purpose of the enactments, and do not
conflict with any congressional legislation. Under these
circumstances they are not invalid because they may incidentally affect interstate commerce. Sligh v. Kirkwood,
237 U. S. 52, 60-61; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501,
524-526.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRNDEIS took no part in the considera-

tion of this case.
FARMERS & MECHANICS NATIONAL BANK OF
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, v. WILKINSON, TRUSTEE, AND THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERX DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 487. Motion to dismiss submitted October 6, 1924.-Decided
January 5, 1925.
1. When a decree of the District Court has been affirmed by a
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals which this Court has

